0The Library Royal College of Physicians 11 St. Andrews Place London NWl 4LE This book is due for return on or before the last date shown below. O.MAn99.'.' Don Gresswell Ltd., London, N,21 Cat. No. 1208 DG 02242/71DEMONSTRATIONS ANATOMY,ELLIS'S DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY: BEING A GUIDE TO THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE HUMAN BODY BY DISSECTION TWELFTH EDITION, REVISED AND EDITED BY CHRISTOPHER ADDISON, M.D., B.S. (Lond.), F.R.C.S., LECTURER ON ANATOMY, CHARING CROSS HOSPITAL, MEDICAL SCHOOL; FORMERLY HUNTERIAN PROFESSOR, ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, England; examiner in anatomy, ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, ENGLAND, ETC. ILLUSTRATED BY 306 ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD, OF WHICH 75 ARE IN COLOUR. LONDON JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W 1905.[All rigJits ^PREFACE. In preparing this edition of Ellis's "Demonstrations of Anatomy," it has been my first care to preserve those features for which the book has been so justly valued in the past, and not to interfere with its general style and character. The advances in the knowledge of anatomy during recent years and the present order of teaching have, however, necessitated many changes. The matter has been altogether re-arranged, and it now follows the ordinary course of dissection as taken by students, beginning with the simpler anatomy of the upper and lower limbs and ending with the more complex parts of the head and neck and the organs contained therein. In some places old matter has been taken away, and in many parts new work has been brought in, especially in those dealing with the different viscera. In this connection I wish to acknowledge the debt I owe to the works, amongst others, of Birmingham, Cunningham, Symington, Keith, Dixon, Elliot Smith, Berry, Jonnesco, Young and Eobinson. Sixty-two illustrations have been added, twenty-seven of them in colours, and amongst the subjects of these latter are those of many of the bones showing the attachments of the muscles. Forty-eight old illustrations have been reproduced in colour, and several of the blocks have been retouched.vi PREPACK. Mr. T. P. Collings has devoted much care to the execution of this part of the worlt. I am grateful to the publishers for the ready manner in which they met my requests; and my sincere thanks are due to Mr. W. S. Fenwick, B.Sc, for his help in preparing rough drawings of some of the new illustrations, in reading proofs, and for many good suggestions. He also, with Mr. A. E. Ironside, has carried through the work on the Index. CHKISTOPHBK ADDISON.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE UPPEU LIMB. PAGE Superficial Parts of the Back 1 CHAPTER II. DISSE0TIO>f OF THE T^PPEU LIMB. Section 1. The Axilla 11 ! 2. Scapular Muscles, Vessels, Nerves and Ligaments . . 28 | 3. The Front of the Arm 39 The Back of the Arm 50 j 4. The Front of the Forearm 54 ' 5. The Palm of the Hand 69 j 6. The Back of the Forearm 83 i 7. Ligaments of the Shoulder, Rlhow, Wrist, and Hand . . 92 The Elbow Joint ' ... 95 ' The Wrist Joint 98 CHAPTER III. dissection of the lower limb. Section 1. The Buttock, or Gluteal Rpgion 109 ' 2. The Popliteal Space 124 The Back of the Thigh 130 CHAPTER IV. ! dissection of the lowei; limh. Section 1. The Front of the Thigh 135 'i Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia 143 | Scarpa's Triangular Space 146 Deep Parts of the Front of the Thigh . . . . 150 2. The Inner Side of the Thigh 161 3. The Hip-Joint 169 4. The Front of the Leg and Foot 174 5. The Back of the Leg 186 6. The Sole of the Foot 197viii CONTENTS. PAGE Section 7. Ligaments of Knee, Ankle, and Foot 212- Tibio-Fibular Articulations 221 Articulation of the Ankle 222 • CHAPTER V. DISSECTION OF THK PERINEUM. Section 1. Perineum of the Male 236 Posterior Half of the Space 237 Anterior Half of the Perineal Space .... 243 2. Perineum of the Female 255 CHAPTER VI. DISSECTION OF THE ABllO.MEN. Section 1. Wall of the Abdomen 260 The Spermatic Cord and the Testis 277 2. Hernia of the Abdomen 285 3. Cavity and Regions of the Abdomen 296 Eelations of the Viscera ...... 300 Tlie Peritoneum . 307 Mesenteric Vessels and Sympathetic Nerves . . .314 Relations of Aorta and Vena Cava . . . . . 319 Removal of the Intestines ...... 320 Small Intestine ........ 321 Large Intestine 324 Relations of the Duodenum and Pancreas . . . . 327 The Stomach Bed 33O Coeliac Axis and Portal Vein 33I Sympathetic and Vagus Nerve.s ..... 336 The Stomach . . .» . . . . . 333 Duodenum and Pancreas Dissected .... 341 The Spleen ......... 343 The Liver 345 The Gail-Bladder 351 Kidneys and Ureters ....... 353 Suprarenal Bodies . . 357 Diaphragm with the Aorta and A^'ena Cava . 358 Deep Muscles of the Abdomen 368 Spinal and Sympathetic Nerves 371 CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PFT.Vr.<!. Section 1. Cavity of the Pelvis 376 The Peritoneum, the Pelvic Fascia and the Muscles of the Outlet 376 Relations of the Viscera in the Male 384 „ „ ,, Female . . .390 Vessels and Nerves of the Pelvis 395ix CONTENTS. •Srction 2. Anatomy of the Viseora of the Male Pelvis The Bladder Tlie Urethra and Penis Rectum 3. Anatomy of the Female Pelvic Viscera . The Vagina The Uterns Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes . Bladder, Urethra, and Rectum 4. Ligaments of Pelvis PAGE 405 409 411 417 418 419 420 423 425 427 CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE THOltAX. Section 1. Walls of the Thorax 2. Cavity of Thorax The Plenrse Rehitions of the Lungs . . . • Pericardium Heart, and its Large Vessels . Nerves of the Tliorax . . . • Opening of Aorta and Strncture of Heart . Trachea and Lungs .... Parts of Spine, and the Sympathetic Cord 3. Ligaments of the Trunk . . • • 436 441 442 446 449 452 470 473 477 480 489 CHAPTER IX. dissection of the head and neck. Section 1. External Parts of the Head 2. Internal Parts of the Head 3. Deep Dissection of the Back 4. The Spinal Cord and its Membranes .... 5. Dissection of the Face External Parts of the Nose The Appendages of the Eye The External Ear 6. Dissection of the Neck Posterior Triangular Space Front of the Neck Anterior Triangular Space . . . ■ • 7. The Pterygo-Maxillary Region 8. The Submaxillary Region 9. The Deep Vessels and Nerves of the Neck 10. The Orbit 11. Tiie Pharynx nnd the Cavity of the Mouth 12. The Nose 13. The Spheno-Palatine and Otic Ganglia, the Final Branches of the Internal Maxillary Vessels, the Facial Nerve, and the Internal Carotid Artery in the Temporal Bone (, . 499 507 519 538 550 565 566 569 572 574 679 580 007 619 626 639 654 667 673CONTENTS. X PACE Section 14. The Tongue. g82 15. The Larynx . _ ' ggg 16. TheHyoid Bone, rho Caitilagusaud Ligaments of IIk^ Larynx, and the Structnte of the Tradiea 698 17. The Prevertebral Miisoles and the Vertebral Vessels . . . 704 18. Ligaments of the Vertelirib and Clavicle . . . .707 CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE UKAI.v. Section 1. Membranes and Vessels 715 2. The Base of the Brain and the Origin of the Orauial Nerve.^ . 725 3. The Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii 731 The Pons Varolii 733 4. Dissection of the Cerebrniu ... 740 The Fissures, Sulci and Convolutions .... 745 Interior of the Cerebrum 755 5. The Cerebellum, the Fourth Ventricle, and the Nuclei of the Cranial Nerves j-j-g ('HAPTER XI. Dissection of the Eye 790 CHAPTER XII. Dissection of the Ear . ggg The External Ear g()3 The Middle Ear . 805 The Internal Ear INDEX 823DEMONSTRATIONS OF ANATOMY. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. CHAPTER I. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. General Directions. The student begins his work in jsractical anatomy by the dissection either of the upper or of the lower limb. During the first three days that the subject is in the dissecting-room it is placed in the lithotomy position for the dissection of the jserineuiu by the workers on the abdomen. On the fourth day the student begins the dissection of the back or of the buttock, according as to whether he has been allotted an upper or a lower limb. In removal of the skin the edge of the knife should be kept How to directed towards it so as to remove the skin, and no more. The skin, imderlying tissue, consisting of the superficial fascia and containing the cutaneous nerves and bloodvessels and a variable amount of fat, is to be left behind. Therein the operations of dissection are the reverse of those of surgery, for the surgeon, in making a flap, is careful to remove a considerable amount of the subjacent tissues along with the skin so as to preserve its blood and nerve supply. Dissection of the Back. The dissection of the back is under- Time for taken conjointly by the dissectors of the head and of the upper ' limbs, the former preparing the neck, the latter making ready the dorsal and lumbar regions. Two days are allowed to the dissector of the upper limb ; in which time he will examine the fust two layers of the muscles of the back and the associated vessels and nerves. Position of the Body. The body lies with the face down- wards. The tmnk is raised by blocks placed beneath the cheat and the pelvis, so that the limljs hang over the end and sides of the O.A. BDISSECTION OF THE BACK. of the way along the iliac crest (fig. 1, a—g). The two flaps of dissecting table. The head is to be depressed and fastened with hooks so as to make tense the neck. Surface Anatomy. Before commencing the dissection of any part the student should examine the surface of the body so as to define the bony and other landmarks by which the surgeon or physician is guided in his practice. At the upper part of the neck, posteriorly, in the middle line wiU be felt the external protuberance of the occipital bone, and running outwards from this will be found the superior curved line of the same bone. Passing downiwards and outwards from this to the upper part of the shoulder is a ridge produced by the outer border of the trapezius muscle. At the lower part of the neck in the middle line the prominent .spine of the seventh cervical vertebra is readily found, and the spines of the one or two succeeding dorsal vertebrae. Below this the spines of the vertebrae can be felt as the fingers are passed down the furrow in the middle of the back, but the spines are much obscured by the strong ligaments which pass over and between them. The furrow is produced by the strong erector spinm muscles which run lougitudinally on either side. At the lower end of the back the series of spines can be traced on to the sacrum, at the lower part of which they disappear, and the coccyx is then felt bending forwards at the bottom of the furrow between the two sides of the buttock. At the side of the back the crest of the ilium runs outwards on either side, its highest part being on the same level as the spine of the fourth liunbar vertebra and its posterior superior spine lying at the bottom of a little depression opposite the second sacral sijine. The lower four or five ribs can be felt below the scapula, and it is to be remembered that the twelfth rib is often short, and its tip can, in those cases, only be made out by deep pressure at the outer border of the erector spinre muscle, two inches or so above the iliac crest. The upper angle, the vertebral border, the lower angle, the spine, and acromion process of the scapula, and the outer part of the clavicle should next lie made out, and the matter will be made easier if the limb be moved aliout during the examination. When the limb is placed down lieside the body the upper angle of the scapula is ojiposite the second intercostal space, the root of the spine is on a level with the spine of the third dorsal vertebra, and the lower angle is usually over the seventh intercostal space. Finally, running upwards to the upper liniTi from the side of the liody is the fold produced liy the latissimus dorsi muscle, which forms the posterior boundary of the armpit, or axilla. Dissection. The first step is to raise the skin in two flaps by means of the following incisions : (1) from the spine of the seventh cervicjil vertebra along the middle line to the lower end of the sacrum (fig. 1, a, b and c); (2) transversely outwards from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the outer border of the acromion (fig. 1, A—e) ; (3) upwards and outwards from the hi-st dorsal spine along the posterior fold of the axilla to the upper limb (fig. 1, a—f) ; (4) outwards from the lower end of the median incision two-thirdsn 2 CDTANEOUS NERVES. skill, one below and the other ahove incision F, are (o he turncrl outwards. A great i)ai't of the trape/ius imisde will be found under the upi)er flap, and of the latis.siinus dorsi under the lower flap. The reflection of the skin from over the upper part of the trapezius is performed by the dissector of the head and neck. The cutaneous nerves should first be sought for in the superficial Cutaneous fatty layer. They are accompanied by small arteries which will = guide tiie student to their position. The nerves vary much in size A B Fig. 1.—Plan of the Chiki- Skin Inoision.s. ill the dift'erent parts of the back, and their number i.s also irregular ; as a general rule, there is one ojiposite c'<ach vertebra e.\cei)t in the neck. Over the upper part of the thora.x, they will be found near the spine.s of the vertebra), where they lie at first l>eiie!ith the fat; but at tiie lower i)art, and in the loins, they issue in a line with the angles of the ribs. Cutaneous Nurvks. The tegnnientiiry nerves are derived from how the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerve,s, which divide amongst the deep muscles into two branches, inner and outer. Arteries accompany the greater number of tlie nerves, bifurcate like them, and furnish cutaneous ofisets.4 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. In the flovsal region. the III tliu loins. Dissection. Trapezius: origin ; umer The student is now concerned with hranches of the dor.sal and limibar nerves. See fig. 2. Dorsal nerves (D. 1—12). These are furnished by both and outer Ijranches—the upper six or seven from the inner, and the lower five or six from the outer. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscle.?. The U2)per nerves perforate the trapezius near the .spines of the vertebra; and the branch of the .second, which is larger than the rest, extends out- wards over the scapula. The loioer nerves pierce the latissimus dorsi mostly in a line Avith the angles of the ribs; the number of the superficial oflsets from these nerves often varies. Lumbar nerves (L. 1—3). In the loins the nerves are derived from the outer branches of the first three lumbar nerve trunks; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle at the outer liorder of the erector spinse, and crossing the iliac crest of the hip-bone, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock. First Layer of Muscles (fig. 3). Two muscles, the trapezius and the latissimus dorsi, are included in this layer, and cleaned. Dissection, fatty layer and deep fascia are together from the trapezius and lati.ssimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz., from the .shoulder to the spinal column ; and the up])er limb is to be carried backwards or forwards according as it may be necessary to put the diftereut portions of the muscles on the stretch. Some of the cutaneous nerves and vessels may lie_ left in order that they may be afterwards traced through the niu.scles t^ their origin. The TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE (fig. 3, a) is triangular in .shape, with the base towards the spine, but the two nuiscles together have a trapezoid form. The muscle has an extensive ori{/i>i, l«y .short are now to be The superficial the unimportant to be removed Fig. 2.- -CuTANEous Nerves ok THE Back.TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE. tendinous fibres, from thespinusol' all the dorsal imd of the seventh cervical vertebra), and their suprasi)inous ligaments, from the liga- mentiini nuclui), and from the inner third of the superior curved Fig. 3.—Muscles ok thk B.wk. A. Trapezius. u. Rliomboideus major, n. Liiti.ssimus dorsi. v. Splenius. c. Levator angiili scapuhc. o. Serratus posticus inferior. 1). Rlioinljoideus minor. On tlie loft side the first layer is shown, and on the riglit side the second layer, with part of the third. line of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, converging to the .shoulder, and are inserted into the insertion; outer third of the clavicle (fig. 5, p. 18), at its pcsterior aspect, into the inner border of the acromion, and into the upper borderG DISSECTION OF THE RACK. reliitions; action; in rotation of boiip. Division of the trapezius: inner jiart rellected ; outer part reHected. Spinal accessory nerve in trapezius. Clean parts beneath: beneath thi' clavicle; of the spine ol' tlie scapula as far as an inch from the root of tliat process, as well as into a rough prominence on the lower margin of the spine near the inner end (tig. 12, p. 32). The muscle is subcutaneous. The lowest fleshy fibres end in a small triangular tendon, whicli glides over the smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The upper edge forms the hinder boundary of the posterior triangular space of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds with the origin of the deltoid muscle, which covers the shoulder. Action. If all the fibres of the muscle act, the scapula gliding on the ribs is moved upwards and towards the spinal column ; but the upper fibres can assist other muscles in elevating, and the lower fibres will help in depressing that bone. When the scapula is prevented from gliding on the ribs, the trapezius imparts a rotatory movement to it by raising the acromion, and thereby assists in raising the arm above the horizontal when it has been brought up to that position away from the body bj' other muscles. Dissection, The dissectors of the head and neck and upper limb will now in their different parts divide the trapezius miLscle vertically about two inches from its vertebral attachment, and the parts will be reflected inwards and outwards respectively. The inner portion is thin, and after it has been turned up the liganientum nuchas from which it arises in the middle line of the neck will be brouglit into view. The LIGAMENTDM NUCH^ is a fibrous band, which extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance. From its deep surface a thin lamina of filires is sent forwards to be attached to the external occipital crest and to the spines of the cervical vertebrae above the seventh, and thereby a median partition between the muscles of the two sides of the neck is formed. Dissection. The stout outer part of the trapezius should l>e carefully reHected, and in the somewhat tough subjacent tissue a large nerve—the spinal accessory—will be found running down- wards and outwards from the neck on to the deep surface of the muscle. More or less parallel with the spinal accessory, but below it, two smaller nerves, from the thii-d and fourth cervical, will then be made out. Branches of the superficial cci-xkal artei-y will also be seen entering the muscle in the same neighljourhood. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVK (the eleventh cranial), having crossed the posterior triangle of the neck, pisses beneath the trapezius, and forms a plexiform union with the branches of the third and fourth nerves of the cervical plexus. The nerve can be followed nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Dissection. The parts covered by the trapezius will next l.>e cleiined. The dissector of the neck is resjionsible for displaying the struc- tures whicli lie deeply in the neck benenth the clavicle, but the worker on the upper limb will take note of them later on. The parts in question are the posterior beUy of the omohyoid muscleLATISSIMUS DORSI MUSCLE. 7 with the suprascapular nerve and vessels, the transverse cervical vessels from which the superficial cervical already referred to will be seen to spring, and the f5mall nerves to the levator anguli scapulte and rhomboid muscles. The dissector of the upper limb will find three muscles pro- muscles ceeding from the vertebral coliunn to the vertebral border of the t^the""' scapula, viz., the levator anguli scapulae, the rhomboideus nunor scapula, and major, from above do\ATiwards, and these sliould be cleaned in the direction of their fil)res. The rhomboideus minor and major muscles are often blended together. Beneath the lowest part of the reflected trapezius a thin fibrous lamina (aj)oneurosis), from which the upper part of the latissimus dorsi muscle takes origin from the lower dorsal spines, Avill be revealed, and care should be taken that it is not cut away. The LATISSIMUS DOBSI (fig. 3, B) is the widest muscle of the Latissimus back, and is thin and aponeurotic at its attachment to the spine origin from and pelvis. It arises along the middle line from the spinous spinf, processes of the six lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and the upper .sacral vertebrae, as well as from the supraspinous ligaments. On the outer side it arises from the posterior third of the outer edge of pelvis, the iliac crest by its aponeurosis, and from the lowest three or four ribs by as many fleshy processes, which interdigitate with slips of ribs; the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. And in many bodies it receives another fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. The fibres ai'e directed outwards and ujiwards, con- verging rapidly ; and the muscle, much reduced in breadth, turns round the lower border of the teres major, to be inseiied by tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groo\'e of the humerus (fig. 17, insertion p. 44), where it will be subsequently seen. immcms- The muscle is superficial, except at tlie upper and inner part, where it is covered to a small extent by the trapezius. Farther out there is a space between the two, in which the rhomboid and relations; infraspinatus muscles appear. The outer border overlaps the edge of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen in the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest. The aponeurosis of the latissimus is in its lower part incorporated in the posterior layer of the fascia lumbormn, of which it forms the chief con.stituent. Action. If the arm is hanging loose, the muscle can move it use behind the back, rotiiting it inwards at the siime time. If the limb IS'i'Xis^free, is raised, the latissimus, combining with the large pectoral and teres miiscles, win depress the himierus. Supposing the arm fixed, the lati.ssimus assists the pectoralis and 0.\ed. major in drawing the movable trunk towards the humerus, as in the act of climbing. Dissection. The latissimus is to be divided about midway Dissection between the spines of the vertebrae and the angle of the scapula, to reflect J i-T- ■ . > i . •. ° , , ^ ' latissimus. and the pieces are to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner half of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy either the thin lower serratus muscle, with which it is united, or the aponeurosis continued downwards from the serratus.8 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Parts beiieatli luti.ssimus. Second muscular layer. Levator anguli scapuliB: relation.s and use on scapula, on the neck, Rhomboid muscles. Small muscle. Large muscle : origin; insertion ; relations. In llie, interval between tlie la.st rib and tlie iliac crest the latifssiiniiti is adherent to the ajjoneurosis of tlie traiisver-siili.s abdominis luuscle, and .should not be detiiched from it. Parts covered by the latissimus. The latissimus dorsi lies on the erector spinas, the serratus posticus inferior, the lower rib.s with their intercostal muscles, and the lower angle of the scapula, with parts of the rhoniboideus major, infraspinatus, and teres major muscles. Nearer the humerus it turns round the teres major, and is placed in front of that muscle at its insertion. In passing from the chest to the arm, the latissimus forms part of tlie posterior boundary of the axilla. The Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 3, c, d, e), comprising the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhomboid muscles are now to be examined, as well as the posterior belly of the omohyoid muscle, the suprascapular artery and nerve, and the transverse cervical artery and its branches, already referred to (p. 7). The LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULA (fig. 3, c) arises by tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebrae. The fibres form an elongated muscle, which is inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the superior angle (fig. 12, p. 32). At its origin the levator lies beneath the sterno-mastoid, and, at its uisertion, beneath the trapezius, where it meets the serratus magnus muscle ; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles. viz., splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens-. ' Action. The muscle raises the angle and hinder part of the scapula, and depresses the acromion; but in combination with the upper fibres of the trapezius, which prevent the rotation down of the acromion, it shrugs the shoulder. When the shoulder is fixed, the neck can be bent to the side by the levator. Ehomboidei muscles. The muscular layer of the rhomboidei is attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces, large and small, which are usually separated by a slight interval. The RHOMBOiDEUS MINOR (fig. 3, d) is a thin narrow band, which arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, and the ligameutum nuchas, and is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine (fig. 12). The RHOMBOIDEUS MAJOR (fig. 3, e) is much larger than the preceding muscle. It arises from the spines of four or five dorsal vertebras below the rhoniboideus minor, and from the supraspinous ligaments ; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be inserted into the base of the scapuhi between the spine and the lower angle (fig. 12). Sometimes Uie upper iibres are not fixed to the scapula directly, but end on a tendinous arch passing down the bone. The rhomboidei are for the most part covered by (he trapezius and latissimus ; but a portion of the larger muscle is subcutaneous near the scapula.SCAPULAR VESSELS AND NERVES. 0 Action. From the direction of their fibrus Loth rhoinboidei will J^™,',;^],,,,^ draw the Ijiuse of the scapula upwards and backwards, so as to depress the acromion. In combination with the trapezius they with oiluns. carry the scapula directly back ; and acting with the serratiis magnus, they serve to fix the scapula. The OMOHYOID MUSCLE consists of two fleshy bellies, anterior j^'^'y"™'' and posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Oidy omohyoid: the posterior half is now seen. The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind Ijj'j'iYj',,,,^!. the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a foramen, mition; The fibres form a thin, riband-like muscle, Avhich is directed for- wards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. This belly is partly reliitions. placed beueath the trapezius, and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery, and crosses the l)rachial plexus and the suprascapular nerve. Action. The use of the muscle will be considered in the neck. The SUPRASC.VPULAR ARTERY is a branch of the subclavian, and Snjira- is directed outwards through the lower part of the neck to the urt,'',!y'.'' upper border of the scapula. It runs behind the clavicle, and crosses the suprascapular ligament in front of the posterior belly of the omohyoid nuiscle, to enter the supraspinous fossa. Its termi- nation on the dorsum of the scapula will be seen in the dissection of the shoulder (p. 38). Before entering the fossa it gives off a swpra-acromial branch, which perforates the trapezius muscle, and oiisct. ramiKes over the acromion. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE is an offset of the brachial plexus Supra- (tig. 8, p. 2(5), and inclines downwards beneath the omohyoid muscle nm'e!"' to the notch in the upper border of the scapula, through which it passes into the supraspinous fossa (p. 38). The TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY', also a branch of the sub- Titoisv(Msi' chivian, has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards aHm'y" the upper angle of the scapula, but is higher than the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, it passes iyyualji.the trajjezius, and divides into two branches : <iividi>s into superficial cervical aud posterior scapular. a. The s:u!perficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the miperncini under-surface of t he trapezius, though it furnishes offsets to the levator " anguli scapula) aud the cervical glands. b. The 'posterior scapular branch crosses under the levator anguli postwioi- scapulae, and descends along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles. When these muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them, and to give snudl anasto- motic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises very frequently from the third part of the subclavian trunk as a separate artery from the superficial cervical. The suprascapular and transverse cervical veins have the same Accoinpmiy- course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein.10 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Norve of rhomboid muscles. Serratus inagmis muscle. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. Tliis sleuder offset of the brachial plexus (fig. 8, p. 26) courses beneath the elevator of the augle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhoniboidei on their deejj surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. Dissection. The levator anguli scapulaj and the rhomboid muscles are now to be divided about half-way between their origin and insertion, and the parts turned inwards and outwards. The small nerve to the rhomboids will be found running down to the deep surface of the muscles about an inch to the inner side of the upper angle of the scapiila, and the posterior scapular artery running close to the vertebral border of the scapula beneath the rhomboid attachment will be traced out. Finally, the vertebral border of the scapula will be drawn outwards, the loose connective tissue space between it and the chest-wall will be opened up, and the inner surface of the serratus magnus muscle, which is in.serted into the whole length of the inner surface of this border of the Ijone, will be cleaned.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. CHAPTER II. DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Section I. The wall of the chest and the axilla, which are described in this Time foi' Section, are to be dissected in six days, so that the senior student may be I'ree to begin work on the thorax. FcsiTioN. The body is lying on the back, the thorax rai.sed to a Position of convenient height by a block, and the arm, being slightly rotated ' outwards, is to be placed at a right angle with the trunk, a long board being passed under the shoulders from side to side for the support of the arms when they are drawn out from the body. Sdeface-marking. On the front of the chest is seen the pro- Smfiice- .,-11 HI T inai'KiiiH. minence of the mamma, large m the lemale, but small and rudi- mentary in the male, with the nipple iirojecting from it near the ^ centre. In the male the nipple is placed most frequently over the ° fourth intercostal space, sometimes over the fifth rib, and occasionally "iw''''' at a still higher or lower level. Its position in the female varies greatly with the development of the mamma. Between the arm and the chest is the hollow of the axilla, iix the Armpit, outer part of which the large vessels and nerves of the limb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for in proportion as the arm is elevated, the folds bounding it in front and behind are carried upwards and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is dimi- nished. In this part the skin is of a dark colour, and is furnished with hairs and large sweat-glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in different directions, Head of the while the fingers of one hand are placed in the armpit, the head of the humerus may be recognised. On the outer side (jf the limb is the prominence of the shoulder : Shoulder ,. Til ■■ 1 !• arch of bone, and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is iormed in front by the clavicle, behind and externally by the spine and the acromion process of the scapula. Continued downwards from intemms- about the middle of the clavicle is a sli<;ht depression between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, and by pressing the fingers into this hollow the coracoid process of the scapula can be made out. A second groove, extending outwards from the sternal end of theDISSECTION OF THE UI'PEE LIMB. 12 cUiviL-k', coiTe.si)OiKls with llie interval between the uliivicukr and the sternal oi igins of the {^reat pectoral muscle. Ann: its Along the front of the ann is the prominence of tlie biceps mXTooves. "'^i^'^l'^ ' '^1"^^ ^'"^"^^ ^^^^ eminence is a groove, which sub- sides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow-joint. The groove on the inner side of the biceps is the deeper, and indicates the position of the brachial vessels. Pioini- If the elbow-joint be slightly flexed, the prominences of the aroiimi the outer and inner condyles of the humerus will be rendered evident, elbow-joint, especially the inner. Below the outer condyle, and .seijarated from it by a slight interval, the head of the radius is placed, and may be recognised by rotating that bone, the fingers at the same time Ijeiug placed o\'er the head. At the back of the elbow is tlie prominence of the olecranon, and to the outer side of this, when the forearm is fully lient, a projection is formed by the capitellum. Dissection. Tlie first step in the dissection is to raise the skin from the side of the chest and the armpit, over the great pectoral muscle and the hollow of the axilla, by means of the following Incisions, incisions :—One is to be made along the middle of the sternum (fig. 1, B. 2). A second is carried along the whole length of cla\'icle and continued downwards o\-er the outer side of the shoidder for aljoiit three inches (fig. 1, B. 5). From the lower end of the sternum a third cut is to be directed outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level -w-ith the posterior fold of the arm])it (fig. 1, B. 7), and a fourth is taken upwards and outwards from the lower end of the sternum along the anterior folds of tlie axilla on to the arm opposite the lower end of the shoidder cut (fig. 1, B. 6). The flaps of .skin thus marked out are to be reflected outwards lieyond the axilla ; but they should be left attached to the body, iu order that they may be used for the preservation of the part. The subcutaneous fatty layer of the thorax resembles the .same fasi'ia.'"""' structure in other parts of the body ; but in this region it does not usually contain much fat. * Deep fascia: Beneath the subcutaneous layer is the stronger deep fascia, which closely invests the muscles, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It is thin on the front of the chest, but becomes thick where tiiickest it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over the over axilla, armpit, will render evident its increased strength in this situation, and the casing that it gives to the muscles bounding the axilla ; and if the forefinger be introduced through the opening, some idea Avill be gained of its capal)ility of confining an abscess in that hollow. Cntaneous Disscctioil. The cutixneous nerves of the side of the chest are nerves: f^^^^ j.^ l,g sought. At the spots where they are to be found they are placed beneath the fat, which must be cut through to expose lliem ; and those over the clavicle lie also beneath the super- ficial platysma muscle. Small vessels for the most part accompany the nerves, and indicate their jiosition. from cervi. Some of the nerves (from the cerviavl plexus) cross the clavicle tai piexns ^j^g n^iddle, and the inner end. Otliers {anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one through eachinter- Hellect skin. Superficial13 CUTANEOUS NERVES OF CHEST. costal space. And Lhe rest (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be looked for along the side of the chest, about an inch behind the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal and mUtr- space except the first. As these last-mentioned nerves pierce the 1"^^^^. wall of the thorax, they divide into anterior and posterior branches. The posterior branches of the highest two of them are larger than the rest, and are to be followed across the armpit, where a junction will be found with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial of plexus. Cutaneous nerves from the cervical plexus. These cross Cutaneous the clavicle and are distributed to the skin over Uiepectoral muscle. ""rviL^u'^ The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the pi«xus. bone, and reaches but a short distance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number and larger, cross the middle of the clavicle, and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralis major ; they join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves. The Cutaneous Nerves of the Thorax are derived from the Cutaneous trunks of the interco.stal nerves between the ribs. Of these there intel-costals. are two sets :—One set, the lateral cutaneous 7ierves, arise aliout midway between the spinal colunm and the sternum. The other set, the anterior cutaneous nerves, are the terminations of the same trunks at the anterior ends of the intercostal spaces. The anterior cutaneous nerves are slender filaments which One near ]iierce the pectoral muscle, and are directed outwards to supply the skin and the mammary gland. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous In-anch from the cervical ]ilexus. Small branches of the internal mammary vessels accompany these nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves (ti'j. 4, p. 15) issue with com- The other panion vessels between the digitations of the serratus magnus the ehest; muscle, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. There is not usually any lateral cutaneous nerve from the first intercostal trunk. The anterior offsets (fig. 4 p. 15) bend over the pectoral muscle, tiiese have and end in the integuments and the mammary gland ; they increase in size downwards, and the lowest give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The cutaneous nerve of the second intercostal trunk commonly wants the antei'ior offset. The 2Jostmo?- offsets {Rg. 4 p. 15) end in the integuments over uosterior the latissimus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula, and decrease in size from above dowiwards. The lateral branch of the second intercostal nerve (fig. 4 J). 15) leaehes is larger than the rest, and is named tha intercosto-limneral. Per- forating the fascia of the axilla, it is distributed to the skin of the arm (p. 43). As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wri.sberg, or leaser internal cutaneous, by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal ners'e gives filaments likewise 'riiird nerve, to the armpit and the inner side of the arm. The Mamma is the gland for the .secretion of the milk, and is The breast: situate on the lateral i»rt of the front of the chest.14 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. form ami position; witli its rlimensions and weiglit. Position and form of tlie nipple: mfiiiuua ranges tlie areola; colour is variable; skin lias elands. Breast of the male. Structure Investing and librous tissue. Lactiferous ducts; Eestiiig on the great pectoral muscle, it is nearly hemispliericHl in form, but most prominent at the inner and lower a.spects. Its dimensions and weight vary greatly. In a Ijreast not enlarged hy lactation, the width is commonly ahout four inches. Longitudiiuilly it extends from the third to the sixth or seventh ril), and trau.s- versely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the from six to eight ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or mamilla. This prominence is. about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents iii the centre a shallow depression, where it is i-ather redder. Aromid the nipple is a coloured ring—the areola, about an inch in width, the tint of which is influenced by the complexion of the body, and become.s darker during pregnancy and lactation. The skin of the nipple and areola is provided with numerous papiUfe and glands; and on the surface are some small tuliercles marking the position of the lattei'. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in general form, though it is much less developed ; and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola pro%aded with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. The mamma is a comjjound racemose gland, and consists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes, and connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct A layer of areolar tissire, containing masses of fat, surroiuids the gland, and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes; but between the lobules of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty substance. Some fibrous septii fix the gland to the skin, and support it, being spoken of as the ligamenta sus- IKiisoria of Astley Cooper. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named from their office galactoj^horom; they con\-erge to the areola, where they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sinuses) of one-sixth to one-third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot' the ducts become narrower ; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, they arc continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one another, to open on the summit by a]iertui\'-s smaller than the canals, and varying from the size of a V>ristle to that of a common ])in. Nip-pie. The substance of the nipple is composed in great part of a network of interlacing bundles of plain nuiscular tissue, tlirough which the lactiferous ducts pass to the surface. Some of the bundles extend from base to apex of the nipple ; and surrounding the base is a set of circular fibres, witli which radiating bundles decu.ssate. Arteries of Blood-vcsnch.—Tlie rtf/o'i'csare supplied by tlieaxiMary, internal iiiamiiiary, the gland interooRlftl, and enter both sni-faccs of the gland. The fcni.s end open on eii<l of nipple. Muscular tissue in nipple.THE MAMMA. principally in the axillary and internal mammary trunks ; liut others enter ,„„i v(.iiis. the intercostal veins. The nerves are supplieil from the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches Norvos. of the thorax, viz., from the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves. The lymphatics of the inner side open into the sternal glands ; those of Lyniphntic^ the outer side pass to the axillary glands. Fio. 4.—View ok the Dissected Axilla (Illustiiations of Dissections). Muscks: A. Pcctoralis major. B. Pectoralis minor. 0. SeiTatus magnus. D. Latissimus donsi. E. Tores major. F. Subscapularis. 0. Coraco-bracbialis. B. Biceps. Vessels : a. Axillary artci^. b. Axillary vein. c. Subscapular vein. d. Subscapular artery. c. Posterior circumflex artery. Irenes: 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Ulnar. 4. Musculo-spiral. 5. Nerve of Wrisborg. 6. Internal cutaneous of musculo- spiral. 7. Intercosto-hunieral. o T> i ■ ( branches of lateral 8. Posterior , ^ ,, „ , . . • cutaneous ot the 9. Anterior ^^^^.^^^ Dissection (fij;. 4). With the limb drawn outwards (abducted) Dissection from the trunk, the .student should now reniove the fa.scia and the miisch!°"'' fat from the .surface of the great pectoral muscle. In cleaning the muscle the scalpel .should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz. from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun16 DISSECTION OF THE UPPEK LIMH. Remove fat of axilla. Follow vessels. Clean back of .space. Trace nei\'es of plexus, and on inner wall. at the lower border on the right side, but at the upjier border on the left side. In the groove at the upper border, between the pectorali,s major and the deltoid, a small vein, flu; ccplialic, will be .seen, and subjacent to this a small artery, the deiscending or humeral hranch of the acromio-thoracic, will lie found running downwards. The fascia and the fat are then to be taken from the axilla, without injury to the numerous vessels, nerves, and gland.= in the space. The dissection will be best executed by cleaning fir.st the lai'ge axillary vessels at the outer part, where these are about to enter the arm, and then following their branches which are directed to the chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary of the armjiit, and the subscapular along the jDosterior boundary. With the latter vessels the middle and lower subscapular nerves will be found, and just below them at their origin, turning backwards near the humerus, are the jiosterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve. Some arterial twigs entering the axillarj^ glands should also be traced out. In taking away the fascia and fat from the muscles at the back of the space, the small internal cutaneous branch of the niusculo- spiral nerve (fig. 4^) should be looked for near the great vessels. The nerves of the brachial plexus about the axillary vessels in the outer part of the space are then to be defined. The smallest of these, which is commonly destroyed, is the nerve of Wrisberg ; it lies close to the hinder edge of the axillary vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Finally, when cleaning the serratus magnus muscle on the rilis, the student will seek on its surface for the posterior or long thoracic nerve (fig. 6 p. 21) which runs down longitudinally towards the back part of the muscle. The posterior offsets of the intercostal nerves crossing the axilla Avill also be cleaned. THE AXILLA. .Sitnation and foitn of the armpit. Bonndarles anterior wall ; jiosterior wall. The axilla is the hollow between the arm and the chest (fig. 4). It is somewhat pyramidal in form, ^vith its apex directed upwards to the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as follows :— Boundaries. In front and Ijchind, the space is limited by the muscles pa.ssing from the trunk to the upper limb. In the anterior wall are tlii! two pectoral muscles, but these take unequal .shares in its construction : the pectoralis major (a*) extends over the whole front of the space, reaching from the clavicle to the edge of the anterior fold ; while the pectoralis minor (b) corresponds only to about the middle third of the wall. In the posterior wall, from above dowiward.s, lie the sub- scapularis (f), the latissimus dorsi muscle (d), and the teres major (k) muscles. The free margin of this wall, or the posterior fold, is formed by the latissimus dorsi and tores major muscles, and is ♦ The letters ftiul figures refer to tig. i.CONTENTS OF AXILLA. 17 thicker and more prominent than the anterior, especially near the arm. On the inner wall of the axilla lie the first five ribs, with their innor wall; intervening intercostal muscles, and the part of the serratus magnus (c) taking origin from those bones. On the outer side the space outer wall ; has but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus and the coraco-l)rachialis and biceps muscles (g and h). The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the upper apox ; margin of the scapula, and the first rib ; and the forefinger may be introduced into the space for the purpose of ascertaining the upper lioundaries, and the depth. The base of the pyramidal fossa is baso. turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis reaching from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. In the axilla are contained the axillary contents of ves.sels and the bracliial plexus of nerves with their branches ; "le space, some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. Position of the trtmlcs of vessels and nerves (fig. 4). The large Position of axillary artery (a) and vein (6) cross the outer portion of the ^"^^f^i^. space in passing from the neck to the upjier limb. The part ^ "^'"^"' of each vessel now seen lies close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior fold of the armpit, and is covered only by the common superficial coverings, viz., the skin, the fatty layer or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the subscapularis (f) and the tendons of the latis- simas and teres muscles (d and e). To their outer side is the coraco-bracliialis muscle (q). On looking into the space from below, the axillary vein (b) lies vein; on the thoracic side of the artery. After the vein has been drawn aside, the artery will be seen to nerves, lie amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, having the median trunk (1) to the front and outer side, and the ulnar (S) and the small nerve of Wrisberg (5) to the inner side, the internal cutane- ous (2) to the inner side and somewhat in front, and the musculo- spiral (*) and circumflex nerves beneath it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the .shoulder. The vein receives some branches in this .spot. Position of the branches of vessels and nerves. The several branches Situation of of the vessels and nerves have the undermentioned position with ^"""'''"'^ = raspect to the boundaries of the axilla. Close to the anterior fold, and concealed by it, the long thoracic in front; artery runs to the .side of the chest. Taking the same direction, though nearer the middle of the hollow, a small external mammary artery and vein are occasionally present. Passing down the posterior wall, within the free margin of the boimul; told m contact with the lower edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the subscapular vessels and nerves (d); and near the outer, humeral, end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels (e) and the circumflex nerve bend backwards beneath the laree trunks. ° U.A.18 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. insirl(>. Lyniplintic glanrt.s of the axilUi and vessels joining them. On the inner houndary, at the upper part, are a few small lininclies of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle ; Init the.se are commonly so imimportant, that this part of the a.villary space may be considered free from vessels with respect to any surgical operation. Running down the outer surface of the serratus maguus towards the hack of the axilla is the nerve to that muscle (long or posterior thoracic); and coming through the inner Avail of the space, under cover of the pectoral muscles, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax, the highest of which is directed across the axilla to the arm, and receives the name intercosto-humeral C). The lym2}hatic glands of the axilla are arranged in three .sets: one is placed along the inner side of the great blood-vessels; another occupies the hinder part of the .space, lying near the subr scapular vessels ; and the third accompanies the long thoracic artery, beneath the margin of the pectoralis major. Commonly there are in all ten or twelve ; but in number and size they vary nuich. Small twdgs from the branches of the axillary vessels are furnished to them. The glands by the side of the blood-v&ssels receive the lympliatics of the arm ; those along the hinder boundary are joined liy the Oralis FiQ. 5.—The Claviolk, showing the Upper and a Part OP THE Anterior Sitrfaoe. Pectoralis major; origins; insertion; relalionf. lymphatics of the side of the chest and of the back, and those beneath the pectoral muscle by the lymphatics of the front of the chest, and from the outer part of the manmia. The efferent vessels unite to form a trunk, which opens into the lymphatic duct of the neck of the same side; or some may enter separately the subclavian vein. The PECTORALIS MAJOR (a) is triangular in shape, with the Ivise at the sternum, and the apex at the arm. It arises from the inner half of the front of the clavicle (lig. 5), from the anterior surface of the sternum and the cartilages of the upper six rilvs, and ludow from the aponeurosis of the external obliciue muscle of the abdomen. From this wide origin the fibres take different directions—tho.se from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, while the lower ones ascend behind the upper portion of the muscle; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted (fig. 17, p. 44) into the pectoral ridge on tlie outer side of the bicipiUd groove of the humerus, along which a thin prolongation is sent upw^ards to the head of the bone. This muscle bounds the axiUa in front, and its lower border19 PECTOBALTS MAJOR. forms the anterior fold of the lioUow. Covering it are the integu- ments, with the mamma and tlie thin dee]i fa.seia, as M-ell as tlie l)Iatysnia close to the clavicle. Tlie U])per border is adjacent to tlie/, ; deltoid muscle, the cephalic vein, and a small artery l.ving l)etween^"e^J:^tc. -/T^s, the two. Between the clavicular and sternal origins is a narrow interval, which corresponds to a de]>ression on the surface. Tin; parts lienealh the pectoralis major will he .seen sulwequeiitly. Adion. If the humerus is hanging, the muscle will move Usr: flexp.s, forwards the linih until the elhow reaches the front of the trunk, 'n, ' and will rotate it inwards. When the linih is rai.sed, the pectoralis depresses and adducts it iimi iuicincts (draws it to the side of the liody) ; and acting with other muscles ■ inserted into the humerus, it may dislocate the head of that Lone when the lower end is raised and fixed, as in a fall on the elbow. Supposing both limbs fixed, as in climbing, the trunk will be rai.s..s rii«. raised by both mu.scles ; and the lower fibres can elevate the ril)s in laborious lireathiiig. Dissection (Hgs. 6 and 7). The great pectoral muscle is to be cut DLs.spction. across now in the following manner :— Divide the clavicular part of the muscle and find the subjacent Cutciavi- bi'anches of nerve and artery. In refiecting the cut piece of the of thV""' muscle, press the limb against the edge of the table, for the Pectoral. luiil)ose of raising the clavicle and rendering tight the fascia att.ached to that lione. Carefully remove the fat, and a piece of fascia prolonged from the upper border of the small pectoral muscle, (the membranous costo-coracoid sheath) will be .seen close to the ela\-icle, covering the axillary vessels and nerves. The cephalic vein is to be defined as it crosses inwards to the Trace axillary vein. A branch of a nerve (the extmuil antmor thoracic), '■'"^^f^'^"'^ and the acromio-thoranc vessels, perforate the fascia over the axillary trunks, and are to be followed to the clavicular part of the pectoral muscle. A second branch of the external anterior thoracic nerve, with accompanying arteries, will be found passing downwards over the upper border of the pectoralis minor into the sternal part of the major mu.scle. These nerves and arteries should now be cleaned. The remaining i)art of the pectoralis major may then be cut about Divide tim its centre, and the pieces thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat °/ coming into view is to be removed; and the tendon of the pectoralis IS to be followed to the humerus. In raising the pectoralis major note will be taken of a small nerve {internal anterior thornric), which usually pierces the minor muscle to enter the lower part of the major. Insertion of the pectoralis major. The tendon of the pectoralis Tend,,,, of consists ol two layer.-, anterior, and posterior, at its attachment to the bone ;—the anterior receives the clavicular and upper sternal fibres; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascendin.^ thoracic fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a halt wide, and sends upwards one expansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the .shoulder-joint, and another downwards to the lascia of the arm (see humerus, fig. 17, p. 44). c 220 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Parts covered by the musclo. Pectoralis minor: origin ; insertion; relations ; Dissection of axillar)' sheath and costo-co- racoid fascia. Costo-cora- coid mem- brane conceals snbclavius, and .joins sheath of vessels. Axill.irj' sheatli strongest i front. Clean the vessels. Parts covered by the %Kctoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that iiin.scle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillary vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on tlie axillary vessels and nerx-es, and on the biceps and coraco-braohialis muscles near the humerus. The PECTORALIS MINOE (figs. 6 and 7) is also triangular in shape, and extends from the thorax to the shoulder. It arises from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, immediately external to their cartilages, by tendinous slips which are blended with the aponeuroses in the intercostal spaces. The fibres converge to their insertion into the anterior half of the coracoid process of the scapula, at its upper and inner part (fig. 10, p. 29). This muscle assists the pectoralis major in forming the anterior wall of the axilla, and near its insertion it lies over the large vessels and the accompanying nerves. The upper border is separated from the clavicle by a triangular interval. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major close to the chest; and along it the long thoracic vessels lie. The tendon of insertion is united with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. Action. It draws the scapula forwards and downwards ; and in laborious breathing it becomes an inspiratory muscle, taking its fixed point at the shoulder. Dissection. Supposing the clavicle raised by pressing back- wards the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the axillary vessels will be demonstrated by making a transverse cut below the costo-coracoid membrane so that the handle of the scalpel can be passed beneath it. Then, by dividing the mem- brane itself near the clavicle and raising the lower border of the subclavius, this muscle will be seen to be encased by fa.?cia, which is attached to the bone lioth before and behind it. ■, , • , The costo-coracoid membrane or ligament is a firm band which is attached on the inner side to the first rib, and on the outer side to the coracoid process of the scapula. Between these points it is inserted into the under-surface of the clavicle, enclosing the sub- clavius muscle (fig. 6 d). The fascia that encases the small pectoral muscle is joined to the membrane above, and, in addition, the deep stratum of the membrane, beneath the subclavius muscle, is blended with the front of tlie axillary sheath. The sheath of the axillarv vessels and nerves (e)* is a funnel- shaped tube, prolonged from the fascia covering the scalen. muscles , in the lower part of the neck. It is strongest near the subclavius muscle, where the costo-coracoid band joins it. Ihe anterior part of the .sheath is perforated by the cephalic vein {e) the acromio- thoracic artery («), •'^■hI the anterior thoracic nerves (i and -). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane 1- 1... has been ex- The letters and figures refer to fig 6. In fig. 7 the parts are named.THE SUBCLAVIUS. 21 aiiiiiied, the remains of it are to be taken away ; and the sul)ehivius muscle, and the axillary vessels and nerves with their branches, are to be farefidly cleaned. The SUBCLAVIUS (fig. 6, d) is a small elongated muscle, placed subuiuvius nuisclc Fig. 6.—Skconu View oi' the Disskchon of tue Chest (Illustrations op Dissections). Muscles ami /(iscice : A. Pectoralis major, cut. u. Pectoralis miDor. c. Serratus inagnus. D. Subclaviiis, encased iu the costo-coracoicl meiubiane. E. Axillary sheath. 1". Subscapularis. G. Latissimus dorsi. u. Teres major. J. Coraco-brachialis. K. Biceps. VcsscU : a. Acromio-thoracic braiicli. b. Long thoracic branch. c. Subscapular branch. d. Axillary artery. c. Cephalic vein. f. Brachial veins joining the axillary vein, </. Nerves : 1 and 2. Anterior thoracic branches. 3. Long subscapular branch. 4. Nerve to the serratus. 5. Intercosto-humeral. below the clavicle. It arises by a tendon from the lirst rib and its cartilage at their junction, in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. The Hbres pass outwards and somewhat upwards, and are inserted into a groove on the under-surfacc of the clavicle, which reaches ■« attached to clavicleDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB, 22 and ihslrib: between the two rough impressions for the costo- and coraco- claviciilar ligaments, leiiitioiis; The muscle crosses the large vessels and nerves of the limh, and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia, "se. Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula. AXILLARY The AXILLARY ARTERY (figs. 6 and 7) continues the subclavian ARTER\ : trunk to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to which this name extent; is ajjplied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (h). In the axillary space its position will be marked by a line from the centre of the clavicle to the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis. Its direction will vary with the position of the lindj to the tnmk ; for when the arm lies by the side of the body the vessel is arched, its convexity being upwards ; l)ut when the limb is raised to the ileijUi. level of the shoulder, it is somewhat curved in the opposite direc- tion. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeplj^ placed, but it becomes superficial as it ai^proaches the arm. Its relations with the suiTounding oljjects are numerous ; and the description of these will be methodised by dividing the artery into three parts, the first above, the second J»Ht5rctB7^nd the third below the small pectoral muscle, above small Above the small pectoral muscle, the artery is contained in the pectoral; axillary sheath of membrane (e), and is concealed by the c]a\icular with portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the intercostal muscles, muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus magnus. vessels, Tq the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein (y). The cephalic vein (e) and offsets of the acromio-thoracic vessels cross over it. and nerves. On the acromial side lie the cords of the brachial plexus ; super- ficial to it is the external anterior thoracic nerve ; and benetith it is the posterior or long thoracic, descending on the serratus magnus. Beneath In its second part, the pectoralis minor and major (b and a) are pectoral superficial to the artery. But there is not any muscle immediately in contact behind, for the vessel is placed across the top of the axilla, particularly when the limb is in the position required by the dissection. of 15 vein, The companion vein ((/) lies to the inner side^buLseparated from the arterial trunk by the inner cord of the brachiaf plexus, which has crossed behind the artery to its inner side, and nerves. In this position the cords of the brachial plexus lie around it, one being outside, another inside, and the third behind the artery. And beyond Beyond the pectoralis minor, the artery is at first concealed by f«cto"al" the lower border of the great pectoral muscle (a) ; but thence to its muscles termination it is covered oidy by the integuments and the fascia. Beneath it are subscapularis muscle (r) and the tendons of the latissimus and teres (g and h). To the outer .side is the coraco- brachialis muscle with vfin, rp]^^. axilhiry vein remains on the thoracic .side of the arWvy. and nerves. i„ tiijg^ i(s third part, the artery lies in the midst of the large.AXILLARY ARTERY. 23 trunks of nerves into which the hraohial plcxu.s haa lieen resolved. On the outer .side is the median nerve, with the inn.sculo-cutaneous for a short disttmce ; and on the inner side are the ulnar and the nerve of Wrisberg (lesser internal cutaneous), the latter heing directed behind, or sometimes through, the vein to its inner .side. Superficial to the ve.sse] is the internal cutaneous and the inner head of the median pa.s.sing outwards ; and behind are the musculo- ■spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscainilar muscle. The BRANCHE.S of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of Bkancuks. the tliorax and the .shoulder. The thoracic branches are, as a rule, four in niunber ; two (HU]>erior and acromio-thoracic) arise from the External anterior tlioracic nerve. Cephalic vein iMii.sculo-ciitaneons nerve. Anterior circumHex artery. Posterior circumflex artery. Coraco bracliialis. Internal cnt)ineons nerve. SuUscapiihir artery. Intercosto- liunienil nerve. Median nerve. Ulnar nerve. — Teres major. Bracliial plexus. - Axillary artery. Axillary vein. Thoracic axis. Long sub.scapu. lar nerve. Lowest sub- scajnilar nerve. Internal ante- rior thoracic nerve. Long thoracic artery. .SeiTatus magnus. Fia. 7.—Parts beneath the Peotoralis Major (Diagrammatic). artery above the pectoralis minor, one (alar thoracic) Ijeneath that muscle, and one (long, or inferior, thoracic) at its lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two circumflex ; they arise clo.se together, at the border of the sulwcapularis muscle. OcciLsionally a small external mammary artery is present. The superior thomcic branch is the highest and smallest oflset, and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side of the chest, ana.stoinosing with the intercostal arteries. Very com- monly this vessel arises with the acromio-thoracic, and the trunk of origin is then spoken of as the thoracic axis (fig. 7). The acromio-thoracic branch is a short trunk on the front. Upper tlioracic. Aci-omio- thoracic24 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMH. of the artery, whicli appears at tLe upper border of the pecto- ralis uiiiior, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and deltoid muscles. Its principal offsets are directed inwards and outwards :— oiiscis are a. The iniw or thoracic set supply the pectoral muscles, and give uitemai, ^ j-^^^ offsets to tlic side of the chest, which anastomose with the intercostal and other thoracic arteries, external, h. The Older or acromial set enter the deltoid, and some twigs perforate that muscle to anastomose over the acromion with a branch of the suprascapular artery, asceiidin;,', «• A small clavicular branch ascends to the subclavius muscle, anri rie- The humeral branch runs downwards with the cephalic vein seeiuiing. between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, to ^\'hich it is distributed. Alar tiio- The cdar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, its place raeic. being frequently taken by ofl'sets of the subscapular and long thoracic arteries; it is distributed to the glands and fat of the axilla. Long tlio- The long thoracic branch is directed along the border of the laoiu. pectoralis minor to about the fifth intercostal space ; it supplies the i}ectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other liranches, with the intercostal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. External An external mammary arterxj is frequently met with, especially in mammary, j^j^^ female; its position is near the middle of the axilla with a comj^anion vein. It supplies the glands, and ends in the wall of the thorax below the long thoracic. Sub.scapuiar The subscapular branch courses with a nerve of the same name along the subscapularis muscle, just within the fold of the latissimus dorsi, as far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus niagnus, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. It also gives many off-sets to the glands of the space, dorsal Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable dorsal brancli, branch round the lower border of the subscapular muscle, which wiiioii give gives an infrascapular offset to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and scapular. ^^^^^^ iwxwi to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dissected (p. 38). The subscapular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. Anterior The circumflcx branches wind round the humerus below the sub- pnsterior sfapular muscle. The anterior is small, and passes outwards beneath cirenmflex. the coraco-brachialis and l)iceps, and should be looked for by draw- ing the axillary artery a little away from the coraco-brachialis muscle. The jiosterior is much larger, and disappears with the companion nerve between the subscapularis and teres major mu.scles. They will lie followed in the dis.sect.ion of the shoulder. Muscular. Small muscular offsets enter the coraco-brachialis muscle. Axillary The AXILLARY VEIN (jf) continues upwards the basilic vein of the arm, and has the sinie extent a.s the axillary artery. It lies toBRACHIAL PLEXUS. 26 the thoracic side of its artery, and receives corresponding tlioracic exieiitiuKi and shoulder branches. Opposite the suliscapular muscle it i.s'•^''^i'""'*; joined externally hy a large vein, which is formed by the union of the vense comites of the brachial artery ; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissection. The continuity of the axillary with the sul(cla\'ian Di.sscciinn artery will now Ije displayed by removing the nuddle third of the ^[exi'is clavicle and the subjacent portion of the subcla\dus muscle and cleaning the vessel beneath the bone. After this the dissector will follow out the Itranches of the brachial plexus, cut through the pectoralis minor near its insertion into the coracoid i)rocess, and turn it towards the chest, l)ut without injuring the thoracic nerves. The axillary veasels are next to be ligatured, divided below the second rib above the ligature, and to be drawn down with hooks, care being biken to preserve the loop of communication bet^veen the external and the internal anterior thoracic nerves ; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the .same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS (figs. 7 and 8) results from the interlace- Nuivcs ment of the anterior branches of the lower four cerviail nerves and jj'i'jjij'iaf the larger part of the first dor.sd ; and a slip is added to it aljove plexus, from the fourth cervical nerve. It is placed successively in the Us situation neck and the axilla, and ends opposite the coracoid process in the nerves of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is de,scriljed in the dissection of the heiid and neck. The part ami rela- below the clavicle has the .same relations to .surrounding muscles as the axillary artery ; and in it the nerve-trunks are disposed as follows :— As the plexus enters the axilla it con.sista of three cords, inner, The uerves outer, and po.sterior, which lie together in a binidle on the outer side of the artery. Beneath the pectoralis minor the three cords "lound ilic emljrace the vessel, being placed as their names indicate—the first inside, the second outside, and the third behind the artery. Near the lower edge of the small pectoral muscle, the cords divide to form the large nerves of the lindi. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle ari.se from the Immulies: .several cords in the following way (fig. 8) :— The outer cord furnishes one anterior thoracic l)ranch (eat), the outer cord; nuisculo-cutaneous (mc), and the outer head of the median nerve (m). The inner cord gives origin to a second anterior thoracic nerve inner cord ; (iat), the internal cut;ineous (ic), the nerve of Wrisberg (w), the inner head of the median (m), and the ulnar nerve (u). The iwsterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches (si, s2, and posterior s3), and ends in the circumflex (c) and mu.sculo-spiral (nis) trunks. Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are ex])osed to their Tlie follow- termination at present ; the remaining nerves will be .seen in the ;;ow"'vif ™ subsequent di.s.sections. The anterior thm-ack Ranches (fig. 6, » and 2, p. 21, and tig. 7, two anterior p. 23), two in number, are named outer and inner, like the cords "'o^'cic: from which they come.DISSECTION OF THE DPPER LIMB. ia w Fig. 8.—Diageam op the Brachial Plexus. The dotted link indicates THE LEVEL AT WHICH THE CORDS ARE CROSSED BY THE CLAVICLE. Infraclavicular brancJics : From outer cord— c IV. to c. VIII. Fourth to eighth cervical nerves. D I. and D II. First and second dorsal nerves. 1 i and 2 i. First and second inter- costal nerves. ih. Intercosto-lninieral norvc. phr. Phrenic nerve. Supraclavicular brandies of brachial plexus : rli. Branch to rhomboids, sps. Suprascapular, sc. Branch to subclavius. pt. Posterior thoracic. cat. E.xtcrnal anterior thoracic, mc. Musculo-cuUiueous. m. Median. From inner cord— iat. Internal anterior thoracic, w. Nerve of Wrisberg. ic. Internal cutaneous, u. Ulnar, m. Median. From posterior conl— s 1. Upper, s 2. Middle, s 3. Lower subscapular, c. Circumflex, ms. Musculo-spiral.27 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 'I'lic uiikr nerve livtmt'H over tlic axillniy urU'i-y, lo I lie uiidiu'-„„(,,,,. surface of the great loectonil imiscle in which it ciids. On Qw. inner .side of the ve.ssel it coinninnicates witli tlic. I'dllowiuf; lirancli. The iiinur iierui; couwh forwards lietween tlie artery and \'ein, and luul inmr. after reciMvinf,' the offset from the outer, ends in many liranciies to tlie under-suri'ace of tlie ])uctoralis minor. Some twij^'s enter tlie great pectoral muscle after jiassing either tlirouj^li llie ]ic( |,(iralis minor or above its border. Tlic nuycaintlar nervea are three in number, and su]i]>lv tht'Tlmw siih- nuLscles bounding tlie axilla behind ' «™l>i'i">-: The uiriier nerve is the smallest, and enters liie uiipei' part of tlie, insulwcn- , V . , ' 111 pnlnriM, sulmcapidans muscle. Tile middle or long .lubmipillar nerve acconijianies the subscapular liiUsHinms artery along the posterior wall of the axilla, and supplies the'""' latissimus d(nsi muscle (fig. 7). The lower mh.tcajmlar nerve gives a brancli (o (he lower part of ami imiw the subscapularis mu.scle, and ends in the teres major. Another branch of the j)lexus, the yoderior or lony tho7-acic nerve or ■nerve to the Herratun, lies on the inner side of the axilla (fig. G, 0- Itari.ses above the clavicle from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves fig. 8, pt), and de.scends behind the axillary ve.s- .sels to reach the (juter surface of the serratus niagnus muscle. The i.ATissiMUS Donsi MUSCJI.K (fig. 7) may be examined as far as it enters into the jjosterior wall of the axilla. Arising from the back of the trunk (p. 7), and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the mu.scle ascends to be innerted into the bottom of the, bici])ital groove, by a tendon insiiiiioii. one inch and a half in width, in front of the teres major ; at the lower border aponeurotic fibres connect the two, but a burea intervencH between them near the insertion (fig. 17, \). 44). Dissection. To lay bare the serratus magnus, the arm is to lu' iiissueiioii drawn fnmi the trunk, so as to separate the scapula frcmi the thorax, "{^^jj," The nerves of the brachial plexus should be included in a ligature so as to hold them together, and cut through opjiosite the third rib ; and the fat and connective tissue should be cleaned from the muscular fibres. The smiUATLs MA^i^•us muhci-h (tig. !j) extends from the side iscmiins inugiins: ""1,1 Vm. 9.—TiiK Skriiatus Maunus.DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LFMB. 28 origin ; insertion; tliree parts tliB iiuiscle; relations; of the chest to the base of the scapula, and clothes the inner wall of the axilla. It arises from the upper eight or nine ribs by a.s many slips or digitations, and passes backwards, diminishing in breadth, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of tlie scapula on the ventral aspect. Prom a difference in the arrangement of the slips, the muscle is divided into three parts :— The ujjper part is formed by the first digitation, which is thicker than the others, and springs from the first and second ribs, as well as from a tendinous arch between them : it is inserted into an impression in front of the upper angle of the scapula. The middle part is thin, and comprises two digitations, which spread out from the second and third ribs to the vertebral border of the scapula. The loiver part is the strongest, and consists of the remaining five or six slips, which converge from their ribs (fourth to eighth or ninth) to a special surface on the ventral aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The serratus is in great part concealed by the pectoral muscles, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the scapula, with the subscapu- laris and latissimus dorsi muscles. Its deep siuface rests against the ribs and the intercostal muscles. The lower slips interdigitate with like processes of the external oblique muscle. Action. The whole muscle acting, the scapula is carried forwards. But the lower part can move forwards the lower angle alone, so as to rotate the bone, and turn the glenoid cavity upwards as in raising the arm above the level of the shoulder. The lowest slips may evert the ribs in forced inspiration. Removal of th.e limb. The limb is now to be drawn away from the side of the body and removed by cutting through the serratus magnus muscle about an inch from its insertion into the vertebral border of the scapula, by dividing the omohyoid muscle and the suprascapular vessels and nerves near the upper border of the bone and the latissimus dorsi near the lower angle. The ligatures embracing the axillary vessels and the nerves of the brachial plexus should be fixed to the outer fragment of the clavicle or to the subjacent soft parts, so as to retain them approximately in their position. Position. Dissection of muscles. Skction II. SCAPULAR MUSCLES, S^BSSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS. Position. After the limb has been separated from the trunk it is to be jilaced with the subscapularis uppermost. Dissection. The different muscles that have been traced to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the chest and of the back are now to be followed to their insertion into the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the ]nir- pose of showing the attachment. Fig. 10 shows the attachments of the muscles to the ventral surface of the bone, and fig. 12 (p. 32) to the dorsal surface.SCAPULAR MUSCLES. 29 Between the larger rhomboid muscle ami the serratus magnus, at the base, or vertebral border, of the scapula, run the posterior scapular artery and vein, the ramifications of which are to be traced. To the borders and the angles of the scapula the following Muscles muscles are connected:— «ttache<i From the upper margin of the scapula arises one muscle, the to uiiiicr omohyoid (fig. 11, e). About half an inch wide at its origin, the "h" scapfua, muscle is attached to the edge of the bone behind the notch, and sometimes to the ligament which bridges over the notch. Along the cuillarij maryin arise the long head of the triceps to "xiiiaiy (fig. 22, A, p. .'iCL), and tlie teres minor (h) and major (g) muscles ; Trapezius. Deltoi Supraspinatus. Biceps (sliorL head) and coraco-brachialis. Pecloralis minor. Glenoid ligament. Triceps (long head). Fig. 10.—The Scapula from the Front. but these attachments will be ascertained in the progress of the dissection. The vertebral border of the bone has four muscles inserted into it. and to base • Between the superior angle and tlie spine is the levator anguli scapulfe (figs. 12 and 13, h) ; opposite the spine the rhomboideus minor (j) is attached ; and between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major (k) is inserted : the upper fibres of the last muscle often end in an aponeurotic arch, which is fixed to the Ijoue above and below. In front of these muscles, and inserted into the base of the scapula along its whole length, is the serratus magnus muscle (figs. 10 and 11, d), the upper and lower parts of which are much thickened, and occupy special surfaces on the ventral aspect of the corresponding angles of the bone. The insertion of the small pectoral nuiscle intg the anterior lialf to coi-acoid " jirocess.DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. 30 nerves of siib- seapularis. Subscapu- laris: of tlie coracoid 'process at its upper anrl inner part is also seen (lig. 11, F). Dissection, Disscctioil. By the separation of the serratus from tlie suh- scapiilaris tlinre comes into \'iew a thin fascia, which helougs to the latter miusele, and is fixed to the lione round its margins ; after it has heen observed, it ma)' be taken away. In cleaning the muscle, the short, uppermost, subscapular branch, of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus will be found entering its upper part under cover of the axillary vessels, and a branch from the lowest sub- scapular nerve will be seen to enter its lower, or axillary, border. The subscapularis muscle i.s to be followed forwards to its inser- tion into the hiimerus ; and the axillary ve.ssels and nerves, with their offsets to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE (fig 11, a) lies beneath the scapula, and is for the most part concealed by that bone when the limb is in its natural position. It arises from the con- cave ventral surface of the scapula, except near the upper and lower angles, and over the neck ; and a thick portion of the muscle is attached in the groove along the axillary margin of the bone : many of the fleshy fibres spring from tendinous septi which are fixed to the ridges on insertion; the surface of the scapula (fig. 10). The muscle is insei-ted by a tendon into the impression on the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy filu'es into the bone for nearly an inch below this ]iart (lig. 17). relations; By one surface the muscle forms a part of the posterior wall of the axilla, and is in contact with the axillary vessels and nerves, and the serratus magnus. B\- the other it rests against the scapula and the shoulder-joint ; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursii, which generally communicates with tbe svnovial ca-\dty of that joint. ' The loAver border of the muscle projects beyond the scapula, and Fro. 11.—View op the Subscapularis and THE Surrounding Muscles. Subscapularis. Teres major. Latissimus dorsi. SeiTatus magnus. Omohyoid. Pectoral is minor. Bicepp. H. Coraco-bracbialis. a. Suprascapular artery. I. Suprascapular nerve, separated from tlie artery by the supra- scapular ligament.THE DELTOID. 31 is contiguous to the teres major, the latissinms dorsi, and the long head of the tricejis. The subscapular artery runs along this l)order, and its dors;il branch, as well as tlie posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve, turn backwards below it. Action. It rotates the humerus inwards, and when il, is rai.sed n.sc. it de])resses that bone. Dissection. The subscapularis is to l)e .separated from the Dissection •scapula, except that a thin layer of fibres, in which the ves,sels lie, is to be left on the bone. As the muscle is raised, its tendinous ])rocesses of origin, the connection between its tendon and the cap- sule of the shoulder-joint, and the bursii are to be ob.served. A small arterial anastomosis on the x'enti'al surface of the scapula is to be dissected out of the fle.shy fibres. The INFRASCAPULA.R ARTERY is an offset of the dor.sal branch of small infia- the subscapular -i-essel (p. 24), and ramifies on the ventral surface artery." of the scapula. Pa.ssing beneath the subscapular muscle, it forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the suprasciipular and posteiior sciipular arteries. Position. The examination of the muscles on the dorsal surface Position of of the scapula may be next undert^iken. For this purpose the limb is to he, turned over ; and a l)lock, which is deep enoxigh to make the .shoulder prominent, is to be placed between the scapula and the arm. Dissection. The skin is to be removed from the prominence of Dissection the shoulder, down to the middle of the outer side of the arm. shouWer. After its removal some small cut<uieous ner\'es are to be found in the felt : the upper of these descend over the acromion; and a larger branch comes to the surface about half-way down the posterior border of the deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. Branches of nerves, siqmuwwmial, descend Cutaneous to the surface of the .shoulder from the cerviciil ])lexus. A cutaneous branch of the circumflex nerve (tigs. 13 and 23) turns forwards with a small companion artery from beneiith the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integuments covering the lower two-thirds of the muscle. Dissection. The fat and f ascia are now to be t;iken fi-oni the Dissection fle.shy deltoid, its fibres being made ten.se for the purpo.se. Be- m»sc\^''^ ginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the di.ssector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards, following the direction of the coarse muscular fasciculi. As the posterior edge is approached, the cuttiueous ner\-e and vessels escaping from beneath it are to l)e dis,sected out. At the .same time the fascia may be remove<l IVom the back of ihe scapula, so as to denude the muscles there. The DELTOID MUSCLE (fig. 13 F,) is triangular in form, with Deltoid the base at the scapula and clavicle, and the ajjex at the humerus. '■ It arises from the whole length of the lower ))()rder of the spine of the scapula, the origin being aponeurotic towards the vertebral border of the bone and blending with the dense fascia over the origin iufra.spinatus muscle, from the outer edge of the acromion (fig. 12),32 DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB, and from the outer half or third of the front of the clavicle (fig. 5). Its ftlu'cs converge to a tendon which is inserted into the rough triangular impression on the outer surface of the humerus, aliove the middle (tig. 17, p. 44). Wi/I\ The anterior border is contiguou.s/TO the pectoralis major muscle ; and the ]3osterior rests on the infraspinatus, teres, and triceps muscles. The origin of the niuscle from the l)ones of the shoulder corresponds with the insertion of the trapezius. At its in.sertion the tendon of the deltoid is united with that of the pectoralis major ; and a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus is attached to the humerus on each side of it. The middle or acromial portion of the deltoid is thicker than the rest, and its filjres form large bundles which run obliquely Short head of biceps and coraco-brachiali.s. Rhomboideus mnior. Fio. 12.—The Soapcla from Bbhind. between tendinoiLS septa prolonged from the origin and insertion of the muscle. The anterior or clavicular and posterior or spimxis portions are somewhat separate from the foregoing, and their fibres converge to the anterior and posterior edges respectively of the lower tendon. which lla^■e Action. The acromial portion of the muscle raises the arm, nier"'' abducting it from the body ; the clavicular part fiexes the shoulder-joint, moving the arm forwards and inwards; and the spinous part draws the arm backwards, or extends the shoulder- joint. DissecUon Dissectioil (fig. 13). The deltoid is to be divided near it,« origni, deltoid"'' is to l)e thrown down as far as the circumflex vessels and nerve Subacromial beneath will permit. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa l)etween it and the upper end of the humerus comes into sight, and inser- tion ; adjacent parts. It consists of tliree parts,PARTS COVERED BY DELTOID. and by pulling tlie nvm down from the scajJubi it will be found to extend lieneatli the acromion as a large recess. The loose tissue and fat are to be taken away from the circumflex vessels and nerve ; and the size of the bursa having been looked to, the remains are to be removed. The insertion of the muscle should be defined. FiQ. 13.—View of thk Muscles of the Dorsum op the Scapula, and op THE ClBOUMFlEX VESSELS AND NeRVE (ILLUSTRATIONS OP DiSSEOTIONS). Muscles : A. Siipraspinatus. B. Infraspinatus, c. Teres minor. D. Teres major. e. Latissimus dorsi. P. Deltoid. o. Triceps (long head). H. Levator anguli soiipulte. J. Rliomboideus minor. K. Rhomboideu.s major. Arteries : a. Posterior circumflex. b. Brand) to teres minor. c. Dorsal scapular. Nerves : 1. Circumflex trunk. 2. Its cutaneous offset. 3. Branch to teres minor. Parts covered by deltoid. The deltoid conceals the upper end of the Parts humerus, and those parts of the dorsal scapular muscles which are u^e ddloW. fixed to the great tuberosity. Lower down are the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the biceps muscle. In front of the humerus is the coracoid i)rocess with its muscles. Dissection. By following back the postei •ior circumfie.x vessels Dissection and nerve through a space between the humerus and the long head cireumliox'' ol the triceps (g), their connection with the axillary trunks will be vessels, DA.34 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. and au- terior. Two circum- flex arteries; anterior; posterior, its ofTsets. One circura flex nerve, whicli ends In deltoid: branches, articular; posterior; anterior. Infraspi- natus : origin. insertion. Tolations, arrived cat. In clearing the fat from the space a branch of the nerve to the teres minor muscle is to be sought close to the border of the scapula, where it is surrounded by dense fibrous ti.ssue. Archiug outwards in front of the humerus is the small anterior circumflex artery, which should also be cleaned. The CIRCUMFLEX ARTERIES arise near the termination of the axillary trunk (p. 24) ; they are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior from their position to the humerus. The anterior branch (fig. 7, p. 23) is a small artery, which arises from the outer side of the axillary and courses outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and ascends in the bicipital groove to the articulation and the head of the humerus ; it anasto- moses with small offsets of the posterior circumflex. The posterior circumflex a/rtery (fig. 13, a), much larger than the anterior, winds backwards through a quadrilateral space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps, in company with the circumflex nerve, and ends in large branches, in which it anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic artery. Branches are given from it to the shoulder-joint, to the teres minor, the long head of the triceps, and the integuments. It anastomoses with the anterior circumflex artery round the neck of the bumerus and with branches of the superior profunda artery in the substance of the triceps. The CIRCUMFLEX NERVE (fig. 13,^) leaves the armpit with the posterior circumflex artery and bends round the humerus, beneath the deltoid muscle, in which it ends. Many large branches enter the deltoid ; and one or two filaments pierce the fore part of the muscle and become cutaneous. Branches. As the nerve passes backwards it gives an articular filament to the under-part of the shoulder-joint. Behind the humerus it splits into two parts, an anterior and a j^osterior. The posterior paH furnishes (1) a branch to the teres minor, which has a T—Hi'-h {j'^'^^i'^^^rm ffWf11"'F; ^T"" it. (2) a few twigs to the back 5^ of the deltoid, and (3) cutaneous branches which turn round the edge of the muscle. The anterior part passes round the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery, and enters the fore part of the deltoid muscle, a few twigs passing through the muscle to the skin over it. The INFRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig. 13, b) occupics the infnispmous fossa of the scapula, and extends to the upper end of the humerus. The muscle arkcs from the lower surface of the spine of the scapula, from the dorsal surface of the bone below that proce.s.s, except at the neck and the narrow area along the axillary border where the teres muscles are attached, and from a special fascia covering it. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins with the tendons of the suprasiiinatus and teres minor. The fleshy fibres arising from the spine overlie the tendon of the muscle. A part of the muscle is subcutaneous ; but the upper portion is concealed by the deltoid, and the lower angle by the latissiiiius35 TERES MUSCLES. dorsi. Tlie lower border is in contact with the teres minor, witli which it is often united. The muscle lies on the scapula and the scapulo-humeral articulation ; and there is sometimes a small bursa between it and the capsule of the joint. Action. AVith the humerus hanging it acts as a rotator outwards ; aiul use. and when the bone is raised it will move the arm backwards in concert with the hinder part of the deltoid. The TERES MINOR (fig. 13, c) is a narrow fleshy slip, which is Teres often united inseparably wth the preceding muscle. It arises on '"'"O'': the dorsum of the scapula from a special impression along the upper origin, two-thirds of the axillary border of the bone, and from an inter- muscular septum on each side ; and it is inserted by a tendon insertion, into the lowest of the three marks on the great tuberosity of the hmuerus; as well as by fleshy fibres into the bone below that spot, about an inch altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid ; it rests on the parts long head of the tricej^s and the shoulder-joint. Uuderneatli it '"'"""'^ the dorscil branch of the subscapular artery turns on to the back of the scapula. Action. The limb hanging, the muscle rotates it out and moves and use. it back ; the arm being raised, the teres depresses the himierus. The TERES MAJOR MUSCLE (fig. 13, D) JoaSSeS from the inferior Teres major: angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its onr/m is from an oval origin; surface behind the inferior angle of the scapula, from the lower half of the axillary border of the bone, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the teres minor. The fibres end in a tendon which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the insertion; humerus. The muscle assists in forming the posterior fold of the axilla, and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the humerus relations; (fig. 4). The upper border is contiguous Jttr the subscapularis Wf/K muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the latissimus dorsi, which covers the teres behind at its origin, and m front at its insertion. At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is about two inches wide, and is placed behind that of the latksimus : the two are separated aliove by a bursa ; but they are united below, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa is frequently present between the teres and the bone. Action. If the limb hangs, it is carried back behind the trunk, use on and IS rotated inwards by the muscle. The humerus being raised ««'"gi»g the muscle depresses and adducts it. ' With the limb fixed by the hand the teres will cause the lower an.l iKe.l angle ot the scapula to move forwards. limb. Below the scapula, where the teres muscles sej.arate from one Triangular another, is a triangular interval, which is bounded in front by the "i"'™- Shalt of the humerus, and above and below by the teres minor and major (fig. 13). The space is divided into two by the Ioiit head of the triceps. Through the anterior part, which is of a quadri-Q„a„ri,a. lateral shape, the posterior circumflex ^-essels (a) and the circumflex "''"C"- D 236 DISSECTION OF THE UPPEE LIMB. iicrve (') pass ; ami op]>osite llie posterior triangular space the doj'sa] branch (c) of the suliscapular artery bends backwards. Dissection Dissection (fig. 14). The ligaments of the scapula and cla-vdcle should be examined, of ligaments strong ligament (eoraco-clavicular) a.scends from the coracoid of the process to the under-part of the clavicle. On removing the areolar ' tissue it will be seen to consist of two parts, anterior and ijosterior, differing in size, and in the direction of the fibres. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be shown by taking away the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid miTscles. and of Another strong band (coraco-acroniial) passing transversely scapula. between the acromion and the coracoid process, and a small Fiu, 14.—Ligaments of the Clavicle and ScAPaLA, and of the Shoulder-joint (altered from Bodrgery). 6. Tendon of long head of biceps, entering the joint. 7. Tendon of suhscapularis muscle. 8. Coraco-huineral ligament. Union of tlio clavicln and scapula. 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Coraco-aoromial ligament. 4. Suprascapular ligament. 5. Capsule of shoulder-joint. fasciculus (suprascapular ligament), placed over the notch in the superior border, are then to be defined. Ligaments of the Clavicle and Scapula (fig. 14). The outer end of the clavicle forms a .synovial joint with the acromion, and is united to the coracoid process by a strong coraco-clavicular ligament. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two portions, each having a difi'ercnt direction and designation. The postei ior piece (1), willed conoid from its .'^hape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid process, and liy its base to the tul)ercle of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone, and a s.inaro The anterior part (2) trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid ; P'='=<' it is attached below to the inner bordej- of the coracoid process along Coraco-<da- vicular has a conical37 LIGAMENTS OP SCAPULA. the hinder half, and above to the line on the under-surface of tlie clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mi;ntioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition behind, but are usually separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the ligament support the scapula in a state Use of liga- of rest. They serve also to restrain the rotator}' movements of that bone; thus, when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band, and when upwards the conoid piece. AcROMio-CLAVicuLAR ARTICULATION. The articular surfaces of Joint with the clavicle and acromion process of the scajjula are connected' together by a capsule, which is thick above (superior ligament), but capsule, very thin below. An interarticular fibro-cartilage is sometimes present at the upper libro-carti- part of the joint; and occasionally it forms a complete septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial cavities in the and .synovial joint; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial sac. Movements. This articulation allows the scapula to change its Use of position in relation to the clavicle when the former bone is moved, either in gliding over the surface of the thorax, or in being rotated with the elevation and depression of the arm. Scapular Ligaments. The special liyaments of the scapula are Ligaments two in number, and extend fronr one point of the bone to another. °^ scapula. 1. The SUPRASCAPULAR LIGAMENT (■*) is a narrow band stretching supra- acro.ss the notch in the uisper border of the bone. By one end it is ^"'P''''"^' attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the^ \bcm LiiP border behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes. 2. The CORACO-ACROMIAL ligament (") is triangular in form, and coraco- extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. ' Externally it is inserted by its apex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to aU the outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The ligament consists usually of two lonned of thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thinner intervening' part. It forms part of an arch above the shoulder-joint, which pre- use. vents the head of the humerus being displaced upwards. Dissection. The supra-splnatus muscle should now be laid bare, Dissection, the acromion process sawn through, and turned aside with the outer end of the clavicle. A strong fascia will be seen to cover the sur- face of the supraspinatus muscle, and is to be taken away after it has been observed. The SUPRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig. 13, a) has the same form as the Supraspina- hollow of the bone which it fills. It arises from the surface of the supraspinous fossa of the scapula, except over the neck, from the o"S'n; upper side of the spine of the bone, and from the fascia covering its surface. Its fibres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the upper impression on the insertion; great tuberosity of the humerus.38 DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. relations ; Dissection of supra- scapular vessels. Supra- scapular artery ends in infraspina- tus and subscapular and supra- spinous offsets. Vein. Suprascapu- lar nerve: branches, muscular and articu- lar. Posterior scapular artery. Dorsal sca- pular artery, Tlie muscle is concealed by the ti'apezius aiitl the acromion .process ; and it rests upon the scapula, the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and the shoulder-joint. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the hunieru.s. Action. It comes into use with the acromial portion of the deltoid in raising the limb and supporting the joint. Dissection (Kg. 22, p. 52). The vessels and nerves on the dor.sum of the scapula can be traced by detaching from behind forwards the supraspiiiatus and infraspinatus nutscles, so as to leave a thin layer of the fleshy fibres with the ramifying blood-vessels on the surface of the bone. In the supraspinous fossa are the supra- scapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinous fossa; and entering the infraspinous fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal Ijranch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between these vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The SDPRASCAPULAR ARTERY (a) is derived from the thyroid axis of the subclavian trunk (p. 9). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the suprascapular ligament, and passing beneath the supraspinatus muscle, ends in the infraspinous fossa, where it gives offsets to the infraspinatus muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery and the posterior scajiular of the subclavian. Before entering the supraspinous fossa, it gives a small branch to the ventral surface of the scapula ; and beneath the supraspinatus it furnishes offsets to that muscle, the bone, and the" shoulder-joint. The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external jugular vein. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE (') Is a branch of the brachial plexus (5tli and 6th cervical nerves ; fig. 8, sps., p. 26).^ At the upper border of the scapula, it enters the supraspinous fossa beneath the suprascapular ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus; and. it is continued beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder-joint, and other offsets to the scapula. The POSTERIOR SCAPULAR ARTERY rims along the base of the scajjula beneath the rhomboid muscles, furnishing offsets to them and to the surfaces of the bone. It has been more fully noticed with the dissection of the back (p. 9). The DORSAL SCAPULAR ARTERY (&) is a branch of the subscapular (p. 24), and, after giving off its infrascapular oft'sct, turns I'ound the axillary border of the bone opposite the posterior of the two space.s between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinous fossa beneath the teres minor, it supplies that muscle and the infraspi- natus, and anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scajnilar arteries. It sends a considerable branch downwards between the teres muscles, towards the lower angle of the bone.39 SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES OF ARM. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position. For the dissection of the superficial vessels and nerves Position, on the front of the arm the limb should lie flat on the table, with the anterior surface uppermost. Dissection. The skin is to l)e raised from the fore and lateral and inci- sions in tlie skin. J Fia. 15.—Diagram os CnTANEous Nerves op Front op Auji. surfaces of the arm and elbow. One incision should be made along the centre of the limb as far as two inches below the bend of the elljow, and at tlie termination of this a second cut half romid the forearm. Strip the skin from the limb as low as the transverse incision, leaving the fat and the ciitaneous vessels and nerves Ijehind. For .special dissections of the parts in front of the beud of the elbow the incisions (13, 14, 15)40 DISSECTION OP THE ARM. sliowii on fig. 1, B, should he used. The .skin will thus remain hinged along a narrow attacliuient running down the middle of the back of the arm, from which it can lie used to cover the part. Seek super- The cutaneous veins (fig. 16) should be first .sou'dit for in flcml veius. , i . rri, i i •, , , ° the fat. Ihey are very numerous below the Ijend of the elbow, as they issue from beneath the integument. In the centre of the forearm is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow, sending branches to either side. On the outer side is Fia. 16.—Dissection of the Frokt of the Elbow (After Morris). the radial vein ; and internally are the anterior and posterior ulnar vei7is,_ coming from the front and back of the forearm. At the elliow the veins are united into two stems, one (basilic) pas-sing upwards along the inner side, and the other (cephalic) along the outer side of the arm. The cutaneous nerves are next to be traced out. Where they perforate the deeji fascia they lie beneath the fat ; and this layer must be scraped through to iiiid them. On the outer side of the arm, about the middle, two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral are to be sought,, In the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, the Trace cuta- neous nerves of outer side41 SUPEEFICIAL VEINS OF ARM. cutaneous pu t of tlie musculo-cutaneous nerve will be recognised. See tig. 16. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more ap'l numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- \imh° neons nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about tlie middle of the arm ; and a little external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Finally follow down the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg), and the internal cutaneous of the niusculo-spiral. Superficial fascia. The snbcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- Superficial tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the ^"'^ elbow than in the other parts of the arm. At that spot it encloses the superficial ve.ssels and lyniiiliatics. Cutaneous Veins. The position and relations of the vein.s in supeificiai front of the elbow are to be attentively noted liy the dissector, because the operation of venesection is practised on one of them (fig. 16). The MEDIAN VEIN of the forearm divides into two branches, Jlefiimi internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow; and at its point of division it is joined by an offset from a deep two vein. The internal branch {median-basilic) crosses to the inner 'J™"'^'"'" • border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins to form the basilic vein of the inner side of the arm. The external branch {median-cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction with the radial vein gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. The MEDIAN-CEPHALIC VEIN is directed obliquely, and lies over median- the hollow Jjetween the biceps and the outer mass of muscles of the ™P'"'"«=: forearm; beneath it is the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. This vein is altogether removed from the brachial artery, and is •usually smaller than the median-basilic vein. If opened with a lancet it does not generally yield much blood, in consequence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering compression of it very uncertain and difficult. The MEDIAN-BASILIC VEIN is more transverse in direction, and median- larger than the preceding ; and it' crosses the brachial artery. It is firmly supported by the underlying fascia, the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by an oft'set from the biceps tendon, inter- vening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of' the internal cutaneous nerve lie beneath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median-basilic is the vein on which the operation of l)lood- Vene.section. letting is commonly performed. It is selected in consequence of its usually hu-ger size, and more superficial position, and of the ease with which it may be compressed ; but, from its close proximity to the brachial vessels, the spot to be opened should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The BASILIC VEIN, commencing as before said, ascends near Basilic vein.DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 42 Cephalic vein. Superficial lymphatics and glands. Superficial nerves. External cutaneous nerves■„ , two from musculo- spiral; and mus- culo-cuta- neous. Internal cutaneous nerves, large and small the inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, ■where it jDasses beneath the deep fascia, and is continued into the axillary vein. In this course it lies to the inner side of the brachial artery. The CEPHALio VEIN is derived chiefly from the external branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very small; it is continued to the shoulder along the outer side of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral mu.scles to open into the axillary vein near the cla^^cle. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most part along the basilic vein, and enter the glands of the axilla. A few lym- phatics accompany the cephalic vein, and end in the upper axillary glands. One or more superficial lymphatic glands are commonly found a little above the inner condyle of the humerus. CuTAUEODS Nerves (fig. 15). The superficial nerves of the arm appear on the inner and outer sides, and spread so as to cover the surface of the limb. With one exception (intercosto-humeral), all are derived from the brachial plexus, either as distinct branches, or as ofl:sets of other nerves. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musctilo-spiral and uiuscido-cutaneous nerves. On the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves from the j)lexus, a third internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral, and the intercosto- humeral nerve. The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCHES PF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE are two in number, and appear at the outer side of the about the middle. The upper small one turns forwards with the cephalic vein, and I'eaches the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The loioer and larger pierces the fascia somewhat farther io^yu, and, after supplying some cutaneous filaments to the back of the arm, is continued to the forearm. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE pierces the fascia in front of the elbow ; it lies beneath the median-cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the forearm. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE perforates the fascia in two pieces, or as one trunk that divides almost directly into two. Its anterior branch passes beneath the median-basilic vein to the front of the forearm ; and the posterior winds ov^the inner condyle of the hvimerus to theliack of the foretirm. Tronic} A slender offset of the nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far, as the elbow; it supplies the integuments over the Ijiccps muscle. The NERVE OF Wrisbero (small internal cutaneous) appears behind the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives oflsets to the lower third of the arm on the inner and posterior surfaces and Joins above the elbow the posterior branch of the larger internal cutaneous nerve.43 BICEPS MUSCLE. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL one from NERVE, becoiniug subciitaneoiis in the upiDer third, winds to the ^"rai";"' Ijack of the ami, and reaches nearly as far as the olecranon. The INTERCOSTO-HUMERAL NERVE, a branch of the second inter- and inter- costal (p. 13, and fig. 4), perforates the fascia near the axilla, and h°,me"ral. ramifies on the inner side and posterior surface of the arm in the upper half. The size and distribution of this nerve depend upon the development of the small internal cutaneous and the offset of the muscido-spiral. The DEEP FASCIA of the arm is a white shining membrane, which Aponeurosis surrounds the limb, and sends processes between the muscles, of Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons : thus, receives ac- in front of the elbow an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins it; fro,n°"^ and near the a.xilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus tendons ; dorsi, and teres major send prolongations to it. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that disposition of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula, clavicle, and chest. Below, it is continued to the and below; forearm, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the ell)ow-joint, especially to the supracondylar ridges of the himierus, forms inter- so as to gi\'e rise to the intermuscular septa of the arm. se^ta"'""^ Dissection. The muscles and vessels of the arm mil next be dissected ; the limb is still to lie on the back, but the shoulder is to be raised by means of a small block; and the scapula is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the front of the arm by Dissection an incision along the centre, like that through the skin ; and it is "lu^^'es, to be removed on the outer side as far as the outer supracondylar ridge of the humerus, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps of vessels, muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle; and, to prevent the displacement of the brachial artery and its companion nerves, fasten them here and there with stitches. In front of the elljow is a hollow containing the brachial vessels ; of and into this the artery shoidd be followed, to show its ending in eibow! °^ the radial and ulnar trunks. Muscles on the Front op the Arm. There are only three Position of miLscles on the front of the arm. The one along the centre of the of tte'ann" limb IS the biceps ; and that along its inner side, reaching about half-way down, is the coraco-ln-achialis. The lirachialis anticus lies beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the inner and outer condyles of the humerus, and to the ridge above the outer condyle. The BICEPS muscle (fig. 18, p. 45, and fig. 7, p. 23) forms the nieops prominence seen on the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either end ; and the upper end consists of two tendinous pieces of difterent lengths, which are attached to the44 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. origin from scapiila. The short head ia the innermost, and urises from the the scapula; |.jp q£ (.j^g coracoid process in common with the coraco-brachialis miiscle (fig. 10, p. 29) ; and the longhead is attached just above the glenoid fossa of the scapuhi, within the capsule of the .shoulder-joint and is connecte(l with the glenoid ligament on either side of the fo.s8a. Muscular fibres spring from each tendinous head, and meet to form a fleshy belly, which is somewhat flattened from before back. Inferiorly the biceps ends in a tendon, which is inseHed into the tuberosity of the radius (fig. 25, p. 61), having previously given ofl' a slip to the fascia in front of the elbow. insertion into radiu.s Hupraspinatus. Pectoralis major. Supinator longus. Ext. carpi radialis longior. Common origin of extensors. Inner head of triceps. Coraco hrachialis. Pronator teres. Common origin of llexors. Fio. 17.—This Hdmerds from thk Front. parts The muscle is superficial except at the extremities. At the covering upper part it is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; and at tlie lower end the tendon dips into the hollow in and beneath front of tlie elbow. Beneath the biceps are the musculo-cutaneou.s if. nerve, the upper part of the humerus, and the brachiali.* anticns inner border uuiscle. Its inner border is the guide to tlie brachial artery beh.w is guide to ^j^g middle of the humerus, but above that spot the coraco-bracliialis the artery , ^^^^^^^^^ intervenes between them. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shoulder-joint and the insertion of the muscle into the radius will be afterwards learnt, use on Action. It bends the elbow-joint, and acts powerfully m rndina,COBACO-BKACHIALIS. •15 supinating the radius. When the body is hanging by Uie hands it will apply tlie scapula tirnily to the humerus, and will assist in raising the trunk. With the arm hang- ing and the radius fixed, the long head -mil assist the abductors in removing the limb from the side ; and, after the limb is aliducted, the short head will aid in restoring it to the pendent position. The CORACO-BRACHI- ALis is partly concealed by the biceps, and extends to the middle of the arm. Its m-igin is fleshy from the tip of the coracoid j)ro- cess (fig. 10), and from the tendinous short head of the biceps. Its fibres become tendinous below, and are inserted into a narrow mark on the inner side of the humerus, below the level of the del- toid (fig. 17). Some of the fibres frequently end on an aponeurotic arch, which extends from the upper end of the humerus to the in- sertion of the muscle. The upper half of this muscle is beneath the pectoralis major (fig. 20, p. 49); and its inner part projects beyond the short head branch clo.se below the of the biceps, forming acroinio-lhoracic a prominence in the axilla. Its insertion is covered by the brachial vessels and the median nerve. The coraco-brachialis lies over the subscapular muscle, the and the trunk, oil humerus. Coraco- brachialis : origin ; insertion; Fia. 18.- -Axillary and Brachial Arteries (Quain's " Arteries"). relations: 1. Axillary artery and branches. The small branch above the figure is the superior thoracic, and the larger 2. Long thoracic. 3. Subscapular. 4. Brachial artery. 5. Superior profunda branch. 6 Inferior profunda. 7. Anastomotic. 8. Biceps muscle. 9. Triceps muscle. The median and ulnar nerves arc shewn in the arm ; the median is close to the brachial artery.46 DISSECTION OF THE AKM. anterior circumflex vessels, and the tendons of tlie lalissimus doi-si and teres major. Along the inner border are the large artery and nerves of the limb ; and the musculo-cutaneous nerve per- forates it. uso on limb. Action. The coraco-brachialis moves forwards the arm, and adducts it to the thorax, artery ex- '^^^ BRACHIAL ARTERY (fig. 18,'*) is a continuation of the axillary tends to elbow: Superior profutidn. Brancli to Olecranon Fossa. Posterior terminal branch. Anterior terminal branch, Radial recurrent. —V' Post. Interosseous recurrent. Brachial artery. Inferior profunda. Anastomatica Magna. Anastomatica Magna, posterior branch. Anastomatica Magna, anterior branch. -Olecranon Fossa. Anterior ulnar recurrent. Posterior ulnar recunent. Fig. 19.—Anastomosis about thi-; Elbow Joint. trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begin.s at the lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminates rather below the bend of the elbow, or opposite the neck of the radius, in two branches, radial and ulnar, for the forearm, position to The vessel is internal to the liumerus in the upper part of its thelimbtcourse, but in front of the bone below the middle of the arm ; and its situation is indicated by the surface dcprt'.s.?ion along the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles, with'f^cite Throughout the arm the brachial artery is superficial, being iBRACHIAL ARTERY. 47 covered only by the iiitegiimeiits and the deep fascia ; but at the bend of the elbow it uecomes deeper, and is crossed by the pro- longation from the tendon of the biceps. Posteriorly the artery has the following muscular connections (fig. 20, p. 49):—While it is and inside the humerus it is placed ©¥e¥ the long head of the triceps (f) """*<=lo»>^ j for two inches, but separated partly by the musculo-spiral nerve , and profunda vessels, and-«¥»r the inner head (g) of the same »v ffoJc muscle for about an inch and a half. But when the vessel passes • to the front of the bone it lies on the insertion of the coraco- brachialis (c) and on the brachialis anticus (h). To the outer side are the coraco-brachialis and bicei)s muscles (c and b), the latter overlapping it. Veins. Venaj comites lie along the sides of the artery (fig. 20, d), with veins, encircling it with cross branches, and the median-basilic vein crosses over it at the elbow. The basilic vein is near the artery, on the inner side, above; but it is superficial to the fascia in the lower half of the arm. The nerves in relation with the artery are the following :— ""'l with The internal cutaneous (fig. 20, ~) is in contact with the vessel until it perforates the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve {*) lies to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and the musculo-spiral is behind for a distance of two inches. The median nerve (fig. 20, i) is close to the vessel throughout, but alters its position in this way :— as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis it is placed on i the outer side, but it then crosses obliquely oxau, or occasionally / under, the artery, and becomes internal about two inches above > the elbow-joint. TJmunuil position. The bracliial trunk occasionally leaves tlio inner Deviation border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and courses along the in position; interniuscnhir septum, with or without the median nerve, to near the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinary po.sition in front of the elbow, beneath the upper fibres of the pionator teres, which has then a wide origin. In this unusual course the artery lies behind a projection (supracondylar process) of the humerus. Musmlar covering. In some bodies the bracliiid artery is covered by an in muscular additional slip of origin of the biceps, or of the brachialis anticus muscle. <=o^'cring. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cises of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk continuing to the forearm. High division. Instead of a single trunk, there may be two vessels in Artery the lower part, or even the whole length of the arm, owing to an un- usually high origin of one of the arteries of the forearm, more frequently the radial. Fasa aberraiitia. Occasionally a long slender vessel passes from the Al)urrant brachial or the axillary trunk to the radial, rarely to the ulnar artery. vessels. Brandies spring both externally and internally from the brachial its brandies artery (fig. 18). Those on the outer side, muscular, supply tbe ^^^^^^^^^^ coraco-brachialis, biceps, and lirachialis anticus, as well as the lower part of the deltoid ; those on the inner side are the superior and inferior profunda, the medullary artery of the humerus,DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 48 aiul the anastomotic brancli. The superior ai)d inferior pro- funda and the anastomotic branches of the brachial form a free anastomosis about the elbow-joint with various arteries of the forearm, and the accompanying scheme (fig. 19) represents the general arrangement. The superior profunda branch (°) is larger than the others, and leaves the artery near the lower border of the teres major ; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm (p. 53). The inferior profunda branch (") arises opposite the coraco- brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. There it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motic branches, and supplies the triceps. It often arises in common with the superior profunda artery. The medullary artery of the humerus arises near the inferior profimda, generally associated with various muscular In-anches, and enters the aperture about the middle of the humerus, being directed downwards. The anastomotic branch (') arises one or two inches above the elbow, and its main branch courses inwards through the inter- muscular septmn to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the hmnerus. Here the artery anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior idnar recurrent branches, and gives twigs to the triceps muscle ; one of the offsets forms an arch across the back of the humerus with a branch of the superior profunda. Before passing through the intermuscular system the artery sends an oflset to the pronator teres muscle in front of the internal condyle, which joins the anterior ulnar recurrent vessel. Veins end in The BRACHIAL VEINS (fig. 20, d) accouipany the artery, one on the axillary, gg^^j^ ^^^^^^ g^^^^ j^^ve branches of communication across that vessel; they receive tributary veins corresponding to the branches of the artery. Above, they usually join into one, which enters the axillary vein near the subscapular muscle. Neneson Nerves OF THE ARM (fig. 20). The nerves on the front of front of arm. .^^.^^^ derived from the terminal cords of the Itrachial l^lexus. They furnish but few ofl'sets above the elbow, being for the most part continued to the forearm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been already referred to (p. 42). Jleriian The MEDIAN NERVE (') ariscs from the brachial plexus by two theTrtl-r''' heads, one from the outer, and the other from the inner cord """^ (fig. 7, p. 23), and accompanies the brachial artery to the forearm. Beginning on the outer side of tlie artery, the nerve crosses o\vr (.sometimes iiiKh;r) it near the middle of the arm, and is placed on has not any the inner side a little above the elbow. It does not give any brancli iiianch. j,^ ^j^j, . ij^j^ ^|^(3,,g ,„jjy i,e ii fiusciculus connecting it with the imLSCiilo-cutaneous nerve. It,s rektions to muscles are the .same as those of the artery. •■superior profunda, inferior profunda, artery to bone, and anas- tomotic.49 NERVES OF THE ARM. The ULNAR NERVE ( ^), derived from the inner cord of the brachial Ulnar nerve plexus, lies close to the inner side at first of the axillary, and then of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; then leaving the blood-vessel, it is directed backwards through the inner intermuscular septum to the interval between the olecranon and the internal condyle, being surrounded by the liiuscular fibres is without of the triceps. There is not any branch from the nerve till it fa"aftiie reaches the elbow-joint. elbow. The INTERNAL CUTANEODS (2) is mainly distributed in the fore- internal arm. Arising from the inner cord of the plexus, it is at first fiei^e'be"-^ superficial to the brachial artery as far as the middle of the arm, ' fascia. 20.—DrssEOTiON of thk Inner Side op the Arm (Illusirations OP Dissections). Muscles : A. Peotoralis major. B. Biceps. 0. Coraco-brachialis. D and E. Latissimus and teres, p. Long head of triceps, o. Inner head of triceps, n. Brachialis anticiis. Vessels : n. Brachial artery. b. Inferior profunda. c. Anastomotic. d. Internal vena comes, joining the basilic vein a little above the middle of the arm. Nerves; Median. Internal cutaneous. Nerve of Wrisberg. Ulnar. Muscular to the triceps. 6. Internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing lascia and reach the forearm. Near the axilla it furnishes a small oflset to the skin of the front of the arm. The NERVE OF Wrisberg (small internal cutaneous») arises verve of with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillary vein, it is Wrisbe« directed inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as the middle, where it perforates ttie lascia to end in the integument. D.A.DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 50 Musr.ulo'. cutaneous nerve in the arm : its muscular branches. Uissection. Define bracliialis. Braehialis anticus : origin ; insertion ; relations of surfaces, of borders ; use, fore- arm free, and fixed. The MUSCULO-cuTANEOus NKRVE, iianiL'd from siipplying muscles and integuments, ends on tlie surface of the forearm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial jilexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and immediately perforates the coraco-brachialis ; it is then directed obliquely to the outer side of the limb beneath the biceps and lying upon the braehialis anticus. At the front of the elbow it becomes a cutaneous iier\'e of the forearm. Branches. The nerve furnishes a branch to the coraco-bracliialis before entering the muscle, and others to the biceps and braehialis anticus where it is placed between them. Dissection. The braehialis anticus muscle will now Ije brought into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be defined on each side, so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is required in detaching the braehialis on the outer side from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely applied. As the muscles are separated, the musculo-spiral nerve, accompanied by a small branch of the superior profunda artery, comes into sight. The BEACHiALis ANTICUS (fig. 20, h) covers the elbow-joint and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, \iz., from all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer (fig. 17, p. 44). The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna (fig. 25, p. 61). This muscle is for the most part concealed by the biceps. On it lie the lirachial vessels, with the median, musculo-cutaneous, and musculo-spiral nerves. It covers the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two slips the tendon of the deltoid ; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy points of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border reaches the inter- muscular septum in all its length ; but the outer is separated below from the external intermuscular septum by two muscles of the forearm, supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Action. The braehialis brings forward the ulna towards the humerus, and Ijends the elbow-joint. If the ulna is fixed, as in climbing with the hands above the head, the muscle bends the joint by raising the humerus. Position of the part. BACK OF THE ARM. Position. During the examination of the back of the arm, the limb is to be raised in a semiflexed position by means of a block beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly m a hue with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that jiosition.THK TRICEPS. Dissection (lig. 22). On tlic lnu'k of tlie arm Uwiv. is onc! muscle, Lay tan-iii the triceps, beueiitli which are phiced the nuisculo-spiral nerve and '-'''-'''i''*' superior profunda vessels. The skin liaving been reflected and the bursa over the olecranon process having been looked for, tlie muscle will be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia. To take away the fascia, carry an incision along the middle of the limb to the point of the elbow ; and in reHecting it the loose subaponeurotic tissue should be removed at the same time. Supraspiiiatiis. Infraspinatus. 'fe^ - Teres minor. Outer Iieail of triceps. Brachialis anticus. Supinator longns. li... - luinii External condyle. Internal condyle. ' jjAitim^f-^^ Anconeus. Trochlea. Fro. 21.—Thk Humerus from dkhind. Separate the middle from the inner and outer heads nf the ""'i separate muscle, and clear the interval between them, tracing the musculo- spiral nerve and vassels beneath the muscle. Define the outer head, which reaches down to the spot at which the muscnlo-spiral nerve appears on the outer side. The TuiCEi's MUSCLE (fig. i'l) is divided .superiorlv into three. Triceps heads of origin, inner, outer, and middle. Two of these are atlaclied l''"^'^'," to the humerus, and one to the scapula. "'""^ ' The middle or long head (a) has a tendinous onVym, about an inch -"igin of wide, from a rough mark on the axillary margin of the .scapula llLad"" c ose to the glenoid cavity, where it is united with the capsule of ' the .shoulder-joint. The outm- head (n) arises from the back of the of outer head. H 2DISSECTIOK OF THE ARM. 62 humerus along a narrow ami of imior liead ; direction of the fibres ; insertion; relations ; Fig. 22.—Dissection of the Dorsal Scapular Vessels and Nerve, and of the Triceps Muscle. Muscles : A. Long head of ti-iceps. B. Outer head, with a bit of whalebone beneath it to mark the extent of its attachment down the luimerus. c. Inner head. 1). Anconeus. E. Supinator longus. F. Extensor carpi riidialis longior. o. Teres major. Two inter- musc.iilnr Hoptu: long head pas.ses the and adduct the arm. The INTERMUSCULAR SEPTA attachment extending from the root of the large tuberosity to the spiral groove. The inner head (c), fle.shy and wide, arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, reaching laterally to the intermuscular septa, and gradually tapering up- wards as far as the inser- tion of the teres major. From the different heads the fibres are directed vdth varying degrees of inclina- tion to a wide common tendon above the elbow. Inferiorly the muscle is i7iserted into the end of the olecranon process of the ulna, and gives an expan- sion to the aponeurosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon there is some- times a small bursa. The triceps is super- ficial, except at the upper part where it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, the musculo-spii-al nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa ; and the lowest fibres are con- tinuous externally with the anconeus—a muscle of the forearm. Action. All the pieces of the triceps combining in their action will bring the ulna into a line with the humerus, and extend the elbow-joint. As the shoulder it can depress the raised humerus. H. Teres minor. I. Infraspinatus, cut across. J. Supraspiuatus, cut through. Arteries : a. Suprascapular. b. Dorsal scapular. c. Posterior cir- cumflex. Nerves: 1. Suprascapuhir. 2. Circumflex. should lie carefully noticed. Th.SUPBKIOR PROFUNDA ARTERY. 53 are fibrous processes continuous with the investing a])oneurosis of the arm, which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus, separating the muscles of the front and back of the limb, and giving attachment to the fleshy fibres. The internal is the stronger, and reaches as high as the coraco- an imior l>rachialis muscle, from which it receives some tendinous fibres. Tlie brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind ; the ulnar nerve and the inferior profiuula and anastomotic vessels pierce it. The external septum is thinnei', and ceases at the deltoid muscle, .nn outer. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front are the brachialis anticus and the muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior) arising above the condyle of the humerus: it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and the accompanying vessels. Bissection. To follow the suiwrior profunda vessels and the Dissection vmsculo-s'piral 7ierve, the middle and outer heads of the triceps a[,d'','Jerve. should be cut across over them, and the fatty tissue should be removed. The trunks of the artery and nerve are to be afterwards \ 1 I followed belsjat- the outer head of the triceps to the front of the - ■''^ humerus. The \'eins may be taken away. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery which descend to the elbow and the anconeus muscle, the triceps is to be divided along the line of union of the outer with the middle head. The SUPERIOR PROFUNDA branch of the brachial artery (see Supeiinr fig. 19, p. 46) turns to the back of the humerus with the musculo- PJ'tery"'''' spiral nerve between the inner and outer heads of the triceps ; in this position it supplies branches to the triceps and deltoid muscles, hos behind and is continued onwards in the groove in the bone to the outer ''""i"- part of the arm, where it divides in to its terminal offsets {anterior and ■posterior). One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo- spiral nerve to the front of the elbow, anastomosing with the recurrent radial branch ; while a larger one descends along the intermuscular septum to the elbow, and joins the anastomotic and posterior inter- osseous recurrent arteries. Branches. Besides the terminal ofi'sets of the vessel, a consider- supplies able branch descends to the elbow in the inner head of the triceps, ji'jns'an.asto. supplying the muscle, and communicating with the inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the brachial artery. One slender twig ol™ow; accompanies a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutaneous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, cutaneous and accompany the superficial nerves. oiisots. The MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE (fig. 4,-' p. 15) is the largest trunk Musculo- of the i>osterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 25), and is continued l^'i',™!;"""'^ along tlie back and outer part of the limb to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds witli the superior profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At tlie outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the to outer side brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external con- oft-'""!"". <lyle of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and5-1 DISSECTION OF THE FOREARM. Brandies. Iiiteiiial cutaneous branch. Two exter- nal cuta- neous. Branches to the triceps, OllHTFR-i ulnar collateral illlU aii- coueus, bracliialis anticus and muscles of forearm. Directions. posterior interosseous nerves (fig. 37,^ and ^). The bracliialis anticus and suijinator longiis muscles are sometimes partly blended, and it may be necessary in such ca,ses to cut through some muscular fibres to fully expose the last part of the nerve. The nerve gives muscular branches and cutaneous offsets to the inner .and outer sides of the limb. a. The internal cidaneotis branch of the arm (fig. 20/' also fig. 15, p. 39) is of .small size, and arises in the axillary .space in common with the branch to the inner head of the triceps; it i.s directed acro.ss the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upjaer third, and is distributed as before said (p. 43). 6. The external cutaneous brandies, springing at the outer side of the limb, are two in number; they are distributed in the integiunents of the arm and forearm (pp. 42 and 57). c. The m uscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply all three heads. One slender offset (often called the ulnar collateral branch), for the inner head arises in common with the internal cutaneous branch, and descends close to the ulnar nerve to enter the. muscular fibres at the lower third of the arm. Another long and slender branch behiiid the humerus, appearing as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. d. On the outer side of the limb the musculo-spiral nerve supplies the brachialis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearm, viz., supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Directions. As the dissection of the arm has been completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to keep moist the shoulder- joint until it is examined with the other ligaments. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position of Position. The limb is to be placed with the palm of the hand the limb. uppermost; and the marking of the surface and the projections of bone are first to be noted. Surface of Surface-marking. On the anterior aspect of the forearm are two the forearm, jj^^gral depressions, corresponding with the position of the niain vessels. The external is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal groove is evident only below the nuddle of the forearm, and points out the place of the ulnar artery. Bony pro- The bones (radius and ulna) are sutiiciently near the surface to joctions. ^^.^^^^y ^ijyjj, ^yjjQie |e„gtij . each ends below in a point on either side of the wrist—the styloid process ; and that of the radius is the lower. A transverse line separates the forearm from the Line of the hand, and the articulation of the wrist is about three-quartei-s of an wrist-joint. j^j^,, ^i^yyg 1SURFACE-MAnKING OF FOREARM. 55 On cncli sitle of tlie iwliii oC llie liaiul is ii Livj^'e i)riijecti()n ; the .suriiioc^ of external of these (thenar) is tbriued liy nuiscles of the thmnb, and j,";],','! the internal (hypothenar) by nmseles of the little linger. At the upper end of the latter the prominent pisiform bone is easily felt ; and towards the outer side of the wrist, below the end of the radius, the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone is to be recognised. Between the muscular eminences is the hollow of the palm, which is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it; they result from the bending of the fingers at the metacarpo phalangeal articulations, but the lower one is nearly half an inch above the three inner joints when the fingers are e.^itended. The position of the superficial palmar arch of arteries is marked Position of by the middle third of a line drawn across the palm from the root .^'reU™ of the thumb when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand ; the deep palmar arch is about a finger's breadth nearer the wrist. Transverse lines on the palmar as|)ects of the thumb and fingers Surface or correspond to the articulations of the phalanges ; but while the '"'K*-'"^' middle and lower ones are a little above the two interphalangeal articulations, the upper one is fully half an inch below the metacarpo- phalangeal joint. Dissection. With the limb lying Hat on the table, an incision Dissection is to be carried through the skin along the middle of the front of the the'skhi'.* forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist ; and at its termination a transverse one is to cross it. Tlie skin is to be reHected carefully from the front and back of the forearm, without injury to the numerous superficial vepsels and nerves beneath ; and it should be taken also from the back of the hand by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along each margin to a little Ijeyond the knuckles. The whole of the forefinger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves may be followed to the end. The sujterficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in the fat : Seeic the they have the following jiosition, and most of them have been partly vessds'and dissected :—along the inner side, with the ulnar veins, is the con- "^^^^^'^ tinuation of the internal cutaneous nerve ; and near the wrist there ' is occasionally a small oH"set from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side, with the radial vein, is the superficial part of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the centre of the forearm, and inside the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, which can be rendered tense by extending the wrist, the small palmar branch of the median nerve should be sought beneath the fat. On the ulnar artery, close out- side the pisiform bone, a small palmar branch of the ulnar nerve is to be looked for. Near the middle of the back of the forearm the large external behind, cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is to be traced onwards ; and offsets are to be followed to this surface of the limb from the nerves in front on either side. On the posterior part of the hand is a plexus of superficial veins, nud on the Winding back below the ulna is the dorsal branch of the ulnar56 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREAEM. Subcuta- neous veins filexus on lio hand ; radial: ulnar, antorlor and poste- rior ; median. Superficial nerves of forearm and back of hand are— internal cutaneous, external cutaneous; nerve ; and lying along the outer border of the hand is the radial nerve : these should be traced to the fingers. Cutaneous Veins. The superficial veins are named median, ■ radial, and ulnar, from their jjosition in the limb. DoiiSAL PLEXUS OF THE HAND. This network receives the super- ficial veins from both surfaces of the fingers ; and from it, on the outer and inner sides, the radial and posterior iilnar veins proceed. The RADIAL VEIN begins in the outer part of the plexus above mentioned, and in some small radicles at the back of the thumb. It is continued along the forearm, at first behind and then on the outer border as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic vein by its union with the outer branch of the median vein (fig. 16, p. 40). In many bodies a considerable branch passes from the lower part of the radial vein to join the median vein on the front of the forearm. Tlie ULNAR VEINS (fig. 16) are anterior and posterior, and occupy the front and back of the limb. The anterior begins near the wrist' by the j unction of small roots from the hand, and runs on the inner part of the forearm to the elbow, where it opens either into the median-basilic or posterior ulnar vein. The posterior ulnar vein arises from the inner part of the dorsal plexus of the hand, and is continued along the back of the forearm nearly to the elbow ; here it bends forward to join the inner branch of the median and form the basilic vein. The MEDIAN VEIN takes origin near the wrist by small branches wbich are derived from the palmar surface of the hand. It is directed along the centre of the forearm nearly to the elbow, and there divides into median-basilic and median-cephalic, which unite, as before seen, with the radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a large communicating branch from the deep veins beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 15, p. 39, and fig. 23, p. 57). Some of the superficial nerves of the forearm are continued from the arm, those on the inner side from the large internal cutaneous nerve and those on the outer from the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral and the musculo-cutaneous. On the fore part of the limb there is occasionally a small offset of the ulnar nerve near the wrist. On the back of the hand is the termination of tlie radial nerve, together with the dorsal branch of the idnar nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve (p. 49) is divided into two. The anterior branch extends on the front of the forearm as far as the wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the whrnr nerve (fig. 15). The postci-ior branch continues along the liack of the forearm (ulnar side) to the lower part (fig. 23). The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE (cutaueous part, p. 50) is pro- longed on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, over which it terminates in cutaneous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce theCUTANEOUS NERVES. 57 fascia to ramify on tlie vessel, ami sujiply the carpal articulations. A little above the middle of the forearm the nerve .sends back- wards a branch to the posterior aspect, which reaches nearly to the wrist, and communicates with the radial and the following cutrtneous nerve (fig. 23). The LOWER EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF THE MUSCULO- external SPIRAL NERVE (p. 42) descends along the hinder part of the fore- cutaneous of spiral ; Supra acromial. Circunillex. Internal cutaneous branch of mn.scnlo spiral. Intercostolmnienil Posterior branch of intenial •cutaneous Dorsal branch of ulnar. Uiijier external cntan(«ns branch of niu.senlo-spiral. Lower external cntanimns branch of niu.sculo-spiral. Posterior branch of nniscnio- cutaneous. Radial. Branches of ulnar and median nerves from anterior aspect. Fia. 2.3.—Nkrvks of tiik Back of tuk Arm. arm as far as the wrist. Near its teimination it joins the precedine nerve (fig. 23). ' ® The RADIAL NERVE ramifies in the integument of the back of radial ncrvo, the hand and some of the digits. It becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and, after gi\'ing some filaments to the posterior a.spect of the limb, divides into two branches (fig. 23) :— One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is ending by distributed on the radial border and the ball of the tliumb. external and The other branch (internal) .supplies the remaining side of the internal branches,DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 58 which supply diirits : ami branch of ulnar nerve to back of hand and fingers. Extiint of nerves on lingers. Deep fascia of forearm: at the wrist; posterior annular ligament. Take away fascia, nerves, and veins. Clean out hollow of elbow. tluuuli, liotli sides of tlie next two digits, and half the ring finger ; so that the radial nerve distrilnites the .same numher of digital branches to the dorsum, as the median nerve furnLshe.s to the pahnar surface. This portion of the radial nerve communicates with the musctulo-cufcmeous and uhiar nerves ; and the offset to the con- tiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined hy a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The DORSAL BRANCH OF THE ULNAR NERVE (fig. 23) giveS oflsets to the rest of the fingers and the back of the hand. Appearing by the styloid process of the ulna, it joins the radial nerve in an arch across the back of the hand, and is distril)uted to both sides of the little finger, and to the ulnar side of the ring linger; it communicates with the part of the radial nerve furnished to the space between the ring and middle fingers ; and sometimes it supplies this space entirely. The dorsal digital nerves are much smaller than those on the palmar aspect, and cannot be followed onj the fingers farther than the base of the second phalanx. On the! sides of the finger each communicates with an offset from the palmar nerve. The APONEUROSIS of the forearm is continuous with the similar investment of the arm. It is of a pearly white colour, and is formed of fibres which cross obliquely. The membrane is thicker liehiud than in front, and is stronger near the elbow than towards the wrist. At the upper part it receives prolongations from the tendon of the biceps in front, and of the triceps behind ; and it gives origin to the muscles springing from the condyles of the humerus. Longi- tudinal white lines indicate the position of deep processes (inter- nfuscular septa), which separate the muscles, and give origin to their fleshy fibres. On the back of the forearm the fascia is attached to the hinder border of the ulna, and to the margins of a triangular surface at the upper end of that bone, which is left subcutaneous. At the wrist the fascia joins the anterior annular ligament ; and near that band the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces it, and receives a sheath from it. Close to the pisiform bone there is an aperture through which the ulnar vessels and nerve enter the fat of the hand. Behind the wrist it is thickened liy transverse fibres, "•iving rise to the posterior annular ligament ; but on the Imck of the hand and fingers the fascia becomes very tliin. Dissection. The skin is now to be replaced on the back of the forearm and hand, in order that the denuded parts may not become dry. Beginning the dissection on the anterior surface of the limb, let the student divide the aponeurosis as far as the wrist, and take it away with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous oflsets of the median and ulnar nerves near the hand In cleaning the nuiscles it will be impossible to remove the ap.nfeurosis from them at the upper part of the forearm without cutting the muscular fibres. In front of the elbow is the hollow, already partly dissected, between the two masses of muscles arising from the inner and outer59 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOUEAEM. sides of the Imineru.s. The space shin to disphiy the bnicliial and forearm vessels, the median nerve and branches, the musculo - spiral nerve, and the re- current radial and ulnar arteries. In the lower half of the forearm a large artery, radial, is to he laid bare along the outer side of the tendon of the He.\or carpi radialis ; and at the inner side, close to the annular ligament, the trunk of the ubiar artery will be recognised as it becomes superficial. These vessels and their branches should be carefully cleaned ; and the adjoining muscles may be fixed with stitches to prevent their displacement. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist, which arches over the tendons passing to the hand, is next to be de- fined. This strong band is at some depth from the surface ; and while the student removes the fibrous tissue superficial to it, he must take care of the small branches of the median and ulnar nerves to the jjalni of the hand. The ulnar ve.ssels and nerve (covered by an exj)ansion connected with the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris internal to the pisiform bone) pa.ss over the ligament, and will serve as a guide to its depth. Hollow in front of THE ELBOW (fig. 25) be carefully cleaned, so as •m Define anterior annular ligament. FlQ. 2-1.—SUI'EHKIOIAL ViKW OK THF. FoKE- Altai (QuAIn's "AllTlilUKs"). Radial artery, with its nerve outside. Uhiiu- artery nnd nerve. Pronator teres. Flexor carpi radialis. I'ahnaris longu.s. l''lc.>;or suljliniis dif^itoruni. Fle.xor carpi ulnaris. Supinator lonyus. Uicep.s. Hollow in This hollow is situate between the inner ^1^"^^,".'^ 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. G. 7. 8. 9.DISSECTION OF KKONT OF FOREARM. 60 boundarius: contents of the spane and their position to one another lymphatic glands. Superficial group contains five muscles Pronator teres : origin by two heads : insertion; relations; ami Ihe outer muscles of the forearm, ancl is triangular in shape, with the wider part towards the humerus. It is bounded on the outer side by the supinator longus muscle, and on the inner side by the pronator teres. The aponeurosis of the limb is stretched over the space ; and the bones, covered by the brachialis anticus and supinator brevis, form the deep boundary. Contents. In the hollow are lodged the termination of the brachial artery, with its veins, and the median nerve ; the musculo- spiral nerve ; the tendon of the bicep.s muscle ; and small recurrent vessels, with much fat. These several parts have the following relative position :—The tendon of the biceps is directed towards the outer boundary to reach the radius; and on the outer side, concealed by the supinator longus muscle, is the musculo-spiral nerve. Nearly in the centre of the space are the brachial vessels and the median nerve, the nerve being internal; but as the artery is inclined to the outer side of the limb, they soon become distant from one another about half an inch. The brachial artery divides here into two trmiks, radial and ulnar ; and the recurrent radial and ulnar branches appear in the space, the former on the outer, and the latter on the inner side. Two or three lymphatic glands lie on the sides of the artery, and one below its point of splitting. Muscles on the Front of the Forearm (fig. 24). The muscles on the front of the forearm are divided into a superficial and a deep group. In the superficial group there are five muscles, which are fixed to the inner condyle of the humerus by a common tendon, and lie in the undermentioned order from the outer to the inner side :— (1) pronator radii teres, (2) flexor carpi radialis, (3) palmaris longus, (4) flexor carpi ulnaris ; and deeper and larger than any of these is (5) the flexor sublimis digitorum. The deep group will be met with in a subsequent dissection (p. 67). The pronator radii teres (fig. 24,') arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the ridge above the condyle by fleshy fibres (fig 17, p. 44), from the fascia over it, from the septum between it and the flexor carpi radialis, and by a second tendinous slip from the inner edge of the coronoid proce-ss of the ulna. It is inserted by a flat tendon into an impression, an inch in length, on the middle of the outer surface of the radius (fig. 36, p. 86). The muscle is superficial except at the insertion, where it is covered by the radial artery, and some of the outer set of muscles, viz., supinator longus and radial extensors of the wri.st. The pronator forms the inner boundary of f lie triangular space in front of the elbow ; and its inner border touches the flexor wirjii radialis. By gently separating the muscle from tlie rest, it will l>e fovuid to lie on the brachialis anticus, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the ulnar artery and the median nerve, the small deep head of origin intervening between the artery and nerve.MUSCLES ON FRONT OF FOREARM. 61 Action. Tlie pronator assists in bringing forwards the radius use on over the ulna, so as to pronate the liand. When the radius is fixed, the muscle raises tliat bone towards the luuuerus, bending the ami elbow, elbow-joint. The FLEXOU CARPI RADIALIS (fig. 24, ■") takes its origin from the Uadiai conmion tendon, from the aponeurosis of the limb, and from the f]^p°I],°st intermuscular septum on each side of it. The tendon of the muscle, becoming free from fleshy fibres about the middle of the forearm, pa.sses through a groove in the trapezium, in a special sheath at the outer side of the anterior annular ligament, to be inserted mainly Triceps. Floxor snblimis cligitorum. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Flexor loiigus pollicis. Via. 25.—Thk R.wjius and Ulna from the Front. into the base of the metiicarpal bone of the index finger, and by a slip into that of the middle finger. The muscle rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitorum ; but The muscle near the wrist it lies over the flexor longus pollicis,—a muscle of liVkir'^' the deep gi-oup. As low as the middle of the forearm the flexor carpi radialis corresponds externally with the pronator teres, and below that with the radial artery, to which its tendon is tjiken as the guide. The ulnar border is in contact at first with the palmaris ^ ridtai''^'' longus muscle, and for about two inches above the wrist with the artery, median nerve. Action. The hand being free, the muscle first flexes the wrist- Use on m-ist joint, inclining the hand somewhat to the radial side ; and it willDISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 62 Long palmar muscle lies ovur annular ligament and joins fascia of palm; Flexor carpi ulnaris : origin by- two heads ; insertion : adjacent parts ; Course and extent of the radial artery. Situation in the forearm. fissi&t in hringing forwards tlie lower end of theradiu.s in pronation. Still continuing to contract, it bends the elbow. The PALMARis LONGUS (fig. 24,^) is .sometimes absent, or it may pre.sent great irregularity in the proportion between the fleshy and tendinous parts. It arises, like the preceding muscle, from the common tendon, the fascia, and the intermuscular septa. Its slender tendon is continued along the centre of the forearm ; and piercing the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the palmar fascia, jsjidiiigJL§li£_to_thejd:)ductor muscle of the thumb. The palmaris is situate between the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Eendering tense the f)almar fascia, the palmaris will afterwards bend the wrist and elljow, like the last muscle. The PLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS (fig. 24,7) arises by a narrow slip in common with the other muscles from tbe inner condyle of the humerus, from the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor sublimis digitorum, and by a broad aponeurosis from the inner margin of the olecranon and the posterior border of the ulna for the upper two-thirds of its length (fig. 36, p. 86). The fibres pass down- wards and forwards to a tendon on the anterior aspect of the muscle in the lower half, some joining it as low as the wrist. The tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone, from which fibrous bands pass on to the hook of the unciform and to the base of the fifth metacarpal bones representing the distal part of the tendon (the pisiruncifonn and pisi-metacarpal ligaments). Also a process passes inwards from the tendon near its insertion on to the face of the anterior annular ligament covering over the ulnar arter)' and nerve. One su.rface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia ; and its tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, serves as the guide to the ulnar arter3^ To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. 'RTien the attachment to the inner condyle has been di\'ided, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor profundus digitorum, tbe ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels ; between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters tlie forearm. Action. The wrist is bent, and the hand is drawn inwanls by the contraction of the muscle. The RADIAL ARTERY (fig. 24,'^) is 0116 of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the luacliial trunk, and extends to the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearm as far as the end of the radius ; next it winds backwards below the extremity of that bone ; and finally it enters the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this cir- cuitous course, the artery will be found in three diflerent dissections, viz., the front of the forearm, the liack of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm. In this region of the limb the position of the artery will be marked on the surface by a line from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid63 RADIAL ARTERY. process of the radius. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the bi'acliial trunk. It is partly deep and partly .superficial ; and where it is 0 I superficial, it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist iluring life. * ' In iLs uj^yer half the vessel is placed under cover of the supinator RoLitions to longus (8) ; and it rests succe.ssively on the followingnuisclcs .-—the Ill'npperV''' A*' tendon of the biceps ("), the fleshy supinator brevis, the pronator •>alfJ^ 49mc"v(rCT^ teres (''), and part of the thin, radial origin of the fle.Kor .subliniis(«). ° J *f^'^. In its lower half the artery is .superficial, being covered only by iti lowoi- "^'T''^- the integuments and the deep fascia. Here it is jjlaced in a hollow °f ^'"'^ between the tendons of the supinator longus (8) and flexor carpi 3«<J< •Wu^ . radialis and it lie,s, in this i)art, from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two muscles of the deep group, viz., flexor longus poUicis and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Veins. Yenso coniites lie on the sides, with cross branches over tovein.-i; the artery. Nerve. The radial nerve is on the outer side of the artery in the to nerve, upper two-thirds of the forearm, but is separated from the vessels by a slight interval near the elbow. la the lower third the nerve passes backwards and becomes superficial behind the tendon of the supinator longus. Branches. The radial artery in this part of its course furni,shes Branches : many unnamed nuiscular and cutaneous oflsets, and three named branches, viz., recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent (fig. 24) is the first branch, and supplies rartial re- the muscles on the outer side of the limJj.N^Its course is almost ; transverse to the supinator longus, bfetHitrth which-it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One oflfset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. h. The mjjerficial volar branch (fig. 27, c, p. 72) is very variable superncinl in size, and ari.ses near the lower end of the radius. It is directed ^'"'""^' towards the palm of the hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb ; and it either ends in those miLScles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very small, and will be seen iix.flnkikit / A the examination of the deep muscles. Arising rather above the '""'P"'' - end of the radius, it passes transversely inwards at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed offsets are given to the carpus. PeculiarUies of the radial artery. Sometimes tlie radial arises higli in tlie variations arm, an<l its course tlien is close to the bracl.iai artery, along ti.e e<lge of the of the biceps muscle ; and ui passing the bend of tlie elbow it is occasionally sub- cutaneous, i.,- above the deep fa.scia, and liable to injury in venesection. In the torearm the artery may likewise be subcutaneous, and superBcial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor sublimis digitorum, Dissection tlie llexor carpi radialis and palniaris longus must be cut throuch of,«<"'0'- " ""fo" sublimis.DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 64 Siipei-ficial flexor of lingers: origin from three bones of limb; insertion; relations; use on Angers, on elbow and wrist. Ulnar artery ends in palm of hand. Course in upper half and rela- tions to muscles : in lower half; relations to muscles: near the inner condj'le of tlie humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may he seen entering the under-surfaces of those muscles. For the present the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOR suBLiMis DiGiTORUii (^flexor perforatu,s, fig. 24,'') is the largest of the superficial muscles, and is named from its position A.«-/»f^'c_ to another flexor in the deep set. It arises in common with the foregoing muscles from the inner condyle of the humerus and the intermuscular septa, also fiom the internal lateral ligpnient-. nf the elliow-joint and the inner margm of the coronoid process of the nina, and by a thin layer from the oblique line of the radius, as well as frequently from the anterior border of that bone for a distance of one or two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres (fig. 25). Below the middle of the forearm the muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued beneath the annular ligament and through the hand, to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the fingers (fig. 32, p. 78), after being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. The flexor sublimis is in great part concealed by the other muscles of the superficial group ; and the radial vessels lie on the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they pass beneath the annular ligament of the wrist, the middle and ring finger tendons being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. On dividing the condylar and coronoid attachments the muscle will be seen to cover two deep flexors (flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. Action. The flexor bends first the middle and then the proximal joints of the fingers ; but when the first phalanges are fixed by the extensor of the fingers, the superficial flexor moves the second phalanges alone. After the fingers are bent the muscle will help in flexing the wrist and elbow-joints. The ULNAR ARTERY (fig. 26, g) is the larger of the two branches coming from the bifurcation of the brachial trtmk, and is directed along the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand, where it forms the supei-ficial palmar arch, and supplies most of the fingers. In the forearm the vessel has an arched direction : and its depth from the surface varies in the first and last parts of ite course. In the upper half the artery is inclined obliquely inwards from the centre of the elbow to the inner side of the limb. It courses between the superficial and deep muscles, being covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis. Beneath it lies on the brachialis anticus for a .short distance, and afterwards on the flexor profundus (c). In the lower half it has a straight course to the pisiform bone, and is covered l)y the integuments and fascia, and 1iy the flexor caqii ulnaris. To the outer side are the tendons of the flexor •sublimis. Beneath it is the flexor profundus (c).65 ULNAR ARTERY. Veins. Two vein.s ac- comiiany tlie artery, and are united across it at intervals. Nerves. The median nerve Q-) lies to the inner side of the vessel for aljont an inch, but then crosses over it to gain the outer side, the cnronoid head of the pronator teres being placed between the two. Rather above the middle of the forearm the ulnar nerve reaches the artery, and continues thence on the inner side ; and a small branch (»), sending twigs arouiul the arteiy, courses on it to the palm of the hand. On the annular liga- ment the artery has passed through the fascia, and lies close to the pisiform bone. The idnar nerve, with its palmar branch, still accompanies the ves- sel on the inner side. Branches. The greater number of the ofl'sets of the artery are distributed to the muscles. Its named branches are the follow- ing :— a. The anterior ulnar recurrent branch fre- Fio. 26.—Dissection of the Deep THE Vessels and Nerves bet (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: Pronator teres. Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor profundus diyitoruni. Pronator quadratus. Fle.xoi- carpi ulnaris. vonn? comitas; nerves ni relation : position on tlie annular ligament. A. n. c. I). E. A rlerics: a. Radial trunk. h. Superficial volar Ijninch. o. Ulnar trunk. D.A. Muscles op the Forearm, and op WEEN THE Two Groups op Muscles d. Its posterior recurrent branch. e. Anterior interosseous. /. Median artery. rj. brachial trunk. Nerves : 1. Median. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. Cutaneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar trunk. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch of ulnar.^-DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 66 posterior reciment, interos- seous, carpal, and meta- carpal. quently arises in common with the next, and ascends on the brachialis anticus muscle, to join the branch of the anastomotic artery beneath the pronator teres. It gives offsets to tlie contiguous muscles. 6. The posterior ulnar recurrent branch (d), of larger size than the anterior, is directed beneath the flexor sublimis muscle to the interval between the inner condyle and the olecranon. There it passes with the ulnar nerve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries on the inner .side of the elbow-joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the nlnar nerve. c. The interosseous artery is a short thick trunk, which is directed backwards towards the interosseous membrane, and divides into anterior and jDosterior branches, which will be afterwards followed. d. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the front and back of the carpus, on which they anastomose with corresponding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. e. The metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower end of the ulna, and runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of which it is the inner dorsal branch. The origin and course may vary. Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. The origin of the artery may be trans- ferred to any point of the main vessel in the arm or axilla. In one instance R. Quain found the ulnar artery arising between two and three inches below the elbow. When it begins higher than usual, it is generally superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow, but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm, thougli sometimes it is subcutaneous with the supei ficial veins. Ulnar nerve in the fore- arm. Its branches are to elbow- joint ; to two muscles of forearm ; cutaneous branch ofi palm of hand : The ULNAR NERVE (fig. 26, '■) enters the forearm between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery somewhat above the middle (in length) of the forearm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather deeper than the artery. It gives ofl" the following branches :— a. Articular nerves. In the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, slender filaments are furnished to the joint. &. Muscular branches arise from the nerve near the ell>ow, and supply the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the foreaim and haiid (fig. 15, ]\ 39). A small palmar branch (•') arises about the middle of the forearm, and descends on the ulnar artery, sending twigs around (hat vessel, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand ; sometimes a cutaneous offset perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve.NERVES OF THE FOREARM. d. dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand (ti'j;. 23, p. 57) Icnvos Uie cutimr! tnmk about two inches above the end oftlie iihia, anil passes obliquely ""-'vo of backwards beneath tlie flexor carpi ulnaris ; perforating the aponeu- hand."' roeis, it is distributed on the back of the hand and fingers (p. 58). The MRriTAN NF.RVK (fifT. 26. 1) leavcs the hollow of the elbo^y Median lietwecn the heads of the pronator teres, and runs in the middle Tine of the limb to the hand. It is placed beneath the flexor t^TOlaoup'r sublimis as low as two inches from the annular ligament, where it of^Mclos. becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly, the nerve passes beneath the annular ligament to the palm of the hand, and its position in this part may be marked on the surface by the tendon of the palmaris longus. It supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and furnishes a cutaneoiTS oftset to the hand. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, and n supplies/ are distrilnited to all the superficial muscles except the flexor carpi '''"»<' I ulnarisin addition the nerve supplies the deep layer of muscles ""cept'onoj through its interosseous branch (p. 69), except the inner half of"''"''""'''" the flexor profundus digitorum. The cutaneous palmar branch (3) arises in the lower fourth of the and a branch forearm; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and crosses i'"''" °^ over that band to reach the pahii (fig. 15, p. 39). The RADIAL NERVE is the smaller of the two branches into which Radial nerve the musculo-spiral divides at the elbow. This nerve is placed alon" ^° forearm, the outer border of the limb, imder cover of the supinator longus and on the outer side of the radial artery, to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior border of the supinator tendon. It finally it ends on divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of of f's the hand and digits (fig. 23). No muscular ofi-set is furnished by the nerve. Dissection (fig. 26). To examine the deep layer of muscles it Dissection will be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm of <ieop the pronator teres, to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, and to remove its fleshy part. A thin layer of fixscia, which is most distinct near the wrist, is to l)e taken away ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous mem- brane, and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Over the bones at the lower end of the forearm the arch of the show carnal anterior airpal arteries may be defined. arch. Deep Orodp of Mdscles. There are three deep muscles on the Three mns- Iront of the fore;irm. One, covering the ulnar, is the deep flexor of "le the fingers ; a second rests on the radius, the long flexor of the " thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, ^vhlch lies beneath the other two, over the lower ends of the bones. The FI,E.XOIl PROPUNDDS DIGITORUM (flexor perforans, fig. 26, c) Deep flexor ame.5 Jrom the anterior and inner .surfaces of the ulnar for three-""e"'" = fourths of the length of the bone (fig. 25, p. 60), from the inner half <""'8'" = ol the interosseous ligament for the same distance, and from the aponeurosis of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick F 2DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 68 are bent. of thumb origin fleshy belly, and ends in tendons wliicli, passing beneath the insertion; annular ligament, are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers (fig. 32, p. 78). The portion of the muscle furnishing the tendon to the index finger is separated from the rest by a layer of areolar tissue, and arises chiefly from the interosseous membrane, parts Lying over the muscle are the ulnar vessels and nerve, the around it; g^^pgj.flgjfi] flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep surface rests on the vilna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The ou^ter border touches the flexor longus poUicis and tlie anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, use on Action. The muscle bends the joints of the fingers and the wrist; wrfs't"' but it does not act on the last phalanx till after the second has been moved by the flexor sublimis. How lingers The fingers are usually bent in the following order :—fii-stly, the articulation between the first (proximal) and the middle phalanges ; secondly, the last phalangeal joint; and thirdly, the metacarpo- phalangeal. Long flexor The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLicis (fig. 26, b) arises from the anterior surface of the radius below the oblique line (fig. 25), as low as the pronator quadratus, and from the outer part of the interosseous membrane ; it is also joined in most cases by a distinctslip arising in cominon with the flexor sublimis digitorutnjBlLhei' J^OTSJ^hjdultmial '""condyle of till'' bnmems nTlTie" cm'oiioig' process of the ulna. The ][leshy~flbres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the insertion; annular ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb, parts above The greater part of the muscle is covered by the flexor sublimis digitorum ; and the radial vessels rest on it for a short distance and beneatii below. It lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the ''^' inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. use. Action. This muscle is the special flexor of the last joint of the thumb, but it also aids in bending the other joints of that digit and the wrist. Pronator The PRONATOR QUADRATUS (fig. 26, d) is a flat muscle cover- quadratus -^g ^j^g igyf^y fourth of the liones of the forearm. It arises from the anterior surface of the ulna, where it is widened by a somewhat linear and partly tendinous origin, and is inserted into the fore and inner parts of the radius for about two inches (fig. 25). is deep in The anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor position; jj^yggieg of ti^e (ligit^s^ and by the radial vessels ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with the intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. Along it^ lower border is^tlie arch formed by the anterior carpal ixrteries. " Action. The end of the radius is moved iinvards over the ulna by this muscle, and the hand is pronated. Anterior in- The ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY (fig. 26, c) is continued on teroRseous ^-^^^ f^,^,^, interosseous membrane between the two flexors or " in the fibres of the flexor profundus digitorum,Jilljt_reaches aix. aperture in the mcmln-ane near the .Ujipcr l>order of the pronator. quadxajais. At that .spot the arter^WWS from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the back of the carpus, whereDISSECTION OF THE HANB. 69 it einls hy anastomosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches. Nuiueroiis offsets are given to the deep muscles. I'^/usaiiur' One long branch, median (/), accompanies the median nerve, ^i»a^-x which it supplies, and either ends in the tle.xor suhlimis, or is con- ' tv^^ittH tinned beneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. Above the middle of the forearm the rimlidlary arteries of the medullary to 1. , , ■ r ^i. 1 tbe bones, radius and ulna arise from the vessel. Where it is about to pass through the interosseous membrane and carpal, it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus ; and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE (fig. 27, ~) is derived from Anterior the median, and accompanies the artery of the same name to the JIJ,r';™end*s'** pronator quadratus muscle, the under-surface of which it enters. pronator. Branches are given by it to the Hexor loiigus pollicis and to the outer part of the He.xor profundus digitorum muscles. Dissection. The attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus Dissection, to the bones of the forearm may be now cleaned and e.xamined. The insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a broatl thick Insertion of tendon, about an inch in length, which is fi.xed into the inner and ,,,',^T„!,"! '" Jower parts of the rough impression on the front of the coroiioid process of the ulna. Insertion of the biceps. The tendon of the bicejjs is inserted into Insertion of the rough hinder part of the tuberosity of the radius, a bursa separating it from the fore part of the prominence. Near its / 9 ^ attachment the tendon is twisted, so that the anterior surface be- / conies external. The supinator brevis muscle partly surrounds the' insertion. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissection (fig. 27, p. 72). The digits should be well sepa- Dissection, rated and fixed firmly to a board with tacks, and the skin reflected from the palm of the hand by means of two incisions. One is to be ciirried along the centre of the palm from the wrist to the fingers; Clean small and the other is to l)e made from side to side at the termination of ii'Misiie, the first. In raising the inner Hap, the small palmaris Ijrevis muscle will be seen at the inner margin of the hand; and its insertion into the skin may be left till the muscle has been learnt. In the fat the ramifiaitions of the palmar branches of the median •-'■ace and ulnar nerves are to be traced. nen'e.r"'' The student shoidd remove the fat from the palmaris mascle, and Duiine the from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand; and he Ja^da" should take care not to destroy a fibrous band (transvei-se ligament) which lies across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat70 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. digital vessels and nerves; and expose digital sheaths. Cutaneous palmar nerves, one from median, the other from ulnar. Palraaris breris is a cutaneous muscle; Palmar fascia. Its central part ends in a piece for each finger, and in the skin. Dissection. Depp ending of the jileceH of fascia. from the palmar fa,9cia he will recognise, opposite the clefts between the lingers, the digital vessels and nerves, and must be especially careful of two, viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear higher up in the hand than the rest, and are more likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be exposed. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid liare. Cutaneous palmar nerves. Small twigs are furnished to the integu- ment from both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two branches descend from the forearm. One is the offset of the median nerve (p. 67) which crosses the annular ligament; it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is united with the palmar branch of the ulnar ; a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 66), and has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand ; it is distributed to the upper and inner part of the palm. The PALMARis BREVis (fig. 2^, h) is a Small flat muscle, about an inch and a half wide, tlie fibres of which are collected into separate bundles. It arises from the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed transversely to their insertion into the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar vessels and nerve. After it has been examined it may be thrown inwards with the skin. Action. It draws outwards and wrinkles the skin of the inner side of the palm. The PALMAR TASCIA or aponeurosis consists of a central and two lateral parts ; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require a special notice. The central part is a strong, white layer, which is ijointe.d at the wrist, but expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Above, the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and below, it ends in four processes, which are continued downward.'^, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the pieces from one another some transverse filjres are l^laced, which arch over the luml)ricalis muscle and the digital vessels and nerve appearing at this spot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are prolonged to the integument near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. Now follow one of the digital processes of the fascia to its termination. First remove ihe superficial fil.re.s, and then divide the process longitudinally by inserting the knii'e beneath it opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Ending of the jirocesses. Each process of the fa.'?cia sends back- wards an offset on each side of the tendons, wliich is fixed to theTHE ULNAR ARTERY. 71 deep ligament connecting togetlier the liead.s of the metacarpal bones, and to llie edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distiince. The sxiperfiaial transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous Transverse band, whicli stretches across the roots of the four finffers, and is I'S"™""' °^ . . .,,(.,. ^ . . o ) the lingers, contiiined in tlie lold of skin, forming the rudiment of a web between them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are con- tinued onwards to their terminations. Sheath of tlie flexor tendons. Along each finger the flexor tendons sheath of are retained in place against the phalanges by a fibrous sheath. tendons Opposite the middle of the first and second phalanges tlie sheath is varies in strengthened liy a strong fibrous band {vaginal ligament), whicli is ''"i^kness ; almost tendinous in consistence, Init opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered and oblique fibres. The has a syno- sheath will be opened later on in the examination of the flexor tendons. Dissection. The palmar fascia should next lie taken away. On Dissection, the remo\-al of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery and the median and ulnar nerves become apparent. Palmar part of the ulnar artery (fig. 28). In the palm of superficial the hand the ulnar artery divides into two branches, superficial palmar and deep. The larger—superficial—branch is directed towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two offsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c) and the branch to the radial side of the forefinger (/). The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the superficial palmar arch (d). It,s convexity is turned towards the fingers, and position in its position in the pahn would be nearly marked Ijy a line across f'o '>»'"'; the hand from the cleft of the thumlx The arch is comparatively superficial, lieing covered for the most relations, part only liy the integuments and the palmar fascia ; liut at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the liranches of the ulnar and median nerves. Venae comites lie on its sides. Tlie deep or communicating branch of the ulnar artery (fig. 31^, Deep p. 77) pa.sses backwards with the deep part of the ulnar nerve, '"■'"«=h; lietween tlie abductor and short flexor muscles of the little fingei', to inosculate \\ ith the deep pabnar arch of the radial artery (p. 80). Branches. From the convexity of the superficial arch proceed the digital arteries, and from the concavity some small offsets to the iialm of the hand. _ The digital branches (g) are four in number, and supply lioth four digital sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger, i^'anches: The branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger is un- divided ; but the others, lying over the three inner interosseous .spaces, bifurcate below to supply the contiguous sides of the corre- sponding digits. In the palm tlie.se branches are accompanied by the digitiil nerves, which thev somptiniea pip.yce. Near the roots of the fingers they receive communicating branches tlieso join from ofi'sets of the deep arch; but the digital artery uF the inner ""'^"'■^ ofthe deep arch :DISSECTION OF THE HAlJD. side of the little finger has its coinimiiiicating liraiich about the luiddle of the palm, teimination From the point of bifurcation the arteries extend along the sides fingers; of the fingers; and over the last phalanx the ve&sels of opposite FiQ. 27.- -StrpERPiciAL Dissection op the Palm op the Hand (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Abductor polliois. 0. Outer head of flexor brevis. D. Abductor transversus polliois. H. Palmaris brevis. Arteries: a. Ulnar. b. Eadial. c. Superficial volar branch, rf. Superficial palmar arch, e. Branch uniting the arch with /, the radial digital branch of the forefinger. ff. Digital branches of the superficial arch. X'erves: Ulnar, and 2, two 1. Ulnar, and 2, its digital branches. 3. Median, and 5, its digital branches. 4. Branch of the median to thumb-inuscles. 5 (on the annular ligament). Communicating branch from the median to the ulnar. sides unite in an arcli, from the convexity of which offsets proceed to supply the l>all of the finger. Branches are furnished to the and arches finger and the sheath of the tendons ; and tw igs are supplied to the73 THE MEDIAN NERVE IN THE HAND. phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bones, au arch being close above each joint. On the dorsum of the last phalanx is a plexus from which the nail pulp is supplied. Palmar part op the ulnar nerve (fig. 27, i). The ulnar Ulnar nerve nerve, like the artery, divide.s, on or near the annular ligament, into "' a superjicial and a rfec^; part. The deep part accompanies the deep branch of the artery to the divides into muscles, and will be dissected with that vessel (fig. 31). deep and The superficial part furnishes an oflset to the palniaris brevis superiiciai muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the inner part of the hand, and ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little linger and half the next. Digital nerves Q). The more internal nerve is undivided, like Digital the corresponding artery. two The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of their opposed sides ; in the palm of the hand this branch is connected with an oliset (") of the median nerve. Along the sides of the lingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar part of the median nerve (fig. 27,''). As soon as the Median median nerve issues from Ijeneath the annular ligament it becomes pHermus-'—- enlarged and somewhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal ''lo? "nd' Jh." parts for the supply of digital nerves to the thumb and the remain- i.'^ »• ing two fingers and a half; the outer part also furnishes a small ,.^tc muscular Inanch to the ball of the thumb. The branches of the nerve are covered by the fascia and the superficial palmar arch ; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The muscular branch (■*) supplies the flexor brevis, the Branch to abductor, and the opponens poUicis nmscles. muscles. 6. The digital nerves ("') are five in number. Three of them are Five digital undivided, and come from the external of the two pieces into which "'^"'^^ '• the trunk of the median splits. The other two spring from the inner piece of the nerve, and are l>ifurcated, each supplying the opposed sides of two fingers. The first two nerves Ijelong to the thumb, one on each side, and nrst two, the outer one communicates with a branch of the radial nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and third, gives a branch to the most external hunbrical muscle. The/oit?</t Uu-nislies a nerve to the .sp.mnd liniibritajjvi'iH/^, and fourth, divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth also divides into two branches, which are distributed to iifth. the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers ; it communicates with a branch of the. ulnar nerve. On the fuujers. On the sides of the fingers the nerves are in front On the sides ot the iirlj'jies, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in "''"'^ filaments for the ball, and the pulp beneath the nail. In their cour.se downwards the nerves sui.j.ly chielly tegumenbiry branches. One ot these (the dursul branch) is directed backwards by the side of on^^i"-74 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Dissection of the flexor tendons. Divide annular ligament and open 'JVyv.iA©^ sheaths. . Synovial sac . surrounds tendons. Superficial flexor tendons in the hand; insertion; slit for the deep flexor. Dissection. Tendons of deep flexor the first jilialanx, and, after uniting witli tlie digital nerve on the back of the finger, is continued to the dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissection. The tendons of the flexor muscles may next be followed to their termination. To expose them, the ulnar artery should be cut through below the origin of the deep branch ; and the sujjerficial volar branch of the radial having been dixdded, the palmar arch is to be thrown towards the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are also to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned downwards. A longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the annular ligament without injuring the muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to l)e thrown to the .sides. Finally, the sheaths of the fingers may be opened in order to show the insertion of the tendons. Flexoe Tendons. Beneath the annular ligament the ten- dons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded by a large and loose syno\dal membrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an ofi'set into the digital sheath of the thumb, and usually one into that of the little finger (fig. 28). The syno- vial sheath belonging to the ten- don of the flexor longus polUcis is often sejjarate from the rest. Flexor sublimis. The ten- dons of the flexor sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament; and all four are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the digital .sheaths (figs. 29 and 30) ; and ejicli is wscrted by two processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the centre. As it enters the .sheatli, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but opposite the lower half of the first phalanx it is split for the piissage of the latter tendon. Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- Ijrical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. Afterwards the syno^^al membrane and areolar tissue should be tiiken away. Flexor profundus. At the lower border of the annular liga- ment the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into foiir pieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the index finger is Fio. 28.—Synovial Sheaths op THE Flexor Tendons.FLEXOR TKNDONS. 75 distinct from the rest. Fi'oiii tlie ligaiiieiit tlie four tendons .are cross tiie directed tlirougli the hand to tlie fingers ; and in their course they '"""^ give origin to the small linubricales muscles. At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the fle.xor subllmis, and ha\'ing passed through that tendon, is inserted into the to their hase of the last phalanx (fig. 30). insertion. Between both flexor tendons and the bones are short folds of short fokia the synovial membrane, one for each (vincuhi accessoria, litjamentriy° "°t'' Fw. 29. Fig. 30. Figures op the Tendons and Short Muscles of one Finger, WITH THE Sheath of the Flexor Tendons. a. Exten.sor tendon, with interosseous (i)ancl Iunil)rical (c) muscles joining it. (l. Tendon of llexor subliniis passing into its sheatli, tlie thicker parts of which are marked c and /. hrevia^ fig. ,30). By means of this each tendon is connected with flexor ten- the capsule of the joint, and the lower part of the jihalanx iin- - mediately above the bone into which it is inserted. A thin fold (ligamentum lomjum) will also be seen passing to the shaft of the first phalanx. The LUMBKiCALES (fig. 31, I, p. 77) are four small muscular sli].s, Lnmbrical which a-me from the tendons of the deep flexor near the annular76 DISSECTION OF THE HAND, ongm, insertion, relations, and use. Tendon of long flexor of thumb ; its insertion. Dissection of deep arch, and of muscles of thumb and little linger. Five mus- cles to thumb. Abductor: attach- ments, relations, and use. Dissection. ligament ; ^fi^t^gftwospringing each from a single tendon, while the iimer tw^^S^^onnected each with two tendons. They are directed to the radial side of the fingers, to be inserted into the ex- panded extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 30, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons and vessels that have been removed ; but, as already seen, they are ^subcutaneous for a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. Action. The lumbricales assist in bending the metacarpo- phalangeal joints, and, bj' their insertion into the extensor tendons, they straighten the interphalangeal joints. Tendon of the flexor lo7igus pollicis. Beneath the annular ligament this tendon is external to the flexor profundus ; and in the hand it inclines outwards between the outer head of the flexor breads and the adductor'obliciuus pollicis (fig. 31), to be inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. The common synovial membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Dissection (fig. 31). The deep palmar arch with the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and some of the interosseous muscles, will come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lumbricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student .shoidd preserve the fine nerves and vessels entering the inner two lumbrical muscles. The short muscles of the thiunb and little finger are next to be prepared. Some care is necessary in making a satisfactory separation of the diflerent small thumb-muscles ; but those of the little finger are more easily defined. Short Muscles of the Thumb (fig. 31). These are five in number. The most superficial is the abductor pollicis (a) ; and beneath it is the opponens pollicis (b), which will be recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the short flexor (c); below this and below the tendon of the long flexor is the adductor obliqims (c') ; and the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal lione is the adductor transversus (d). The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (a) is the most superficial muscle, and is about an inch wide. It arises from the upper part of the annular ligament on the outer side, and from the tuberosity of the sctiphoid bone ; and it is inserted into the Ijase of the first phalanx of the thumb at the radial mnrgiiij^si^nding a slip to join the tendon of the extensoi- luBgua ]if.il1ii'iH._^g5_!_'_':^"—/•"'gi^-— The muscle is subcut;ineous, and rests on the opponens polhcis ; it is joined at its origin l)y a slip from the tendon of the palmaris longuSjjmdjnSn^ o.ssis metacai-pi pollicis. IrfwreT^he abductor pollicis moves tlie thumlnn fho direction of its radial border away from the index finger. Dissection. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting tl.roUKh tlie abductor. To separate the muscle from the .shortSHORT MdSCLKS OK THK THUMB. 77 llcxor on thf; inner side, the sUiflenl, sliouUl ])C{;in near llir; liead of the nietiicarpal Ijone, where tliere is usually a slight interval. The 0PP0NEN8 Z'OLLicrs (b) arines from the annular ligament opponens beneath the preceding, from the tubercle of the swijjhoid beneath [J,'l!i^''rpai bone Fio. 31.—Deep Dissection (Illustkatiok Muscles: A. Abductor pollicis. li. Opponens pollicis. 0. Klexor brevis pollicis. o'. Adductor obliquus pol- licis. u. Adductor transvcrsus pollicis. K. Abductor minimi digiti. r. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. 0. Opponens minimi digiti. 1. Lumbricales. J. First dorsal interosseous. OF THE Palm or the Hand s OK Dissections). Vessels : II. Ulnar artery, cut. b. Its deep brancli. c. Deep palmar arch. d. Radial digital art«ry of the index finger. e. Arteria princejis pollicis. /. Interosseous arteries. Nerves : 1. Ulnar nei-ve, cut. 2. Its deep part, continued at 4 to some of the thumb muscles. 3. Offsets to the inner two lumbricales. the abductor, and from the outer side of the ridge of the trapezium ; and it is inserted into tlie outer surface and radial border of the meUiuirpal bone for tlie whole length. This muscle is for the most part concealed by the abductor, beneath former;DISSECTION OF THIC HAND. 78 Flexor brevis pollicis. though it iJrojeots on its outer side. Along its inner liorder is the flexor brevis pollicis. Action. It draws the metacarpal bone inwards over the pains, rotating it at the same#tinie, so as to turn the ball of the thumb towards the fingers, thus producing the movement of opposition. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS ^ (c) arises from the lower border of the outer part of the annular ligament, and is inserted into the outer margin of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb ; its Flexor carpi radialis. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Abductor minimi digiti. Opponens minimi digiti. Palmar interossei. Adductor trans- versus. Opponens minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Interossei. Flexor profundus digit orum. Abductor pollicis. Opponenspollici.s. Deep head flexor brevis pollicis. Part of lirst dorsal interosseus. Opponens pollicis. Adductor obli- quus (encircled by ring). Flexor longus IJoUicis. Dorsal interossei. Flexor sublimjs digitorum. Fig. 32.—The Bones of this Hand showing the Muscuiar Attachmbkts. tendon contains a sesamoid bone close to its insertion. It lies along the inner border of the opponens pollicis, and i.s .superficial to the tendon of the long flexor. Action. The muscle bends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and assists the opponens in drawing the thumb forwards and inwards over the palm. * An inner head of tlic flexor brevis is commonly described as a small slip, which is concealed by the adductor obliquus pollicis, and which will be subsequently seen to piss from the uhiav side of the first metacarpal bone to be inserted Into tlie first phalanx with that muscle. It belongs, however, to the same plaTic of muscles as the rulductore, and will be described with the adductor obliquus pollicis, outer head to external sesamoid bone; relations; use.79 SHORT MDSCLES OF THE LITTLE FINGER. Tlie ADDUCTOR OBLIQUDS POLLicis (c') arises deeijly in tlie liand AfUiuetor from the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, the anterior ligaments oiJl'qmis: of the carpus, the os magnnm, and the bases of the first, second, and onein ; tliird metacariml bones (fig. 32). Directed obliquely downwards and passes to outwards, the greater part of the muscle is Mjsej-to/into the ulnar .side sesamoid of the base of the first phalanx in union with the adductor trans- bono, versus, a sesamoid bone being formed in the tendon over the head of the metacarpal bone. A small slip of the muscle usually passes and sends a outwards beneath the tendon of the long flexor to join the insertion external ■ of the outer head of the flexor brevis. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies between this muscle roiation.s; and the flexor brevis; and its origin is covered by the outer tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbricales. It lies over the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and the ending of the radial artery. Action. It flexes the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and draws the use. thumb over the palm. The ADDUCTOR TRANSVERsus POLLICIS (d) is triangular in shape, Adductor with the apex at the thumb, and the base in the centre of the palm, t-ransversus Its origin is from the ridge on the lower two-thirds of the palmar aspect of the third metacarpal bone (fig. 32); and its insertion is into joins the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb, in common with the obn"i*'"'. last muscle. From the conjoined insertion of the two adductors a ° _slip is^seot^to the tendon of the exterisnr IflUfiiix.iiftlliiii" •Sec ■ «"-^. j^fW . The anterior surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor relations profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the posterior surface lies over the interosseous muscles of the first and second spaces, with the intervening metacarpal bone. The deep palmar arch se]5arates this muscle from the adductor obliquus. Action. It draws the thumb towards the centre of the palm. and use Short Muscles 0¥ the Little Finger (fig. 31). In the Two or three hypothenar eminence there are the abductor and opponens muscles '""scles to of the little finger, and sometimes a short flexor. The ABDUCTOR minimi digiti (e) is superficial to the opponens Abductor muscle.^ It arises from the pisiform bone, and is imcried into the is beneatli ulnar side of the base of the fir.st phalanx of the little finger; jyjSkin ; oflsetjrom it reaches the extensor tendon on the back of the phaUnx. Tlie pajmaj^tfwis parUy_M the mu-sclel ~ ' Actimi. Firstly it draws the little finger away from the others ; use but continuing to act, it bends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The flexoh brevis minimi digiti (f) is placed at the radial Flexor border of the preceding muscle. It takes orujin from the tip oft'enVb of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the sent;"" annular ligament; and it is inserted with the abductor into the nrst phalanx. It lies on the opponens ; and near its origin it is separated relations from the abductor by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Action. It flexes and abducts the first phalanx of the little and use linger.DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 80 Opponons attach- inonts, relations, and use. Dissection of deep arcli and interosseous nuiscle.s and after fascia. Eadial artery in hand forms deep arcli, The OPPONENS MINIMI DIGITI (g) _resemble.i_the_oppnnfills pollicis in being attached to the metacarpal bone. _ Its oj-igin is from the hook of tlie unciform bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament; its insertion is into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The opponens is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Action. It raises the inner metacarpal bone, and moves it towards the others, so as to deepen the hollow of the palm. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand l)etween the first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel it will be requisite to detach the origin of the adductor obliquus pollicis. The deep palmar arch and the branch of the ulnar nerve accompanying it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia which covers the interosseous muscles is to be removed, the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament luiiting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Radial artery in the hand (fig. 31). The radial artery enters the pabn at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle ; and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, it turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, forming the deep arch. The dee}! palmar arch (c) extends from the upper end of the first interosseous space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it joins the deep branch of the ulnar artery (6). Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed downwards ; and its situation is nearer the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacai-pal and beneath bones and the interosseous muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and in part by the adductor obliquus pollicis and opponens minimi digiti niuscles. Two veins accompany it. The branclws of the arch are the following :— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavitj' of the arch to the front of the carpus; these supply the bones and joints, and anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. b. Three perforating arteries pierce the inner three dorsal interos- eous muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the ack of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries (/), which lie over the inner three intermetacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the clefts of the fingers. An offset of the inner one, or a separate branch of the arch, joins the digital artery to the inner side of the little finger (p. 71). These branches sujiply the interosseous muscles, and the two or three inner lumbricales ; they vary much in their size and arrangement. Their size, as a rule, varies inversely with that of the corresponding digital branches of the superficial arch, which they join at the cleft between the lingers. d. Digital branches of the radial. The arteria princcps jiollids (c) runs along the first metacarpal bone to the interval between the which lies near carpal bones, muscles, with venaB comites. Branches: _ recurrent; perforating palmar in- terosseous. W DiRitnl branches:THE INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. 61 adductor obliquus and the fle.xor brevis poUicis, where it divides artery of into the two collateral branches of the thumb; these are distributed thumb; like the arteries of the superficial arch (p. 72). e. The radial digital branch of the index fiiujer (d) (arteria artery of radialis indicia) is directed over the first dorsal interosseous V'^ muscle (j), and beneath the adductors of the thumb, to the radial side of the forefinger. At the lower border of the adductor trans\'ersus (d), this branch is usually connected by an offset with the superficial pabnar arch ; and at the end of the digit it imites with the branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar / artery. / The DEEP PART OF THE ULNAR NERVE (") accompanies the deep Deep braneli arterial arch as far as the muscles of the thumb, where it tf^rminntpg "Jnar in offsets to the two adductors. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the muscular muscles of the little finger. Li the^jjalm it gives oft'sets to all_the palniar jiuddorsal_mterosseoi^^ muscles, and to the inner-two. lundjrical muscles besides the terminal "branches before men- tioned. The TR^U^SVERSE METACARPAL LIGAMENT is formed by crOSS fibres Transverse imiting the palmar ligaments of the metocarpo-phalangeal articida- metacarpCs tious of the fingers, and serves to bind together the heads of the inner four metacarpal Ijones. To its upper border the fascia cover- ing the interosseous muscles is attached. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interosseous muscles. - The INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES, SO named from their position seven inter-p<^^ between the metacarpal bones, are seven in number. Two muscles JJ^uscies iC occupy each space, except the first, where there is only one. They '"""'^ ^/akuJt-dl ■ arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first ^ V *" ^ phalanges of the fingers and the expanded extensor tendons. They divided into are divided into palmar and dorsal ; but all are seen in the palm of g^J.^"'}'' the hand, though the former project more than the others. The palmar muscles (fig. 33), three in number, are smaller than Palmar go the dorsal, and have each a single origin from the side of the ringl'in'd metacarpal bone of the finger to which it belongs. The first is I'ttlo lingers. placed on the ulnar side of the index finger, the second and third on the radial side of the ring and little fingers respectively. The doi-sal muscles (fig. 34), one in each s^jace, arise by two Dorsal: two heads from the lateral surfaces of the metacarpal bones between fln'^'.^'one which they lie. The first (aliductor indicis) is inserted on the eadrt'o""'' radial side of the index finger, the second on the radial and the i^.^u'iHgers. thud on the ulnar side of the middle finger, and the fourth on the ulnar side of the ring finger. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 29, Common p. 75): the fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side bithset" of the first or metacaqjal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the bone. Action. They bend the metacarpo-phalangeal joints by their Action as attachment to the first phalanx, and extend the two interphalangeal "xtonsors'^ joints through their union with the exten.sor tendon. ' 'DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 82 as abductori and adduc- tors. Dissection. Annular ligament of fiont ot wist. The interosseous muscles also separate and approximate the straightened fingers, the palmar set adductiug tlie index, ring and little fingers towards the middle digit; while tlie dor.sal abduct their fingers from the median line of the hand, the two fixed to the middle finger moving it to either side of that line. Dissection. The attachments of the annular ligament to the carpal hones on each side are next to be dissected out by taking away the small muscles of the thimib and little finger. Before reading its description, the ends of the cut ligament may be jjlaced in apposition, and fixed with a stitch. The ANTERiOK ANNULAR LIGAMENT is a broad band, which arches over and binds down the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is Fig. 33.—The Three Palmar Interosseous Muscles. a. Muscle of the little finger. 6. Muscle of the ring finger. c. Muscle of the index finger. Fig. 34.—The Four Dorsal Interosseous Muscles. d. Muscle of the index finger. e and /. Muscles of the middle finger. r/. Muscle of the ring finger. Dissection. Insertion of flexor carpi radiali.s. attached internally to the pisiform and the hook of the unciform, and externally to the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium, as well as by a deeper process to the trapezoid bone on the inner side of the groove for the flexor carpi radialis. By its upper border it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the forearm ; and anteriorly it is joined by the palmar fascia. Over it lie the pahnaris longus tendon and the ulnar vessels and nerve. Dissection. Follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis to its insertion into tlie nietacariial bones, by dividing the overlying part of the anterior ligament. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing through the hand to its insertion lies in a groove in the trapezium between the83 StJPERFlClAr, MUSCLES. attachmeuts of the annular ligament, but not witliin the arch of that band ; here it is bound down by a fibrous shetith and is lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index linger, and sends a slip to that of the middle digit. Section VI. THE BACK OP THE FORBAEM. Position. During the dissection of the back of the forearm the Position, limb lies on the front, and a small block is to be placed beneath the wrist for the purpose of stretching the tendons. Dissection (fig. 35). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and Takeaway vessels are to lie reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and from ndal nerves the tendons on the back of the hand ; but in removing the fascia .''''^ " - fascia. inj.liejbrearmj the student must Ije carefidjiot ta-tiut. .lAvny Mip/ posterior~nrgerosseouR ve.sse.ls, wbifb nxe in fqnhift.wTt1i it _o}i_th_e, ulnar side in the In-tyer third. A thickened band of the fascia opposite the carpus (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Let the integimient be removed from the fingers, in order that Strip the tendons may be traced to the end of the digits. lingers. The several muscles should be sejmrated from one another up to Separate their origin, especially the two radial extensors of the wrist. muscles. The POSTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT (k) is a jmrt of the deep Annular fascia, thickened by the addition of transverse fibres, and is situate tehjnd"u,e opposite the lower ends of the bones of the forearm. This band is attached on the outer side to the radius, and on the inner side to the , n iT' • U"! JJiraaiidal and pisiform bones. Processes from it are fixed to the ^<^ "^y^^^^^ ^ bones bene<ith, and confine the extensor tendons. The ligament '-^ '^'^ will subsequently be examined more in detiiil. SuPERFiCLVL Layer of Muscles (fig. 35). The muscles of the Superficial back of the forearm are arranged in a superficial and a deep layer, sc-veu'"'*' The superficial layer contains seven muscles, which arise, in part by muscles, a common tendon, from the outer side of the humerus, and are placed in the following order from without inwards :—the long supinator (a), the long and short radial extensors of the wrist (b and 0), the common extensor of the fingers (d), the extensor of the little finger (e), and the ulnar extensor of the wrist (f). There is one other small muscle near the elbow—the anconeus (g). The SUPINATOR RADII LONGUS (a) reaches upwards into the arm, supinator and limits on the outer side the hollow in front of the elbow. It '""S"" = arises from the upper two^-thirds of the external supracondylar ridge ■ of the humerus, and from the front of the external intermuscular^ septum of the arm. The fleshy fibres end about the middle of the forearm in a tendon, which is inserted, into the lower end of the insertion; radius, close above the styloid process. In the arm the margins of the supinator are directed toward.s the relations; surface and the bone, but in the forearm the muscle is flattened over G2DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 84 and use, radius free and fixed. Extensor cirjii radialis longior: origin; the othei-s, with its edges fcjrwards and backwards. JLta anterior border "? touches the biceps and the pro- nator teres,; ^aiid'the posterior is in contact with both radial ex- tensors of the wrist. Near its insertion the supinator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Beneath the muscle are the bra- chialis anticus and the musculo-^ spiral nerve, the extensors of the ''"fy"^^' ■tt'rist, the radial vessels and nerve, and the radius. Action. The chief use of the supinator longus is to bend the elbow-joint; but if the radius is either forcibly pronated or supi- I nated, the muscle can put the hand into a state intermediate between pronation and supination. If the radius is fixed, as in climbing, the muscle will bring up the humerus, bending the elbow. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGiOR (b) arises from the lower third of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus, from the front of the external inter- muscular septum, and from the septum between it and the next muscle. It lies on the short radial extensor, being partly covered by the supinator longus ; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and the annular Fio. 35.—ScPERPioiAL Dissection of the Back of the FoKEAnM. (Illustrations op Dissections). A. B. C. D. E. P. 0. H. licis. I. J. E. Muscles: Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevier. Extensor communis digitoruni. Extensor minimi digiti. Extensor carpi uluaris. Anconeus. Extensor ossis metacarpi pol- Extensor brovis pollicis. Extensor longus pollicis. Posterior annular ligament. L. Bands uniting the tendons of the common extensor on the back of the hand. N. Insertion of the common extensor into the second and third phalanges. Arteries : a. Posterior interosseous. 1. Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arch. b. Dorsal interosseous branch. 4. Dorsal branches to thumb and forefinger.85 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES. ligament, to be inserted into tlie base of the metacarpal bone of insertion ; the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. Action. The long e.xtensor straightens the wrist and abducts the and usa. hand ; it can also bend the elbow-joint. If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the hnmerus like the long supinator. The EXTENSOR CARri RADIALIS BREVIOR (c) is attached to the Extensor outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the r^'if^ng three following muscles, viz., common extensor of the fingers, brovior: extensor of the little finger, and ulnar extensor of the wrist; it takes origin also deeply from the external lateral ligament of the origin; elbow-joint. The tendon of the muscle is closely applied to the preceding, and after passing with it througli the same compartment of the annular ligament, is i7iserted into the base of the metacarpal insertion; bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side by the two preceding muscles, th IS parUs extensor rests on the radius and two of the muscles attached to it, viz., supinator breviei^aud pronator teres. Along its inner side is the common extensor of the fingers ; and the extensors of the thumb issue between the two. Each radial extensor has usually a bursa beneath the tendon, close to its insertion. Action: This muscle acts in the same way as its fellow. and use. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM (d) is single at its origin, Common but is divided below into four tendons. It arises from the common o^''?"^'"' , 1 I. i_ n . T p iiiisers: tendon, Irom the rascia, and from aponeurotic septa between it and the adjacent muscles. At the lower part of the forearm the muscle origin; ends in four tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the extensor indicis, and are directed along division into the back of the hand to their insertion into the second and third [inlona ■ phalanges of the fingers. ' On the fingers the tendons have the following arrangement. On insertion the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an exi)ansion with the t'*" tendons of the luinbricalis and interosseous muscles (fig. 29, p. 75). • At the lower part of that phalanx the expansion divides into three parts (fig. .35, n) ;—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, while the lateral pier.es unite, niid are inserted into thp, ha.se of the last phalanx. Opposite the first two articulations of each finger the tendon sends down lateral bands to join the capsule of the joint. On the fore and little fingers the expansion is joined by the special extensor tendons of those digits. This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wrist and foiations of little finger, and conceals the deep layer. On the back of the hand the tendons are joined by cross bands (l), thinnest between the index finger tendon and its neighbour, and strongest between the'6 ^ . ring finger tendon and its collateral tendons, so that they prevent &^<^«< ? i5 " the ring finger being raised if the others are closed. ^"^^3^^ Action. The muscle .straightens the fingers and .separates them use, from each other. It acts especially on the first phalanges, the two ""r^''" interphalangeal joints being extended mainly by the interosseous and lumbricales muscles.DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 86 on elbow The digits being straightened, it will jtssist the other muscles in and wrist, extending the wrist and the elbow. Extensor of The EXTENSOR MINIMI DIGITI (e) is the niost slender muscle on little Hnger: ^hg back of the forearm, and ajDpears to be but a part of the common oriRin; extensor. Its origin is in common with that of the extensor com- munis, but it passes through a distinct sheath of the annular liga- tfii-raination; nient. Beyond the ligament the tendon splits into two, and the outer part is joined by the fourth tendon of the common extensor : Knally, both parts enter the common expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. Triceps. Fig. 36.—The RAnitJS and Ulka from behind. anrt u.se. Action. It extends the little finger and moves back the wrist I. and elbow. As the inner piece of the split tendon is not united 1 j with the common extensor, it can straighten the digit during flexion 1 \ of the other fingers. Extensor The EXTENSOR CARPi' ULNARIS MUSCLE (f) arises from the com- carpi ulna- ^^^^ tendon, the aponeurosis of the forearm, and an intermuscular septum on its outer side ; it is also fixed by fa.scia to the middle third of the posterior liorder of the ulna below the anconeus oriRin; muscle (fig. 36). Its tendon becomes free from Heshy filires near the annular ligament, and passes through a separate sheath in that insertion ; structure to be ivscried into the tuberosity at the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger.DEEP MUSCLES. 87 Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer, relations; with part of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little linger, with the posterior interpssp.nna vea.sels. Action. The ulnar extensor straightens the wrist, and inclines the nnd use. hand towards the ulnar side : it can then extend the elbow-joint. The ANCONEns (g) is a small triangular muscle near the elbow. Anconeus It arms from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct origin; from, and nri 'f1i?-rrtn7rr-HT7^Trnrthe common tendon of the foregoing muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into insertion ; the outer side of the olecranon, and into the impre.ssion on the upper third of the posterior surface of the ulna (fig. .36). The upper fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the touches the lowest of the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus lie the supinator '''"'''P^: brevis muscle, imd_ tlie-mterpasaous recurrent vessels. Action. It assists the triceps in extending the elbow. "se. Dissection, (fig. 37). For the display of the deep muscles of Dissection tlie back of the forearm, and of the posterior interosseous vessels and of mu'rciesr nerve, three of the superficial muscles, viz., extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris, are to be di\dded above and turned aside ; and tlie small branches of the nerve and artery entering these muscles may be cut. The loose tissue and fat are then to lie removed from the muscles, and from the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender and interos- part of the nerve, which sinks beneath the extensor of the second f^J'nprve^ phalanx of the thumb about the middle of the forearm, should be \ i traced beyond the wrist.^>V/^.'s Tlw^'V oJl aafT'^W <pniftc/\ f-^ The deep muscles sliould be carefully separated, since the outer two of the thumb are not always very distinct from each other. Deep Layer of Mu.scIjES (fig. 37). In this layer there are five J|^'™^j^^ muscles, viz., one supinator of the Ibrearm, and four special extensor the deep muscles of the thumb and index finger. The highest muscle, partly '"^y"''- surrounding the upper third of the radius, is the supinator brevis (d). Below this arc the three muscles of the thumb in the following order :—the extensor of the metacarpal bone (e), the extensor of the first (f), and that of the second phalanx (g). On the ulna the indicator muscle (h) is placed. The EXTENSOR OSSIS IIETACARPI POLLICIS (E, fig. 37, also Extensor fig. 3G) is the largest and highest of the extensor muscles of ni^t^carpi the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator brevis. It pollicis: arises from the posterior surface of the radius in its middle third, origin: below the supinator brevis, from a special narrow impression on the itlna, occupying the upper third of the outer division of the posterior surface, and from the intervening interosseous membrane. The tendon is directed outwards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and through the annular ligament, to be inserted into the insertion; base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and by a slip into the trapezium : another slip is frequently continued to the abductor poUicis. The muscle is concealed at first by the common extensor of the muscle the fingers ; but it becomes superficial in the lower third of the '^^^^^ "^^^^afterwards siiperllcial: Extensor of first phalanx: origin ; insertion and use. Extensor of second phalanx: Fig. 37. DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOKEARM. forearm between tlie last muscle and the radial extensors of the wrist (fig. 35). Opposite the carpus the radial arterj' winds backwards beneath its tendon. Between the contiguous borders of this miiscle and the supinator brevis the posterior intero.sseoiis artery (ft) appears. Action. By this muscle the thumb is carried outwards and backwards from the palm of the hand, and the hand is moved to the radial side. The EXTENSOR BREVIS POLLICIS (ext. primi internodii poll. ; f ; fig. 35,1.) is the smallest muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon ac- companies that of the preceding extensor. Its origin, about one inch in width, is from the radius and the interosseous membrane, close below ^Eeliftachment of "tlie last muscle (fig. 36). The tendon passes through the same space in the annular liga- ment as the extensor of the meta- carpal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thiunb. With re.S2)ect to sur- rounding parts, this muscle has similar relations to the preceding. Action. It extends first the proximal phalanx and then the metacarpal bone, like its com- panion. The EXTENSOR LONGUS POLLICIS (ext. secundi internodii poll. ; g) -Deep Dissection of the Back op the Foueakm (Illustrations OP DlSSBOTIONS). Muscles : A. Supinator iongxis. B. and c. Eadial extensors of tlie carpus, cut. D. Supinator brevis. K. Extensor ossis nictaoarpi pollicis. F. Extensor brevis pollicis. Extensor longii.s poIliei.s. Extensor indicis. Posterior annular ligament. Arteries: Posterior interosseous. Interosseous recurrent. 0. H. I. c. Ending of the anterior inter- osseous. d. Radial. c. Dorsal branches to the thumb and forefinger. /. Dorsal carpal arch. g. Two dorsal inleimseous of the hand. A m es : 2. Kadi.al. 3. Posterior interosseous at its origin, and 4. Near its ending on the back of the carpus.THE SUPINATOR BREVIS. 89 arises from the middle third or more of the ulna lielow the origin; anconeus, along the ulnar side of the extensor of the met;icai-]3al hone (fig. 36) ; and from the_jiiterosseou8 membrane below, for about an inch. Its tendon, passing through a distinct sheath in the ■ annular ligament, deeply grooving the radius, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be inserted into the base of the last insertion; phalanx. The belly of the muscle is covered by the extensor carpi iilnaris relations; and the extensors of the fingers, but the tendon becomes .superficia. close to the wrist. Below the annular ligament its tendon cro.sses the extensors of the wrist and the radial artery. Action. It first extends both phalanges of the thuml), and »n'l "sc. then helps in mo\ing backwards the metacarpal bone and the hand. The EXTENSOR INDICIS (indicator ; h) arises on the inner .side of iiuiicator the lastmuscle from the ulna for two or three inches (fig. 36), usually below the middle and from the ln:ma:—part of the internsseons jneijikraiie. Near the wrist the tendon becomes free from muscular origin; fibres, and passing beneath the annular ligament with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied to, and blends with the external insertion; tendon of that muscle in the expansion on the first phalanx of the forefinger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the superficial layer, but it is afterwards subajjoneurotic. Action. The muscle can point the forefinger, even when the three and use, inner fingers are bent; and it will help the common extensor of the digits in drawing back the hand. Dissection. To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary Dissection to detach the anconeus from the external condyle of the humerus, brovis!"'''"'^ and to cut through the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, the tte.shy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. The SUPINATOR BREVIS (d) surrounds the upper part of the Origin of radius, except at the tuljerosity and the front of the bone Ijelow it. ^.'Sr-"'"' It arises from the external margin of the ulna for a distance of two inches, as well as from a depre.ssion below the small sigmoid cavity ; also from the, orbic.nlar ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow-ioint. The fibres pass outwards and forwards, and are inserted into the upper third or more of the radius, outi inscr-V \ cxce])t at the fore and inner parts, reaching downwards to the ■^'^ insertion of the jn-onator teres, and forwards to the oblique line of the bone (fig. 25, p. 61 ; and fig. 36). The supinator brevis is concealed altogether at the posterior and external aspects of the limb 1)y the muscles of the superficial layer ; and anteriorly the radial vessels and nerve lie over it. The lower overlying border is contiguous to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only and con- the posterior interosseous vessels {a) intervening. Through the "fX'''90 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OK THE FOREARM. Posterior interosseous artery between tlic layers of muscles, and super- ficial : its recur- rent brancli. Posterior interosseous nerve: position to muscles ; "7 I teiTnination ' ' on back of the carpus ; its muscular ofifsets. Rarlial artery at flTist: relations to parts around and nerves. Branches are .small: to back of carpus; .sulLstnuce of the mu.scle the posterior interosseous nerve (") winds to the back of the limb. Action. When the radivi.s lias been moved over the ulna in pronation, the .short supinator comes into play to bring that bone again to the outer side of the ulna. The POSTERIOR INTEROS.SEOUS ARTERY (fig. 37, a) is an offset from the common interosseous trunk {-p. 66), and reaches the back of the forearm above the membrane between the bones. Appearing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, the artery descends at first between the superficial and deep layers of muscles; and afterwards with a superficial position in the lower third of the forearm, along the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris as far as the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing with the carpal and anterior intero.sseous arteries. It furnishes muscular offsets to the surrounding muscles, and the following recurrent branch :— The recurrent branch (b) springs from the artery near the beginning, and ascends on or through the fibres of the supinator, but beneath the anconeus, to supply both those muscles and the elbow-joint; it anastomoses with the superior profunda artery and the recurrent radial (fig. 19, p. 46). The POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE (^) is derived from the musculo-spiral trunk (p. 53), and winds backwards through the fibres of the supinator brevis. Issuing from the supinator, the nerve is placed between the superficial and deep layers of muscles as far as the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous membrane to the back of the carpus. Finally, the nerve enlaxges beneath the tendons of the extensor commimis digitorum, and terminates in filaments to the articulations of the carpus. Branches. It furnishes offsets to all the muscles of the deep layer, and to those of the superficial layer with the exception of the three following, viz., anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. Kadial ARTERY AT THE WRIST (fig. 37). The radial artery (rf), with its ven£E comites, winds below the radius to the back of the carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint, and beneath the tendons of the extensore of the meta- carpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb ;' but afterwards it is more superficial, iind is cro.ssed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb. OflFsets of the musculo-cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery (p. 56), and branches of the radial nerve are superficial to it. Its branches arc numerous but inconsiderable in size :— 1. The dorsal carpal ^irfMir/i. (/) passes transversely lieneath the extensor tendons, and forms an arch {the dorsal, or posttrior, carpal arch), with a corresponding offset of the ulnar arteiy ; this arch isBBANCHp;S OF THE RADIAL AKTEHY. 91 joined by the interosseous arteries, especially Ijy the i)osteri()r teniiiual Ijranch of the anterior interosseous. From the dorsal carpal arch branches (g) descend to the third dorsal inter- and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three osseous; dorsal interosseous arteries: at the cleft of the fingers each divides into two, which are continued along the dorsum of the digits. Below, ihey communicate with the digital arteries; and above, they are joined hy the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch. 2. The metacarpal or fird dorsal intei-osseous branch of the radial mntacarpal; (fig. 35, h) gains the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and receives, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it joins the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and gives small dorsal brandies to the index and middle fingers. 3. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb arise opposite the dorsal metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be distributed on its posterior aspect. 4. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the radial and fore- edge of that digit. The difierent di\isions of the annular ligament may now be seen Sheatlis of more completely by cutting the sheaths of the ligament over the "Jig^JJlent several tendons passing beneath.' There are six separate compart- ^ ^.^^ nients, and each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most out inwards, external one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollow for the two radial extensors of the wrist; and a small space for the long extensor of the thumb follows on the idnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the forefinger ; and then comes a .slender compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal Bones to all is the space for the extensor carpi nlnaris. The last muscle thB°tendons. grooves the ulna ; but the others lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the exception of the extensor minimi digiti which is situate between the bones. Dissection. If the supinator brevis be divided by a vertical To sec incision, and reflected from the radius, its attachment to that bone s",pTnato'r°'^ will be better understood. ' , The nosterinv intprnsspnns norve^ niul tlii» offsofs frnm its g.i-nfrlj- interosseous<^C/5. form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicjitor mnscle have been cut '^vrtK. J at the wrist. The posterior surface of the dorsal interosseous muscles of the and intcr- hand may next be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their mn^\L insertion into the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be fully observed. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the posterior perforating arteries appear. Lastly, the outer head of the first dorsal interosseous nmscle is to Passage be divided, and carefully separated from the first metacarpal bone, .?Hery"nto so as to display the passage of the radial artery into the palm. paim.DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. 92 Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER, ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions!. Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb, which are still moist, may be examined at once ; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, while the student learns the others, of 'exteruai Dissectioil. For the preparation of the external ligaments of ligaments of the shoulder-joiiit the tendons of the surrounding nuLscles, viz., shoulder. subscapularis, sujiraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the capsule ; and as these are closely united with the cajjsu^le some care will be needed not to injure it. The Shoulder-Joint. This ball and socket joint (fig. 38) is formed between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the scapula. Enclosing tlie articular ends of the bones is a fibrous capsule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. The bones are but slightly bound together by ligaments, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may be drawn from the scapula for the distance of an inch. The capsular ligament (fig. 14, p. 36) encloses the articular portions of the bones. It is much thickened above, and is thin below. The surrounding tendons are closely adherent to it above, in front and behind. By the one end it is fixed around the articular surface of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. "By the other the ligament is fixed (fig. 38) to the neck of the humerus close to the articular surface above, but at a little dis- tance down the bone below ; and its attachment is interrupted between the tuberosities (6) by the tendon of the biceps muscle, across which fibres are continued, covering in the groove (fig. 14). On the inner side there is an aperture in the capsule, below the coracoid process, through which the synovial membrane of the joint is continuous with tlie bursa beneath the tendon of the suliscapularis. The following muscles surround the articulation ;—above and behind are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; below are the long head of the triceps and the lower part of the subscapu- laris ; and in front it is covered by the last-named muscle. On the upper part of the capsule is a tliick band of fibres—the coraco-humeral or ffc-^fffl/ fif(fig. 14, % which siirings from the outer side of the coracoid process of the scapula, and widening over the top of the joint, is attached to the great tuberosity and margins of th° bir'Y'^"^ irrniu^g Dissection DlSSectlOIlT To see the interior of the articulation cut away the Btn^cV^rw. posterior part of the capsule, leaving its attachments to the liunierus Shoulder- joint, outline of. Looseness. Capsular ligament: attach' ments aperture; nuiscle.s around acce.ssory band.93 LIGAMENTS Ol'' THE SITOULDER-JOrNT. luul scapula, clislocati; the liead of the humerus through the hole thus iiiiule and saw it oH' close to the capsular attachment. When this has been done, the ijlcnuid ligament, the tendon of the biceps and the glenu-himcral bands on the articular aspect of the front part of the capsule will be manifest. Jihe tendon of the y'l'-'i'-Jj'- arches over the head of the humerus, J™'^?^'^JJ^ and serves the purpose of a ligament in supporting the bone. It is attached to the upper part of the head of the scapula (fig. 38, d), \and is united on eacl^ fjib' with tin- frliMiiiifl li^rjiuMH^ At first flat, it afterwards becomes round, and enters the groo\'e Ijetween the tuberosities of the hmnerus, where it is surrounded by the syno\-ial membrane. The transverse fibres bridging across the Trannverse bicipital groove are spoken of as the transverse humeral ligament. ligam'ent. Fig. 38.—View of the Interiou op the Shoulder-Joint. a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus. h. Interval of the bicipital groove. c. Glenoid ligament around the glenoid fossa. d. Tendon of the long head ot the biceps fixed at the top of the fossa. The glenoid liijavient (fig. 38, c) is a narrow filiroiLS band, which Gionoid surrounds the fossa of the same name, increasing it for the recep- " tioii of the head of the humerus. It is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps ; but most of its fibres are fixed separately to the margin of the glenoid fossa. i3(e.*.o- /uly^■'^-<Jrttfi. The nknn-hfi.mr.ral li/jn.mimf.s -nrp three bands, or folds, seen on the ~ articular aspect of the^fore nart ui-the-cappuje. The superior is exposed by cutting away the liiceps tendon in the joint, and appears as a small fold along the inner l.iorder of the tendon. The middle one springs from the margin of the glenoid cavity below the fore- going and passes obliquely downwards below the tendon of the subscapularis to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and the inferim- is a strong band parallel with and below the middle, passing to the humerus between the attachments of the subscapularis and teres minor mu.scles. m]^ fo- il or9i Synovial metnVirauu. Surface of humerus; of scajjula. Q W 0€ i I^'nds of ^ ( movement. Flexion and extension are accom- ])anied by rotation of scapula. Checks to movements, Abduction. Adduction. Circum- duction. DISSECTION OF THE UPPEll LIMP.. The synovial mmihmne Hues tlie articular surface of the capsule aud IS coiitiuued tlirougli tlie aperture on the inner side to join the bursa beneath the subscapular muscle. The membrane is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the upper part of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Articular surface, {{^g. 38). The convex articular head'of the humerus is about three times as large as the hollow of the scapula, and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone IS supported on a short neck, which is joined to the shaft at an obtuse angle. The glenoid fossa of the scapiUa is oval in form with the larger end down, and is very shallow. Its margin is slightly more prominent below than above. Movements. The looseness of the capsule, the shaUowness of the glenoid cavity and its smalluess as compared with the extent of the articulating head of the humerus aUow of the nioveinents. of this joint being both free and extensive. There is the common angular motion in four directions, with the circular or circmnductory ; and in addition a movement of rotation. • In the swinging to aud fro uiovenient, the carrying forwards and inwards of the humerus constitutes flexion; and the uio\iiig it backwards and outwards, extension. Flexion is freer than extension, as the scapula follows the humerus, undergoing a rotation upwards, so that the whole range of movement of the arm in this direction is much greater than that taking place in the reverse articulation. In extension the scapula is similarly rotated downwards, the lower angle approaching the vertebral column. Flexion of the humerus upon the scapida is checked by the twisting of the capsule, and by the meeting of the small tuberosity of the former bone with the coraco-acromial arch. FytPTigj^j^^ ig limited mainly by the coraco-liumeral ligat^tppt^ JAiduction "and adduction. In abduction, the arm is moved outwards away from the body ; and in adduction, it is brought downwards to the side. These movements, Like the foregoing, are accompanied, aud their range is increased by rotation of the scapula. When the limb is abducted, the head of the humerus glides downwards in the glenoid ca\dty, and projects beyond it against the lower part of the capsule, which is stretched ; while the great tuberosity sinks beneath the acromial arch, which sets a limit to the movement. In this condition a little more movement down of the head, either by muscles depressing it or by force elevating the farther end of the lione, will throw it out of place, giving rise to dislocation. In adduction, tlie head of the humerus rises in the socket, and the coraco-huineral ligament being lightened checks the movement. In circumduction, the humerus passes in succession through the four different stiites aljove mentioned, and the limb describes a cone, the apex of which is at the shoulder and the base at the digits.95 LIGAMENTS OK THK ELBOW-JOINT. Rotation. There are two kinds of rotatory inoveineut, viz., in and out ; and in each the humerus revolves around an axis pa.ssing from the centre of tlie head tlirou-h the shaft to the lower end of the hone. In rotation in, tlie great tuberosity moves forwards and inwards, the head of the bone glides backwards in the glenoid cavity, and the hinder xm-t of the capsule is rendered tense. In rotation out, the movements of the parta of the humerus are reversed, and the front of the cap- sule is stretched. The movements are stopped by the tightening of the cap- sule, assisted by the muscles on the back and front of the joint respectively. Kutation; ok ir Dissection of the elbow- joint. THE ELBOW-JOINT. Dissection. To make the necessary dissection of the ligaments of the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint. The muscles connected with the outer and inner condyles of the hmnerus, as well as the supinator brevis and the fiexor profundus digitorum, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments — anterior, posterioi', and two lateral—will come into view. The interosseous membrane between the bones of the forearm will also be prepared hy the remo\'al of the muscles on both surfaces. The Elbow-Joint (fig. 39). In this articulation the lower end of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as to produce a hinge- like arrangement; and the upper end of the radius assists to form the outer part of the joint. Where the bones touch, the surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and they are imited by the following ligaments :— The external lateral ligament is a roimdish fasciculus, which is External attached by one end to a depression below the outer condyle of J^'^^g^j. the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament roimd the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backwards to the external margin of the olecranon. The intei-nal lateral liijaineiit is triangular in .shajie. It is pointed Internal at its upper extremity, and is coimected to the inner condyle of ugul^int Fig. 39.—The Ligaments op Bones THE Elbow-Joint, and of fonning the THE Radius and Ulna elbow-joint. (Bourgeky). 1. Capsule of the elbow-joint. 2. Oblique ligament. 3. Interosseous membrane. 4. Aperture for blood-vessels. 5. Tendon of the biceps.96 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligament. the humenus. The fibres diverge, and are in.serted in this waj' :— O.^vK^io^^'Tlieimteiifir, wliich are the strongest, are fixed to the edge of the ,»:iJv|^process: the ijosterior are attached to the side of the iosl&nJTt- olecranon ; and a few middle fibres join ajjand passing tran.sversely ' ' over the notch between the olecranon and thej;oronoid process. The ulnar nei've i.s in contiict with the ligament; and vessels enter the joint by the aperture beneath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thiii, and its fibres are separated by intervals in which masses of fat are lodged. By its upper edge the ligament is attached to the front of the himierus, and by its lower to the front of the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament of the radius. The brachialis anticus muscle covers it. The x>osterior ligament is mucli thinner and looser than the anterior, and is covered completely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissection. Open the joint by an incision across the front near the hiunerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the articular surfaces inay be seen. The synovial membrane of the joint passes from one bone to another along the deep surface of the connecting ligaments. It is Icontinued downwards on the inner surface of the orbicular ligament, and serves for the joint of the head of the radius with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces. The articular surface of the lower end of the humerus is divided into two parts for the bones of the forearm. That for the radius, on the outer side, forms a rounded eminence (capitellum) which is confined to the front of the bone. The surface in contact with the ulna (trochlea) is limited internally and externally by a prominence, and hollowed out in the centre. On the front of the humerus above the articidar surface are two depressions which receive the coronoid process of the uhia and the head of the radius during flexion of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the joint. On the end of the ulna the articular surface of the great sigmoid cavity is narrowed in the centre, but expanded above and below (fig. 40). A median ridge, which is received into the hollow of tlie trochlea, extends from the upper to the lower end of the fossa ; and across the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting over a small space between the coronoid and olecranon processes. The head of the radius presents a circular depression with a raised margin, which plays over the caj)itelluin of the humerus. Movement. This joint is like a hinge in its movements, per- mitting only flexion and extension. lai flexion, the bones of the forearm move forwards, each on its own articular surface, so as to leave the back of the humerus uncovered. Tlie movement is checked hy the meeting of the arm Dissection. Synovial membrane. Lower end of the humerus: two articu- lar surfaces, and three fossse. Upper end of the ulna. Head of the radius. Kinds of motion : bending;07 UNION OF RADIUS AND ULNA. find foreai'iu ; and the posterior and internal lateral ligaments are stretched. In extension, the nlna and radius move on tlie articixlar surface exteiuiing. of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm-bone. This movement is checked by the anterior ligament, and the muscles on the front o£ the joiiit. Unio2s- of the Radius and Ulna. The radius is connected Radius is with the ulna at both ends by means of synovial joints and sur-■i™';"'"''' rounding ligaments; and the shafts of the bones are united l)y interosseous ligaments. Upper radio-ulnak articulation. In this joint the head of at tiie ii])i)cr the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is kept in place l)y the following ligamentous band :— The annular or orbicular liga- ment (fig. 40, a) is al)out one- third of an inch wide, and is .stronger l)ehind than l)efore ; it is ]ilaced aroimd the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and pos- terior edges of tlie small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border, the thicker, is connected with tlie ligaments of the elbow- joint; but the lower is free, and is ap])lied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the cavity of tlie ulna the radius moves freely. The synovial viembrane is a prolongation of that lining the elbow-joint; it projects inferiorly between the iieck of the radius and tlie lower margin of the annular ligament. LiGAJIENTS OF THE SHAFTS OF THE BONES. The aponeurotic Union of tlie Stratum connecting together the bones nearly their whole length' consists of the two following parts :— The interosseous membrane (fig. 39, 3) is a thin filu'ou.s layer, which interosHoous is att^ichcd to the contiguous margins of the radius and " ulna, and forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the front and back of the forearm. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely f. . do}vnwards and ijimiitls. though a few on the posterior surface have <*• '(o^o^""'] Ic^ an opposite direction. Sujieriorly, the memlirane is wanting for a is deiicient^- OV^'i coiLsiderable .space, and through the interval the po.sterior inter-'/.^^ T^; osseous vessels pass Imckwards. Some small apertures exist in it , / " " for the p,as.sage of vessels ; and the largest of these (<) is about two Jo-tr^^ K inches from the lower end, through which the anterior intero.sseous artery turns to the back of the wrist. The memliraue gives attachment to the deep muscles. D.A. Fio. 40.—View of the Orbicdlab Ligament {a), which retains THE Upper End of the Radius synovial AGAINST THE Ulna. membraiiu.98 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. ublique ligament. Tile oblique ligament (fig. 39, 3) is a slender baud above the interosseous memljraue, the fibres of which have a direction opposite to those of the nienibi-ane. By one end it is fi.xed to the lower end o|__the__coronaid_ptacyss, and by the other to the "radius below The lower end after. Kind of motion of radius: pronation, .supi nation ; axis Of motion; use of ligaments; in fracture motion teaUe the tuberosity. The ligament divides into two tlie'space ai>6ve the interosseous membrane. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-uluar articulation cannot be well .seen till after the examination of the wrist-joint. Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and backwards upon the ulna. The forward motion, directing the palm of the baud backwards, is called pronation ; and the back- ward movement, by which the palm of the hand is turned to the front, is named supination. In pronation, the upper end of the bone rotates within the band of the orbicular ligament -without shifting its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing nearly half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the iilna. In supination, the lower end of the radius turns Ijackwards over the ulna; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius being external; and the upper end rotates from within out in its circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round an axis, internal to the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head of the bone, and downwards through the styloid process of the idna. The upper end of the lione is kept in place by the orbicular ligament; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage ; and the shafts are united by the interosseous litrament, which is tightened in supination, and relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease; in the one case l iecanse the radius cannot be moved unless it is entire ; and in the other because the broken ulna cannot support the re\'ohing radius. THE WRIST-JOINT. Dissection. Dissection. To see the ligaments of the wri.st-joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be remo\'ed from l>oth the front and back ; and the fibrous structures and the small ves.sels should be taken from the surface of the ligaments. Bonnsform- The AVrist-Joint (radio-carpal articulation; fig. 41). The .johit""' lower end of the radius, and the first row of the carpal bone.s, united by except the pisiform, enter into this joint. Four ligaments connect the bones, viz., anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out from the articulation by a piece of fibro-cai'tilage. external The e.dernal lateral ligament is a short band, which passes lateral, fi^om the styloid proce.ss of the radius to the outer part of the scaphoid l)one.THE WEIST-JOINT. 99 Tlie internal Idterul ligament is longer and tliicker lliau the inicnml extei'nal. It is attached hv one end to tlie styloid ]iroeess of the . iibia, and hy the other to the rough iqiper part of tlie pyramidal — ^ (iTivjEA^rOv. lione. Some of the anterior Kl)res are continued to the pisiform i)one. The anterior ligament (tig. 41,') springs from the radius, and is aniuiior imd inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform jjn the anterior surface. The vonterior liaamenl (tig. 44, i). 103) is membranous, like the posterior . ■ ] V CI 1- *. } 1 1 1 ■ It ligaments, anterior, and its nljres are directed downwards and inwards irom the raditis to the .same three carpal l)one.s on the posterior a.sjiect. Dissection. To see tlie form of the articular sur- face.s, the joint may be opened Ijy a transverse in- cision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus. Artiadar surfaces. The end of the radius, and the fibro-cartilage (fig. 42, c) uniting it with the ulna form a sliallow socket for the reception of the carpal Ijones; and the surface of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an ex- ternal triangular, and an internal square impression. The three carpal bones of the first row constittite a convex euiineiice, which is received into the hollow before mentioned in this \\ ay : the scaphoid bone is opposite the external triangular mark of the radius ; the semilunar oi)|)o.seil bone touches the .scpiare impression and the greater part of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; while the small articular surface of the pyraniidal bone is in contact with the ftpe)r~7if-T>TTr lilirn-('^uiila^e' and the adjoining v&t\, nf the cap.sule.. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple .Synuvial joints. This joint communicates occa.sionally with the lower radio- ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage I between the two. ' \ Movements. The principal movements taking place in the radio- Kinds of carpal articulation are flexion and extension. Lateral motion occurs = only to a limited extent. Flexion and extension. In Hexiou the hand is moved forward.s, flexion; while the carpus glides on the riidius from before Ijackward.s, and H 2 I lisswlion. ynrlace ut radius; Fio. 41.—Fkunt View op the Akticu- LATIONS OF THE WkIST, AND CaKPAL AND Metacarpal Bonks (Bourgery). 1. Anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. 2. Capsule of the joint of tlio metacarpal of llist row bone of the tliumb witli the trapezium. of eiirpal 3. Pisiform bone, with its ligamentous 'j""""* • bands. 4. Transverse bands uniting tlie bases of the metacarpal bones.diss'ection of the upper limb. 100 extension. Lower imils of mdiii.s .mil ulna joined by capsule, tiianglilar tibro-carti- lage: attach- ments, anil rela- tions. Synovial membrane. Bones are Joined into two rows. Dissection of cju pal and meta- can)al joints. How llrst row is united projects behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In extension the hand is carried backwards, and the row of carpal bones inove.s in the op]iosite direction, viz., from behind forwai'ds, .so as to cau,se the anterior ligament to be tightened. The backward movement is not so fi-ee as the forward. Lower radio-dlnae articulation. In this articulation the head of the ulna is received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius; —^an arrangement just the o]jpo,site to that between the upper ends of the l)ones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a .strong fibro- cartilage ; but a capsule, consisting of scattered fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage (fig. 42, c) is placed transversely below the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid process of the ulna, and the depression at the root of that projection. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist- joint ; and its surfaces enter into the radio-carpal and the lower radio-ulnar articulations. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. OccasionciIly_Jt^Js^ aperture. The synovial membrane is very loose, and ascends between the radius and the idna : it is separated from _that of the wrist - joint by__tlui triangidar fibro-cartilage. * The motion in this articidation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 98). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the carpus (except the pisiform) are united into two rows by small dorsal, palmar, and intercsseous bands ; and the two rows are connected together by ■wide separate ligaments. Dissection. The articulations of the carpal bones with each other will be prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and cleaning carefidly the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments from the pisiform bone to the unciform (pisi-nnciform) and to the fifth metacarpal {pisi-mHacarpal) are to be defined in the palm (p. 62). At the same time the ligamentous bands uniting the meta- carpal with the carpal bones, and with one another should be dissected. BoNEH OF THE FIRST ROW (fig. 43). The semilunar bone is united to the scaphoid and pyramidal by dorsal (d) and i^'n^r Fig, 42.—Lower Ends of ihe Forearm Bones with the Uniting Fibro-Cartilage. fi. Radius. h. Ulna. c. Triangular fibro-cartilage.ARTICULATIONS OP THR CARPUS. 101 inovcint'iit. traiisvei'se bands ; as well as by small interosseous ligaments at the upper part of the contiguous surfaces. JThejiisifann^qne is articulated to the front of the pyraniidfil by soparatu a distinct capsule and minovial sm: It has furtln-r two special liya- 'iff'."'""'-'* Tneiils ; one or these is attached to the process oi the unciform, and bom', the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal Ijone. The BONES OF THE SECOND ROW (fig. 43) are connected together sucoiui row- in the same way as those of the first, viz., by a dorsal (i) and a palmar liand of fibres from one bone to another. Bet ween the con- tiguous rough surfaces of the several bones are in- terosseous ligaments, one in each interval. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted between the different carpal bones of each row, in consequence of the flattened articular surfaces, and the short ligaments uniting one to another ; and this is less ill the .second than in the first row. One row with another (transverse carpal joint ; fig. 43). The two rows of carpal bones are con- nected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior lii/ament ( p) consists of strong fibres, which for the mo.st part con\-prgp frnpi t.liP tlir,.o bones of the first row to The TransvprsH 43.—Ahticulations op the Carpal *■'"'''"'■i°'"'' = Bones, the Joint between the Two Rows BEING Opened Behind. a. Scaphoid bone. b. Semilunar. c. Pyramidal. d. Dorsal trans- verse hands between those bones. e. Trapezium. f. Trapezoid. g. Os maynum. i. Dorsal trans- verse bands joining the bones. k. E.vternal lateral ligament of the inter- carpal joint. I. Internal lateral ligament. 2). Anterior liga- ment. anterior. _ h. Unciform. magiiuiu ~i>ostenm- ligcmienf is thinner and looser; and its .strongest fibres posterior, are transverse. Of the lateral ligaments the external (k) is the better marked, and and lateral extends between the trapezium and scaphoid bones ; the infernal (I) ''t!'""'""''- passes from the pyramidal to the unciform bone. Dissection. After the division of the lateral and posterior liga- Dissection. ment.s, the one row of bones may be separated far enough from the other to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. Articular surfaces. The three bones of the first row, viz., Form of scaphoid (a), semilunar (b), and pyramidal {c), together form an arch with its concavity turned downwards, while externally the scaphoid presents a convexity to the second row. The lower arti- cular surface has a corresponding form, the os magnum and unciformDISSECTION OF THK UPPER LIMB. 102 Out! synovliil ciivity for tlie carpal boiii's, and some meta- carpals. Kinds of motion: flexion ; extension. Combined movements of radio- carpal and transverse carpal joints ; flexion and extension : I j abduction; addnction; Metacarpal bones joined at bases, with synovial joints, and at heads. making up a coiidylokl projection wliicli is received into tlie arch of the first row, and the Ir.apezium and trapezoid forming a slight hollow for the convexity of the scaphoid bone. One aynovial sac serves fni' the avticiilation of all the carpal hones, except the pisiFoi iii wilb Ike pyiaiuidal. The cavity'extends tran.s- versely between the two rows of the carpus, and is continued upwards and downwards between the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes open into the cavity of the wrist-joint ; but the offsets in the opposite direction are three, and may be continued to all, or only to the two outer of the four inner carpo-metacarpal joints. Movements. O-w'mg to the irregular shape of the articular surfaces, only forward and backward movements are permitted in the transverse carpal joint. Flexion. As the hand is brought forwards, the os magnum and unciform move backwards in the socket formed by the first row, while the trapezium and trapezoid ad\-ance over the scaphoid, and the posterior ligament is tightened. Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. The trJlpeziiun and trapezoid glide liackwards over the scaphoid, and the OS magnum and unciform project on the palmar aspect, the move- nient being checked by the anterior ligament of the joint and the strong Hexor tendons. The axes upon which the movements of flexion and extension of the radio-carpal and trans\'erse carpal joints take place are not strictly transverse, but oblique in opposite directions, that of the proximal articulation ha\'ing its inner end directed forwards, while that of the distal articulation is inclined from without inwards and backwards. In order therefore to move the hand directly forwards or backwards, both joints are called into play simultaneously. By a combination of flexion in the one joint with extension in the other, lateral movements {ahdudion and adduction^ of the hand are produced. Thus, abduction results from flexion of the radio-carpal and extension of the transverse carpal articulation, and adduction, which is the freer movement, from extension of the radio-carpal and flexion of the transverse caqjal joint. In circumduction the hand passes successivelj' through the several states of angular move- ment, describing a cone with the apex at the wrist, and the excursion is greater in the direction of Hexion and adduction than in the opposite directions. Union of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bone-s of the four fingers are connected at their bases by the following liga- ments :—A dorsal (fig. 44) and jtalmar (fig. 41) fji-sciculus of fibres pa.sses transversely from each l)one to the next ; and the bands in the palm are the sti'ongest. Besides these, there is a short hittrosscous ligament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bonas. Where the metaairpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage ; and between the articular surfaces there are prolongations of the synovial cavity .serving for their arliculation with the carpus. At their distal ends the same four metacjirpal bone.s are connectedCARPO-METACARPAL ARTICQLATIOISTS. 103 Carpal and metacarpal joints. motion : bending liy the transverse ligament, wliich was seen in the dissection of the liand (p. 81). Union op the Metacarpal and Carpal Bones. The meta- cjxrpal hones of tlie fingers are articuhited witli tlic carpal hones after one plan ; hut the lione of the tliumh has a se])arate joint. The metacarpal bone of the thumb articuhites witli tlie trapezium ; t],^^ tjjg and the ends of the hones are encased in a capsular ligament tli'imb. (fig. 41, which is lined by a simple synovial mem- brane. The thumh - joint pos- sesses angular movement in opposite directions, with opposition and circumduc- tion, thus :— Flexion and extension. When the joint is flexed, the metacarpal hone is brought in front of the palm ; and as tlie move- ment proceeds, the tliunih is gi-aduaUy turned towards the fingers, passing into the state of oppositimi. In this " ' nnd opposi- way the thumb may be " ■ • - - • made to touch the palmar surface of any or all of the fingers, the phalanges of the latter being somewhat bent at the .siime time. Exten- sion of the joint is very free, and liy it the meta- carpal bone is removed from the palm towards the outer border of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the thumh is and lateral Fio. 44.—Posterior Lmambnts op the Wrist, and Carpal and Metacarpal Bones (Bourqery). 1. Posterior radio-carpal. 2. Carpo - metacarpal capsule of the thiinib. 3. 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones. extending; placed in contact with, or removed from the forefinger. motion. i'ue metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands Joints of from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus :— fingers The dorsal ligaments (fig. 44) are two to each, except to the bone imve dorsal of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal bone of the fore- finger come from tlie trapezium and trapezoid : those of the third metacarpal are attached to the trapezoid and os magnum ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bands from the os magnum and unciform ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone tliere is but one ligament from the unciform. The palmar ligaments (fig. 41), usually one to each metacari)al and palmar bone, are weaker and le.ss constant than the dorsal. These liga-= ments may be oblique in direction ; and sometimes a band is diAaded between two, as in the case of a ligament passing from the trapezium to the .second and third metacarpals. One or more maybe wantingDISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 104 lateial band Very little inotiou. Dissection. Articular siufaces. and contact, Synovial sacs, two or three. Interosseous ligaments, metacarpal, and carpal. Metacarpo- phalangeal articula- tions ; Dissection of linger- joints. of the ring finger touches And the little finger lioue lateral ligaments; On tlie ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is a longitudinal lateral band, Avhich is attached above to the os niag- mun and unciform, and below to a rough part on the inner side of the base of the above mentioned bone. Sonietime.s thi.s Ijand isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-nietacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This band may be seen by opening from behind the articulation between the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by cutting through the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. Movement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement exists in the articulations of the bases of tlie metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers ; l:>ut in the I'ing and little fingers the motion is greater, with a slight degree of opposition. Dissection. The articular surfaces of the bones in the carpo- metacarpal articulation may be seen liy cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the forefinger ha-s a broad, notched articular surface, which receives the prominence of the trapezoid bone, and articulates laterally with the trapezium and OS magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the OS magnum. The metacarpal bone the unciform Ijoue and the os magnum, is opposed to the unciform. Synovial sacs. Usually two synovial sacs are interposed between the carjjal and metacai'pal bones, viz., a se]iarat';' 0"^ f"'' ^^^'^ how of the thumbj_ and offsets of the common carpal synovial sac (p. 102) "TofTEe otheTs. Sometimes there is a distinct .synovial sac for the articulation of the two inner metacarpals with the unciform bone. Interosseous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from another ; and those uniting the adjacent carpal bones may be shown in the same way. Union of Metacarpal Bone and Fikst Phalanx (fig. 45). In this joint the convex head of the metacarpal bone is received into the glenoid fos.sa of the phalanx, and the two are united by the lateral, anterior and posterior ligaments. Dissection. For the examination of this joint it will lie requisite to clear away the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. One of the joints may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The .same di.s.section may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the fingers. The latei-al ligaments (a) are triangular in form ; atUiched above to the lower part of the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarjjal bone, and below the phahmx and to the anterior ligament.JOINTS OF PHALANGES. 105 The anterior liqameiiUb) is ;i strong and dense hand, which is (interior Hxed tirmly to tlie i)halanx, but loosely to tlie metacarpal bone. It grooved for the flexor tendon ; and to its .sides the lateral 1 iganients are nnited. On the dorsal a.spect of the joint, the capsule is completed by postHrior. a thin layer of connective tissue which suppoi'ts the synovial membrane, and is closely covered by the extensor tendon. Tlie sijnovial membrane of the joint is a simple .sac. Synovial In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid Ijones are con-' ', , . , , ■ 1 • • .Joint of nected with the anterior ligament, and receive most ot the fibres of timnib. the lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in four opijaosite directions, circumduction, take place in these condyloid joints. Fleximi and eoienxion. In flexion, the phalanx glides forwards ln'ndin over the head of the metacarpal bone, and Iea\-es this exposed to form the knuckle when the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the exten.sor tendon are put on the stretch as the joint is bent. In exteii.sion the anterior ligament and together with Kinds of motion: pxtfndin" lator-al motion; the Hexor tendons are stretched, and limit the movement. Abdttction and adduction are the lateral movements of the finger from or towards the middle line of the hand. The lateral ligament of the .side of the joint which is rendered convex is tightened, and the other is relaxed. The circmnduciorij motion is less Fia. 45. impeded in the fore and little fingers than in the others. In the joint of the thumb the movements, espec;ially to the side, are much le.ss extensive than in the fingers. Union of the Phalange.s. The ligaments of these joints are .joints of the similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, viz., two j,'!,"'^''"^'''' lateral, an anterior and a membranous posterior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form. Each is connected 'iitoral and by its ajiex to the proximal phalanx at the side of the head ; and by its base to the di.stal phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterim- ligament has the same mode of attachment between anterior the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, but it is not so strong. There is a simple synovial membrane present in the joint. The joint of the .second witli the la.st phalanx is like the pre- ceding in the numlier and dispo.sition of its ligaments ; Imt all the articular bands are much less strongly marked. Articular surfaces. The head of each i>halanx is marked by a Snrfaces of inilley-like surface. The base presents a hollow on each side of a median ridge, which fits into the central depre.ssion of the opposed articular surface. c'ircunulnc- tory. Synovial sac. Last joint.106 DISSECTION OF THK UPPER LIMB. Kinds of Movements. Tlie two interphalaiigeal joint s can be bent and motion: .straightened like a hinge. iieniling, Flexion and extension. In flexion, the distal phalanx moves round the proximal in each joint, and the motion is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon : in the joint between the middle and the metacarpal phalanx this movement is most fixlending. extensive. In extension the ierthEr ijhalanx comes into a line'L^^ with the nearer one, and the motion is stopped by tlie anterior ligament and the Hexor tendon.s.107 CHIEF ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE CHIEF AliTF?RIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. I Acromial The siibflnvinn is contiiiiii'rl in tlip arm hy . .; 1. Axilliirj" artery . 3. radial arterv . \ 4. ulnar artery Tlioracic axis long thoracic alar thoracic subscapulai' . anterior circumflex ^ J thoracic (superior) j clavicular \ humeral. ( Dorsal scapular i muscular. (lufrasca- ( pular. posterior circumflex external mammary (occasional). 2. hrachial artery . /Superior profunda. meilullarv inferior jirofunila . anastomotic mnsculai". I Mu.scular to triceps ' and anconeus nutrient and ana.stomotie. I lluscular to triceps 1 anastomotic. Recun'ent muscular snpertlcial volar anterior carpal posterior cariml ( dorsal interosseous dorsal of thumb dor.sal of index finger palmar of thumb (princeps pollicis) radial of index linger Vdee]) arch /Anterior recuiTent posterior recurrent interosseous muscular anterior carpal posterior cari)al communicating to deep ard sujierllcial arch .1 RecuiTent perforating palmar inter, osseous. Anterior \ posterior I Medullary ■ - median i muscular. j Recurrent I muscular. j Four digital branches - cutaneous (muscular.108 SPINAL NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. TABLE OF THE SPINAL NEllVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. / AntRi-ior thoracic . -| ?>fternal Brachial Plexi's gives oH' below tlie clavicle . siibscainilar circumflex nerve of Wrisberg internal cutaneous musculo-cutaneous median ulnar (Snjierior , J middle or long [ inferior. / Articular J cutaneous ' 1 to teres minor Uo deltoid. I cutaneous in arm • j anterior of forearm (posterior of forearm. (To coraco-bracliialis, biceps and brachialis anticns external cutaneous of forearm articular to carinis. /To pronator teres, flexor carpi^ I radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor I snblimis digitorum 4 anterior interosseous . ■. cutaneous palmar £^r\oil' s , to muscles of thumb in part Vlive digital branches. I To flexor Ion I pollicis ^ to flexor profundui 0 flexor profundus/ > digitorum in yarfawCo^' o pronator (to pronator quadratus. Articular to elbow to flexor caqii ulnaris /' to flexor profundus in part vk»vGw cutaneous branch of forearm and palm dorsal cutaneous of the hand .superficial palmar division . deep palmar nerve. / Communicating ^ J two digital j branches (topalniaris brevis. musculo-spiral. /Internal cutaneous y f I {■^ to triceps Gi'>^SA (fi^Ji^Xz^vA to and anconeus external cutaneous, upper and lower to supinator longus and extensor '•{ carpi radialis longior posterior interosseous \ radial I Muscular ' I articular. (Cutaneous of back of hand, of )thumb, of index and middle Angers and half the ring.CHAPTER IIT. DISSECTION OF THE LOAVER LIMK. Section I. THE BUTTOCK, Oil THE GLUTEAL REGION. Dirt'dions. Both this Section and tlie fctllowing one are to Le Uiiuctions. completed hy the student in tlie four days appointed for the hody to lie in the prone position, and the student who is com- mencing his work in practical anatomy by the dissection of the lower limli should read the general directions for the beginner on p. 1 before proceeding with this section. Podtion. During the dissection of the 1 jack of the thigh the Position of body is placed \vith the face down and the pelvis is to be well raised by blocks. Surface inarkimj. At the upper part of the buttock, by ^Jj^j.'iJP';;, exercising deep pressure, the stxident will make out the crest of the iliac bone, and on tracing this inwards the ])osterior superior iliac spine will be felt opposite the second Scleral spine; and this part marks the middle of the sacro-iliac joint. Internally the lower part of the sivcrum and the coccyx will be found at the bottom of the natal furrow. Inferiorly, the thick fold of the nates is very e\'ident, and aljove this the mass of the gluteus niaximus muscle contriljutes largely to the prominence of the buttock. About three or four inches below the anterior part of the iliac crest on the outer side of the thigh is the great trochanter of the fenuu', and by pressing upwards beneath the inner part of the fold of the nates the tuberosity of the ischium am be felt. A line (Nelaton's) drawn from the anterior superior iliac sj)ine to the most ])rominent ])art of the ischial tuberosity pas.ses just over the highest part of the great trochanter and is used in surgery for ascertaining the degree of dis])lacement of that part of the lione in various conditions. Dissection. The integument is to be rai.sed from the buttock tlie by means of the following incisions (fig. 1, a, p. 3)—One is to be made along the whole length of the iliac crest, and continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx (g). Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to lie carried out- wards and downwards across the thigh, ending about six inchesDISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 110 ljulow the great troclmntev (h). Tlie flap of .skin thus marked out is to be thro^\'ll ForwarcLs. seek euUi- Many of the cuUineouH nerves of this region will he found in the on"the crest ^'^^ ''■^°^^S t'^^ line oi' the iliac crest (tig. 46). Thu.s, in front, Init rather below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous. Crossing the crest towards the fore i)art is a large oti'set of the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back, but close to the boue, a smaller Inauch from the ilio-hypogastric nerve. At the outer border of the erector spinas are two or three l)ranche.s of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccy.x two or three offsets of the sacral nerves are to Ije looked for beneath the fat. The remaining cutaneous ner\'es are derived from the .small sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower incision, where they come from underneath the gluteus maximus. Some turn upwards o\'er that muscle, and others are directed down the thigh. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the ner\'es, and ^vill serve as guides to their situation. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 46, also fig. 2, p. 4). The jierves distributed in the integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are deri\-ed from the last dorsal uerve, from branches of the liunbar and sacral plexuses, and from the posterior primary di^'isions of the lumbar and .sacral nerves. The LAST DORSAL NERVE (fig. 46) (*) supplies the buttock by means of its lateral cutaneous branch. This offset perforates the muscles of the abdomen, and crosses the front of the iliac ci-est to be distrilnited over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Nerves of the lumbar plexus. Parts of two nerves of tlie plexus of the lumbar nerves, viz., ilio-hypogastric from the fii'st, and the external cutaneous from the second and third, are spent in the integuments of this region, tlii-ougii The iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (') crosses the iliac crest in gastricfand fi'ont of the luiuljar uer\'es, lying in a groove in the bone, and e.xtends generally only a short distance below the crest. e.xternal Offsets of the posterior branch of the external cutaneous ticrvc of cutariBous, ^-^^ thigh bend backwards to the integuments above the greiit trochanter, ajid cross the ramiftcfitions of the last dorsal nerve (see fig. 2, p. 4). Posterior pri.marv branches. The offsets of the ^'osterior primary pieces of the lumbar nerves (") are two or three in number, and cross the cre.st of tiie ilium at the outer edge of tlie erector spin£B ; they ramify in the integuments of the middle of the buttock, and some branches may be traced nearly to the great trochanter. The Inanches of the sacral nerves (") perforate the gluUnis maxi- nui.s near the siicrum and coccy.x, and are then directed outwards for a short di.stance in the integuments over the muscle. These offsets are usually two in number : the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, and the other by the side of the cocc\ x. aud by side of saciiiiii: utlier nerves of sinaU sciatic below: cutaueoiis arteries. Sources of tlie cutaue- oiis nerves : from last dorsal; from lumbar plexus, from pos- terior branches of lumbar and sacral nerves;Ill CUTANEOUS NERVES. Small sciatic ('). This nei-ve of tlie sacial ijlexus sends super- i'i<'m .sacra ficial bmuches to the liuttock. Its cutaneous offsets appear along Ik Fig. 46.—Soi'ekfiuial View ov thk Buttock oi-' the Lkft Siuk (Illustrations of Dissections). A. Gluteus iiiaxiiuus muscle, with tliegluteus meilius piojecling above it. ci. Continuation of .sciatic artery along the back of the thigh. Nerves: 1. Small sciatic trunk. \l. Its cutaneous thigh branche.?. 3. Inferior pudendal. 4. Branches of perforating cuta- neous. 5. Cutaneous of the sacral. 6. Posterior branches of the lumbar nerves. 7. Ilio-hypogastric. 8. Last dorsal. the lower border of the gluteus iiia.xiiuus, accoiiipaiiied by .super- throuKii iicial branches of the .sciatic artery ; two or three a,scend roiiiid the edge of the muscle, and are lost in the integuments of the lower .sciatic.112 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. and perfo- rating cutaneous branch. Clean gluteu.s inaximus : nioclc of proceeding. Fascia of tli buttock. Gluteu.s niaximus: origin ; insertion ; leek ^o^f"e-l /r^'^f ha (f O^tt I'-^^X''*'^ relations of the surfaces, and borders; put of the Imttock ; the reniaiiiiiig bianche.s (2) descend to the thigh, and Avill be afterwards noticed on it {i>. 130). The PERFORATING CUTANEOUS NERVE of the sacral plexus (^) turns round the edge of the gluteus maximns near the coccyx, and supplies the skin of the adjacent part of the buttock: thi.s nerve has been exposed in the dissection of the perineum. Dissection. The thin and unimportant deep fascia of this region may be disregarded, in order that the great gluteal nuLscle, which IS one of the most difficult in the body to clean, may be well dis- played. To lay bare the muscle, let the student turn a.side the cutaneous nerves, and adduct and rotate inwards the limb to make tense the muscular fibres. Having cut through the fat and fa.scia from the origin to the insertion, let him carry the scalpel along one bundle of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, it will lie more convenient to begin the dissection at the upper Ijorder ; Init if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. '• The fascia of the huttock is a prolongation of that envelojjing the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the ilium, and to the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker in front of, than on the gluteus maximus, and gives attachment superiorly to the gluteus medius, which it covers ; in this place, indeed, the student often has some difficulty in defining the edge of the greater gluteus, since at the edge of the muscle the fascia splits to encase it. The GLUTEUS MAXIMUS (fig. 46, a) is the most superficial muscle of the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the ujjper part of the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is fleshy, and is connected with bone and with aponeurosis :—Thus, the muscle is attached, from aljove down, to the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and to a special impression on the hip-bone above the superior curved line (fig. 47) ; next, to the aponeurosis of the erector spinse muscle ; then to the back of the fourth and fifth pieces of the sacrum, and the back of the coccyx ; and lastly, to the back of the whole length of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed downwards and outwards to their imertion :—The whole of the upper half of the muscle, and a few superficial fibres of the lower half are inserted into the strong fascia lata (i]io-til)ial liand) of the outer side of the tbigh ; and the remainder are fixed into the rough line (gluteiil ridge) leading from the linea asj^era to the great trochanter of the femur (fig. 61, p. 158). The gluteus forms the prominence of the Inittock, and resembles the deltoid muscle of the arm in its situation and in the coarse- neas of its texture. Its cutnneous surface is cox^ered by the common integuments and the investing fascia of the limb, and by the superficial nerves and vessels. Tlie structures in cont«ct with the under surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. Tlie upper border overlies the gluteus medius. The lower edge, which is longer and thicker than the upiier, in its inner part bound.i posteriorlyTHE GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 113 the perine<al space, and in the rest of its extent lies obliquely across the back of the thigh. The hamstring muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerves issue beneath it. Action. With the femur hanging the muscle extends the hip-joint use on t''^ £rrt-_ by pulling back that bone. The upper i)art abducts, but the i^art ^^"^^^^ '' inserted into the femur adducts the limb and_TOtate.s_it_out\yards. nKii&~. When the limb is fixed, and the body is raised from a sitting on poivis, into a standing posture, the gluteus acts as an extensor of the articulation by moving back the pelvis ; and in standing on one leg, the muscle can draw the sacrum towards the femur, so as to turn the face to the opposite side. By tightening the ilio-tibial band (which is attached, below, to and on kne the front of the outer tuberosity of the tibia, to the outer side of the patella and to the fascia over the muscles of the front of the leg), the gluteus maximus also suijports and steadies the knee- joint in the extended position. In this action it is assisted by the" tensor fasciae femons, which corrects the tendency of the gluteus to draw the ilio-tibial band backwards. Dissection (fig. 48). The gluteus maximus is to be cut across Divide tl.o a little external to the middle ; and the depth of the muscle wiW e''"'!'"'DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. lU clean parts beneath, remove origin, and dissect out sacral nerves. Parts covered by gluteus at its origin and inser- tion : and by the intervening piece of the muscle. be ascertained Ijy the fascia and some vessels beneath it. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer jiiece of the gluteus may be at once thrown towards its insertion ; but the_iiLueiL4Jiece is to be carefully raised, and the branches of the inferior gluteal nerve, and of the gluteal and sciatic arteries entering its deep surface, are to be cleaned. The loose fat is then to be taken away from the hollow between the pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels and nerves ; and the several muscles are to be cleaned, the fibres of each being made tense at the time of its dissection by rotating the femur. The vessels, nerves, and muscles, which are to be defined may be ascertained by referring to the enumeration below of the parts beneath the gluteus. In removing the areolar tissue from the ischial tulierosity and from the great trochanter, a bursa over each prominence of bone may be observed. Lastly, the fibres of the muscle are to be detached at their origin ; and the inner piece may be removed entirely by cutting through the vessels and nerves that enter it. In doing this the sacral nerves are to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres, and to be followed to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they will be afterwards seen. Parts beneath the gluteus (fig. 48). At its origin the gluteus ma.ximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part of the ilium, sacrum and coccyx, also the ischial tulierosity with the origin of the ham- string muscles (l) and the great sacro-sciatic ligament (k). At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur, with the great trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus (i). Between the muscle and the trochanter is a large, loose synovial membrane ; between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac ; and occasionally there is a tliird over the ischial tuberosity. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the muscle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned parts (fig. 48) :—First, a portion of the gluteus medius (a) ; and below it the pyriformis (b), with the superficial branch of the gluteal vessels between the two. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the inferior gluteal nerve sujDiilying the gluteus maximus, and the large {^) and small sciatic nerves, with the sciatic vessels, which descend to the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity ; and intern al to the sciatic are the pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle, which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle (d) with a fleshy fascicxilus—the gemellus (c and b)—above and below it. Next comes the quadratus femoris muscle (g) with the upper part of the adductor magnus (h) ; at the upper border of the ([uadratus, and deep to it, is the tendon of the obturator externus ; and at the lower border, I)etween it and the adductor, issues one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery with it.s veins.PARTS UNDER THE GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 115 Dissection. Tracing back the ofi'sels of Uii' saci'al nerves wliicli xraop sacral jii'vlorate the glutens, and removing a fibrous stratum which covers "e"'es. them, the looped arrangement of tlie first (liree nerves on the great iSiiliorior Lj'liitcal iim-vc. Suiii'i llrhil hi aiicli of gluteal ai liM\v. Small sciatic iicrv Sciatic artery Piulic iierM'. Piidic artery Ner\'e to obtu rator interiius. Long itiKleiidal iier\e. Cutaneous of Uiifjli ofsuiall sciatic nerve. .Muscular branch ofgreat sciatic ner^■e. .Small .sciatic nerve. Sciatic artery. l.;ist dorsal uer\'e. Anastomotic branch of sciatic artery. Internal itircumflex artery. r^irst ])erforati?ig artery. FiQ. 48.—Skconi) Vikw of tuk Disskction op tuk ISuitook (Illustrations OF DlSSKCTION.s). Muscles: A. Ghiteus niedius. li. Pyriformis. c. Upper gemellus. D. Obturator iutenius. K. Lower gemellus. F. Obturator externus. a. Quadratus femoris. II. Adductor magiuis. I. Vastus extenuis. J. Gluteus luaximus, cut. K. Great .sacro-sciatic ligameut. L. Haiufstring uiuscles. Nerves : 6. Great sciatic. Above the small sciatic arc branches of tlic lower gluteal nerve, cut. Siicro-sciatic ligament will appear. Finally, the nerves may be followed inwards beneath the multifidits spina) to the posterior sacral foramina. I 2N^e ^<b«rt^vflLl«.e.-.-3.4.5-. l) ^ 116 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Tlie .sacral nerves iu'b uiiiterl beneath gluteus: cutaneous ofl'sets. Gluteu.s inedius arises from liip-boue, and inserted into tro- chanter : relations; Sacral 3^ USB with limb hanging, both limbs fixed, in standing on one leg. and walking. Detach gluteus niedins to see gluteal vessels and nerve. Gluteal artery is 11 divided into 11 two: /| superficial [and deep I parts; NERVES. Tlie externalj3iecesj)f tlie posterior i^rimary branches of the firsfrTIiree sacral nerves, after passing outwards beueatli the niultifirius spiuDe, are joined to one another by loops on the surface oF tlift-grp.n.t, sn.r.rn-si'.iatir ligament._ Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this inter- communication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on its surface as already seen. The GLUTEUS MEDius (tig. 48, a) is triangular in form, with its base at the iliac crest, and apex at the femur. It arises from the outer surface of the ilium between the crest and the superior curved line above, and the middle curved line below (fig. 47); and many superficial fibres come from the strong fascia covering the front of the muscle. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into an impression running downwards and forwards across the outer surface of the great trochanter, extending from the tip l)ehind to the root in front (fig. 61, p. 158). The superficial surface is concealed in part by the gluteus maxi- mus ; and the deep is in contact with the gluteus minimus, and the gluteal vessels and ne^X^ The anterior Ijorder lies over the gluteus minimus, and is in con^a^ with the tensor fasciae femoris. The posterior is contiguous 4«- the pyriformis, onlj' the superficial part of the gluteal vessels intervening. A small bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter. Action. The whole muscle abducts the hanging femur ; and the anterior fibres rotate the limb inwards. Both limbs resting on the ground, the muscles assist in fixing the pelvis. In standing on one leg this gluteus -nill aid in balancing the pelvis on the top of the femur, and will draw the body over to the same side. In walking the fore part of the muscle acts in rotating the pelvis over the fixed limb. Dissection. The gluteus medius is now to be detached from the pelvis, and partly sej)arated from the gluteus minimus beneath, so that the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve may come into view. The two chief branches of the artery—one being near the upper border of the gluteus minimus, and the other lower down —are to be traced beneath the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the main piece of the nerve is to be followed forwards to the tensor fascia femoris muscle. The branches of the artery and nerve to the gluteus medius will lie cut in removing that muscle. The GLUTEAL ARTERY is the largest l)ranch of the internal ilinc, and issues from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, where it at once divides into superficial and deep parts :— The suiierficial jmrt (fig. 48) enters the under surface of the gluteus maximus and ramifies in that muscle. Some terminal twigs pass inwards over the sacrum, and others are given to the integuments. The deep jiart 50, a, p. 122) is the continuation of the artery, and subdivides into two pieces which run between the two smallerTHE GLUTEAL VESSELS. 117 glutei. One CsiqieriQi'; /)) courses along the upper border of tbe gluteus minimus (supplying mostlj^ the medius) to the front of the iliac crest, where it anastomoses with the ascending brancli of the the latter external circumflex artery. The other portion (inferior; c) is ind a'lower' directed forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, hranch. with the nerve, towards the anterior lower iliac spine, where it enters the tensor fasciae iemoris, omL cMumunicii.tes \yith the e.xternal circumflex: artery (p. 159) : many offsets are furnished to the gluteus minimus, and some ]3i£rce-that-mu3cle to supply the Jii25-jomt. Vein. The companion vein with the artery enters the pelvi-s, GUiteal and ends in the internal iliac vein. The SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE (fig. 50, is the highest branch .Supniior of the sacral ple.\us, and arises from the liimbo-sacral cord and the jjcrve'^' 4- -S"' first sacral nerve (fig. 49, p. 120). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and divides into two for the supply of the gluteus medius is niusuuhu-. and minimus; its lowpy 1irmipli terminates anteriorly in the J«nsar fiigcisB. iemoris (b). Tlie GLUTEUS MINIMUS (fig. 50, c) is triangular in shape, and Giuteu.s arises from the dorsum of the ilium between the middle and inferior '■ curved lines, extending l)ackwards as far as the middle of the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch (fig. 47). Its tendon is inserted into an impression along the fore part of the great attach- trochanter of the femur (fig. 60, p. 157), where, it Jsjnjtgd ' inferiorl^^jjMth_the. gl^^ some fibres are attached to ' * the capsule of the hip-joint. surface is m c"cmlact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal luhitions; vessels and nerve ; the other with the hip-bone, the hip-joint, and the outer head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the gluteus medius; and the posterior is covered by the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is placed between the tendon . and the bone. Actio7i. This muscle agrees in its action with the gluteus use Uko / ^ \ medius ; but as it reaches farther backwards, l;he hinder fibres T^'"^- »i<A<ex may also have some influence in rotating theJiangiug femur f'^^'^'^^^*- . j " ° O'.'fN'/oTo^ outwards. ^- <• ^ Dissection. Cut through the smallest gluteal muscle near the Divide ilium, and define the tendinous portion of the rectus femoris nnder- f/i'JifJul'. ne;ith it, close above the hip-joint. Wliile detiiching the gluteus ° " ' from the parts underneath, the student will notice the connection between its tendon and the cajisule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be observed and followed tracti deep as the muscle is removed. ve.ssels. The jmterior or reflected head of the redm fmnorvi is a tendon as Posterior wide a.s the finger, and about two inches long, which is fi.xed into J-e™'},""^ the impression above the margin of the acetcilnilum. In front it joins the straight head of the muscle, which is attached to the anterior inferior iliac spine; and its lower Isorder is connected with the capsule of the hip-joint. The PYRIFORMIS (fig. 48, B and fig. 50, f) arises in the pelvis Origin of pyrilormis ;118 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. inseHion ; relations in foramen, in biitloclc; liise witli j femur Iiang- I ing, and I raised ; bdtli limbs on ground, only one. Dissect out the chief vessels and nerves, and mus- cular branches. Tlie vessels come from the iliac. Sciatic artery: conr.se and ending branches;— coccygeal; branch lo sciatic nerve ; from tlie front of tlie .sacrum between and outside tbe second, tViird, and fourth foramina, and leaves tliat ca\'ity through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to end in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter of the femur (fig. 60, p. 157). The muscle occupies the greater part of the sacro-sciatic foramen, and divides the vessels and nerves passing through that aperture into two groups :—Above it are the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve ; and below it the sciatic and pudic ve.ssels and nerves, and some otlj^r branches of the sacral plexus. Its vmiar border is contiguous 4e. the gluteus medius ; and its lower, the superior gemellus. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered liy the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion ; it rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip-joint. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. Action. The pyriformis rotates out the femur when that bone is in a line with the trunk ; but if the hip-joint is bent it abducts the limb. Both limbs being fixed, the muscles balance the pelvis, and help to make the trunk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyriformis turns the i'ace to the oj^posite side.^ Dissection. The pyriformis may now be cut across and raised towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the sciatic and jjudic vessels, and to trace the accompanying nerves to their origin from the sacral plexus. A small nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 50, °) and gemellus superior is to be sought for in the fat at the lower border of the plexus jjassing over the spine of the ischium on the outer side of the internal jjudic artery. A branch to the quadratus and inferior gemellus (") may be foimd by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; hut this will be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have lieen seen. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. The arteries on the back of the pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the internal iliac, which will be described in dissection of the pelvis. The SCIATIC ARTERY (fig. 48) supplies the buttock below the gluteiil. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends M'ith the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator internus muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus ; in its course the artery gives oft' many branches with the superficial offsets of its companion nerve ; and, much reduced in size, it is continued with tliat nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes the following branches :— a. The coccygeal branch arises close to the pelvis, perforates the grefit sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this nuiscle, and on the l)ack of the sacrum and coccyx. b. The branch to the iirent .sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) is very slender, and entering the nerve near the pelvis, ramifies in it along the thigh.119 SCIATIC AND PDDIC VESSELS. e. Mmcidar brandies enter the gluteus niaximus, the upper muscular; gemellus, and obturator internus; and by means of a branch to the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the liip-joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (tig. 48). Varying in size, this artery is ^"^^'°"|| directed outwards along the lower border of the pyriformis to the root of the great trochanter, where it anastomoses with the internal circumflex and first perforating arteries. The INTERNAL PUDic ARTERY (fig. 48) belongs to the perineum Pndic and the genital organs : it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to'"''^'"^ which it lies. Only the small part of the vessel which winds over crosses tlie ^thejschial spine is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the J.^Jj'jJJ'.' 7 perineal space through the small sticro-sciatic foramen, and is there ^r^aJTrc distributed. A ''^ It supplies a small bi-anch over the back of the sacrum, which offsets. ' anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries ; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive tributaries veins, corresponding with the lu'anches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves. The nerves appearing at the back of the pelvis, below Nerves come the pyi-iforniis, are derived from the plexus {sacral j)lexus) formed pieTus!"^'^*' within the pelvis by anterior branches from the lower two lumbar and the upper four sacral nerves; the largest are furnished to p)arts beyond the gluteal region, but some are distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. The INFERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE is larger than the superior, and inferior 1 '2. arises from the upper part of the sacral plexus (fig. 49, i g). The gluteus'" short trunk is directed backwards below the pyriformis, and divides mixinms. into numerous branches which radiate upwards and doAvnwards, and enter the gluteus maximus midway between its origin and insertion. The SMALL SCIATIC (fig. 48) is a cutaneous nerve of the back Small of the thigh. It springs from the second and third sacral ner\'es cuwneous' ^ ^ (fig. 49, s s), and takes the course of the sciatic artery as far as the nerve; lower border of the great gluteus, where it gives many cutaneous In-anches. Much diminished in size at that spot, the nerve is continued along the back of the thigh bene;ith the fascia, and ends below the knee in the integiiments of the back of the leg. ends in the The branches distributed to, or near the buttock, are the ''"^' following :— The ascending or gluteal cutaneous branches (fig. 46) turn upwards ascending round the border of the gluteus niaximus, and are distrilnited to the skin over the lower third of the muscle. The descending cutaneous branches (fig. 46,-) supply the integu- ""(1 nients of the upper third of the thigh at the inner and posterior aspects. One of these branches (fig. 48), which is larger than the taiche"' othei-s, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named j??/m"o)\i„r,.rir,r pwlendal; as it coui-ses to the perineum, it turns below the pu^e""!"'DISSECTION OP THE BUTTOCK. 120 / Gi'Giit Hciatic neive : c2S "ouUino of; ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner side of tlie thigh to end in the scrotum. The GREAT SCIATIC (fig. 48,G) is the largest nerve in the body. It is the source of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous Fig. 49.—Diagram op the Sacral Plexus prom Behind. L S C. Lumbo-sacral cord formed by the fifth lumbar nerve and a small branch from the fourth. SI to S5. First to fifth sacral nerves. g s. Great sciatic nerve. s s. Small sciatic. s g. Superior gluteal, i g. Inferior gluteal, p. Pudic. 13 c. Perforating cutaneous, py. Branch to pyriforinis. 0 i. Nerve to obturator internus. q. Nerve to quadratus femoris. The remaining references are explained in the dissection of the plexus in the pelvis. branches to the limb beyond the knee, as well as of the muscidar branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the .sacral plexus (fig. 49, g s). It is directed through the buttock to the back of the thigh, and rests, in succession, on the su]ierior gemellus, the tendon of the oljturator internu.s, the inferior gemellus and the I',".''™".'''''" quadratus femoris muscles below the pvriformi.s. Commonly it tlii.sregion. , ' ■ doe.s not supply any branch to tlie buttock, but it may gi\^e origin cour.se iii tlio buttock121 BRANCHES OP THE SACRAL PLEXUS. to one or two filaments to the hip-joint. Frequently the nerve is divided into two hirge trunks atTtjs origin, and one of tlieni (the external popliteal) pierces tlie fibres of the pyriformig_»uisule. The PUDIC NERVE (fig. 48) winds over the small saero-sciatie I'lulic luirve. ligament on the inner side of its companion artery, and is dis- ^' tributed with this vessel to the perineum and the genital organs. Xo branch is supplied to the buttock. Small MUSCULAR branches of the sacral plexus are furnished to Muscular the external rotiitors except the obturator externus. bumciies : ^ The branch to the pyriformis, from the second sacral nerve, is to seen in the dissection of the sacral plexus in the pelvis. pynformi.s; The nerve to the obturator interims (fig. 50,°) arises from the to obturator =2, upper imrt of the plexus, and is directed to its muscle through siperiOT""'' the small sacro-sciatic foramen external to the pudic vessels: it gemellus ; f^Vn~r gives off a small twig to the superior gemellus (J). , The nerve to the quadratus femoris (Kg. 50,'') is a slender branch, to(iu,Ki- ••■^ which j)asses with a companion artery beneath the gemelli and the h,'f,''rio Jti«^ ^obturator to the anterior surface of its muscle. This branch will gemellus. 1 S. ;be seen more fully in a subsequent dissection, when offsets from it to the inferior gemellus and the hip-joint may be traced. Dissection. To see the remaining external rotator muscles, hook Clean rota- aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the branches of the ""'^'^'e''- sciatic artei-y if it is necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be rotated inwards. The gemelli are to be sejmrated from the tendon of the obtiu-ator internus. The SUPERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 48, c) is the higher of the two Superior muscular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator g'^^ieiius. muscle. Internally it arises from the outer and lower part of the 7 ischial spine (fig. 47, p. 113), and externally it \rinseried with the obturator into the great trochanter. Occasionally the muscle is absent. The INFERIOR GEMELLUS (fig. 48, e) is larger than its fellow. luferior Its oriijin is connected with the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, eemellus: along the lower edge of the groove for the ol)turator internus muscle (tig. 47) ; and its insertion is in common with the oliturator tendon. This muscle is placed between the obturator internus and quad- both ll lU- ratus, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator extenius obt''''atl!r''-' comes into contiict with its _ii]iper border, '^we-^- ^ ^r^Z-f-T ^ — Action. These small Heshy slips are but accessory pieces of usetol.eip ^-et. origin to the internal obturator, with which they coml )ine in use obturator. The OBTURATOR INTERNUS (fig. 48, d) arises from the hip-bone obturator inside the pelvis, and jmsses to the exterior through the small i"'*"nis sacro-sciatic foramen. The tendon of the muscle is directed outside outwards over the hip-joint, and is inserted with the gemelli, in front of the pyriformis, into the inner side of the great trochanter, = at the upper and fore part (fig. 60, p. 167). Outside the pelvis the oljturator is mostly tendinous, and is relations; embraced by the gemelli muscles, which near the pelvis meet beneath the tendon; but near the trochanter they cover it. Crossing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves and the123 DISSECTION op THE BUTTOCK. tendon is Sciatic vessels; and covering tlie whole is the gluteus maxinius. the'e(Tge°!lf cutting through the tendon and raising the imier end, it will the pelvis; Fio. 50.—Third View op thk Dissection of thk Bcttock (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles : A. Ghitens iiiaximns, cut. B. Tensor fasciae latas. c. Ghit.eus minimus. Ti. Gluteus mediiis, cut. F. Pyriformis. 0, Qemelhis superior n. Obturator internus, cut. 1. Gemellus inferior. K. Quadratus foraoris, cut. L. Obturator oxteruus. K. Adductor magnus. 0. Hamstrings. )'. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Arteries: a. Gluteal. h. Its upper, and c, its lower jnece. d. Sciatic. c. Pudio. /. Internal cirouuifle-x. <j. Its ascending, and h, its trans- verso offset. i. First perforating. k. External circumflex. Nerves : 1. Superior gluteal. 2. Sacral. 3. Small sciatic, cut. 4. Pudic. 5. Nerve to obturator internus. 6. Nerve to quadr.atus and inferior gemellus. 7. Branch to upper gemellus. 8. Great sciatic.123 INTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. be found divided into four or five pieces as it turns over the ischium (lig. 50, h) ; at this spot the bone is covered wth cartilage, whicli forms ridges corresponding to the intervals between the tendinous slips, and the surfaces are lubricated by a synovial sac. There is sometimes another bursa lietween tlie tendon and the hip-joint. Action. The action of this muscle is in all respects the .same as use like that of the pyriformis (p. 118), although, as it acts at a greater i'^^'' mechanical advant<age, it is a much more powerful external rotator. The QUADUATUS FUMORis (fig. 48, g) is .situate between the Qimdratus inferior gemellus and the adductor magnus. Internally it arises '' from the outer Ijorder of the iscliial tuberosity for two inches, by the • side of the semimembranosus and adductor magnus (tig. 47, p. 113); externally it is inserted into an eminence on the posterior inter-inscrliou; trochanteric ridge of the femur (tubercle of the cpuulratns), and along a line on the upper end of that bone for about one inch and a half, aliovethe atUichment of the great adductor (tig. 61, p. 158). By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic vessels and nerves, parts over and the gluteus maximus. By the other it rests on the oliturator mid bonuutli it externus, the internal circumflex vessels, and its small nerve and ' vessels. Between its lower border and the adductor magnus the and at lower transverse branch of the internal circumtlex arteiy issues. Between • 1 it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is also common to the / ujijier part of the adductor magnus. ( Action. The c|uaclijitusj|i^ from the foregoing muscles of the "se. same group m~being aTile tojotate the femur outwards when the hip-joint is bent, as well as in the extended position ; and it will Tissist'slightly m adducting the limb. Dissection (fig. 50). The quadratus and the gemelli mu.scles oivido mav now lie cut acro.ss, in order that their small nerve and artery, quadratus 1 ' T f 1 • 1 . 11 1 ^11" gemelli. the ending of the internal circumnex artery, and the oliturator externus may lie di.ssected out. The INTERNAL CIRCUMFLE.\ ARTERY (fig. 50) from the profunda internal femoris artery (p. 166) divides finally into two pieces. One arte"y" '''' {ascending) runs beneath the quadratus (in this position of the body) to the pit of the trochanter, where it anastomoses with the gluteid and sciatic arteries, and supplies the bone. The other ends in two {transverse) passes between the quadratus and adductor magnus ''™"<=''"''- to the hamstring muscles, and communicates with the perforating arteries. The OBTURATOR KXTERNU.s (fig. 50, l) will lie dissected at its Obturator origin in the front of the thigh. The part of the muscle now laid bare winds below the hiivioint, and ascends to be inserted into the i« inserted ., , , ,, , , ' into pit of pit at the root ol the trochanter. trochanter; On the back of the peh-is the obturator externus is covered by the relations; quadratus, except near the femur where it is exposed between that muscle and the inferior gemellus. Its deep surface is in contact with the capsule of the hip-joint and the neck of the femur. Action. Like the quadratus femoris, it rot<ites the femur out- use. wards in all positions of the limb : it is also to a slight extent an adductor and flexor of the hip-joint.DISSECTION OF THE POPLITEAL SPACE. 124 ^Z^i^" , The SACRO-sciATic LIGAMENTS pass from the sacrum and coccyx to the ischium : they are two in number, and are named meat and small. large, The great or posterior ligament (fig. 50, p) is attached above to the posterior inferior iliac spine, and to the side of the sacrum and / , I coccyx; and below, to the inner margin of the ischial tuberosity, ^io^j^r^ feif3cc.c^seiiding forwards a^jirolongation. along the .ramus, of .the bone : some of the superficial fibres are continued over the tuberosity into the long head of the biceijs. It is wide next the sacrum, and becomes narrower below ; but it IS somewhat expanded again at the tuberosity. On the cutaneous (?)Cc'OYCUii>ji (n . s^^^'face are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maxi- V^JL Lk.r^ ""^^ conceals and takes origin from it. Branches of the sciatic {2J) ' ai'.teiy and a cutaneQiia-tLeiiie from the sacral plexus perforate it. and small; The miall or anterior ligammt passes from the sacrum and coccyx to the ischial spine, but this band will be more fully seen in the dissection of the pelvis, fol^i^n'-n"- "^.^^^.^ ligaments convert the deep sacro-sciatic notch of the dried oramina, pei^jg jj^^^Q two foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the hip-bone is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, contents"'' Contains the internal obturator muscle with its nerve and con en s, yggggls, and the pudic vessels and nerve. And above the smaller pirtsp.°sl- ■^'g''^™*^^^'^ the large sacro-sciatic foramen, which gives passage to ingtinoiigh the pyriformis muscle, with the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves, the inferior gluteal nerve, and the nerves to the obturator internus and quadratus femoris below it. it. Section II. THE POPLITEAL SPACE AND THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. Directions. The ham or popliteal space should be taken after the buttock, in order that it may be seen in a less disturlied state than if it were dissected after the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt, the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. Position. The limb should be raised on blocks into the hori- zontal position. Take the Dissection (fig. 51, p. 126). To remove the skin from the overtlie"' popliteal region, let a longitudinal iiui.sion be made behind the knee iiam. from a distance of six inches above to four inche.s below tlie joint. At each e.vtremitj' of this cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two Haps, the one being turned outwards and the other inwards. Srak the In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves, xi/.., one or t wo twigs nerves.""" in the middle line of the limb from the small sciatic nerve beneath]25 ANATOMY OF THE POPLITEAL SPACE. the fascia ; and some offsets of the internal cutaneous nerve towards the inner side. After the subcutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be Ijrought into view. Fascia lata. Wliere this fascia covers the popliteal space it is Fasci.Kif strengthened by transvei'se fibres, particularly on the outer side ; o\'.gr tile and it is connected laterally with the teudons_ bounding that iiam. interval, l^e short saphenous vein perforates it opposite the knee, or a little lower down. Dissection (fig. 51, p. 126 ; also fig. 53, p. 131). The ftiscia Remove over the ham is now to be removed without injuring the small .sciatic nerve and accompanying arterj'^ and the short saphenous vein, which afe^close beneath it. A large quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without injury to the several small i,'am. vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large inter- Seek the nal popliteal nerve in the middle, and the external popliteal on the th"spiice. outer side. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous offsets i CI)nV,cfrr^ of the inner -will be recognised more certainly liy tracing them from '"f ' I E^ '<^ above downwards along tlie trimk of the nerve, -than by proceeding 1 in the opposite direction : in fat bodies the two small nerves horn the tt^ri ?C^CK»«>--vj • inner popliteal trunk to the knee-joint are difficult to find. Under L- cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular J'' nerve from the external popliteal. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein clean the being more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an • articular branch (superior) on each side, close above the condyle of the femur, and to clean numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the calf. On the upper find obtu- part of the artery, the branch ofjierve from the obturataE_to_yie knee-joTiil is to 1 le fiSund ; and on~the sides of the artery are three and glands, or four lymphatic glands in the fat. The POPLITEAL SPACE, Or ham (fig. 51) is the hollow behind The ham: the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large ve.ssels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the .situation form of a lozenge, and extends ujiwards along one-third of the ■ femixr, and downwards along one-sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condition the muscles on the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited to the region immediately above the joint. This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the boundarie.'i. liml); and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer side, is the outer biceps muscle (") as far as the joint, and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (^) beyond that spot. On the and inner: inner side, as low as the articulation, are the semimemliranosus (■*) and semitendinosus(^) muscles with the gracilis and sartorius between them and the femur ; and below the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius Q). The upper point of the ham is formed by the limit above apposition of the inner and outer hamstrings ; and at the lower "'"^ '^^'"^^' point the heads of the gastrocnemius touch each other.DISSECTION OF THE POPLITEAL SPACE. 12fi supBrticial imd deep boiiiidaries ; gi-eatest width and deptli; contents. Popltieal artery: extent; only a small part in .space The part in the ham: course and relations; Stretclied over the cavity are the fa.scia lata and the integuments. In the deep boundary, or the floor, are the following structures :— the surface on the back of the femur included between the supra- condylar (popliteal surface), the posterior ligament of the knee- joint, and part of the popliteus nuiscle wdth the upper end of the tibia (fig. 52, p. 128). The popliteal space is widest and deepest inmiediiitely above the iemoral condyles. (Above and below it communicates, beneath the muscles, with the back of the thigh and leg.) In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels wdth their l)ranches, and the ending of the external saphenous vein ; the pop- liteal trunks of the great .sciatic nerve, and some of their branches ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superficially in the ham ; and a branch of the obtu- rator ■ nerve lies on the artery in fne bottom of the space. The POPLITEAL ARTERY (fig. 51«, andfig. 52)is the continuation ofthe superficial femoral,and reaches fi-om the opening in the adductor mag- nus to the lower border of the pop- liteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. A portion of the artery lies in the jjopliteal space, and is not covered by muscle ; but both above and below, it is concealed by the muscles bounding the hollow. The description of the artery may be conveniently divided into two |)arts—one reaching to the lower limit of the ham, and tlie other being beneath the gastrocnemius. As far as tlm hum the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner side of the Mm)) to the interval between the condyles of the femur, and is then directed along the middle of the sjiace over the knee-joint. The ark^ry is overlain by tile belly of the semimembranosus muscle to within an inch of the internal condyle ; but thence onwards it is situate Ijetween Fig. 51.—View op the Poplitkal Space (Quain's Arteries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Internal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. 4. Semimembranosus muscle. 5. Semitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps muscle. 7. 8. Inner and outer beads of the gastrocnemius muscle. Tbc super- ficial vein on the gastrocnemius is tbe sbort sajjbenous, which enters the popliteal.127 POPLITEAL ABTERY AND BRANCHES. tlie heads of tlie gastrocnemius, and is covered only by the fascia hita and the integuments. Beneath it is the femur, with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. In contact with the vessel, and somewhat on the outer side at I'°;;'J:™; hrst, lies the popliteal vein, .so that on looking into the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered ; but in the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches altogether conceal the artery. In the lower part of the ham the short saphen- ous vein (fig. 53, i, p. 131) and the muscular branches of the artery are also superficial to the popliteal trunk. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to them in position, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which, with its branches, lies over the artery, like the vein, between the heads of the gastrocnemius. In the bottom of the hollow the small obturator nerve runs on the artery to the joint. Dissection. To see the deep part of the artery, the inner head of the gastrocnemius should be cut through and raised. On remov- yastrocne- ing the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The / lower articular branches of the vessels and nerve are now brought ^^-■■''-< c^^x Vcw^W into view ;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and \/e>'-< l^- the outer, higher up, between the femur and the fibula, each with a vein ; and a companion nerve. Beijond the ham. "While the arteiy is beneath the gastrocnemitis Artery be._ sinks deeply into the limb ; here it is crossed by a small muscle— ' tlie plantaris (c), and the ending is concealed by the soleus (b). It rests on the popliteus muscle. Both the companion vein and the internal popliteal nerve change position of their position to the arteiy, and gradually cross over it, so as to ^,erve."' lie on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Sometimes the artery bifurcates as high as the back of the knee-joint; and High then the anterior tibial artery may lie beneath the popliteus muscle. divi.sion. Branches (figs. 52 and 53) are furnished by the artery to the Brandies of surrounding muscles, to the integuments, and to the articulation ;— "■''■eiy- those that belong to the joint are five in number, and are called ~fj^^ <i>^g»(«- articular, viz., two superior, inner and outer ; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or azygos branch. 1. The muscular branches are upper and lower. The upper set. Muscular three or four in number, arise above the knee, and end in the semi- membranosus and biceps muscles, communicating with the per- (l '•i'xcX forating and muscidar branches of the profunda. The lower set (sural) are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius, ^ soleus, and plantaris. 2. The cutaneous or superficial sural branches descend to the skin and cuta- ^ of the calf of the leg : they are usually three in number, one in the middle line, and one over each head of the gastrocnemius. 3. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal trunk, Articular one from the inner and one from the outer side, above the condyles a™"ive? of the femur ; they are directed almost transversely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the bone to the front of the joint, superiorDISSECTION OF THE POPLITEAL SPACE. 128 The external branch perforates tlie intermuscular septum, and divides in the substance of the crureus. Some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circumflex (of the profunda) ; others descend to the joint and anastomose with the lower external articular artery; and one offset forms an arch across the front with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery, oftentimes very small, winds beneath the Popliteal arteiy Adductor ijiagnus. Upper muscular. Upper muscular. Tendou of adductor Upper internal articular. Azygos. Semimembranosus. Gastrocnemius (inner head). Lower muscular. Expansion to posterior ligament of joint. Expansion over popliteus. Lower internal articular. Internal lateral ligament. Long head -i „ Short head}^"=^P^- Upper external articular Lower muscular. Gastrocnemius (outer head). Tendou of bicex)s. Plantaris. External lateral ligament. Lower external articular. Expansion over tendon of popliteus. Popliteus. Anterior tibial. Posterior tibial. Fig. 52.—Popliteal Artery and Branches. tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in the vastus iu- ternus ; it supplies this and the knee-joint, and communicates with the deep part of the anastomotic artery. Two 4. The inferior articular arteries lie beneath the gastrocnemius, inferior* . but are not on the same level on opposite sides of the limb ; for the inner one descends below the internal tuberosity of the tibia, while the outer one is jjlaced above the hejvd of the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side, external; The external branch supplies the outer side of the knee-joint,POPLITEAL NERVES AND BRANCHES. 12!) anastomosing witli the otiier vessels on the articulation, and Avith the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery ; it sends an oflset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from one of the internal branches. The internal artery ramifies over the front of the internal internal tuberosity of the tibia, and anastomoses with the upper internal and lower external articular branches, and with the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery. 5. The azygos branch enters the joint through the posterior liga- And one ment, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures, the fat, and artery.' the synovial membrane of the interior. The POPLITEAL VEIN (fig. 53, h) originates in the union of the Popliteal anterior and posterior tibial venae comites, and has the same extent and relations as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of i>osition to the popliteus muscle the vein is internal to the arterial trunk "''''^''^' between the heads of the gastrocnemius, it is superficial to that vessel ; and thence to the opening in the adductor mngnus it lies to the outer side of, and close to, the artery. It is joined by branches branches, corresponding with those of the aiterj-, as Avell as by the short saphenous vein. The Popliteal Nerves (fig. 51, p. 126) are the two large Popliteal trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh "w"'''' (p. 133), and are named internal and external. Each furnishes innnr .mil cijianeous and articulax nft'nrt.fi) hut only thn . innnr -Qaie_SJlPplies ""ter- branch(^to muscles. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (~) is larger than the extenial. Internal and occupies the middle of the ham : its relations are similar to nerve'f those of the artery, that i.s to say, it is partly superficial, and partly covered by the gastrocnemius. The nerve is continued to the back of the leg, where it is called •posterior tibial; the name popliteal is retained only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position to the vessels has been already noticed, branchesi The branches arising from it are the following ;—- . a. Two small articular tioigs (fig. 53,") are furnished to the knee- two joint with the vessels. One accompanies the lower internal articular artery to the front of the articulation, and is the larger ; the other takes the same course as the azygos artery, and enters the back of the joint with it. ) b. Muscular brandies arise from the nerves between the heads of four the gastrocnemius. One is furnished to each head of the gastro- ™"scuiar; cnemius, and the outer of these usually supplies the plantaris. Another descends beneath the gastrocnemius, and enters the pos' terior surface of the soleus. And a fourth penetrates the popliteus at the anterior aspect, after turning round the lower border. c. The tilrial communicating branch (fig. 71,", p. 188) is amdone cutaneous offset to the leg and foot. It lies beneath the fascia, and the'tiWar' between the heads of the gastrocnemius, as far as the middle of the leg, where it becomes superficial, and unites with the peroneal com- u °' \^ i municating branch of the external popliteal, to form the short ^^"^ '^^ -^Wr saphenous nerve (p. 187). Se^kti\^ ivo-vJ*. D.A. ' KDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 130 External popliteal nerve: course and ending branches, articular, peroneal communi- cating, and lateral cutaneous of leg. Ai-ticular nerve of the obturator. Lymphatic glands around the artery. The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (peroneal; fig. 51,") lies along the outer boitmlary of the ham, and is at first concealed by the edge of the biceps muscle ; becoming superficial, it is continued over the outer head of the gastrocnemius, following the hinder border of the biceps tendon, until it is below the head of the fibula. There it enters tlie fibres of the peroneus longus, and divides beneath that muscle into two—musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial. Its branches are articular and cutaneous :— a. The articular nerve, arising high in the space, runs with the upper external articular artery to the outer side of the knee, and sends a twig along the lower articular artery : both enter the joint. ^ h. The i^eroneal communicating branch (fig. 71, p. 188) soon pierces the fascia, and descends over the outer head of the gastro- cnemius to join the tibial communicating from the internal popliteal in the short saphenous nerve. c. One or two lateral cutaneous branches aiise either in common with the preceding or separately, and supply the skin of the outer side of the leg, reaching nearly to the external malleolus. The ARTICULAR BRANCH OF THE OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 53, ') perforates the adductor magnus (p. 164), and is conducted by the popliteal artery to the back of the knee. After supplying filaments to the vessels, the nerve enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. The POPLITEAL LYMPHATIC GLANDS are situate round the large arterial trunk. Two or three are ranged on the sides ; while one is superficial to, and another beneath the vessel : they are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels, and by the superficial set with the external saphenous vein. THE BACK OP THE THIGH. bickofth" Dissection (fig. 53). After the popliteal space, the student thigh. may proceed with the dissection of tbe back of the thigh. The piece of skin between the buttock and the ham should lie di^-ided cutane"'.- middle line and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the nerves; outer side of the limb fine ofi'sets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh may be found ; and along the middle some filaments from the small sciatic nerve pierce the fascia, clean Eemove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of the small nerves!'Striatic ner\'e and its artery^ Lastly, clean the hamstring muscles ; trace the arteries from tlie front of the thigh, wliich perforate the muscle to get to the back; and clean the branches of the great .sciatic nerve to the muscles, niusc'ies n MuscLES. The muscles behind llie femur are flexors of the back of knee-joint. They reach from the jjelvis U) the bones of the leg, thigli: jj„(| j^j.g nfiji^e(j hamstrings from the cord-like appearance on the sides of the ham. They are three in number, ^nz., biceps, semi- eituation. tendinosus, and semimembranosus. The first of these lies on the outer, and the other two on tlie inner side of the popliteal space.131 THE HAMSTRING MUSCLES. The BICEPS (fig. 53, D) lias two heads of origin, long and short, which are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from the lower and inner impression on tTie jschial tuberosity, in com- mon with the semitendi- nosus muscle (fig. 47, p. 113). The short head arises from the femur lielow the gluteus ma.xi- inus ; from the outer lip of the liuea aspera, from the upper three-fourths of the line leading to the outer condyle, as well as from the external intermuscular septum (fig. 61, p. 158). The fibres end below in a tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibula embracing_ the external Ititeral ligament (fig. 68, p. 179); and a slight piece is prolonged to the head of the tibia. The muscle is super- ficial except at its origin, where it is covered Ijy the gluteus maximus ; it rests on the upper end of the semimembranosus, on the Biccjis arisen by a long iiud a .sliDi't lieail: J is iiist-rted into tlie g tibiilaaiid tibia ; relations; Fig. 53.—Dissection of the Back of the Thioh (Illustrations OP Dissections). Muscles: A. Gluteus maximus, cut below, and partly raised. B. Quadratus femoris. c. Adductor magnu.';. p. Biceps. K. Semitendinosus. K. Semimembranosus. a. Outer, and u, inner head of the gastro- cnemius. Vessels : a. Sciatic artery. b. Ending of internal circumflex to hamstrings. c. First, d, second, and c, third perforating arteries. /. Muscular branch of profunda. (/. Poijliteal artery. h. Popliteal vein. i. Short saphenous vein. k. Upper external, and /, upper internal articular artery. Nerves : 1. Small sciatic, cut. 2. Largo sciatic. 3. Blanch lo ham- strings from large sciatic. 4. External popliteal. 5. Communicating peroneal. 7. Articukr branch of obturator to knee. 8. Internal popliteal. 9. Articular branch to knee of the intei-nal popliteal. 10. Tibial communi- cating. K 2DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 132 use on knee and liii)- joints, on pelvis, nnd femur. Seniitenili- nosus is attaclied to pelvis and tibia ; parts In contact with it; use on knee and liip- 'oints, on the pelvis. Semimem- branosus reaches from pehis to tibia; parts around it; peat sciatic nerve and on the adductor magiuis nniscle. On the inner side are the semitendinosus and seminienibranosas as far as the liam. Its tendon giyas an ofiFset to the deep fascia of the limb. Action. It can Ijend the linee if the leg-bones are not fixed, and afterwards rotate out the tibia ; and the long head will extend the bent hi]i-joint when the knee is straight. The leg being supported on the ground, the long head will assist in balancing and erecting the pelvis; and the short head ^vi\l draw down the femur so as to Ijend the knee in stooping. The SEMITENDINOSUS (fig. 53, E) is a slender muscle and receives its name from its appearance. It arises from the tuljerosity of the r ischium with the long head of the biceps, and hy fleshy fibres from K^^^X the tendon of that muscle. Inferiorly it is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for a similar extent (fig. 68, p. 179). . This muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered l)y the gluteus maximus. About its middle an oljlique tendinous intersection may be oljserved. It rests on the semimembranosus, and on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The outer border is in contact with the biceps as far as the lower third of the thigh. As the tendon turns forwards to its insertion, an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gi-acihs, on a level ^\dth the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated from the internal lateral ligament by a bursa. Action. If the leg is movable, the muscle bends the knee and rotates inwards the tibia. Supposing the knee-joint straight but the hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by tliis and the other hamstrings. Should the limbs be fixed on the ground, the muscle will assist in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk from a stooping posture. The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS MUSCLE (fig. 53, e) is tciidinous at both ends, and receives its name from the menibraniforin appearance of the upper tendon. The muscle arises from the upper and outer impression on the ischial tuberosity (fig. 47, p. 113); and it is inserted l)elow into the inner and hinder part of the head of the tiliia (fig. 73, p. 191), and from this position one fibrous expansion is sent outwards across the back of the knee-joint to the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, forming thereliy the strongest part of the posterior ligament, and another proceeds downwards as a fa.«cial investment over the back of the iiopliteus muscle (fig. 52, p. 128). The muscle is thick and ileshy below, where it bounds the popliteal simce. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged, together with the long head of the biceps, in a liollow in the upper tendon ; and l)eneath it is the adductor maguus. Along the outer border is first the great sciatic, and then the internal po])lit-eal nerve. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle above described will be dissected with the knee-joint (p. 214).133 BBANCHES OP PROFUNDA ARTERY. Action. This hamstring is united with tlie preceding in its action, use on kuco for it bends tlie knee and rotates in tlie tiljia; and with the knee straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after mni hip- tlie lemur has lieen carried forwards. The extension across tlie ■i"'"'''*' hack of the |oint serves to keep the posterior ligament clear of the articiilation in flexion of the leg. When the foot rests on the ground, the seminiemljranosus acts on peh is. on the pelvis like the other hamstring muscles. The GRE.\T SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 53,2) lies on the adductor magnus Gre.ntsciatic muscle below the buttock, and divides into the two popliteal nerves "h^thi"]) aljout the middle of the thigh, thougli its point of bifurcation may be carried upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed ]>y the long head of the biceps. Branches. Near the buttock it supplies large branches to the supplies Hexor niiuscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. nmscies. Small sciatic nerve-(tig. 53, i). Between the gluteus'maximus smaii and the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia : but it 1 i. 11,11 1 • , 1 tliigh: ^heconies cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short disfcuice. Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia ; and the largest of cutaneous these arises near the popliteal space. oftsets. Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus. Detach tlie and the liranches of the perforating and anastomotic arteries at the back of the thigh, the hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip-bone and thrown down ; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to Ije cleaned. Adductor magnds muscle (fig. 53, c). At its posterior aspect Posterior the large adductor is altogether Heshy, even at the opening in the nci'ivictor lower third of the thigh, where the superficial femoral passes through "•"S""''- it to become the popliteal; and the upper fibres which come from the pubic arch appear to form a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the ischiiun. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. (The muscle will be described later in ths dissection of the thigh from the front, p. 167.) End op the perforating arteries (fig. 53, c, d, e). These Perforatins liranches of the profunda femoris appear through the adductor ■• magnus close to the femur, and are directed outwards through the course .short head of the biceps and the outer intermu.scular septum to the vastus ex tenuis and crureus mu.scles ; but as the first branch is placed higher than the attachment of the biceps, it pierces the gluteus maximus in its cour.se. In_tlie _extensor muscles they ana.stomose and euaing; together, and with the transverse and de.sceiidinfr bnui^bpa of the gxteriial circum flex artery. " Muscular branches are furnished by the perforating arteries to offsets to the heads of the biceps ; and a cutaneous offset is given liy each to tKii;'"* the integuments of the outer side of the thigh, along the line of the outer intermuscular septum.13-t DISSEOTTON OF THE THIGH. Miiscvilar Muscular branches of the profunda (fig. 53, /), pierce branches : (.j^g adductor magnus internal to the preceding, and at some distance inniibev mid from the fcniur (p. 166). Thi'ce or fonr in nunilier, the highest a]ipears about five inches from the i)eh'is, and the rest in a line at intervals of about two inches from one another : thej^are distributed to the liamstring muscles, es]iecially tbe semimembranosus, and eommunicate below with ofli'sets of the popliteal trunk. Dissection. Tlie muscles are to be taken away from the back of the hip-joint and the areolar tissue removed from the back of the capsule, so as to prepare for the dissection of the joint at a later stage,CHAPTER IV. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. ♦ Section I. THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. Position. During tlie dissection of the front of the thigh the body Position of lies on the back, with the buttocks resting on the edge of the table, and with a block of suitable size beneath the loins. The lower limb should be stretched out on the table, slightly Hexed at the knee and rotated outwards to make e\ident a hollow at the top of the thigh. Surface-marldny. Before any of the integument is removed from Objects on the limb, the student shoidd observe the chief eminences and hollows ''^"'^ on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and abdomen is marked, in front, by Limit.s of the firm band of Poupart's ligament reaching from the anterior above.''^'' superior spine of tlie ilium to the pubis. On the outer side, the separation is indicated by the convexity of the iliac crest of the hip- bone, which subsides behind in the sacrum and coccyx. Internally is the projection of the pubis, from which the bony margin of the subpubic arch may be traced backwards, forming the inner boundary of the limb, to the ischial tuberosit}'. On the anterior aspect of the thigh, and close to Poupart's liga- hoIIow of ment, is a slight hollow, corresponding with the triangular space of j,^"'',"^? Scarpa, in which the larger vessels of the limb are contained ; and extending thence obliquely towards the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situation of the femoral artery beneath. Groove over The position of the arterial trunk is marked by the upper three- fourths of a line drawn from the centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine to the inner condyle of the femur. At the outer side of the hip, from three to four inches below and Position behind the anterior part of the iliac crest, will be recognised the tj'ol^ai'tpr well-marked projection of the great trochanter of the femur. In a thin body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb Head of iiio inwards and outwards, while the thumb of one hand is jjlaced in f""""'- front in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, and the fingers behind the great trochanter. At the knee the outline of the several bones entering into the Bony fornmtion of the joint may be traced with ease. In front of the orkne""^DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. 130 patella ; ooudyles of tlio feimii'; tuberosities of tlie tibia. Tlie ham beliind. Dissection. Tiilce up .skill at tbe top of the thigli. SupeiTicial fascia: liow formed tliickness varies. To raise the superticial fascia. Relations of superficial fascia. Dis.section from tlie hollow on An incision about be made from the joint, when it is half-bent, the rounded prominent patella maybe perceived ; this l)one is firmly fixed while the limb is kept in the bent position, but is moved with great freedom when the joint i.s extended, so as to relax the muscles inserted into it. On each side of the patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, that on the inner side being the larger. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella while the joint is half bent, they will be con- ducted to the tuberosities of the head of the tiljia, and to a slight hollow between it and the femur. Behind the joint is a slight de^jression over the situation of the ham or popliteal space ; and ou its sides are firm boundaries, which are formed by the tendons (hamstrings) of the flexor muscles of the knee. Dissection. The limb being placed as Ijefore directed, the student begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. At first the integument is to be reflected only the front of the thigh below Poupart's ligament, five inches in length, and only skin deep, is to pubis along the inner border of the thigh (fig. 1, B, p. 3). At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed out- wards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect ('") ; and, at the upper end, the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the ilium. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the sujjerficial fascia, forms a general investment for the limb, and is constructed of a network of areolar tissue, M'ith fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes. As a part of the common covering of the body, it is continuous with that of the neighbouring- regions ; consequently it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or the labium according to the sex, and ujjwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in dift'erent bodies, according to the quantity of fat in it; and Avhen well de\'eloped it may be divided into separate layers. Its relations will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. To re Meet the sujjerficial fascia, incisions similar to those made in the skin are to be employed ; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun below, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of tlie stratum. The layer of fat may be thrown outwards readily by a few touches of the knife, when the superficial vessels and inguinal lymphatic glands will come into view. The suhcidaneous layer deci-eases in thickness, and becomes more fibrous near Poupart's ligament ; and ou its under aspect it has a smooth and membranous surface. It conceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart'.'? ligament. Dissection (fig. 54). The inguinal glands and the superficial vessels are next to be cleaned by the removal of any surrounding137 ANATOMY OP SUPERFICIAL PARTS. fat; but the student is to be careful not to destroy a deeper, very thill layer of areolar tissue which is beneath them, and is visible on the inner side of the centre of the limb. Three sets of vessels are to be dissected out :—One set (artery and vein) is directed inwards to see the to the pubes, and is named siipei-ficial external imiUc; another, vessels"'*' Superllcial circumflex ili.ic ai-tery. Externul cutaneous Fio. 54. Vessels : a. Internal saphenous vein. h. Superficial external pudic. c. Superficial epigastric. d. Superficial circumflex iliac. c. Inguinal glands. /. Saphenous opening. Dissection op the Superficial Parts of the Thiqh (Illustrations of Dissections). Nerves : 1. Ilio-inguinal. 2. External cutaneous. 3. Grenito-crural. 4. Middle cutaneous. Small unnamed vessels accompany the different nerves to the integuments. siqjerficial epiyastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament; and the third, the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer part of the limb. The large vein towards the inner side of the thigh, to which the branches converge, is the internal saplienoiis. Some of the small lymphatic vessels may be traced from one lymphatics inguinal gland to another.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 138 nucl nerves. The ui'teries from the femoral. Oiieexterual pudie artery; anotlier beneath the fascia. Superficial epiga.stric. Superficial circumflex iliac. Veins join the saphe- nous. JInguinal glands: two sets, which receive different lymphatics. Cribriform fascia is an areolar membrane over saphenous opening: relation to femoral hernia. A .small nerve, the ilio-ingmnal, is to be sought on the inner side of the saphenons vein, close to the pubis ; and a branch of the genito-crural nerve may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessels. The small cutaneous arteries at the top of the thigh are the first branches of tlie femoral trunk, they pierce the deep fascia (fascia lata), and are distributed to the integuments and the glands of the groin and neighbourhood. The SUPERFICIAL EXTERNAL puDic ARTERY (superior ; fig. 54, b) crosses the spermatic cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integuments of the penis and scrotum, where it anastomose.s with offsets of the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch (deep; p. 149) pierces the fixscia lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female both branches supply the labium pudendi. The SUPERFICIAL EPIGASTRIC ARTERY (c) passes ovcr Poupart's ligament to the abdomen, and communicates with branches of the deep epigastric artery. The SUPERFICIAL CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY frequently arises in common with the foregoing and is the smallest of the three branches ; appearing as two or more pieces at the iipper part of the thigh near the iliac crest, it is distributed in the integuments : it supplies an ofi'set with the external cutaneous nerve. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its com- panion vessel, and ends in the uj)per part of the saphenous vein, with the exception of that with the deep external pudic artery-: these veins will be noticed directly. The SUPERFICIAL INGUINAL GLANDS (e) are arranged in two lines. An upper set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament; and a lower set is situate along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or femoral group the glands are larger than in the upper, and the lymphatic vessels from the surface of the lower limb enter tliem. The upper or inguinal group is joined by the lymphatics of the penis, by those of the surface of the abdomen, and by those of the buttock. The glands vary much in number and size ; and not unfrequently some of the longitudinal set by the side of the vein are blended together. Cribriform fascia^ Beneath, and to the inner side of, the internal saphenous vein there is a thin layer of areolar ti.ssue, which is some- times described as a special deeper layer of the superficial fascia. Thi.s stratum is continued across the aperture in the deep fascia (saphenous opening; fig. 54, /) through which the vein dis- appears ; and being there perforated by many large lymphatic vessels, as well as by the saphenous vein, the name cribriform fascia has been given to this part. The cribriform fascia is closely united to the outer margin of the saphenous opening ; and it is also ad- herent to the subjacent crural sheath of the vessels in the aperture. In a hernial protrusion through the saphenous opening, the cribri- form fascia is stretched and pu.slied forwards by the tumour, and forms one of the coverings.INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN. 139 Dissection. After having observed the disposition of the super- ^f'j^j'^J'jij™^ ficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, the student may proceed to of the tiiigii. examine the remainder of the subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together with the vessels and nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of the thigh, a cut is to be Take away carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee-joint, to ratlier ""^ below the tubercle of the tibia. At the extremity of tliis a trans- verse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but this is to reach farthest on the inner side. The .skin may be reflected in Haps inwards and outwards ; and as it is raised from thejront^of, the knee, a superficial bursa betweenit and tlie patella_willJjg,. opened. The saphenous vein is to be first traced out in the fat as far as ami follow the skin is refiected, but in removing the tissue from it the student vein, shoidd be careful of branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh (fig. 55, p. 140) Seekcutane- are to be sought in the fat, with small cutaneous arteries, in the of^irmitnf following positions :—On the outer margin, below the upper third, ti'igii. , is placed the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the limb, '^xfZ .i'4iJc. below the upper third, lie the two branches of the middle C^l ^^eTwiw^Ave^ cutaneous nerve. At the inner margin are the ramifications of the mtei-nal cutaneous nerve—one small offset appearing near the upper part of the thigh, one or more about half-way down, and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third. On the inner side of the knee three other cutaneous nerves are to and on side be looked for :—One, a Ijranch of the great saphenous, is directed ^^•''^'j^^.', ^ outwards over the patella. Another, the trunk of the great saphe- 9'^' ^ « V". / nous nerve, lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to an^V., the lower edge of the surface now dissected. And the third is a terminal branch (posterior) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Vessels. All the cutaneous veins on the anterior and inner as- Superficial pects of the thigh are collected into one ; and this trunk is named saj)lienous from its manifest appearance on tlie surface. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 54, «) is the cutaneous internal trunk of the inner side of the lower limb, and extends from the 've]n"iTi°"*' foot to the top of the thigh. In the part of its course now dis- ""S'' sected, the vessel lies inferiorly somewhat behind the knee-joint; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it pierces pierws tlie fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, and enters to^oi'n tho the deep vein (femoral) of the limb. femoral. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally ; and Veins join- near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the '"°' arteries in that situation, viz., superficial external pudic, superficial epigastric, and superficial circumflex iliac, terminate in it. "Towards may be the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and back of at'tim top of the thigh are frequently imited into one branch, which enters the '^'"^ '■'"is''- saphenous trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata ; and some- times those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together iu140 DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. Cutaiiooiis nrtei'ies. Cutaiieou: ller^■es. a similar way. When this arrangement exists three lai-ge veins will be present on the front of the thigh, near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the veini receives a communicating bi-anch fromi the deep veins Some unnamed cidaneous arteries ax-e distributed to the integuments along with the nerves; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic art«ry(p. 154) accomjjanies the saphenous nerve and its branches near the knee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigh are derived from branches of the plexus^ and in greater inner than the outer iimiaual state. External cutaneous, 55.—Cutaneous Nerves ON THE FkONT op THE Thigh. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. External cutaneous. Middle cutaneous. Internal cutaneous. Internal saphenous. Patellar branch of saphenous. Genito-orural. Ilio-inguinal. Ilio-hypogastric on the belly. number side. Ilio-inguinal. This nerve is smaU, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdomiual ring (fig. 55, ^) ; it supplies the scrotum, and ends on the adjacent part of the thigh, internal to the sajjhenous vein. GenitOtCSP.iiaj;-. The crural branch of this nerve from the first and second lumbar nerves, pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament (fig. 56, ") rather external to__ _the_Jijia_xi£—thf femoral artery. After or before the nerve has become superficial it com- municates with the middle cutaneous nerve ; aud it extends on the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pehis. Occasionally this branch is of Large size, and takes the place of the external cutaneous nerve on the outer side of the limb. CUTANEOUS nerve and third lumbar the outer aspect of i). At first it is posterior, and anterior branches. The EXTERNAL from the second nerves ramifies on the limb (fig. 55, contained in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior and a jjosterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or three others, which arch backwards to supply the integuments half-way down the outer side of the thigh. The anterior h-anch appears on the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's ligament and is continued to the knee below the141 CUTANEOUS NERVES. other; it distributes branches laterally, but those towards the posterior surface are more numerous, and larger. MiDDLK CUTANEOUS (tig. 55, -). The nerve of the centre of the Midriie thigh is a cutaneous oftset of the anterior crural (p. 160), and ''"'•'""^""^ divides into two branches. It is transmitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches reaches tlio are contiimed to the kuee. In the fat this nerve is united with the genito-crural and internal cutaneo\is nerves. IntebnaTj cutaneous. This nerve is derived from the anterior internal crural trunk, and is divided into two branches (anterior and jiosterior) ""'"""o^'s = which perforate the fascia at separate places. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the the anterior thigh, in the line of the inner intermuscular septum (fig. 55, ■'), along which it is continued to the knee. It is distributed in the extends to lower third of the thigh, as well as over the patella and the inner I (^tj^(y^ side of the knee-joint, and is nnited with the patellar branch of the internal saphenous nerve (fig. 55, »). The jJosterim-branch (fig. 71, ^, p. 188) perforates the fascia on the the posterior inner side of the knee, behind the internal saphenous nerve, with ^^J^f^ which it communicates ; it furnishes offsets to the npper half of V^ ^'(^Ct the leg, on the inner surface. Other small offsets of the nerve supply the inner side of the thigh, other small and appear by the side of the saphenous vein. One or two come {^JJ'j^j^^ ^° "-''^ into view near the top of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh ; and one, larger than the rest, becomes cutaneous where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 55, a bl'anch of the internal anterior crural, is continued to the foot, but only a small part of it s.iphenous is now visible. It pierces the fascia close below the knee on the passes to imier side ; and after communicating with the inner branch of the ^^?^^«] y^T-X^^, intemal cutaneous, gives forwards some offsets "over the head of the <? ^ ' ' ' tibia. Finally, it accomi^anies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. Its patellar branch (fig. 55, 5) appears on the inner side of the a branch on knee above the preceding, and is soon joined by the internal cuta- I'^'eiia neous neiTe. It ends in many branches over the patella ; these coiumunicate with offsets from the middle and internal cutaneons foi-ms a nerves, and form a network (yateUar ylcxus) over the joint. plexus. Dissection. Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now clean the rcmo\-ed from the surface of the fascia lata, the cutaneous nerves ^'^^'^"^ being thrown aside to be traced afterwards to their trunks. At the upper part of the thigh the cribriform fascia is to be and define removed with great care so as to show the saphenous opening, opeldng."*' without injury to the subjacent cmral sheath ; and on the other side of the apert,ure a .semilunar liorder is to l)e defined liy dividing the librous bands that unite it to t,he front of the .sheath. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It is of Fascia lata (I bluish-white colour, and surrounds the limb with a lirm .sheath ; j/^™"'"''* but in fat bodies it is sometimes so slight as to be tiiken away with the subcutaneous fat.142 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Ilio-tibial band. Apertures in fa.scia. Connected with bone at upijer part of thigh, difl'ereuce at lower part. Bands on sides of patella; outer stronfr, inner weak. Replace flaps of skin. Sajilienous opening: situation and no defined boi-der on inner side; on outer side the falciform margin, It in stronge.st on the outer aspect of the limb, where it receive.? the iiLsertion of the tensor vagiiioe feinori.s, and mo.st of the glutens niaximus muscle. Thi.s thickened part {ilio-tibial band) is attached above to the hip-bone, and below to the outer tuljerosity of the tibia and the outer side of the patella, and helps to keep the knee-joint straight in standing, as explained on p. 113. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the transmission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels ; and tlie largest hole is near Poupart's ligament, to permit the passage of the internal saphenous vein. Processes prolonged from the deep surface form septa between, and fibrous sheaths around, the several muscles. Two of the pro- cesses are larger than the rest, and are named outer and inner inter-muscular septa of the thigh ; they are fixed to the femur, so as to limit on the sides the extensor of the knee. The position of these partitions is marked by white lines on the surface. At the top of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the prominent borders of the pelvis. Thus, it is connected externally with the iliac crest, and internally with the body of the pubis and the margin of the pubic arch. Behind, it is joined to the lower end of the sacrum and coccyx ; and in front, to Poupart's ligament between the pubis and the iliac crest. Behind the knee-joint the fascia passes un- interruptedly to the leg ; but in front of the articulation it blends with an expansion from the extensor muscle, and is continued over the joint and the patella, though separated from that bone by a bursa, to be inserted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. On each side of the patella is a band of almost transverse fibres (retinaculum), which is attached to and supports the knee-cap. The outer, thick and strong, is continuous externally with the ilio- tibial band, and joins the insertion of the vastus externus at its attachment to the patella : it guides the patella outwards when the joint is bent. The inner baud, of slight strength, is fixed to the patella lower than the other, and unites with the insertion of the inner vastus. Directions. The flaps of skin which were removed from the front of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and nerves, are to be now stitched together to keep moist the subjacent parts ; and the saphenous opening is to be learnt. The SAPHENOUS OPENING in the fascia lata (fig. 54, /, p. 137), is an oval aperture, which is situate rather internal to tlie middle line of the thigh. It measures about half an inch in width, and one inch and a half in length. Its upper extremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that structure aljout one inch and a half, and presents (when dissected) a well-defined margin. Internally, the saphenous opening has not any distinct margin, for the membrane here (called the jjK&tc imiion of the fascia lata) is continued outwards over the subjacent muscle (pectineus), and behind the femoral vessels, to form the back of the crural sheath. Externally, the fascia lata (iliac inrtion) forms a semilunar border, when detached, the concavity of which is turned downwards andANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. inwards. This edge is named from its shape the falciform margin of the saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns); it is superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the cribriform fascia. Traced upwards, the whicli .juins outer edge blends with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of ij,Va',nc"t Poupart's ligament) : and the upper end of this border, where it is n„fi forms internal to the subjacent femoral vein, has been named the femoral femoral T , ligament; iujament. The rigidity of the margin of the opening is much influenced by tenseness oi the position of the limb : for with the finger beneath the upper part varies'"*'''" of the falciform border, while the thigh is moved in different directions, this band will be perceived to be most unyielding when the limb is extended and rotated outwards, and most relaxed when the thigh is bent and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower cornu of the opening the saphenous vein is Parts transmitted ; and through the upper part, close to the falciform tiir'ou'ih'the edge, a femoral hernia projects. Lymphatics and one or two super- opening, ficial arteries also jiass through it. PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. To understand the anatomy of a hernial protrusion in the thigh, Anatumy the dissector has to study the undermentioned parts, viz., the crural he™,"'"'"' arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath with its crural canal and ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the tbigb and the abdomen. Dissection (fig. 56). To examine Poupart's ligament and the Disseciion membranous sheath round the femoral vessels, the piece of the "f.eatT"'' fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards " by the following incisions :—One cut is to be begun near the upper end of the falciform border, and to be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel with and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termina- tion of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. AVhen the triangular piece of fascia marked out by those incisions lias been raised and turned inwards, and the fat removed, the tube on the vessels (crural sheath) will be brought into view a.s it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the crural sheath is to be separated carefully from Poupart's ligament in front, and from Gimbernat'.s ligament on the inner side. Poiqxirt's ligament ov the crural arch_{{\g. 66, c) is the firm band CiwaUrch:/^^oa^ of the aponeuiusis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, attach- f' f'. . which .stretches from the front of the iliac crest to the pubis, """"'y,/- , . When viewed on the surface the arch is curved downwards towards '''"™' '^"^-^'^^r the limb, so long as the fascia lata remains on the thigh. The , ■ /^rtfcr- outer half is oblique. But the inner half is almost hori/.ontfil, ^. and widens as it approaches the pubis, where it is inserted into (Sftic-bed., . the pubic spine and pectineal line of the hip-bone, forming Gim- (S oCTa'^t^/6rx^^,, bernat's ligament (fig. 97, p. 263).DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 144 parts closiiiR hollow beneath. The sjDace between the criu'cil arcli and the hip-bone is Lii'ger in the female than in the male, and is closed liy parts passing from tlie abdomen to the thigh. The outer half of the inter\al is filled by the ]2^3wi^ auclj]iaci^miiscles, bet^^^^ is the anterior crural nerve, while the external cutaneous ner\-e lies on the iliacus near the anterior sujieriotiliac spine : in this part Poupart's liga- ment is closely bound down to the nuiscle by its attachment to the iliac fascia. The iimer half is occupied by the femoral vessels and Fig. 56.—Disseotiun op the Crdral Sheath (iLLnsTRAiioNS of Dissections). A. Iliac part of the fascia lata, reflected. B. Cniral sheath, opened. 0. Poupart's ligament. D. Fascia lata of the thigh in jjlaoc. J. Two septa dividing the space of the crural sheath into three com- partments. Vessels : vein, enclosed in the crural sheath with c, a lymphatic gland. d. Superficial circumflex iliac. c. Superficial pudic. /. Saphenous vein. Nerves : 1. Genito-crural. 2. Ilio-inguinal. a. Femoral artery, and b, femoral 4. External cutaneous. their slieath, with the upper end of the pectineus muscle ; the ^|-iiva1 by.iuch of the genito-crural nerve issues on Ifhe nutpr side of ^thejirtery. Giiuberimt's Gimbcmat^s ligament, or the piece of the tendon of the external ligament: oij^jq^ie muscle which is inserted into the pectineal line, is about tliree-fourths of an inch in length, and is triangular in shape (fig. 97). Its apex is at the pubic spine : while its base is in contivcl with the crural sheath, and is joined by the faleifonn ligament of the fascia latfi. By one margin (anterior) it is continuous with the crural form and relations.THE CRURAL SHEATH. 145 arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal. The crural ot: femoral slieath (fig. 5G, b) is a loose tube of mem- Cnu-ai brane around the femoral vessels. It has the form of a fuimel, sloped unequally on the sides. The wide part of the tube is up- ^'^"''^ wards ; and the narrow part ceases about two inches below Poupart's relations: ligament, by blending with the common areolar sheath of the blood- vessels. Its outer border is nearly_ptrai<Tbt,, and is pprFnrntpil hy the genjto-crural nerve ('). Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by lymphatics, superficial vessels, and the saphenous vein (/); this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is connected to the falciform margin and the cribriform fascia. In front of the crural sheath is the iliac part of the fascia lata. The sheath is continuous with the fasciae of the abdomen and jhow formed, thigh in this way. The anterior part is a prolongation under Poupart's ligament of the transversalis fascia lining the anterior \ abdominal wall; and the posterior part is formed externally by the iliac fascia covering the psoas muscle, and internally by the pubic part of the fascia lata covering the pectineus. Crossing the front of the sheath, beneath the arch of Poupart's Deep crural ligament, Ls a fibrous band, the deep criiral arch, which will be noticed later on in the description of the transversalis fascia. Dissection (fig. 56). The student is to now open the crural Open the sheath by an incision across the front, and to raise the anterior part sheath, with hooks. Inside the tube are contained the femoral vessels, each surrounded by its covering of areolar tissue, together with an inguinal gland ; and if a piece of the areolar casing be cut out over Vessels have both the artery and the vein, there will be an appearance of two sheath, thin partitions, the one being situate on the injier side of the vein, separating this vessel from the gland, and the other (J) between the vein and the artery. Interior of the crural sheath. The sheath is said to be divided Contents into three compartments by two partitions ; and the position of sheatT^ the so-called septa has been before referred to—one being internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compartment is contained the femoral artery (a), lying Space close to the side of the sheath; in the middle one is placed the three'^f femoral vein (6) ; and in the inner space {crural canal) only a lymphatic gland (c) is situated. The crural canal (fig. 56) is the innermost space in the interior the inner is of the crural sheath :—Its length is about a third of an inch, and ca?,^™™^ it reaches from the base of Gimbernat's ligament to the upper comu of the saphenous opening. It decreases rapidly in size from above down, and is closed below. The aperture by which the space com- municates with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural rimj. In front of the canal are Poupart's ligament and the upper end ports of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening ; while behind it is the pectineus muscle. On the outer side of the canal, but within the sheath, is the femoral vein. Tlirough this channel the intestine passes from the abdomen in femoral hernia. D.A.DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. 146 Crural ring situation aiul form ; bounilaries. Crural seiitum; Femoral hernia : delinitioii; first vertical, next forwards, and then upwards. How it is" to be pushed back. The cniml ring is the upper opening of the crural canal. It is on a level witli the base of Gimbernal's ligament, and is larger in the female than in the male. Oval in shape, its greatest measure- ment is from side to side, in which direction it equals about half an inch ; and it is filled by a lymphatic gland. The structures around the ring are the superficial and the deep crural arch in front, and the pubis covered by the pectineus muscle behind. Internally is Gimbernat's ligament mth the conjoined tendon; and externally (but within the sheath) is the femoral vein. Septum crurale. That part of the subperitoneal fatty layer which is placed over the abdominal entrance to this crural canal has been named crural septum from its position between the thigh and abdomen. The situation of the septum is now visible, but its characters will be ascertained in the dissection of the abdomen. Femoral Hernia. In this kind of hernia there is a protrusion of intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. And the gut descends in the crural sheath, being placed on the inner side of tlie vein. Course. At first the intestine takes a vertical direction in its progress from the abdomen, and passes through the crural ring, and along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it changes its course, and is directed forwards to the surface of the thigh, where it becomes elongated transversely ; and shoidd the gut protrude still farther, the tumour ascends on the abdomen, in consequence of the resistance being less in this direction than on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia may suggest to the dissector the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the in- testine in the abdominal cavity. With the view of making the bowel retrace its course, it will be necessary, if the protrusion is small, to direct it backwards and upwards ; but if the hernia is large, it must be pressed down first to the saphenous opening, and afterwards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. During the manipulation to return the intestine to its cavity, the thigh is to be raised and rotated inwards, in order that the margin of the saphenous opening and the other structures may be relaxed. Scarpa's triangular space. Triangular space. This hollow is situate on the front of the thigh, and lies beneatli the superficial depression seen near Poupart's ligament. Dissection (fig. 57, p. 147). The sjjace will appear on remov- ing the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected, and the muscle on the outer side (sartorius) should be fixed in jdace with stitches. Afterwards the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away ; and the femoral vessels are to be followed downwards as far a.s the sartorius .seek iitrve.s, muscle. On the outer side of the vessels cle<in the divisions of the Clean out Scarpa's space, Follow vessels,SCARPA'S TRIANGULAR SPACE. 147 anterior crural nerve wliicli lie immediately external to the artery, togetlier with the branches of a deep branch of the artery (profunda femoris) which are buried in the fat. In removing the fat from f."^" Fia. -Dissection op Scarpa's Triangular Space (Illustrations OF Dissections). Muscles : A. Sartorius (unusually largo in this dissection). B. Iliacus. 0. Tensor fasciss latoe. D. Rectus femoris. E. Pectineus. F. Adductor longus. o. Gracilis. Vessels : a. Common femoral artery. b. Superficial circumflex iliac. c. Superficial epigastric. e. Superficial external pudic. /. Deep circumflex iliac. g. Deep epigastric. h. Femoral vein. i. Inferior external pudic vein. k. Internal saphenous vein. Nerves: The large anterior crural is close outside the artery. 2. OfTset to the pectineus. 3. Middle cutaneous. 4. Internal cutaneous. 5. Genito-crural. 6. External cutaneous. behind the femoral artery, the student is to laokfor one or two small nerves to the pectineus muscle, which pass inwards about an. inch below Poupart'a 1ify.amH.Tit. Scarpa's TRiANaLE (fig. 57) is an intermuscular .space containing Contents; h 2148 DISSECTION OF THK THIGH. extent;, base and sides : roof and floor. the trunks of the blood-vessels of the thigh, and the anterior crural nerve, witli lymphatics and fat. It extends commonly over the upper third of the thigh ; but the length varies with the breadth ot the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses inwards. The Imse of the space is at Poupart's ligament; externally it is bounded by the inner border of the .sartorius ; and intemaUy by the iim^yjordpy of the ndductor longus. Towards the surface it is covered by the fascia lata, and by the integuments with inguinal glands and superficial vessels. The floor slopes backwards on each side towards the middle of the space; it is constructed externally, where it is of small extent, by the conjoined psoas and iHacus (b) ; and internaU^Jjy^ the pectjneus andadductor longus muscles (e and ¥\ between and b^hTiiI^EE7 near the large vessels^aj;mfll1_pi-oPQ of the afj(-]]^tor brevis. The femoral artery runs through the deepest part of the hollow, lyiDg_slightly outside the cgntre_of the space, and supplies small cutaneous offsets, as well as a large deep branch, the profunda ; and a small offset (external pudic) is directed from it to the scrotum across the inner boundary. On the inner side of the artery and close to it is placed the femoral vein, which is here joined by the saphenous and profunda branches. About a third of an inch external to the vessel is situate the large anterior crural nerve which lies deeply at first between the iliacus and psoas, but after- wards becomes more superficial and divides into branches. Deep lymphatics accompany the femoral vessels, and are continued into the iliac glands in the abdomen; they are joined by the superficial lymphatics. Femoeal A.RTERY (fig. 57 and fig. 59, p. 153) This vessel is a continuation of the external iliac, and extends from the lower border of Poupart's ligament to the opening in the adductor magnus muscle ; at that spot it passes into the ham, and takes the name of course; popliteal. Occupying three-fourths of the length of the thigh, the course of the vessel will be indicated, durhig rotation outwards of ^it^ knee-joint half bent, by a line_ drawn from a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior _su£ei;ior iliac spine, to the prominent tuberosity of tbp innpr r.nndyip of the femur.. In the upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, and is comparatively supei-ficial, being un- covered by muscle ; but lower down it is placed along the iimer side of the shaft of that bone, and is beneatli the sartorius muscle. This difference in its relations allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two portions, an upper, superficial, and a lower, deep. The upper part of tlic artery (fig. 57, or), which is now laid bare, is contained in Scarpa's triangular space, and is from three to four inches long. Its position in that hollow may be ascertained by the line before mentioned, relations to Encased at first in the crural sheath for about two inches, it is around; covered by the skin and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia Position of femoral artery ; of vein: of anterior crural nen'e. Lymphatics. Femoral artery: extent; position to femur and parts around ; division into two. Superficial ]iortion:UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. 149 lata and some inguinal glands. At its beginning the artery rests on the psoas muscle; and it is subsecjuently placed over the pectineus (e), though at some distance from the muscle in this position of the limb, and separated from it by fat, and the profunda and femoral veins. Its companion vein (h) is on the inner side and close to it at the position of pubis, but is placed behind the artery lower do\vn. The anterior crural nerve lies on the onter side, being distant nerves, about a third of an inch near Poupart's ligament; and the internjtl jiuiaugons branch of the nerve lies over the artery alongthe edge the sartorius. Crossing beneath the vessels is thenerve of ""t"E"e" pectineus (^). Unusual position. A few examples of transference of the main artery of Unusual the limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In Po^i'tio"- tliese cases the ves.sel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatlc foramen, and accomimnied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. The BKANCHES of the artery in Scarpa's triangle are the superficial Branches:— epigastric and circumHe.x iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous ofl'sets have been seen (p. 138), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The deep external pudic artery (fig. 57, e) arises separately from, An external or in common with, the other pudic branch. It courses inwards o\-er the pectineus muscle, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to end in the scrotum or labium pudendi, according to the sex : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perineal artery. The portion of the artery above the origin of the deep femoral is called the coimoN femoral, and the part below is styled the SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL to distinguish it from the deep. The DEEP FEMORAL ARTERY or the profunda femoris {^ig. 59,'^) Profmula: ' ''^'■is'^s Ximmjlie outer sjda_ji£jJi£._aui]LnioxLiiimQral trun)c from one or two inches below Poupart's ligament. Its distribution is to the o'-iiii", muscles of the thigh, and will be afterwards followed. In the ?'"!, 1'°'*'","" present di.ssection it may be seen to lie ^r thejliacus muscle, tdangb^ where _it_gixes the external circumflex arterylo the outer paiT'of the thigh ; and "then to turn, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the superficial femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb. Variation in origin. Tlio origin of the profunda may approach nearer to ""t;'" f l-oupart s ligament until it arrives opposite that band ; or may even go beyond, y'ade." and reach the external iliac artery (one example, R. Quain). And the branch may recede farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunkal the distance of four inches from the commencement; but in this casgjhejnrcumflex branches usually arise s^ijarat^ly from the temoral. In applyuig aligature to the temoraTaftery'iu the upper p'ai^^ of the "thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order olfset ^^^"^ <='iosen may be free from the disturbing iulliience of so large an Femoral vein (fig. 57, h). The principal vein of the limb, Femoral while in Scarpa's triangle, has almost the same relative anatomy S \n.idn the artery,150 DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. as tlie artery, and is similarly named ; its position to that vessel, however, is not the same throughout. Benesith Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on tlie .same level, and is supported on the pubis Ijetween the psoas and pectineiLs nftcvwaids nmscles; but it soon winds behind the artery, and is plnr.ed ^^'""^ M'^Pffl tiTiP. iiinin t,rim1^. n.iirl its rlpcp .l,.ivnick In this space it receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral veins, and a small branch running with the deep external pudic artery. DEEP PARTS OP THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. Muscles on tlie front of the thigli. Vessels. Nerve. Take the fascia from the front of the tlii''h. Follow out sartorius, and lix it, and pre- serve nerves in contact with it. Dissect the adductors. and clean the extensor nuiscle. Dissect tensor of fascia. The muscles on the front of the tliigh are to be learnt next: they are the sartorius and the extensor of the knee ; and at the upper end of the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. Four muscles are combined in the extensor, viz., rectus, crureus, vastus externus, and vastus internus. The external circumflex branch of the profunda artery lies amongst the muscles and supplies them with l)ranches ; and a' large nerve, the anterior crural, furnishes offsets to them. Dissection. To proceed with the deep dissection, the limb is to be retained in the same position as before, and the flaps of skin on the front of the thigh are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee-joint the student is to note its attiichment to the edges of the patella, and its imion with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the knee. In raising the inner piece of the fascia, the narrow sartorius muscle should be followed to its insertion into the tibia ; and to prevent its displacement it should be fixed with stitches along both edges. Care should be taken of the small nerves in contact with the sartorius, viz., a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh from the saphenous, internal cutaneous and obturator; two branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle—one crossing the surf;ice, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle; and the trunk of the long saphenous nerve escaping from beneath it near the knee, with the ijateUar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Internal to the siirtorius some strong muscles (adductors) are inclined downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay liare the fore part of these muscles (Kg. 58) ; and Ijeneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorius, he is to seek a lirancli of the oliturator nerve to the plexus Iiefore mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the sartorius is tlie large extensor of the knee, in cleaning which the knee is to be bent, to make tense the fibi-es. The smaller muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh (tensor fascite femoris) is also to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, cori'esponding with the width of the muscle, should be leftTHE FRONT OF THE THIGH. 151 along the outer aspect of the limb. Ai'ter this slip has been isolated, the rest of the fascia on the outer side of the thigh is to be divided Fio. 68.—Sl'rfaoe View op the Front op the Thigh, iiik Integuments AND Fascia Lata being removed (Illustrations oe Dissections). Musdca: A. Sartorius. B. Iliaous. 0. Tensor fascina femoris. D. Rectu.s foiiioris. E. Vastus internus. ¥. Pectincus. G. Adductor longus. n. (Jracilis. I. Tendon of sartorius. Vessels: a. Femoral artery. 6. Femoral vein, c. Internal saphenous vein. by one or two transverse cuts, and is to be followed backwards to its insertion into the femur.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 152 Hartoi'ius: origin; course over tlie thigh ; insertion; relations of the first or obliqne portion, of the middle, and of the lower part; use, the limb free, and fixed; standing on one leg. Divide the sartorius, show apo- neurosis, and dissect the nerves The SARTORIUS (fig. 58, a), is the longest muscle in the body, and extends from the pelvis to the leg. It arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensor on the one side, and the adductors on the other. ' Its origin is tendinous from the upper anterior iliac spinous process of the hip-bone, and from aliout half the interval between this and the inferior process (fig. 47, p. 113). The fibres constitute a riband-like muscle, which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is iiiserted into the inner surface of the tibia (fig. 68, p. 179) —mainly into a slight depression by the side of the tubercle for an inch and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. From the lower part of the tendon also is an extension into the fascia of the leg. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle ; it rests on the following muscles (fig. 58) ; iliacus (b), rectus (d), and adductor longus (g), as well as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle portion is vertical, and lies in a hollow between the vastus internus (e) and the adductor muscles, as low as the opening for the femoral artery ; but beyond that aperture, where it bounds the popliteal space, it is placed between the vastus with the great adductor in front, and the gracilis (h) with the inner hamstrings behind. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by the middle portion of the muscle. The lower tendi- nous part (I) rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, being superficial to the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synoWal bursa : from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion to join that from the extensor over the knee; and from its lower border is given ofi' another which blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the long saphenous nerve appears vnth vessels; and piercing it is the patellar branch of the same nerve. Action. The tibia and femur being free to move, the muscle bends the knee and hip-joints over which it passes, giving rise to rotation inwards of the tibia, and outwards of the femur. With the limbs fixed, the two muscles will assist in bringing forwards the pelvis in stooj)ing; and when standing on one leg the muscle will help to rotate the body, so as to turn the face to the opijosite side. Dissection (fig. 59). The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of the femoral artery. Beneiith the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles ; this is thin above, and when it is diWded the long, or interna], saphenous nerve will come into view. Parallel to the saphenous nerve above, but outside it, is the nerve to the va.stus interims muscle, which sends an ofiiset on the surface of the vastus to the knee-joint: the latter may be traced now, lest it should beTHE FEMORAL VESSELS. destroyed afterwards. The plexus of nerve.s on the inner side of the thigh may be more completely dissected at this stage. 1. Superficial femoral ai-tcry. 2. Deep femoral artery. 3. Internal circumflex artery. 4. External circumflex artery. 5. Superficial circumflex iliac artery. 6. Deep external putlic artery. 7. Lower part of the aponeurosis over the femoral artery. 8. Anterior crural nerve. 9. Pcotineus muscle. 10. Adductor longus. 11. Gracilis. 12. Vastus internus. 13. Koctus femoris. 14. Sartorius, in part removed.154 DISSECTION OV THE THIGH. and vessels. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be carefully cleaned. Where the superficial femoral artery ]3asses to the back of the limb its small anastomotic Ijranch arises : this branch is to Ije pursued throng] 1 the fibres of the vastus internus, and in front of the adduc- tor maguus tendon, to the knee ; an offset of it is to be followed with the saj)henous nerve. The aponeurotic covering of the femoral vessels (fig. 59, 7) exists where they are covered by the sartorius. It is tliin above ; but below it is formed of strong fibres, which are directed transversely between the vastus internus on the outer side and the tendons of the adductor muscles beliind and to the inner side. Inferiorly, this membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the long sajDhenous nerve and the anastomotic vessels escape. The SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL ARTERY (fig. 59, i) beneath the sartorius muscle lies in a hollow between the muscles covered by the aponeu- rotic expansion just described, until it reaches the opening in the adductor magnus. The passage, thus formed, in which the artery lies, is called Hunter's canal. Beneath the artery are the pectmeus and the adductor bre\is in part, the adductor longus, and a small piece of the adductor magnus. On the outer side is the vastus internus. The vein lies close to the artery, on its posterior and outer aspect; and in the integuments oftentimes an offset of the saphenous passes across the line of the arterial trunk. Lying along the front of the artery is the long saphenous nerve, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. Tlie femoral Splitting of the artery. Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two ^rteij may below the origin of the profunda ; but in all the cases that have been met with, the branches have united again above the opening in the adductor muscle. Aponeurosis over the fenior.ll .irtery ends below by a free border. Femoral iU'teiy ill Hunter's canal; relations; position of veins and saphenous nerve. Anasto- motic : superficial, and deep part. Branches:— Branches. One named branch—anastomotic, and muscular offsets, spring from this part of the artery. The anastomotic branch (fig. 62, h, p.l65) arises close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and divides at once into two branches, superficial and deep :— The superficial branch (n) continues with the saphenous nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deejJ branch (l) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internns, and descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal artery. A branch IJasses outwards from it in the substance of the vastus muscle, and forms an arch at the uj^j^er border of the patella with an offset of the superior external articular artery. Muscular branches. Branches for the sujjply of the muscles come mostly from the outer side of the superficial femoral artery ; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and tlie adductor longus. Muscular branches.THE QUADHICBPS KXTBKSOR CRURIS. 155 Tlie SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL VEIN Corresponds closely with the Supeinciai femonil artery in it.s relations and its branches. win"™' Dissection. The superficial femoral artery and vein are to be To expose cut across just below the origin of the profunda, and are to be of th'o thrown downwards preparatory to the deeper dissection. After- femur. ^\•ards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural uerve. Unless this dissection is fully carried out, the npj)er l^art of the vastus internus and crureus •will not be prepared for examination. The TENSOR FASCIiE FEMORIS S. FASCI.E LAT^ (fig. 62, L, p. 165) Tensor occupies the upper third of the thigh. It takes oriyin from the femoris front of the crest of the ilium at the outer aspect, from the anterior arises from superior spine and from the edge of the notch between thi.s and the i''^'^ '": inferior spine as far as the attachment of the sartorius (fig. 4 7, p. 113). Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata about three inches below, umU in and rather in front of the line of, the great trochanter of the femur. '^'^^"'^■ At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and parts the gluteus medius. Beneath it are the ascending ofl'sets of the ex- ' tcrnal circumflex artery; and a branch of the superior gluteal nen'e enters its under surface. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Action. Supposing the limb moveable the muscle abducts the use on thigh, and may help in rotating inwards the femur. When the limb is fixed it will support the pelvis, and assist in on pelvis; balancing the latter on the femur in walking. The chief function of the tensor vaginae femoris is, however, to on knee, act with the gluteus maximus in tightening the ilio-tibial band so as to support the extended knee. Dissection. After the tensor has been learnt, the slip of fascia Cut through extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; and when it is fascK^I'"' detached from the muscles around, the rectus may be followed upwards to its origin from the pelvis. The QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS COnsists of four parts or Gre.it exteu- heads, one long or superficial {rectus), which springs from the pelvis, and three short or deep {vastus internus, crureus, and vastus extenius) which arise from the femur : all are united below in a common tendon. The RECTUS FEMORIS (fig. 59, '3) gives rise to a fleshy promi- Rectus im.s nence on the front of the thigh. It arises from the pelvis by two ori'Mi'i^at tendhious heads ; one, the anterior, is attached to the anterior pelvis; inferior iliac spine ; and the other, posterior, is fixed to a rough mark on the outer surface of the ilium close above the acetabulum 47, p. 11.3) : near their origin they join to form a single tendon, insertion The fleshy fil.res terminate below in another tendon, which joins the !'"° ^""V aponeuroses of tlie other muscles m the common tendon. The rectus is larger in the middle than at the ends ; and its fibres '^''pennf'* are directed from the centre to the sides, giving rise to the condition 'o"''"> aid caUed penniform. Its upper end is covered by the tensor fascire except""' above.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 1S6 Cut the rectus, and display thi'ee deep heads of extensor: deliue vastus externus; separate ei-ureus and vastus internus, beginning below, and expos- ing bare surface of bone. Vastus externus is thin at the origin; ends in common tendon : parts in contact with the surfaces. Vastus internus arises from femur and adductor tendons: femoris, iliacus, and eartorius ; but in the rest of its extent it is superfiuial. It conceals l;)ranche.9 of the external circunitiex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the crureus and vasti. The ui^per tendon of the rectus reaches farthest on the anterior surface ; Avhile the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect of the muscle. Dissection. To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus near the lower end and raise it without injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath (fig. 59). The muscular mass eo\ ering the shaft of the femur is to be thoroughly cleaned, and its three l^arts defined in the following way :— The division between the vastus externus on the outer side and the crureus in front is readily made in the situation of some vessels and nerves, which descend along the anterior border of tlie vastus externus. To separate the vastus internus from the crureus, the lower end of the rectus must be turned do^vn as far as possible, when a cleft will be evident in the subjacent tendon above the inner part of the patella. From this interval the di\'ision may be easily carried upwards between the two muscles, but at the upper end some fleshy filjres generally need cutting to complete the separation. If the vastus internus be turned inwards off the crureus, a large part of the inner surface of the femur wiU be seen to be fi-ee from muscular attachment. The VASTUS EXTERNUS has a narrow attachment to the femur in comparison with its size (fig. 60, and fig. 61, p. 158). It takes origin from the upper half of the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch thick, which is attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter; then along the outer side of the gluteal ridge, and the upper half of the linea aspera; and lastly from the contiguous external inter- muscular septum. Inferiorly most of the fibres of the muscle end in a flat tendon, which blends with those of the other portions in the common tendon, but the lowest fibres of all are inserted directly into the outer border of the patella. The vastus externus is the largest part of the quadriceps, and produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is partly covered by the rectus, tensor vagina3 femoris, and gluteus maximus muscles. The deep surface rests on the cnireus, and receives branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS (figs. 58, E, p. 151) also ha.s a narrow origin from the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line and from the inner surface of the femur (figs. 60 and 61) along the linea aspera, from the upper jaart of the internal supra-condylar ridge, and, in the lower half of the thigh, from the front of the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus. The fibres join an aponeurosis which blends in the common tendon, and is also attached directly to the inner margin of the patella reaching lower tlian the \"astus extei'iius.THE QUADRICKPS EXTENSOR CRURIS. 167 The muscular mass is in part covered by the sartorius and rectus, forms but it projects Ijetweeu those muscles lielow. Some of the, lower ai'jove'kuep fibres are almost transverse, and will lie able to draw the jiatella inwards. The CRURKUS arises from the upper three-fourths of the anterior Crureus has and outer surfaces of the femur, except where tliey are occupied by oVigh'i''; Glutmis minimns, N'astiiH externiis. Pyrifoniiis. Obturator interims ami seniolli. .\nterior intcr-trocliaiiteric line, llio-p.soa.s. Va.stus intenms. D of O Popliteus. Subcvureus, Fia. 60.—The Femur prom the Front. the va.stus extenuis (figs. 60 and 61), and from the lower half of the external inter-uiuscular septum. Its fibres end, like the other commnn parts, in an aponeurosis which enters into the common tendon. enduis: The rectus and vasti cover the crureus except for a small extent at its lower and hinder part. It lies upon the bone and the sub- is deepest crureus muscle. part of all. The common or suprajHitellar tendon resulting from the union of common the foregoing is attached to the fore part of the upper border of the patella, it is oblong in shape, and about three inches long. A fewDISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 158 fibres are prolonged over the front of the bone into the ligamentum patellaj below, which forms the continuation of the tendon. Between Sub-crureal the suprapatellar tendon and the femur there is a bursa, which usually opens into the knee-joint. Lay bare Dissectioil. Tosee the continuation of the extensor tendon and its insertion into the tibia, the student should cUvide along the middle Obturator exteriuhs. part below knee. Quadratus fomoris, Ilio psoas. Pectineus. Vastus internus. Adductor brevis. Adductor longus, Criu'eus Vastus internus, Adductor magnus. Gastrocnemius / Ii"'"!-Jiead. I. Outer head. Gluteus mediua. Gluteus maximus. Vastus externus. Crureus. Vastus externus. Biceps (femoral head). ■Plantaris. Fig. 61.—The Fkmur from Behind. line of the patella and knee-joint a thin aijoneurotic Ifiyer, which is derived from the lower fibres of the muscles and covei-s the joint. On reflecting inwards and outwards the fibrous laj'er, the tendon will be exposed. lufrapa- The infrapatellar tendon, or ligamenlum jMtellai, is about two [n.'ertefi"into i'^'^'^'^^ long, and is narrower and thicker than the part above the tubercle of knee. It extends from the lower margin of the patella to the ' tubercle of the tibia ; and a bur-sa separates it from the bone above its insertion.159 EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY. From the lower part of the vasti muscles a superficial aponeurotic ejcpansion expansion is derived: this prolongation, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule in front of the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Subcncrem muscle. Beneath the crureus, near the knee-joint, is a Small sub- thin layer of pale fibres, which is but a part of the large muscle, "ulcla separated from the rest by areolar tissue. Attached to the femur in enJa on the the lower fourth, and often by an outer and inner slip, it ends in synovial aponeurotic fibres on the synovial sac of the knee-joint. Action. All parts of the quadriceps extend the Icnee-joint when Use with the tibia is moveable; and the rectus can flex the hip-joint over which it passes. The fleshy bellies are.strong enough to break the patella transversely over the end of the femur, or to rupture some- times the common tendon. With the tibia as the fixed point the vasti will bring forwards the with tibia femur, and straighten the knee, as in rising from the stooping posture and in jumping. The rectus also will stay the pelvis on the femur, or assist in moving it forwards in stooping. The subcrureus draws upwards the pouch of synovial membrane how snb- above the patella in extension of the knee. acts''"^ Iktermoscolar septa. The processes of the fascia lata, which Jntenims- limit the extensor muscle laterally, are named external and internal, cuiar septa and are fixed to the linea aspera and the lines leading to the condyles '"'^ 'wo: of the femur. The external septim is the stronger, and reaches from the insertion the outer of the gluteus maximus to the outer condyle of the femur. It is stronger- situate between the vastus externus and crureus on the one side, and the short head of the biceps on the other, to all of which it gives origin : it is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external articular vessels and nerve. The inner partition is very thm along the side of the vastus the inner is internus; and its place is supplied by the strong tendon of the adductor magnus between the inner condyle and the linea aspera. The EXTERNAL CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY (fig. 59,\ p. 153) is the chief External vessel for the supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It artery usually arises from the outer side of the deep femoral artery, but often from the common trunk. It is directed outwards through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the divides into sartorius and rectus muscles, and supplies offsets to those muscles. Its terminal branches are ascending, transverse, and descending :— The ascending branch is directed beneath the tensor, fascijs ascending, femoris to the outer side of the hip, where it anastomoses with the gluteal artery, and supplies the contiguous muscles. The transverse branch, the smallest, divides into two or throe transverse, which enter the vastus exteriuis, and anastomose with the per- forating arteries. The descending branch is the largest, and ends in pieces which are de- distributed to the crureus and vastus externus muscles. One con- branci.cs siderable branch descends to the knee along the anterior border of160 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Anterior crural nerve divides into two parts. From its snperllcial part arise— middle cutaneous ; internal cutaneous, which lias anterior and posterior branches; nerve to pectineus; branches to sartorius. The deep part gives off branches to rectus, to vastus extemus, to crureus. and to vastus intemus: the vastus extemus muscle in company with the nerve to the same and anastomoses with the iipper external articular arteiy ; a small offset courses over tlie muscle with a nerve to the joint. The ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE (fig. 59) derived from parts of the second, third and fourth lumbar nerves supplies the muscles, and most of the integuments of the front of the thigh, and the integuments of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves the abdomen and enters the thigh immediately external to the common femoral artery it is flattened, and is divided into superficial and deep divisions. A. The SUPERFICIAL DIVISION gives off the middle and internal cutaneous nerves, and branches to the sartorius and pectineus muscles. The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and extends to the knee (p. 141). The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more smaU twi^s through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper two-thirds of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into anterior and posterior branches. Sometimes these branches arise separately from the anterior crural trunk. The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the kuee. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments (p. 141). The -posterior branch remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee. While underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator, and nearer the knee, with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The nerve to the pectineus (fig. 57,^, p. 147) is slender, and is directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the anterior surface of the muscle : sometimes there are two branches. Two or three branches to the sartorius arise in common with the middle cutaneous nerve. B. The DEEP DIVISION of the anterior crural nerve furnishes branches to the several heads of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and one cutaneous nerve—the long, or internal, saphenous. The branch to the rectus enters the deep surface of the muscle ; from this branch a twig is sent to the hip-joint. The nerve to the vastus externum divides into two or more parts as it enters the muscle. From one of these an articular filament is often continued do-miwards to the knee-joint. Two or tliree branches to the crureus pass into the anterior surface of the muscle ; and from the most internal a long twig descends to the subcrureus and the kuee-joint. The nerve to the vastus intemus (fig. 62,*, p. 165) is nearly as large as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper end of the vastus it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued as far as the middle of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the kuee-joint.ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 161 Ite articular branch (fig. 62, ") is prolonged on or in llie vastus, and on the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it is distributed over the synovial membrane of the articulation. This small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery. The internal or long saphenous nerve (fig. 59, p. 153) is the largest 'o"K branch of the anterior crural. In the thigh the nerve takes the iierve,"°"^ course of the deep blood-vessels, and is continued along the artery, beneath the aponeurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nerve passes from beneath the aponeurosis, and is prolonged under the sartorius muscle to the upper part of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous. It supplies two offsets while it is beneath the fascia in the thigh. A cominur:icating branch arises about the middle of the thigh, which has a and crosses inwards beneath the sartorius to join in the plexus of the internal cutaneous and obturator nerves, or with the internal cutaneous nearer the knee : this branch is often absent. The patellar branch springs fi "om the nerve near the knee-joint, and a ]ia- and jjerforating the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the integument over the knee (p. 141). A branch of the superior gluteal nerve (p. 117) to the deep Nerve of surface of the tensor fascifB femoris may be followed at this stage te"sor nearly to tlie lower end of the muscle. femoris. Directions. After the examination of the muscles of the front Tai;c next of the thigh, with their vessels and nerves, the student is to learn tors"'^''"'^ the adductor muscles, and the vessels and nerves which belong to them. ' communi- cating Section II. THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The muscles in this position are the three adductors,—longus, ihe addue- brevis, and magnus, with the gracilis and pectineus. These have muscles the following position with respect to one another:—Internal to all, and their and the longest, is the gracilis. Superficial to the others are the P°^''''°"- pectineus and the adductor longus; and beneath the last two are the short adductor and the adductor magnus. In connection with these muscles, and supplying them, are the vessels and profunda femoris artery with the accompanying vein, and the °<="'^- obturator nerve. Dissection. For the preparation of the muscles, the investing Dissection fascia and tissue are to be taken away ; and the two superficial of adductor adductors are to be separated from one another. Let the student '""sclcs. be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve in connection with the muscles, viz., those entering the fleshy fibres, and one issuing beneath the adductor longus, to join the plexus at the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the Re„iovo profunda artery and its branches, they must be removed. veins. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 62, c, p. 165), Gracilis and is fleshy and riband-like above, but tendinous below. The takes origin from the "■^ M pelvis;162 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. is inserted into tibia; position to otlier muscles ; use on knee joint and femur; on pelvis. Pectineus: origin from pubis; inserted into femur; relations of surfaces, and borders; use on femur, free and fixed. Adductor longus ex- tends from pelvis to femur ; relations to muscles and vessels; imiscle arises by a thin aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, from the pubic border of the hip-bone close to the iiiurgin, viz.' opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch (fig. 47, p. 113). Inferiorly it is inserted by a iiat tendon, about one-third of an inch wide, into the inner surface of the til)ia, beneath and close to the sartorius (fig. 68, p. 179). The muscle is superficial throughout. For two-thirds of the thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and inagnus, so as to have its borders directed forwards and backwards ; and in the lower third it intervenes between the sartorius and seniiraem- branosus muscles, and helps to form the inner boundary of the popliteal space. At its insertion the tendon is nearer the knee than that of the semitendinosus, though at the same depth from the surface, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament; from the tendon an ex23ansion is continued to tlie fascia of the leg, like the sartorius. A bursa separates the tendon from the internal lateral ligament, and projects above it under the sartorius. Action. It bends the knee-joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating inwards that bone, and then brings the movable femur towards the middle line with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground, the gracilis will aid in staying the pelvis on the limb. The PECTINEUS (fig. 58, p, p. 151) is the highest of the muscles directed from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line, and slightly from the surface in front of that line (fig. 47) ; and it is inserted by a thin tendon, about two inches in width, into the femur behind the small trochanter, and into the ujjper part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera (fig. 61, p. 158). One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia lata ; and the femoral vessels lie over its lower part: the opposite surface touches the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and the superficial portion of the obturator nerve. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the adductor longus; and the internal circumflex ^'essels pass between its outer border and the psoa-s. Action. It adducts the limb and bends the hip-joint, "mien the femur is fixed it can support the pelvis in standing ; or it can draw forwards the pehds in stooping. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS Hes below the pectineus (fig. 58, g), and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the front of the pubis in the angle lietween the crest and the sympliysis (fig. 47) ; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera, blending with the insertion of the subjacent adductors (fig. 61). This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pectineus, and forms ])art of the floor of Scarpa's triangle. Its anterior surface is covered near tlie femur by the femoral A'essels and tlie .sartorius ; the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on the superficial part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep femoral artery. The163 ADDUCTOR BREVIS MUSCLE. tendon of insertion is closely united to the cadductor mugiiu.s and vastus internus. Action. With the femur movahle, it will Hex the hip-joint, and usd on with the aid of the other adductors will carry inwards tlie limb, so as to cross the thigh-bones. In walking it helj^s the other adductors to project the limb. AVith the femur fixed, the muscle holds and tilts forwards the pelvis, on pnivis. Dissection. The adductor brevis muscle, with the obturator Dis.secliou nerve and the profunda \-essels, will be arrived at by refiecting the two last muscles (fig. 62, p. 165). On cutting through thepectineus accessory near the jjubis and throwing it down, the dissector may find occa- sionally the small accessory ner\'e of the obturator, which turns beneath the outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip- joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor cut adduc- longus is then to l)e divided near its origin, and raised with care, so l"''g"« as not to destroy the branches of the obturator nerve beneath : its tendon of insertion also is to be detached from that of the adductor magnus beneath it, to see the In-anches of the profunda artery. Now the adductor brevis will be laid Ijare. A part of the to .show obturator nerve crosses over this muscle to the femoral artery, and «fi<iuctor sends an offset to the plexu.s at the inner side of the thigh ; and ^"^"""^' a deeper part of the same nerve lies beneath the muscle. The muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus whereon the deep branch of the nerve lies. In this last step of the tiace dissection, the student should follow the slender articular branch obturator of the obturator nerve through the fibres of the adductor magnus and bkmci, (p. 130). toknee- The ficcessoTij ohluTdtov nei'VB (Schmidt) is derived from the trunk & of the obturator, near its origin, and jiasses from the abdomen over obturatOT the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh it turns beneath the pectineus, and joins the superficial branch of the obturator nerve ; it supplies an offset to the hip-joint with the articular artery, and occasionally one to the under-surface of the pectineus. The ADDUCTOR BREVIS (fig. 62, d) has a Heshy and tendinous Adductor ongi7i, about one inch and a half in depth, from the front of the pubis below the adductor longus, and close outside the gracilis origlnT"' (fig. 47). It is inserted, behind the pectineus, into all the line and wide at leading from the linea aspera to the small trochanter (fig. 61). insertion. In front of the muscle are the pectineus and the adductor p„ts in longu!3, with the superficial part of the obturator nerve, and the front, profunda artery ; but it is gradually uncovered by the adductor longus below, and the contiguous parts of the muscles are blended at their insertion into the femur. Behind the muscle is the adductor bei.ind magnus, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve and a branch of the internal cii-cumflex artery. In contact wth the upper border and at upper lies the obturator extemus (f), and the internal circumflex artei'y passes between the two. Actio)i. This muscle add nets the limb with slight flexion of the Use, hip-joint, like the pectineus. And if it acts from the femur it wll balance and move forwards the pelvis. ' M 2DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 1G4 Obturator nerve is rlivijed into two. The super- ficial part ends on femoral artery, and .joins plexus in the thigh; branches are to hip-joint, muscular to adductors. Deep part of the nerve ends in adductor magnus and gives branch to knee-joint. Dissect profunda. Profunda artery : origin, course, and ending parts around. The OBTURATOR NERVE (fig. 62,1) jg derived from portions of the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, and .supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as well as the hip and knee-joints. The ner\'e issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and it divides in that opening into two parts, which are named superficial and deep, from their jjosition with respect to the adductor brevis niu.scle. A. The superficial jyart (2) of the nerve is directed over the adductor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus, to the femoral artery, on which it is distributed : at the lower border of the last muscle it furnishes an offset or two, joining in a plexns with the internal cutaneons and saphenous nen'es (p. 141), and often helping to supply the integuments.* In the aperture of exit, this piece of the nerve sends outwards an articular twig to the hip-joint. Muscular branches from this superficial part are furnished to the pectineus (sometimes), adductors longus and brevis, and the gracilis. B. The deep part {^) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis, is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it:—• Miiscular branches enter the obturator exteruus as the nerve pierces it; others are furnished to the large, and sometimes to the short adductor. A slender articular hranch (fig. 62,°) enters the fibres of the adductor magnus, and passes through this near the linea aspera to reach the popliteal artery, by which it has been seen that it is conducted to the back of the knee-joint. Dissection. To prepare the profunda artery and its branches, as far as they are to be seen on the front of the thigh, it ■noil be requisite to follow back the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the per- forating branches to the apertures in the adductors near the femur. The DEEP FEMORAL (fig. 62, c) is the chief muscular artery of the thigh, and arises from the common femoral about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. At its origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent trunk ; but it is soon directed inwards beneath the superficial femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur, and ends at the lower third of the thigh in a small Ijranch that pierces the adductor magnus. In Scarpa's triangle the vessel lies at fii-st on the iliacus muscle. On the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the superficial femoral artery, though deeper in position ; and it is placed first over the pectineus and adductor brevis, and thence to its termination between the adductus longus and magnus. * In some bodies Hie superficial part of tlie nerve is of large size and has a distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, the place of which it lakes : in such instances it joins freely in the plexus.ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. 1(55 Fig. 62.—Dkkp Dissection op THE Aduuctor Muscles, WITH THEIR Vessels and Nerves (Illustbations op Dissections). Muscles: A. Adductor longiis, cut. B. Pectineus, cut. c. Gracilis. D. Adductor brevis. E. Adductor magnus. P. Obdurator externus. Q. Semimembranosus, n. Vastus iiiternus. K. Rectus femoris. L. Tensor fasciiB latiE. N. Piece of the aartorius. 0. Iliacus. Psoas. Vessels : Femoral artery, and b. Femoral vein. p. a C. Trunk of tlio pro- funda. d. Internal, and c, e.x- ternal circumflex. /. First, (J, second, and A, third perforat- ing. i. Muscular of the pro- funda. k. Ana.stomotic of the femoral, with I, its deep, and n, its superficial branch. Nerves : 1. Obturator, joined by the accessory ob- turator nerve, with 2, the superficial, and 4, the deep part. 3. Cutaneous branch of the obturator. 5. Articular branch to the knee from tlie deep part. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Internal .saphenous, and 10, its patellar branch. 8. Nerve to the vastus internus, and 9, its articular branch to the knee.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 16(5 Branches to imisc-les of tlie tliij;h join Ireely. Its BRANCHES iire numerous to the suiTounding muscles on the front and back of tlie tlu<,'h, and maintain frt other vessels of the thit External circninllex. Inti'riial circumHex ends on back of tliigh ; supplies liip joint and muscles. Three per- forating branches: first: second; third and the ending is a fourth. Anasto- motic branches. "Profunda vein. Cut tlirough adductor brevls. ee anastomoses with _h ; through these communications the blood finds Its way to the lower part of the limb when the chief artery IS obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The named hmnches are these :— 1. The external circumflex artery (fig. 62, e) has been described in the dissection of the i^rts on the front of the thigh (p. 159). 2. The internal circumflex artery (Hg. 62, d) arises from the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, but above the adductor brevis. Opposite the small trochanter it ends in ascending and transverse branches, M-hich have been seen in the disisection of the buttock (p. 123). It also supplies offsets on the inner side of the thigh, viz. : An articular artery which enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum ; and two muscular branches at the border of the adductor brevis ;—one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles : the other, which is larger, descends with the deep division of the obturator nerve beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. 3. The ixrforating arteries, three in number, pierce the ten- dons of some of the adductor muscles close to the linea aspera of the femur : they supply muscles on the back of the thigh, and wind round the bone to end in the vastus externus and crureus (p. 133). The first (fig. 62, /) begins opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short and great adductors. The second (g) arises below the middle of the adductor brevis, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding. The third (h) springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. From the second or third perforating vessel a medullary artery is supplied to the femur. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces the adductor magnus near the aperture for the femoral artery. 4. Muscular or anastomotic branches {i) to the back of the thigh (three or four in number) pass through the adductor magnus at some distance from the linea aspera, and end in a chain of anasto- moses in the hamstrings (p. 134). The PROFUNDA VEIN results from the union of the different branches corresponding with the offsets of its comijanion artery. It accompanies closely the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, and ends above in the common femoral vein. Dissection. To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz., adductor magnus, obturator externus, and the insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through near the pelvis, and thrown down. Then the investing layer of ftiscia and areolar tissue is to be removed from each muscle. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, def.ach a few of its upper fibres to examine the obturator externus.167 ADDUCTOR MAGNUS MUSCLE. The ADDUCTOR MAGNUS (fig. 62, e) is triangular in form, witli Ackiuctor its base directed upwards, one side being attached to the femur, and '""y""* '• the other free at the inner sitle of the tliigh. The muscle arises from the conjoined rami of the pubis and oiife'in is ischium along their inner margin, and from the lower impression on tlie ischial tuberosity (fig. 47, p. 113). The anterior fibres diverge iJivcrRo to from their origin, being horizontal above but more oblique below, ^jj^^j'' ''"str- and are inserted into the back of the femur, from above downwards, ^Q„^'g hein" along the inner side of the gluteal ridge, into the linea a.spera, and iioiizontai, into the internal supracondylar line for about an inch (tig. 61, 2>. 158). The posterior fibres, from the ischial tuberosity, are vertical in direction, and end at the lower third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, surrounding the adductor tubercle, and is connected by a fibrous e.\pansion to the lower part of the internal supracondylar line. The muscle consists of two parts, which diflTer in their characters, and form The anterior (pubic), thin and fleshy, forms a septum between tlie other adductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the posterior {ischial) piece, partly fleshy and jiartly tendinous, con- stitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface are the other two adductors and the pectineus, with the Rektions of obturator nerve and the profunda vessels. The posterior surface touches the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In and borders, contact with the upper border are the obturator e.xternus and the quadratus femoris, with the transverse branch of the internal cir- cumflex vessels ; and along the inner border Ke the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the muscle is closely united with the other adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and in its lowest part with the vastus internus. Near the bone it is pierced by apertures for the p;issage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Action. This muscle is a powerful adductor ; and the part arising Use on from the tuberosity is also an e.xtensor of the hip. In standing, the ' '. latter part of the muscle, acting from the femur, has an important "'"°' intluence in steadying the hip-joint; and in walking, the great and '" ^™"^'"g- other adductors co-operate with the gluteal muscles externally, to support the pelvis on the fixed limb. The 02)ening in the adductor for the transmission of the superficial Opening for femoral vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous at the anterior, ""^ ™sseis; but Heshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the junction of the upjjer three-fourths with the lowest fourth of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded Ijy the vastus internus ; and on the inside by boundaries, the tendon of the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. , The PSOAS and iliacus (fig. 62) arise separately in the abdomen, Psoas and but are united in the thigh, the conjoined portion of the muscles ui'^thigh: lying beneath Poupart's ligament. The psoas (p) is inserted by insertion ' tendon into tlie small trochanter of the femur; and the fie.shy'"t-" f"'""'': iliacus (o) mainly joins the tendon of the psoas, but a few of its168 DISSECTION OP THE THIGH. parts aroimd; Obturator externus origin; insertion. The adduc- tors cover it; and it touclies hip-joint. Use. Detach obturator. Obturator artery divides into two: inner, and outer branch. Branches of the nerve. fibres are fixed into a special triangular surface of bone in front of and below tlie trochanter (fig. 61). These muscles occupy the interval beneatli Poupart's ligament between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous process ; and below the pelvis the mass covers the capsule ol tlie hip-joint, a large bursa intervening. On the front of the psoas is the common femoral artery, and between the two miLscles lies the anterior crural nerve. The pectineiis and the internal circumflex vessels are contiguous to the inner border, and the sartonus and vastus internus touch the outer edge. Action. These muscles act as flexors of the hip-joiut; and the use of the psoas on the spinal column will be given with the description of the muscle in the abdomen. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 62, f) is triangular in form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origi7i from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the inner half, and from the bony circumference of the thyroid foramen for a corresponding extent,—the bony attachment being an inch wide opposite the Ijody of the pubis, and reaching inwards to the adductor brevis and maguus (fig. 47, p. 113). The fibres are directed backwards and outwards to he inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, and adductor brevis and magnus. It covers the obturator membrane and vessels, and is pierced by the deep part of the obturator nerve. As it winds Ijack it is in contact with the lower surface of the hip-joiut. The insertion of the muscle has been seen in the dissection of the l3uttock (p. 123). Action. The muscle is an external rotator of the thigh, and to a slight extent an adductor and flexor of the hiij-joiiit. Dissection. By detaching the obturator muscle from the pelvis, the branches of the artery of the same name will be seen beneath its fibres. The deep part of the nerve may be followed Ijack to the foramen at the same time. A better ^dew will be obtained if this dissection is deferred till after the limb is removed. The OBTURATOR ARTERY is a branch of the internal iliac within the pelvis, and enters the thigh through the top of the thyroid foramen. In the aperture the artery diWdes into two branches, which form a circle on the obturator membrane ben&ith the muscle :— The internal branch runs along the inner half of the membrane, and furnishes offsets to the obturator externus and the upper ends of the adductor muscles. The external branch descends close to the outer edge of the foramen, and after giving a branch inwards to join the loAver end of the preceding, is continued to the ischial tuberosity and the muscles arising therefrom. Offsets pass to both obturator muscles ; and an articular twig is given to the hip-joint. The nerves to the obturator e.xternus come from the deep por- tion of the obturator, and enter the posterior surface of the muscle.THE HIP-JOINT. 169 Section III. THE HIP-JOINT. Dissection. The cajisiile of the hip-joiut should now be cleaned. Cut through the iliacus and psoas below Poupart's ligament, and turn them down. In doing so a large bursa will be opened which Biu-sa under facilitates the movement of these muscles over the front of the joint. Sometimes it will be found that this bursa communicates with the joint cavity through a thin part in the front of the capsule (fig. 63). The rectus femoris, the sartorius, the tensor fascire femoris, and the gluteus minimus should be cleared from the joint, and the front, outer, and inner parts of the capsule cleaned, as has already been done at the back. The intimate connection of the reflected Pnbo-femor.il ligament. Origin of lectus femoris. Tliin part of capsule, .sometimes pev- forated. Upper portion of ilio- femoral ligament. Intermediate portion of capsule, some- times thin. Lower portion of ilio-femoral liga- ment. Fig. 63.—Anterior Aspect op Hip-joiht. head of the rectus and of the insertion of the gluteus minimus ■\vith the adjacent part of the capsule will be noticed. The Hip-joint. This articulation is a ball and socket joint, the Hip-joint, head of the femur being received into the acetabulum of the hip- bone. Connecting the bones are the following ligaments :—one to "ea- deepen the receiving cavity, which is named cotyloid; another between the articular surfaces of the bones—the inUrarticular; and a capsule around all. In the capsule itself the student has to define a wide thick part Define its in front, and a transverse baud near the neck of the femur behind, Ubres.DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 170 Caijsule: attjichinents above and below; tliickness varies. Ilio-fenioral ligament: attach- ments ; division and use. Pubo- femoral band. Thin part of capsule. Circular band at back of capsule: Muscles around. The capsular ligament (Hg. 63) is a thick filn-ou.s ca.se, which eiiclose.s the head and tlie greater part of tlie neck of the femur. Its upper margin i,s atUiclied to tlie circumference of the acetabulum clo.se to the edge, a.s well a.s to a transverse ligamentous hand over the notch at the lower part of the cavity. Its lower margin is inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric line ; behind, by a very thin piece, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter and the posterior intertro- chanteric line (fig. 64) ; and above, into the neck near the great trochanter. The capsule differs much in strength and in the arrangement of the fibres at the fore and hinder parts. On the front it is strengthened by a broad and thick layer of longitudinal fibres—the ilio-femoral ligament (fig. 63). This is- fi.xed above, where it is about an inch broad, to the lower part of the anterior inferior iliac spine and to a rough mark continued backwards therefrom on the outer surface of the ilium immediately above the acetabulum below the reflected head of rectus muscle. Becoming wider below, it is inserted into the whole length of the anterior intertrochanteric line ; and its fibres generally form two stronger bands (fig. 63), which are attached at the upper and lower ends respectively of the intertrochanteric line, with a thinner part in the middle. From this arrangement the name of the Y-shaped ligament has also been given to it. From its position, the ilio-femoral ligament will arrest extension of the joint; and when the femur is fixed in standing it will support the pelvis. At the inner and fore part of the joint is a much smaller band, which extends from the prominent portion of the pubis internal to the acetabulum to the lower end of the anterior intertrochanteric line, and is named the jmbo-femoral ligament (fig. 63). Between the ilio-femoral and pubo-femoral ligaments, near the hip-bone, the capsule is thin, and sometimes presents an open- ing, through which the bursa under the ilio-psoas communicates with the joint-cavity. At the back of the capsule is a band of transverse fibres (zonular band) (fig. 64, h), about half an inch wide, which arches like a collar over the neck of the femur. By its lower edge it is united to the bone by a thin layer (c) of fibrous tissue and synovial mem- brane ; at the upper edge it is joined by the longitudinal cajisular fibres (a). It gives insertion to the longitudinal fibres of the capsule, and prevents that restriction of the swinging movement which would result from their insertion into the hinder jjart of the neck. At the lower part of the cajisule is another thickening (the ischio- capsular band), which passes from the ischium below the acetiibuliim into the lower and liack part of the ciipsule. Posteriorly the joint is covered by the obturator internus and gemelli muscles, and anteriorly by the rectus femoris and ilio- l^soas. Aliove is the gluteus minimus, the tendon of A^■hicll is united to the capsule ; and below* is the obturator externus.LIGAMENTS OP HIP-JOINT. 171 Dissection (fig. 65, p. I73). The capsular ligament is now to Cut open Ijii divided over the prominence of the head of the femur, and this •'"I'snie. lionc being disarticulated luit not detached, the cotyloid and inter- articular ligaments inside it will appear. The interarticular or round Defiuoroumi ligament is attached to the acetabuhun by two pieces ; and to bring these into view, the synovial membrane and areolar tissue must be removed. The transverse ligament over the notch is also to be defined. The cotyloid ligament is a narrow band of fibro-cartilage, which is Cotyloid fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is prolonged across the "sameut notch below, so as to form part of the transverse ligament. Its fibres are not continued around the acetabulum, but are fi.xed to the attached margin of tlie cavity, and cross one another in the band. It is acetabulum; Fig. 64.—Hinder Paut of the Capsule of the Hip-joint. a. Longitudinal fibres. 4. Zonular baud. c. Thin piece attached to the neck of the femur about half-way down. thickest at its attachment to the bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free margin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This ligament fills up the hollows in the rim of the acetaliulum, use. deepens the socket for the femur, and makes a fle.xible margin to the cavity, which can yield slightly when the neck of the femur is pre.ssed against it. The transverse ligament bridges acrcss the notch in the lower and Transverse inner part of the margin of the acetdjulum. It consists partly of "eament. deep special filjres which are attached to the margins of the notch, and partly of a sujierficial bundle from the cotyloid liga- ment Beneath it is an aperture by which vessels and nervesDISSECTION OF THE THIGH, 172 Rouud ligament: shape and attach- ments ; how to see its action : loose in extension; tight in flexion with adduction or rotation outwards. Synovial membrane. Detach the limb. Articular .surface of femur. Acetabu- lum cartila- ginous extenially. Fat in the bottom. Kinds of motion. enter the acetabulum to supply the synovial memhrane and the fat in the bottom of that hollow. The interarticular ligament (ligamentuni tevea, fig. 65, 6) is a band about an inch long, but of very variable thickness, which connects the head of the femur with the hip-bone. The ligament has a triangular form, the ape.v of the triangle being ti.xed to the pit on the head of the femur, and the base joining the transverse ligament. The free sides of the triangle are formed by two fibrous bundles, an anterior or pubic (c), which is attached with the trans- verse ligament to the pubic edge of the cotyloid notch, and a posterior or ischial (d), which is stronger, and is inserted beneath the transverse ligament into the ischial border of the notch. To see the condition of the interarticular ligament in the different movements of the joint, it should be examined in a specimen in which the capsule is entire, and the floor of the acetabulum has been cut out with a chisel from inside the pehds. During extension of the joint the ligament is relaxed ; and it cannot be tightened so long as the fully extended position is maintained. In flexion of the joint the ligament is rendered somewhat tighter ; but it is only fully stretched when, with the joint bent, the femur is adducted or rotated outwards : the pubic fasciculus of the band is especially tightened by the adduction, and the ischial slip by the outward rotation. A synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is continued along the neck of the femur to the margin of the articular surface. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation ; and it surroimds the ligamentmu teres. Dissection. To see the surface of the acetabulum, the lower limb is to be separated from the trunk by di^dding the interarticular ligament, and by cutting through any parts that connect it to the pelvis, and at this stage the pelvic attachments of the interarticular ligament can be better displayed. Surfaces of hone. The articular surfaces of the bones are not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the femur is a pit into which the roimd ligament is inserted. The acetabulum is coated with cartilage at its circumference, except opposite the cotyloid notch, and touches the head of the femur by this part: this articular surface is deep above, but gradually decreases towards the edges of the notch. In the hollow of the cartilage, and close to the notch, is a ma&s of fat, covering about one-third of the area of the cotyloid cavity, which constitutes the " gland of Havers" : it conimuniaites with. the fat of the thigh beneiith the transverse ligament. Movements. In tliis ball and socket joint, there are the same kinds of movement as in the shoulder, viz., flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, circumduction and rotation, but aU of them, with the exception of flexion, are of a much more limited extent.MOVEMENTS OF HIP-JOTNT. Flexion and extension. In the swinging movement flexion is freer Swinging than extension, the tliigh being callable of such elevation as to touch the belly. While swinging, the liead of the femur revolves in the bottom motion of of the acetabulum, rotating around a horizontal axis ; and the femu"^ rapidity and extent of the movements do not endanger the security of the joint, the head of the bone not having any tendency to escape. In extension the strong ilio-femoral ligament (the inner band checks to especially) is tightened, and stops the movement. Flexion is not ™°^""^''"*'' naturally arrested by the ligaments of the joint, but by the meeting of the soft parts of the thigh and abdomen. In ahcluctionAwAacldnctionihe. femnr is removed from, or brought Lateral towards, the middle line of the body, and, of the two, abduction is "'o^''""«nt = the more exten.sive. In both stiites the head moves in the opposite direction to the motion of shaft. Thus, as the femur is abducted, the head descends, and a ''i>«''ead; great part of the articular surface projects below the acetabulum; and when the limb is raised to its utmost, the upper edge of the neck meets the edge of the socket, so as to prevent further motion. As the Innb descends and approaches the other, the head rises inDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 174 state of the ligaments. Di.slocation in lateral movements. Circum- duction. Rotation: inward.?, and outwai-ds. Examine attachment of muscles. the socket of the joint, and is securely lodged, finally, in the deepest part of the cavity. In abduction, the pubo-femoral ligament and lower jiart of the capsule are tightened over the projecting head of the femur, the upper part being relaxed. And in adduction, the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is rendered tense and arrests the movement. Dislocation may take place in both these lateral movements, the edge of the cotyloid cavity serving as the fulcrum, on which the femur can be lifted out of the hollow, and particularly in abduc- tion with some flexion, for there the head of the femur is against the thin under-part of the capsule. In circumduction, the four kinds of angular motion above noticed take i)lace in succession, viz., flexion, abduction, extension, and adduction ; and the limb describes a cone, the base of which is at the foot, and the apex at the centre of the head of the femur. This movement is less free than in the shoulder-joint. There are two kinds of rotation, internal and external ; in the former, the great toe is turned in ; and in the latter it is moved outwards. In rotation inwards, the head of the femur glides backwaixls horizontally across the acetabulum, the great trochanter coming forwards ; and the shaft of the bone revolves around a line internal to it, which passes from the centre of the head to the inner condyle. During this movement the posterior half of the capsule is put on the stretch, and the anterior is relaxed. In rotation outwards, the head of the bone turns forwards in the cotyloid cavity, and the great trochanter is brought backwards. The outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is tightened and checks the movement. Dissection. After the limb is removed, the attachments of all the muscles in the thigh are again to be examined carefidly before the dissection of the leg is undertaken. The muscles should not be removed from the femur, but about two inches of each left attached to the bone. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Siu-faee Directions. Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the student marking. ghould make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the promi- nences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with tlie markings which indicate the position of the larger vessels. In the leg Prominences of hone. The bones of the leg can be traced l)eneath .siiperi^dar ^^"^ hom the knee to the ankle-joint. At tlie inner and fore part is the tibia, wliicli is subcutaneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp edge. Above, it jiresents in front a prominent tuliercle into which the ligament of the175 SDPERFICIAL MARKINGS OK LEG. patella is inserted ; and on eacli side of this the tuberosities of the bone are superficial. The internal tuberosity is a uniform rounded 25romineuce ; Init the external forms a marked projection at the outer and fore jiart of the knee. Below, the tibia ends on the inner side of the ankle in the internal malleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difficulty in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone and iiio may be recognised Ijelow the knee ; and the lower end forms the jjj^^^'" malleolus on the outer side of the ankle-joint. At the sides of the ankle are the prominent malleoli, the external AnUie-ioint. being nearer to the heel ; and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus can be felt lielow the tibia. Muscles mid vessels of the lecj. On the back of the leg is the swell B(!liiii(i aro of the calf: this is formed by the gastrocnemius and soleus ^fgfa,',!''" muscles, and therefrom descends the firm band of the tendo tendo Achillis, by which those muscles are connected with the heel, ^chillis. Between the tendon and the edge of the tibia, but nearer the former, is placed the superficial part of the posterior tibial artery, vessels. In front, between the tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the Line of ankle and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial'"' tibial artery lies deeply, and the i)osition of the vessel is indicated a'-teiy. by a line from a point midway between the head of the fibula and the projection of the external tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the ankle-joint. Prominences of the foot. At the inner border of the foot, about Inner an inch and a half in front of the internal malleolus, is the tim'foo"^ tubero.sity of the navicular bone ; while one inch and a half further forwards is a slight depression marking the articidation between the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal Ijone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of the foot is the tuberosity of the Onter fifth metatarsal bone. A line along the dorsum of the foot, from the centre of the ankle-joint to the interval between the inner two Artery, toes, will lie over the position of the main artery. Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by Position of blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order ""^ that the muscles on the front of the leg may lie put on the stretch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the skin from the ^>^}^« tlie front of the leg and foot, one incision .should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected Ijy cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and Seek the nerves are to be looked for. At tlie up])er and inner part of the "en-es^n" leg are some filaments from the gi'eat saphenous ner\'e ; and at the the'leg outer side others, still smaller, from the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, the nuisculo-cut^meous nerve will be found, the branches of which should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally on ti,e foot in the saphenous veins. On the outer side below the malleolus '"'V and nerves;]76 DISSECTION OP THE LEG. clean the fascia. Cutaneous veins: internal saphenous; external saphenous. Source of the cutane- ous nerves. Musculo- cutaneous supplies most of the toes; divide.s into inner and lies the external saphenous nerve ; and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenou.s nerve ceases. In the interval between the great and second toes the cut.aneou8 part of the anterior tibial nerve appears. The digital nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments ; and after the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fa.scia may be seen. The VENOUS ARCH on the dorsum of the foot has its convexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. Internally and externally it passes into the saphenous veins. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in the arch. It ascends in front of the inner malleolus along the inner side of the tibia into the thigh. Branches enter it from the inner border and sole of the foot. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins on the outside of the little toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch ; and it is continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 187). Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 66). The superficial nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived mainly from the musculo - cutaneous and anterior tibial branches of the external popliteal trunk, and from the external saphenous nerve from the two popliteals. Some incon- siderable offsets ramify on the front of the leg from the internal saphenous and external popliteal. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (2) ends on the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg with a cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, excejit the outer part of the little toe and the contiguous sides of the great toe and tlie next. The branches maj' be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx :— The i)tner branch (^) sends one offset to the inner side of tha foot and great toe, and another to the adjacent sides of tCte scQOud Fig. 66. — Cdtaneous Nerves of the Fkont OF THE Leg and Foot. 1. Anterior tibial. 2. Musculo - cutaneou.s, with 3, its inner, and 4, its outer branch. 5. Internal saphenous. 6. Offsets of external popliteal, lateral cuta- neous.177 CUTANEOUS NERVES ON THE FllONT OF THE LEG. iiiul third toes : it coinimiuiccites with tlie interiuil saphenous and the canterior tihial nerves. The outer branch (*) also divides into two nerves ; these lie over outer the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the contiguous sides of the three toes corresponding with those siJaces : it communicates with the e.xternal saphenous nerve on the outer border of the foot. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (i) becomes cutaneous in the first Anterior interosseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the f™^,',' great toe and the next. The muscido-cutaneous nerve communi- cates with it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 71, p. 188) COmes from External the Ijack of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe ; all the outer margin of the foot receives nerves from it, and the offsets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it supplies both sides of the little toe and part of the next, joining with the outer branch of the musculo-cutaneous. Internal saphenous nerve (fig. 66, '"). This nerve is con- internal tinued along the vein of the same name to tlie middle of the instep, sap'ienou.s. where it ceases mostly in the integuments, but some branches pass through the deep fascia to end in the tarsus. The DEEP fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the Deep fascia knee-joint, where it gives origin to muscles. On the inner side it is "'^ ''^s; fi.\ed to the anterior border of the tibia ; but externally it is continued intemus- round to the back of the leg. A strong intermuscular septum is cuiarsepta; sent in from the deep surface to the anterior border of the fibula, separating the anterior and external muscles : and another weaker process passes backwards in the upper third of the leg between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum. Above, the fascia is connected to the heads of the leg-bones; and below, it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below the ankle-joint it is strengthened by some transverse transverse fibres, and gives rise to the two parts of the anterior '^^ ^'^^ anmdar ligament; and below the end of the fibula it forms another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. The fascia is to be removed from the front of the Take away leg and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened bands of the annular ligament (fig. 67) above and below the end of the tibia are to be left. In separating the fascia from the subjacent muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles leave liga- on the outer side of the fil)ula, but without destroyincr the band "'""'"'"^ (external annular ligament) below that bone. ° "" On the dorsum of the foot, the dorsal vessels (fig. 70, p. 183) clean With their nerve are to be displayed, and the tendons of the short "^S""*^ and long extensors of the toes are to be traced to the ends of the digits. In the leg, the muscles are to be cleaned and separated roni one another, and the anterior tibial nerve and vessels are to be followed from the dorsum into their intermuscular space, and KDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 178 Anterior anmiliir ligament : upper, horizoutal band, lower, Y-shaped band ; sheaths differ in each. External annular ligament. Muscles on the front of the leg and foot. Tibialis anticus: origin; insertion ; are tlien to be cleaned as liigh as the knee, as they lie deeijly between the muscles. The ANTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT (fig. 67 and fig. 70, p. 183) consi,sts of two pieces, upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position, the former serving to bind the fleshy bellies to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot. The upper part (horizontal hand) is above the level of the ankle- joint and is attached laterally to the bones of the leg; it possesses one sheath with synovial membrane for the tibialis auticus. The lower part is situate in front of the tarsal bones. It is attached externally by a narrow piece into the upper surface of the OS calcis, in front of the interosseous ligament; and internally it is thm and widened, having a variously defined thickening at its upper part where it passes to the internal malleolus, and another below where it blends with the fascia on the inner side of the foot; the latter in this place being deep to the tibialis auticus tendon. In view of its single stem externally and the two diverging thicken- ings internally, this portion of the anterior annular ligament is often called the Y-slmped band. Beneath this part of the liga- ment there are the three sheaths: an inner one for the tibialis anticus ; an outer for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius; and an intermediate one for the extensor hallucis. Separate synovial membranes line the sheaths. The EXTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT is i3laced below the fibula, and is attached on the one side to the outer malleolus, and on the other to the os calcis. Its lower edge is connected by fibrous tissue to the sheaths of the peronei muscles on the outer side of the os calcis. It contains the two lateral peronei muscles in one com- partment ; and this is lined by a synovial membrane, which sends two offsets below into the separate sheaths of the tendons. The Muscles on the Front of the Leg (fig. 67 and fig. 69, p. 181) are four in number. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus; that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum ; while a small muscle, apparently the lower end of the last with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone, is the peroneus tertius. The muscle between the tibialis and extensor digi- torum, in the lower part of the leg, is the extensor proprius hallucis. On the dorsum of the foot only one other muscle appears, the extensor brevis digitorum. The TIBIALIS ANTICUS reaches the tarsus : it is thick and fleshy in the upper, but tendinous in the lower part of the leg. It arises from the outer tuberosity, and the upper half of the external surface of the tibia (fig. 68) ; from the contiguous part of the interosseous membrane ; and from the fascia of the leg, and the intermuscular septum between it and the extensor longus digitorum. Its tendon begins below the middle of the leg, and passes beneath both pieces of the annular ligament, where it is surrounded by a synovial sheath, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe.179 MUSCLES ON THE FRONT OP THE LEG. The muscle is subaponeurotic. It lies at first outside the tibia, parts in resting on the interosseous menibraue ; but it is then placed : successively over the end of the tibia, the ankle-joint, and the inner tareal bones. On its outer side are the e.\tensor muscles of the toes, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Action. Supposing the foot not fi.\ed, the tibialis bends the usu on the ankle, and raises the inner border of the foot. Peroneus tertius. Tendon of i)eroneus longus. Tendon of peroneus ■ brevis. Tendons of extensor - loiigns digitorum. Biceps Anterior • annular ligament. Extensor expansions.- Extensor longus digitorum. Sartorius. Gracilis. Semitendinosus. Tibialis posticus. Extensor longu.s Imllucis. Fio. 6".—Muscles on the Front op the Leo. FiQ. 68.—The Tibfa and Fibula FROM THE FkONT. If the foot is fixed, it can, with the tibialis posticus, lift the inner and fixed border and support the foot on the outer edge. If the tibia is slanting backward.s, as when the advanced li„,b o" «'« reaches the ground in walking, it can bring forwards and make'""""""'' steady tliat bone. The EXTENSOR PROPEius HALLUCIs is deeply placed at its oriein ,''^''t«"«or between the former muscle and the extensor longtts digitorum, but haif^l^is; Its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot The muscle arises from the middle two-fourths of the narrow anterior N 2DISSECTION OP THE LEG. 180 origin from tibula insertion to groat toe ; it crosses the vessels ; use on great toe; on tibia. Extensor longus digitonmi : arises from tibia and fibula; inserted into four outer toes ; arrange- ment of the tendons on the toes ; relations of the muscle : use on toes and ankle ; on tibia. Peroneus tertius : origin; insertion ; surface of the fibula (fig. 68), and from the interosseous ineniLrane for the same distance. At the ankle it ends in a tendon, which comes to the surface through a sheath in the lower piece of the annular ligament, and continues over the tarsus to he imerted into the base of the last jjlialanx of tlie great toe. The anterior tibial vessels lie on the inner side of the muscle at its origin, but afterwards on the outer side of its tendon, so that they are crossed by it in. the lower third of the leg. Action. It straightens the great toe by extending the phalangeal joints, and afterwards bends the ankle. When the foot is fixed on the ground and the tibia slants back- wards, the muscle can draw forwards that bone. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM Is fleshy in the leg, and tendi- nous on the foot, like the other muscles. Its origin is from the head, and tipper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula, from the external tuberosity of the tibia (fig. 68), from about an inch of the upper part of the interosseous membrane, and from the fascia of the leg and the iutermuscitlar septum on each side of it. The tendon enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and di\n.des into four pieces. Below the ligament these slips are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges in the following manner. On the first phalanx the tendons of the long and short extensor join with prolongations from the inter- ossei and lumbricales to form an aponeurosis; but there is no tendon from the short extensor to the expansion on the little toe. At the distal end of the first phalanx the aponeurosis is divided into three parts—a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, and the lateral parts unite at the front of the middle, and are fixed into the last phalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peronei on the one side, and the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius hallucis on the other. It lies on the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle-joint. In the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum ; and the vessels and nerve are internal to them. Action. The muscle extends the four outer toes, acting mainly on the metatarso-phalangeal joints ; it can also bend the ankle-joint. If the tibia is inclined back, as when the foot reaches the ground in walking, it will be moved forwards by tliis and the other muscles on the front of the leg. The PERONEUS TERTIUS is situate below the extensor longus digi- torum, with which it is united. It arises from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the filnila (fig. 68), from the lower end of the interosseous membrane, and from the intermtiscidar septum between it and the peroneus brevis muscle ; it is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe on the upper surface near its inner border. This muscle has the same relations in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same .space in the annular ligament.ANTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. 1 Action. The muscle assists the tibialis anticus in bending the ankle; but it difiers from that muscle in raising the outer bolder with peronei. Anterior tibial aitei-y. Fig. 69.-DISSECTION ok the Fkont of the Leo (Quain's Arteries). 1. Tibialis anticus .nusclc. 3. Part of the anterior annular ^. Jixtensor halhieis and e.ttensor ligament longus digitonim drawn aside. 4. Anterior tibial artery: the nerve outside it is the anterior tibial. of the foot, and thus helps the other peronei in producing the move- ment of evei-sion. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (f.g. 69) extends from the bifur- Anterior cation ot the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle-joint At ^Jlt. this spot It becomes the dorsal artery of the foot ^"182 DISSECTION OF THE LKG. coui'sii and extent ; direction ; relations to parts aronnd : position of veins and nerve; brandies: - Muscular. Cutaneous. Recurrent. Superior fibular. Malleolar: internal and external. Dorsal artery: extent and course; relations; The course of tlie artery is forwards through the aperture in the upi^er part of the interosseous lueuibrane, along the front of that membrane, and over the tibia to the foot. A line drawn along the front of the leg from a point midway between the projection of the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle wUl mark the position of the vessel. For a short distance (about two inches) the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum ; afterwards it is placed between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius hallucis as far as the lower third of the leg, where the last muscle becomes superficial and crosses over the vessel to its inner side. The vessel rests on the interosseous membrane in two-thirds of its extent, being overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguoTis muscles, so that it is at some depth from the surface ; but it is placed in front of the tibia and the ankle-joint in the lower third, and is there comparatively superficial between the tendons of the muscles. Vena2 comites entwine around the artery, covering it very closely with cross branches in the upper part. The anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels from the outer side in the upper third of the leg, and continues with them, lying along their anterior as^ject to their lower end, where it is again on the outer side. Branches. In its course along the front of the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes Jiumerous muscular and cutaneous brandies; and near the knee and ankle the following named branches take origin :—• a. The anterior tibial recurrent artery is given off as soon as the vessel appears through the interosseous membrane, and ascend- ing through the tibialis anticus, ramifies over the outer tuberosity of the tibia, where it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. 6. The superior fibular branch runs u^jwards through the highest part of the extensor longus digitorum to the superior tibio-fiVuilar articulation, to which, with the neighbouring parts, it is dis- tributed. c. Malleolar branches (internal and external) arise near the ankle- joint, and are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the smaller, and less constant in origin ; it anastomoses with twigs of the posterior tibial artery. The external communi- cates with the anterior peroneal artery (fig. 70), which comes through from the back between the tibia and fibula just above the lower tibio-fibular articulation and will be found to be one of the terminal branches of the peroneal artery (p. 196). The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (fig. 70) IS the Continuation of the anterior til)ia], and extends from the front of the ankle-joint to the upper part of the first interosseous space : at this interval it passes downwards between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to end in tlie sole, where it will be subsequently exajnined (p. 208). The artery resta on the inner part of the tarsus, viz., the astra- galus, the navicular, and middle cuneiform bones ; and it is covered by the integuments and tlie deep fascia, and by the inner piece of183 DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor hallucis lies on the inner side, and that of the extensor longus digitorum on the outer, but neither is close to the vessel. The veins have the same position with respect to the artery as in position of the leg ; and the nerve is external to it. veins and nerve. Peculiarities. On the dorsum of the foot the artery is often external to a v.irieties in line drawn from the centre of the ankle to tlie bacli of the first interosseous rtoiaal artery. Anterior peroneal. Tarsal, Tendon of peronens tertius. Metatarsal Posterior perforating. 2nd, 31-d, and 4lh dorsal interosseous. Tendons of extensor longus digitorum. Tendons of extensor brevis digitorum. Dorsalis pedis. Internal tarsal (occasional). Exten.sor longus hallucis. Perforatinpr branch. 1st dorsal interosseous. Fio. 70.—Arteries on Dorsum of Foot. space. The dorsal artery may also be reinforced or replaced by a large anterior peroneal branch. Branches. Small offsets are given to the integuments, and the Branches:— Ijones and ligaments of the inner side of the foot. From the oiitcr side of the vessel proceed two larger branches named tarsal and metatarsal; and an interosseous branch is furnished to the first metatarsal space. a. The tarsal branch (fig. 70) arises opposite the head of the Tarsal, astragalus, and runs beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to theDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 184 which gives interos- seous, and per- forating. First inter- osseous. Anterior tibial veins. outer border of llie foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate ■\vitli the metatansal, e.xtern.il plantar, and anterior peroneal arteries : it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle beneath which it lies. Metatansal, b. The metatarsal branch (fig. 70) takes an arched course to the outer side of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the short extensor muscle, and anastomoses with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. From the arch of the metatarsal branch three dorsal interosseous arteries are furni.shed to the three outer metatarsal spaces : and the external of these sends a branch to the outer side of the little toe. They supply the interosseous muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two small dorsal digital branches. At the fore part of the metatarsal space each interasseous branch is usually connected with the corresponding digital artery in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior perforating twig; and at the back part of each space a small branch, posterior perforating, comes from the plantar arch. c. The first dorsal interosseous artery arises from the main trunk as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed like the other dorsal interosseous offsets. The A2JTBRI0R TIBIAL VEiN.s have the same extent and relations as the vessel they accompany. They take their usual position along the artery, one on each side, and form loops aroimd it by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive correspond with those of the artery ; and they com- municate with the internal saphenous vein. Dissection. To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on the dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the extensor longus and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The hinder attachment of the muscle to the os calcis is to be defined. The EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM arises from the anterior extremity of the os calcis at its upper and outer -p&vi, and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. Over the metatarsal bones the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four inner toes. The tendon of the great toe has a distinct attachment to the base of the first phalanx ; but the rest are united to the outer side of the long extensor tendons, and assist to form the expansion on the first phalanx (p. 180). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the tendons of the long extensor. Its inner belly crosses the dorsal artery of the foot. use. Action. Assisting the long extensor, it straightens the four inner toes, separating them slightly from wich other. Cut through Lissectioil. The In-anchas of artery and nerve which are br^vLs*"^ beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by cutting across that muscle near its front, and turning it upwards. and annular dividing the lower band of the annular ligament over the ligament; o o Divide extensor longus. Extensor brevis digitorum: sends ten- dons to four inner toes ; relations;185 NEBVBS OF FRONT OF LEG. tendon of tlie extensor hallucis, and throwing outwards tlie external lialf of it, the different sheaths of the ligament, the attachment to the OS calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitoriun from that boue may be observed. The anterior tibial and mnsculo-cutaneous nerves are now to be follow up followed ui^wards to their origin from tlie external i)opliteal; and a small branch to the knee-joint from the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Nerves of the Front of the Leg. Between the fibula and Nerve.s of the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into 'J,'J; f™"' the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial; and from the beginning of the anterior tibial nerve, or the end of the popliteal trunk, a small branch called the recurrent articular is given off. The RECURRENT ARTICULAR BRANCH takes the COUrse of the RreuiTCiit. artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle, in which most of its filjres end. A small twig may be followed to the knee-joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued between the extensor Muscuio- longu.s digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the "^"^''''^''s leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 176). Before the nerve becomes cutiineous supplies it furnishes branches to the two larger peronei muscles. peronei. The anterior tibial nerve (fig. 69, p. 181) is directed beneath Anterior the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the tibial artery in the u.'e artery"' lower part of the upper third of the leg. From this spot it takes the same course as the vessel along the leg and foot to the first interosseous space (p. 182). In the leg it lies for the most part in front of the anterior tibial vessels, but on the foot it is generally external to the dorsal artery and terminates between the first and second toes (p. 177). Branches. In the leg the nerve supidies the anterior tibial branches to muscle, the extensors of the toes, and the peroneits tertius. On the '""sclesl dorsum of the foot it furnishes a considerable branch to the short extiensor ; this becomes enlarged, and gives offsets to the articu- lations of the foot. Muscles on the Outer Side of the Leg (fig. 67 and fig. 74, External p. 192). Two muscles occupy the situation, and are named peroneal '""scie.s of from their attachment to the fibula ; they are distinguished as long and short. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others. The peroneus longus (fig. 67 and fig. 74, g), the more superficial p.,,oneus oi the two muscles, passes into the sole of the foot round the outer 'o"g»s: border. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the tibia by a small onvin from slip, from the head, and the outer surface of the .shaft of the fibula the iibuia; lor two-thirds of the length, gradually tapering downwards (fig. 68, p- 179), and from the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Inferiorly] It ends in a tendon which is continued through the external annular ligament with the peroneus brevis, lying in the groove at the back ot the external malleolus ; and it pa8.se8 finally in a separate sheath below the peroneus brevis along the side of the os calcis, and through the groove in the outer border of the cuboid bone, to theDISSECTION OF THE LEG. 180 insertion into bonus of llie foot; rolatious in tlie log; be use on foot, free, and fixed; on tlie leg. Peronens brevis is attached to fibula, and fiftli metatarsal bone; relations; use on foot, free, and fixed ; on the leg. sole of the foot. Its position in the foot and its insertion will described later on (p. 212). In the leg the muscle is immediately beneath the fiuscia, and lies on the ])eroneus brevis. Beneath the annular ligament it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle with the peronens lirevis, and is surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longiis digitorum and the soleus are fixed to the fibula in front of, and behind it respec- tively. Action. With the foot free, the muscle extends the ankle ; then it can depress the inuer, and raise the outer border of the foot in the movement of eversion. When the foot rests on the ground, it assists to lift the os calcis and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, or in walking. And in rising from a stooping posture it draws back the fibula. The PERONEUS BREVIS (fig. 74, h) reaches the outer side of the foot, and is smaller and deeper than the preceding muscle. It arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the lower two-thirds, extending upwards by a pointed piece in front of the peronens longus (fig. 68), and from the intermuscular septum on each side. Its tendon passes with that of the peronens longus beneath the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus to its insertion into the tuberosity at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe on the outer side. In the leg the muscle projects in front of the peronens longus. On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Action. If the foot be unsuj^ported, this peronens extends the ankle and moves the foot upwards and outwards, everting it. If the foot be supported it is able to raise the heel, and to bring back the fibula as the body rises from stooping. Section V. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Position. For the dissection of the Imck of the leg, the limb is to be placed on its front, with the foot over the side of the dissecting table ; and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. Tai<n.iway Bisscctioil. For the removal of the skin, one cut should be the skin. .^j^^^^g jj^^ middle of the log to the sole of the foot, where a transverse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting187 SUPERFICIAL VEINS AND NERVES. flaps of skin may be raised, tlie ouler one as far as the (ibula, and the otlier as far as the inner jnargin of the tibia. In the fat the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be followed. Seek On tlie inner side, close to the tibia, are the internal saphenous fien'es'in'' vein and nerve, togetlier with twigs of tlie internal cutaneous nerve t-l'o fnl- near the knee. In the centre nf the leg lies the external saphe^ious vein, with the small sciatic nerve as its companion above, and the external saphenous nerve below the middle of the leg. On the outer side cutiineous oft'sets of the external popliteal nerve will be met with. The superficial fascia, or the fatty layer of the back of the leg, is Supnriicial least thick over the tibia. Along the line of the superficial vessels it may be sejiarated into two layers. Sui»ERFiciAL Veins. Two veins appear in the dissection of the Two super- back of the leg, the inner and outer .saphenous. veins. The INTERNAL, OR LONG, SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 72, cl, p. 189) Internal has already been examined in the front of the leg (p. 176), and in ™P'i<inous- this part it will be seen to receive various superficial tributaries and deep roots from the tibial veins. The EXTERNAL, OR SHORT, SAPHENOUS VEIN (fig. 71, c) has External already been examined at its origin (p. 176), and in this part it sapi'enous. will be seen to course along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteiil vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg, communicating with the internal saphenous. Cutaneous arteries accompany the superficial veins and nerves of Cutaneous the leg. arteries. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 71). The nerves in the fat of the cutaneous back of the leg are prolongations of branches already met with, nerves, viz., the internal and external saphenous, external popliteal, small sciatic, and internal cutaneous of the thigh. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 71, ')ha3 already been internal examined (pp. 161 and 177), and a few additional twigs will be cleaned in this dissection. The EXTERNAL OR SHORT SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 71,^) is External formed l)y tlie union of the tibial and peroneal communicating o^P'|^".°"" = branches of the internal and external popliteal nerves respectively (pp. 129 and 130) ; the union usually taking place about the middle of the leg. It runs with the external .saphenous vein below the ending; outer ankle, and ends on the outer side of the foot and little toe (p. 177). In this part it furnishes twigs to the skin of the lower branches. part of the back of the leg, and large branches over the heel. Cutaneous nerves op the.external popliteal. In addition Branches of to the peroneal communicating (fig. 71, ••), the external popliteal'^'''^'j""'' nerve gives oft' one or two lateral cutaneous offsets (p. 130) to the™ outer side and fore part of the leg. The SMALL sciatic nerve (fig. 71, G) perforates the fascia at the Termination lower end of the popliteal space, and reaches to about the middle of small of the leg with the external saphenous vein : it ramilies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nerve.DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 188 Teniiiimtioii of iiiloiriiil cutaneous. Take away the fat. Deei) fascia : continuity and attach- ments. Take away the fascia. Muscles in superficial group. Offset of the internal cutaneous (fig. 71, ^). The po.slerior branch of the internal cutaneou.s of the thigh (p. 141) extends to the middle of the leg, and communi- cates with the internal saphenou.s nerve. Dissection. Tlie deep fascia will l)e exposed by removal of the fat, and the superficial ^'essels and nerves may- be either cut or turned aside. The DEEP FASCIA on the posterior aspect of the leg covers the muscle.s, and sends a thick process between the deep and .superficial groups. Al)ove, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets from the tendons about the kneeand below, it joins the annular ligaments. Internally, it is fixed to the edge of the tibia : externally, it is continued uninterruptedly from the one aspect of the Umb to the other; but from its deep surface an inter- muscular septum is sent inwards between the muscles of the back and those of the outer side of the leg to be attached to the outer border of the fibula. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Bissection. The fascia is to be divided along the centre of the leg as far as the lieel, and is to be taken from the surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the cut inner head of tlie gastrocnemius, the fibres of the muscle will be more easily cleaned. SuPERFiciAii Group of Muscles. In the calf of the leg there are three Fig. 71.—Fibst View oh the Back of the Leo (Ihostbations OF Dissections). Muscles : A. Gastrocnemius. B. Soleus. c. Semimembranosus. B. Biceps. Vessels : a. Popliteal artery. b. Internal saplienous vein. c. Externul saphenous vein. Nerres : 1. External popliteal. 2. Internal jioplitcal. 3. Tibial communicating. 4. Peroneal communicating. 5. External, or short, saphenous. 6. Small sciatic. 7. Internal saphenous. 8. lutcrnal cutaneous.SUPERFICIAL GROUP OF MUSCLES. 189 relations : luuseles, gastrocnenuus, soleus, aud plantaris, which extend the ankle. The first two are large, giving rise to the prominence on the surface, and end below by a common tendon; but the last is inconsiderable in size, and chiefly tendinous. The GASTROCNEMIUS (fig. 71, a), the most superficial muscle, has two distinct pieces or heads, which arise from the lower end of the femur (fig. 61, p. 158). The inner lieacl of origin is attached by a large tendon to an impression at the upper aspect of the inner condyle, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus; and by short tendinous fibres to the line above the condyle. The outer head is attached by tendon to a int on the outer surface of the corre- sponding condyle, above the attach- ment of the popliteus muscle, and to the posterior surface of the bone immediately above the condyle. The fleshy fibres of the two heads are united along the middle line by a narrow thin aponeurosis, and termi- nate below with the soleus in the common tendon of insertion. One surface is covered by the fascia. The other is in contact with the soleus and plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space, and are crossed by the tendons of the hamstrings. The inner head is larger, and descends lower than the Gastrocne- miu.s: Fia. 72.—Second View Muscles : A. Gastrocnemius, cut. B. Soleus. c. Plantaris. D. Semimembranosus. E. Semitendinosua. F. Tendo Achillis. Vessels : a. Popliteal artery. OP THE Back op the Leo (Illustrations OP Dissections). b. Internal lower articular. c. External lower articular. d. Internal saphenous vein. e. External saphenous vein. Nerves: 1. External popliteal. 2. Internal popliteal. 3. Short saphenous, cut. arises by two lieads from the femur ; ends below in tendo Achillis ;DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 190 use with the foot free, and fixed; acting from below. Detach gaatrocne- mius. Soleus is attached to the bones of the leg, and joins the tendon below: parts over and under it; use, the foot free, aud fixed ; acting from below. Teudo Achillis: extent, and inser- tion. Flantaris: origin; insertion; position of the muscle: outer. In the outer head a piece of nl)ro-cartikge or a sesamoid bone may exist. Action. AVheii the foot is uii.supi)orted, tlie ga.slrociieinius e.xteudfs the ankle ; and when tlie toes rest on the ground, it raises the os calcis and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, and in progression. Taking its fixed point at the os calcis, the muscle draws down the femur so as to bend the knee-joint. Bissection. To see the soleus, the gastrocnemius is to be reflected by cutting across the remaining head (fig. 72), aud the vessels and nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown do wn, the soleus and plantaris must be cleaned. The SOLEU.S (fig. 72, b) is a large flat muscle, which is attached to both bones of the leg. It arises from the head, and the upper third of the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula ; from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the inner edge of this bone as low as the middle (fig. 73) ; and between the bones from an aponeurotic arch over the large blood-vessels. Its fibres are directed downwards to the common tendon. The superficial surface of the soleus is in contact with the gastro- cnemius ; and where the two touch they are aponeurotic. Beneath the soleus lie the bones of the leg, the deep muscles, aud the vessels and nerves. Action. In its action on the foot the soleus, like the gastro- cnemius, extends the ankle and points the toes when the foot is free to move, and raises the heel if the toes rest on the ground. By the sudden and powerful contraction of the fibres of both muscles the common tendon is sometimes broken across. If it acts from the os calcis, it wdll draw back the bones of the leg into a vertical position over the foot, as the body is raised to the erect posture after stooping. Tendo Achillis (fig. 72, f). The common tendon of the gastro- cnemius and soleus is one of the strongest in the body. About three inches wide above, it commences at the middle of the leg, though it receives fleshy fibres on its deep surface nearly to the lower end : below, it is narrowed, and is inserted into the middle impression on the posterior aspect of the tuberosity of the os calcis. A bursa intervenes between it aud the upper part of the tuberosity. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and the external saphenous vein and nerve are superficial to it at first, but afterwards lie along its outer border. The PLANTARIS (fig. 72, c) is remarkable in having the longest tendon in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when it is stretched laterally. About three-quarters of an inch wide, the muscle arises from the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint ; and the tendon is inserted into the os calcis with, or by the side of, the tendo Achillis, or into the fascia of the leg. The belly of the muscle, about three inches in length, is concealed by the gastrocnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side of191 DISSECTION OF THE DEEP MUSCLES. the temlo Achillis about tlie midrlle of the leg. This little muscle cimses the popliteal ves.sels, and lies on the .soleu.s. Action. It assists sliglitly tlie gastrocneinius in extending the use liko ankle if the foot is not fixed, and in bending the knee-joint if the foot is immovable. Dissection (fig. 74;. The soleus is now to be detached from Detach soleiLS, Semimembranosus. Soleus. Groove for tibialis posticus tendon. FiQ. 73.—The Tibia and Fibula phom Behind. the bones of the leg, and the vessels and nerves entering it are to be divided ; but in raising it, the student should take care not to injure the thin deep fascia and the vessels and nerves beneath. The super- hcial muscles mny be next removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis; and the liursa between tlie tendo Achillis and the OS calcis should be opened. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and and clean aeep groups is then to be cleaned ; and the integuments between ° fascia.192 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Deep part tlie fascia the leir. Clean the deep muscles; dissect peroneal artery. Fia. 74.- ihv inner aiilde and the heel are to l)e taken away to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneou.s nerve to the sole of the foot, which pierces the ligament, is to be jjreserved. Deep ixirt of the fascia. This inter- muscular piece of the fascia of the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds down the flexor muscles of the deep group. In the upper part of the leg it is thin and indis- tinct ; but lower in the limb it is much stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the mal- leoli, which give it the appearance and office of an annular ligament in that situation. Iiiferiorly it joins the internal annular ligament be- tween the heel and the inner ankle. Dissection. The deep layer of muscles, the posterior tibial nerve, and the trunks and oft'sets of the pos- terior tibial vessels will be laid bare by the removal of the fascia and the areolar tissue. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly concealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the two lateral muscles (flexor longus digitorum and flexor haUucis); and it will not fully appear until after its membranous covering has been divided longitudinally and reflected to the sides. To prepare the peroneal artery -Deep Dissection of the Baok of the Leq (Illustr-itions OF Dissections). Muscles: A. Popliteus. B. Outer, and C, inner part of soleus, cut. D. Tibialis ijosticus. e. Flexor longus digitorum. p. Flexor longus hallucis. a. Peroneus longus. H. Peroneus brevia. I. Tendo AcliiUis. Arteries. a. Popliteal. b. Inferior internal, and c, inferior external articular. d. Anterior tibial. e. Posterior tibial, and /, a com- municating branch to peroneal. g. Peroneal. /t. Continuation of peroneal to outer side of the foot. NervM: 1. Internal popliteal. 2. Muscular branch cf posterior tibial. 3. Posterior tibial. 4. Calciineo-plantar.DEEP MUSCLES OP THE BACK OF THE LEG. 193 evert and partly divide the flexor hallucis after that muscle lias been examined ; then define the branches from its lower part to the front of the leg, the outer side of the foot and the one that joins the posterior tilnal artery. Deep Group of Mdscles (fig. 74). The deep muscles at the Four back of the leg are four in number, viz., popliteus, flexor longus y,"'*^'''*''" hallucis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of group: these is close to the knee-joint ; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors lie on the bones, the one of iio.sitiou ami the great toe resting on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the tibialis covers the interosseous membrane. With the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot ; and destination. Ihey ha\'e a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS (fig. 74, a) arises by tendon, within the Ccapsule Popliteus of the knee-joint, from the front of an oblong depression on the Zlmn outer surface of the external condyle of the femur (fig. 60, p. 15 7) i^iiee-joint; and within the capsule of the joint; some fleshy fibres also arise from the posterior ligament. The muscular fibres .spread out, and inserted are inserted into the tiliia above the oblique line on the posterior ' surface, as well as into the aponeurosis covering them (fig. 73). The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle: on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower internal articular vessels and parts nerve of the knee; and the lower border corresponds with the "'"""""^ attachment of the soleus on the tibia. The tendon of origin will be seen in the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Action. The leg being free, the muscle bends the knee-joint, and use with then rotates the tibia inwards. The popliteus is used especially in ^'''^'^: beginning the act of flexing the knee, as it produces the rotation special inwards of the tibia (or outwards of the femur) without which that movement cannot take place. The FLEXOR LONGUS HALLUCIS (flexor longus pollicis pedis, fig. Flexor 74, F) arises below the soleus from the lower two-thirds of the pos- halfu'V • terior surface of the fibula (fig. 73) ; from the intermuscular septum attached'to between it and the peronei muscles, and from the aponeurosis over the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the miiscle enters a groove in the astragalus, and crosses the sole of the foot to its insertion into the great toe. Above, the muscle is covered by the soleus; but below it is relations; superficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It lies on the fibula and the lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels; and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by fascia, are the peronei muscles. Action. The foot being rmsupported, the flexor bends the last use, the phalanx of the great toe, and then extends the ankle. ^'"B _ The foot resting on the ground, the muscle raises the heel ; and a'nd'ilxed. It draws the fibula backwards as the body rises from stooping. D.A.194 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Flexor digitorum: origin ; enters amuilar ligament part is snperflcial below soleus : use, with foot free, and lixed. Tibialis posticus: origin ; insertion; muscles and vessels in relation with it; use, with foot free, and fixed; in standing, in rising up. Aponeurosis over the muscle. The FLEXOR liONGUS DIGITORUM (Hexor peifomns, fig. 74, e) arises from the inner division of the posterior surface of the tihia (fig. 73), extending from the atUichment of the soleus to about three inches from the lower extremity, and from the aponeurosi.s cover- ing the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a compartment in the annular ligament, which i.s external to the sheath of the tibialis ; and it di^'ides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the last phalanges of the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed above, where it is placed beneath the soleus ; but in the lower half it is in contact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. Action. The muscle bends the farthest phalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, and then extends the ankle. If the toes are in contact with the ground, the flexor helps to raise the heel in walking ; and to move back the tibia in the act of rising from stooping. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS (fig. 74, d) occupies the interval between the l)ones of the leg, but it crosses over the til^ia below to reach the inner side of the foot. The muscle arises (fig. 73 and fig. 68, p. 179) from the interosseous membrane, except about one inch below, from an impression along the outer part of the posterior surface of the tibia extending from the external tuberosity to the middle of the bone, from the inner surface of the shaft of the filnila, and slightly from the aponeurosis covering it. In the lower part of the leg the muscle is directed beneath the flexor digitorum; and its tendon, entering the imier space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the foot to be inserted into the navicular and other bones, as will be seen later (p. 212). The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles ; but in the lower part of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes. On the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper end presents two pointed processes of attachment—that to the tibia being the higher—and between them the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. Action. Its action on the movable foot is to depress the fore part and outer side, and carry the toes inwards, producing the movement in the tarsal joints known as inversion (p. 225), and to extend the anlde-joint. The toes resting on the ground, it will aid the muscles of the calf in raising the heel in the progression of the body. In standing, the muscle can raise the inner border of the foot with the tibialis anticus, so as to throw the weight of the body on the outer edge. As the body rises from stooping, the tibialis draws back the bones of the leg, with the soleus. The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached externally to the inner border of the fibula ; but internally it joins the flexor longus digitorum without Ijeing attached to bone : it may lie regarded asPOSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 195 constituting a fibular origin of that muscle. Fibres of the flexor longus h.allucis arise from one surface of the membrane, and of the tibialis posticus from the other. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 74, e) IS OUe of the vessels Posterior resulting from the bifurcation of the jiopliteal trunk (p. 126). It artet^; oxtend.s from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower extent; edge of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in internal and e-rternal plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway lietween the tibia and fibula course; but a.s it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed behind the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. For the upper two-thirds of the leg the vessel is concealed by two parts cover- muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus ; but in the a"^i bejmv™ lower third, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only l)y the integuments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its upper half the trunk lies over the tiliialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower parts be- end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is the flexor hallucis. Under the annular ligament, the artery is placed between the between tendons of the common flexor of the digits and the special flexor of i'^?!""'' , ankle ; the great toe. Vente comites closely surround the vessel. The posterior tibial veins; nerve is at first internal to the artery ; but after the origin of the nerve; peroneal artery it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This arteiy supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a brandies :- large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular branches enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus ; and an ofl'set from the branch to the soleus pierces the attachment of that nmscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. 6. The medullary artery of the tibia arises near the beginning of Medullary the trunk ; penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior ^° surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous, of the leg. d. One or two small internal malleolar branches ramify over the internal inner malleolus. malleolar. e. A communicating branch arises opposite the lower end of the Commuui. tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor longus hallucis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery. Sometimes there is a second loop between these vessels superficial to the flexor hallucis (fig. 74,/). Peculiarities. If tlie posterior tibial artery is smaller than usual, or size of absent, its deficiencies in the foot will be supplied by a large communicating tibial may branch from the peroneal artery, which, in these cases, is directed inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole of the foot.DISSECTION OF THK LEG. 19G Dissection. The peroneal artery will now be completely exposed by cutting away the flexor longus hallucis as far as may be necessary. The PERONEAL ARTERY (fig. 74, (j) is often as large as the pos- terior tibial, and arises from that vessel aljoiit one inch from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to tliat bone in a fibrous canal between the origins of the fie.xor longus hallucis and tibialis posticus, reaches the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane. At this spot it sends forward.s a branch to the front of the leg (anterior ixroneal) ; and, as the •posterior jxroneal, i.* directed onwards behind the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the heel Qi), where it terminates in l)ranches, which anastomose with ofi'sets of tlie tarsal and external plantar arteries. Two companion veins surround the artery ; and the nerve to the flexor hallucis lies on it generally. Branches. Besides the anterior jieroneal, it furnishes muscular, medullary, and communicating offsets. a. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor hallucis ; and some turn round the fibula to the long and short peroneal muscles, lying in grooves in the bone. 6. The medullary artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and is transmitted through the tibialis posticus to an aperture about the middle of the fibula. c. The anterior peroneal branch jjasses forward through an open- ing below the interosseous membrane, and is continued to the dorsiun and outer part of the foot (fig. 70, p. 183) ; on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tai-sal branches of the anterior tibial artery, and has already been exposed (p. 182). d. A communicating offset near the ankle joins in an arch with a similar branch of the posterior tibial. Peculiarities. The anterior branch of the peroneal may take the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the ai-teries of the foot, as in those of the hand, by which the deficiency in one is supplied by an enlarged offset of another. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL A^EINS begin at the inner side of the foot tibial veins: ]-,y ^he union of the plantar venae coniites : they ascend one on each side of the artery, and unite with tlie anterior tibial at the lower border of the popliteus to form the large jDopliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresi^onding with the oli'sets of the artery : lu-anches connect them with the saphenous A-^eins. Posterior The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 74, a continuation of the tibial nerve: jjjternal popliteal (p. 129), reaches like the artery from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis extent and the inner malleolus. While beneath the annular ligament, or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot, and reia- Its relations to .surrounding muscles are the same as those of the tjons; Peroneal artery: courses along fibula, beneath flexor hallucis ; termination; veins and nerve: branclie.s:— Muscular. Medullary to Hbula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Communi- cating. Substitu- tions. Posterior197 INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies uu tlie inner side al>ove the origin of the peroneal oflset, but thence to the termination, on the outer side. Its branches are muscular iuid bnuiclie.i cutaneous. Alu^cidar brandies are furnished to the two long Hexors, the to muscles, tibialis posticus, and the soleus. Tliere is an oli'set for each of the muscles ; and they may arise either separately along the trunk, or together from the upper end of the nerve. The branch to the tibialis is the largest; and that to the flexor hallucis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot (calcaneo-plantar, fig. 74, ■•) '""1 t,')«kin liL-gins above the ankle, and jnercing the internal annular ligament sole, as two or more part«, ends in the integuments of the inner and under-parts of the heel: this nerve will be followed to its termina- tion in the di.s.section of the foot. Tlie INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT .Stretches between the heel and internul the inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deeri layer """"ii'' ' I J ligament: oi muscles of the foot and toes. AtUiched by a narrow part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os calcis. The upper border is continuous with the fascia of the attiicii- leg; and the lower gives attachment to the aliductor hallucis mu-scle of the foot. Beneath it are .sheaths for the tendons. The innermost sheath Slieaths: enclo.ses the tibialis posticus, lodged in a groove on the back of the their malleolus. Immediately outside this is aiiother space for the flexor digitorum. And al wut three-quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the flexor hallucis, resting in a gi'oove in the astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Between the tendons of the two flexors of the digits are placed the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Section VI. SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position. The foot is to l)e placed over a block of moderate thick- Position of ucss with the sole towards the dissector; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and l iy separating and fastening apart the toes. Dissection. The skin is to be raised in two flaps, inner and outer, K'^ise the by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the front and Ijy an incision across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat near the lieel the student .should follow out the calcaneo- and dissect plantar nerve (shown at the upper part of fig. 75, p. 200); and he '=»^'.';«o"« may trace out, at a little distance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar ner\ es and arteries.DISSECTION OF THE FOOT, 198 Sulicuta- iioous fat. Lay bare the pliintar fascia, and the digital ves- sels and nerves: define the ligament of the toes. Plantar fascia: division into parts. Central part divides into five pieces: termination of the pieces. Inner piece of the fascia. Outer piece. Expose the .septa. Two inter- mnscular sci)ta. The subcutaneous fat i.s very abimdaut, and forni.s a thick cushion over the parts that i)res.s mo.st on the ground in standing, viz., over the OS calcis, and the metatar.so-phalangeal articulation.s. Dissection. The fat shoitld now l)e removed, and the plantar fascia laid l«re. Beginning the dissection near the heel, follow forwards the fascia towards the toes, to each of which a process i.s to be traced. In the inter-\^als between these processes the digital nerves and arteries will be detected amongst much fatty and filli-ons tissues; but the vessels and nerves to the inner side of the great toe and outer side of the little toe pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to define a fibrous band (superficial transverse ligament) across the roots of toes, over the digital vessels and nerves; and when this has been displayed, he may remove the superficial fascia from the toes to see the .sheaths of the tendons. Plantar fascia. The special fascia of the sole of the foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends septa lietween the muscles. Its thickness varies in diff'erent parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and the existence of longitudinal depressions over the two chief intermuscular septa, the fascia is divided into a central and two lateral pieces. The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corresponding with an intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each side ; and opposite the heads of the metatar.sal bones it divides into five processe.';, which send fibres to the integuments near the web of the foot, and are continued onwards to the toes, one to each. Where the pieces separate from each other, the digital \ essels and nerves and the lumbricales muscles become superficial, and are arched over by transverse fibres. If one of the digital processes be divided longitudinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to join the sheath of the flexor tendons, and to be fixed laterally into the margins of the metatar.sal bone, and into the transverse metatarsal ligament. The lateral 'pieces of the fascia are thinner than the central one. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has biit little strength, and is continued to the dorsum ; but on the outer side it presents a strong band, Avhich extends between the outer tubercle of the os calcis and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection. To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision should be made along the middle of the foot through the central piece of the fascia, and a transverse one near the calcaneuni. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent' flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the septal procefises will appear on the sides of that muscle. The intermuscular septa pass deeply on each side of the flexor brevis digitorum, and a piece of fascia reaches across tlie foot from one septum to the other, beneath that flexor, so as to isolate it.19!) FIRST LAYEK OF MUSCLES. The intiei- septum separates the short flexor from the abductor liallucis ; and the outer, from the abductor minimi digit!. The superficial transverse ligament cro.sse.s the roots of the toes, Trmisvorsc and is contained in the skin forming tlie rudimentary web of the foot. It is attached at the ends to the sheath of the flexor tendons of the great and little toes, and is coimected with the sheaths of the others as it lies over them. Beneatli it, the digital nerves and vessels issue. The sheathn of the flexor tendons (fig. 77, Q, p. 203) on the toes Sheatlis of are similar to those of the fingers, though not so distinct, and seiTe to confine the tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strong opposite the centre of both the nietatarsiil aiid the next phalanx. Each is lubricated l>y a synovial membrane, and contains the tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection (fig. 75). In the sole of the foot the muscles are Dissect nrst numerous, and have been arranged in four layers. To prepare the n^^jscies first layer, all the fascia must be taken away; but this dissection must be made -with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the central muscle towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and one or more of the .sheaths in which they are contained should be ojiened. First Layer of Muscles. In this layer are three mu.scles, viz., Muscles in the flexor brevis digitorum, the aljductor liallucis, and abductor "yj."'*' minimi digiti. The short flexor of the toes lies in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR HALLUcis (fig. 75, a), the most internal muscle of Abductor the superficial layer, bikes origiii from the inner side of the larger '"'""cis: tidjercle on the under-surface of the os calcis (fig. 76), from tlie°"S'"; planfcir fascia, from the lower border of the internal annular liga- ment, and from the internal intermuscular septum. In front, the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first insci tiou; phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous surffxce of the niuscle is in contact with the roiations; plantar fascia ; and the other touches the tendons of the tibial muscles, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, with the aceessorius nmscle. Action. This abductor acts chiefly as a flexor of the mefaitai •so- "SO, as phalangeal joint of the great toe, but it will slightly abduct that "Cductor' toe from the others. The FLEXOR BREVLS DIGITORUM (flexor perforatus, fig. 75, b) Floxor arises posteriorly by a pointed process from the fore jjart of the ["OTmn larger tubercle of the os calcis (fig. 76), from the overlying plantar fascia for two inches and the septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle divides into four slips, which become tendinous and are directed forwards superficial to the tendons of the long flexor toDISSECTION OF THE FOOT, 200 leu!So,!s?or sWiths of the four smaller toes, where they are irmrkd four toes; "1^° the middle phalanges. In the sheath ou the toe the tendon lies at first (in this position of the foot) on the long flexor; opposite the centre of the first phalanx it is slit for the passage of the long Internal i)laiitar uerve. lutenial plantar artery. E.xtenial lilantar artery. External plantar nerve. Fig. 75.—First View op the Sole of the Foot (Illustrations OP Dissections). Muscles : A. Abductor lialluois. B. Flexor brevia digitoruni. 0. Abductor minimi digiti. D. Transverse ligament of tbe toes Arteries: a. External plantar. b. Internal plantar. Nerves : 1. Internal plantar, with its four branches. 2, 3, 1 and 5, for three toes and a half. 6. External plantar nerve, with two digital branches. 7 .and 8, for one toe and a half. Insertion ; tendon, and it is attached liy two processes to the sides of the middle phalanx. relations; The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar fascia; and it conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the flexor acccssorius, and the external plantar ve.ssels and nerve. and use. Action. It bends the first and second jihalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, like the flexor suliliniis in the upper limb, and approximates the toes at same time.ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI. 201 The ABDUCTOR J1I^•IMI DIGITI (fig. 7."), c) lui.s a wide on'f/r/l Abductor of lieliind from the small outer tubercle of the os cali;i.s, from the toe:''"'" iidjaceut jiart of the inner tuliercle, extending inwards beneath the flexor brevis digitorum (fig. 76), from the outer band of the plantar fascia and from the external intermuscular seijtum. It ends '■ insertion; Teiiiio acliillis flexor brevis iligitoniin. AbJuctor niiuinii ili(;iti. (Inner liead. Accessorins - I Outer lieail. Tibialis posticus expansion. Klexor brevis liallucis. Peroneus bievis. Flexfii- brevis niininii cligiti. Plantar interossei. Klexor brevis nn'nimi digiti. Flexor longus digitorum. Plantaris. Abductor liallucis. Ti bialis posticus (expansions indicated by Iine.s). Tibialis anticus. Peroneus longus. Adductor obli(|nus liallucis (encircled by ring). Dorsal interossei. Adductor transversus liallucis. Interos.sei. Flexor brevis digitorum. Fig. 76.—Muscular Attachments on Plantar Aspect op Foot anteriorly in a tendon which is itiserted into the outer side of the Ijase of the first phalanx of the little toe. The muscle lies along the outer border of the foot, and conceals relations; the flexor acce.ssorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On Its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerves. Some- times a part of the mu.scle is fixed into the projection of the fifth mebitarsal bone. Action. Though it can abduct the little toe from the others, as use as tlie name signifies, its chief u.se is to bend the met^iUrso-phalangeal JuiUt. andnexor.202 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. Dissect ilm DlSSection (fig. 77). To bring into view the second layer of nuusculiir nuuscle.s and the iilantiir ves.sel,s and nerve.s, tlie nuiscle.s already l«ycr, examined must be reflected. Cut through the flexor brevis digi- torum at the os calci.s, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it. Divide the abductor minimi digiti near ■ its origin, and in turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek its nerve and vessel close to the calcaneum. The abductor hallucis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but at present it may remain uncut. aiid iiiaiitar Ne.xt, the internal plantar \'essels and nerve are to be followed iiei'vestforwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the external plantar vessels and nerve, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lunibricales, should be freed from fat. Two plantar The Plantar Arteries (fig. 77) are the terminal branches of arteries: j^j^g posterior tibial trunk, and supply digital oftsets to the toes, outer."'"' ^^'^ ii"iiiber, and are named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot: the external is the larger, and forms the plantar arch. Internal The INTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY (a) is inconsiderable in size, coin's'ai I "■'^^^ accompanies the internal plantar nerve, under cover of the ending."'" abductor hallucis, as far as the middle of the foot, where it ends in four superficial digital branches. Branches to Branches. The artery furnishes muscular branches, like the muscles; nerve, to the abductor hallucis, flexor brevis digitorum, and the and super- flexor brevis hallucis. Its digital branches accompany the digit;il flcialdigital; ngrves of the internal plantar (fig. 75), and are thus disposed :— first, The first is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great second, toe ; the second is directed to the first iiiterdigital space ; the third third, to the second space ; and the fourth to the third space. At tlie fourth. root of the toes the last three join the deeper digital arteries in those spaces. External The EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY (6) takes an arched coui-se in a'curved"** '^^'i^^^ ^"^^^ conca\'ity of the arch turned inwards. The vessel course; first passes outwards across the sole towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and then turns obliquely inwards towards the root of the great toe, so that it crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz., as far as the base of the metatarsjil bone of the partly little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial ; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Superflcial Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare ; the reuiaiiiing part: portion, supplying the digital branches, will be noticed after the e.xamination of the third layer of muscles (p. 207). relations; As far as the metatarsiil bone of the little toe, the v&ssel is con- cealed by the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum ; but for a .short distance near it.s termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. It re.sts on the OS calcis and flexor accessorius; and it is accompanied by venao coniites and the external plantar nerve. superlicial, partly deep.203 EXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. Branches. From the superficial part of llie artery two or three branciiois internal calcaneal branches arise. They perforate tlie origin of tlie Fio. 77.—Skcond View of the Sole up the Foot (Illustratio.vs OK Dissections). Arteries : Muscles : A. Acccssorius. B. Tendon of fle.xor longus digi- torum. c. Tender of fle.xor longiis halluois. h, inaiks the four lumliricales muscles, but the letters arc put on the tendons of the flexor perfoian.". K. Tendon of flexor brevis digi- toruni. If. Tendon of flexor longus digi- toruin. u. Sheath of flexor tendons. B. Tendon of peroneus longus. II. Internal plantar. f/. External plantar. '". Branch to abductor minimi digiti. il. Branch to outer side of little toe. Nerves : 1. Liternal plantar. 2. E.xternal plantar. 3. Branch to abductor minimi digiti. 4. Branch to flexor brevis liallucis. abductor hallucis, and ramify over the lieel, anastomosing with the terminal Ijranche.s of the jieroneal artery. onsets are also furnished to the nuLscles Ijetween whicli it lies ; to muscles, and others turn round the outer border of foot to anastomose with ''",'1 "'/'f""', tlie tiirsal and metatarsal arteries.DISSECTION OF THE KOOT. 204 Plaiitai' nerves also two. Internal iier\'e to three toes and a half; muscular branches ; digital nerves are divided, ex- cept first, and give muscular branches, cutaneous and articu- lar offsets. External plantar to one toe and a half; has super- ficial and deep parts; branches to nuiscles; two digital brandies, one single, one divided. Distribution like others. llie Plantak Nehves (fig. 77) are derived from tlie bifurcation of the posterior tiljial trunk behind tlie inner ankle. They are two in number, and accompany the plantar arterie.s ; but the larger nevva lies with the smaller blood-vessel. The INTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (') courses between the .sliort flexor of the toes and the abductor hallucis, and giving but few muscular offsets, divides into four digital branches (fig. 75, '\ \ \ for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and 'half the fourth; it resembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. Mmailar offsets are given by the trunk to the flexor brevLs digitorum and the abductor hallucis ; and a few superficial twiys perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch (") to the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others are bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. Muscular branches are furnished by two of these nerves before they reach the toes; thus, the first supplies the flexor bre\is hallucis ; and the second gives a branch to the innermost lumbrical muscle. -Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, lieiiig divided at the cleft between the toes, supplies the contiguous sides of two toes, while the first belongs altogether to the iimer side of the great toe : all give offsets to the integuments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (fig. 77, ■■^) is spent chiefly in the deep muscles of the sole of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the fourth. It corresponds in its distribution Avith the irlnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides at the outer marghi of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial and a deep portion ;—the former gives origin to the two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantiir artery into the foot, and will be dissected afterwards (p. 210). While the external plantar nerve is concealed by the .short flexor of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the aljductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessoriiis. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve (fig. 75) are two. One (") is undivided and is distributed to the outer side of the little toe, gi\ang offsets to the flexor hvevis minimi digiti, and oftentimes to the intero.sseous muscles of the fourth space. The other (^) bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two toe-s, supplying their collateral surfaces, and communicates in the foot witli the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves liave the same dis- trilmtion as tho.se from the other planbir trunk, and end like them in a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit.20.5 SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. Dissection (fig. 77). To complete the prepcaration of the second Lay bare layer of inu.scle.s, the abductor halhicis .should be detached from the j^iyCTof OS calei.s and turned inwards. The internal plantar nerve and ""••■icles. artery, and the superficial portion of the external phxntar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 77). In this layer are the Muscles of tendons of the two fiexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz., flexor l^^°y'^ longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, which cro.ss one another. Connected with the foi'mer, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle; and at its division into tendons for the four outer toes the fleshy huubricales are added to it. The tendon of the flexok longus digitorum (fig. 77, b), enters Tendon of the foot beneath the annular ligament, and there lies on the internal o°"toe1''^'" lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. In the foot it is directed obUquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the accessorius dividesinto muscle and a .slij) from the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, and divides into tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with and beneath a these pierce tendon from the flexor brevis (e). About the centre of the first ^endmlr- phalanx the tendon of the long flexor (f) passes through the other, and goes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two nearest jihalanges of the toes are short synovial folds, one to each, as in the hand ; and the description of the sheaths on p. 75 should be referred to. to tendons; Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and comlunes with use. the short flexor in bending the first and second joints. If it acted by itself it would tend to bring the toes somewhat inwards, in con- sequence of its oblique position in the foot. The LUMBRicALES (fig. 77, D) are four small muscles between Four lum- the tendoiLS of the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from two ^ricales: tendons with the exception of the most internal, which is connected attachment only with the inner side of the tendon to the second toe. Becoming flexor^ tendinous, they pass upwards on the tibial side of the four outer and exten- toes, and are inserted into the expansion of tlie extensor tendons on the dorsum of the first phalanx ; but they often end partially in an attachment to the side of the first phalanx. The muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Action. These smaU muscles assist in flexing the metatarso- phalangeal joints ; and through their union with the long extensor tendon they may aid that muscle in straightening the Uvo inter- phalangeal joints. The ACCESSORIUS MUSCLE (fig. 77, A) has two heads of origin :— Flexor nc- One IS mostly tendinous, and is attached to the outer surface of the <^essorius OS calcis, and to the long plantar ligament; the other is large and fleshy, and springs from the inner concave surface of the bone (fig. 76, p. 201). The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, which join i«.ioined the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum al:.out the centre of the longus"-'"''206 relations; Insertion of tendon of flexor liallucis; relations: use on first and otlier toes. Dissect tliird layer of muscles. Muscles of third layer. Flexor brevis liallucis ; orifiin; insertion ; DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. foot, and contribute slips to the pieces of that tendon eoins to the second, third and fourth digits. Tlie muscle may be bifurcated behind, and tlie lieads of origin separated by the long plantar ligament. On it lie the external plantar vessels and nerve; and the muscles of the fir.st layer conceal it. Action. By means of its offsets to the tendons of certain dibits the muscle helps to bend the toes ; and from its position on the outer side of, and behind the long Hexor to which it is united, it will oppose the inward pull of that muscle, and enable it to bend the toes more directly backwards. The tendon of the flexor loxgu.s halldcis (fig. 77, c) is deeper in the sole of the foot than the flexor longus digitorum : taking a straight course to the root of the great toe, it enters the digital sheath, to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It is united to the long flexor tendon by a strong tendinous process, which, joined by bands of the accessorius, is continued into the pieces of that tendon belonging to tlie second and third toes. Beneath the internal annular ligament this tendon lies in a groove on the back of the astragalus : in the foot it first occupies a similar groove on the under-surliice of the sustentaculum tali, and then lies over the flexor brevis hallucis. Action. For the action of this muscle on the great toe, see p. 193. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the con'imon flexor going to the second and third toes, it will help to bend those digits with the great toe. Dissection (fig. 78, p. 208). For the dissection of the third layer of muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexors are to be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes. While raising the tendons, the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with ; and small nerves and vessels to the outer three lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third Layer op Muscles (fig. 78). Only the short muscles of the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal bone of the great toe the flexor brevis hallucis lies, and external to this is the adductor obliquus hallucis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the adductor transversus hallucis. The fleshy masses between the adductor obli(|Uus and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interosseous muscles of the next layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS HALLUCIS (llexor brevis pofticis pedis, fig. 78, a) arises behind by two tendinous slips, one of which is fixed to the inner side of the cuboid bone (fig. 76, p. 201), while the other is prolonged from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the i'ront of the first metatarsal bone the fleshy belly divides into two heads, which are inserted into the .sides of the base of the metatarsal phalanx.207 ADDUCTOR OBLIQUUS HALLUCIS. Resting on the muscle at one part, and in the interval between relations; the heads at anothei-, is the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with tlie adductor hallucis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first phalanx it flexes the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the big toe. The ADDUCTOR OBLIQUUS HALLUCIS (adductor pollicis pedis, fig. Adiluctor 78, b), wliich is larger than the preceding muscle, arises from the °,!,'iiacis^. sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, from the ridge on the origin; cuboid, and from the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones (fig. 76). Anteriorly the muscle is united with the outer "'si-rtif)"; head of the short Hexor, and is inserted with it into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath the outer relations; border the external plantar vessels and nerves are directed inwards. Action. Its first action will be to adduct the great toe to the use. others, and it will help afterwards in bending the metatarso- phalangeal joint of the toe. The ADDUCTOR TRANSVERSUS HALLUCIS (tranS^■el■SUS pedis, fig. Adductor 78, D) arises by fleshy bundles from the capsules of the meta- haTmci?'"' tarso-phalangeal articulations of the three outer toes (fig. 76) origin; (frequently not from the little toe), and from the transverse meta- tarsal ligament. Its insertion into the great toe is united with that insertion; of the adductor obliquus. The cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons and the nerves relations; of the toes ; and the opposite sm-face is in contact with the inter- osseous muscles and the digital vessels. Action. It will adduct the great toe to the others, and then "se on the approximate the remaining toes. The FLEXOR BREVIS IIINIMI DIGITI (fig. 78, C) is a narrow Flexor muscle resembling one of the interossei. Arising behind from the ^jgltj"^ base of the fifth metatarsal bone and the sheath of the peroneus origin • longus, it blends in front with the inferior ligament of the metatarso- phalangeal articulation, and is inserted into the base of the first insertion; phalanx of the toe. Actio7i. Firstly, it bends the metiitarso-phalangeal joint, and use. next it draws down and adducts tlic fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection (fig. 79). In order that the deep vessels and nerves Dissect the may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor oliliquus hallucis are to an7nervesl be cut through behind, and thrown towards the toes ; but the nerve supplying the latter is to be preserved. Beneath the adductor lie the plant^ir arch and the external plantar nerve with their branches ; and through the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves, with their branches, require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting Ijetweeu the metatarsal bones are the interossei; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTAR ARCH (fig. 79, d) is the portion of the external Arch of the plantar artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone Lnery •208 DISSECTION OF THK FOOT. extent; of the little toe to the upper end of tlie first interosseous space : internally the arch is completed hy a communicating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot (p. 182). It is placed across the relations tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones, in conhict with the interossei, muscles ^-"^^^ under the ilexor tendons and the adductor ohliqmis balhicis. FiQ. 78.—Third View of the Sole op the Foot (Illustrations OP Dissections). Muscles : A. Flexor brevis hallucis. B. Adductor obliqnus Iiallucis. 0. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. D. Adductor transversus hallucis. Arteries : a. Internal plantar, cut. b. External plantar. c. Its four digital branches. Nerves : 1. Internal plantar, cut. 2. External plantar. 3. Its superficial part, cut. 4. The deep part, with the plantar arch. 5. Offsets to the outer lumbrical muscles. veins and "Vcna3 comites lie on the sides of the arterj-, and the deep part of nerve; jjjg external plantar nerve accompanies it. brancheH:- From the front or convexity of the arch the digitnl brandies are su])plied, and from the opjiosite side small nutritive branches arise. Postprior Tliree small arteries, the posterior perforating, leave the deep j.ei forating.209 PLANTAR ARCH OF VESSELS. aspect of the vessel: they pass to the clorsuni of the foot through the three outer metatarsal spaces, and join the dorsal interosseous branches (p. 184). The digital branches (c) are four in number, and supply both Digit<ii brandies to I'. Intenml plantar arterj 1. Internal plantar nerv External plantar nerve. External plantar artery. ). Snperllcial branch external nerve, 4. Deep branch of the ex'ternal nerve. Fig. 79.-FouRTn Vikw of the Sole ok thk Foot (Illusirations OP DiSSKCTIONS) Muscles : 0. Three plantar interossei. 1. Four dorsal interossei. Arteries : a. Internal plantar, cut. i. External plantar. c. Its four digital branches. d. Plantar arch. f: Dorsal of foot entering the sole. f Artery of great toe. y. Branch to inner side of great toe. h. Branch for the supply of great toe and the next. Nerves : 1. Internal plantar, cut. 2. External plantar. 3. Its superficial part. 4. Its deep part, the latter supply- ing offsets to the interosseous muscles. sides ot the thi-ee outer toes and half the next. One to the outer three toes siae ot tlie little toe is single ; tlie others lie over the interossei in '""l"l"^if tlie outer three metatarsal space.s, but beneath the adductor trans- versus halhicis (fig. 78), and bifurcate in front to supply the P210 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. iiinsculnv and anterior perforating offsets: first, second, third, fonrtli digital; junction with Inner plantar; distribution on the toes. Ending of tlie dorsal artery of the foot; its digital branches, on the digits. Kxt'^rnal jilantar nerve ends in the deep muscles: like ulnar nerve. Disacctioii. Transverse tuetn tarsal ligament. coiiLiguous .sides of two toe.s. They give fine offsets to tlie iiitero.s.sei, to some lunibricales, and tlie adductor transversxis ; and at the point of division they send small communicating branches—anterior perforating, to join the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot (p. 184). The first digital runs on the outer .side of the little toe, supplying the flexor hrevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the integuments of the outer border of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and furnishes a branch to the outer lumbrical muscle. The tldrd is distriluited to the contiguous sides of the fourth and third toes, and emits a branch to the third lumbricalis. The fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits ; it may assist in supplying the third lumbricalis. The last two are joined by suj)erficial digital branches of the internal plantar at the root of the toes. On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that of the digital in the hand (p. 72). They extend to the end, where they luiite in an arch, and give offsets to the sides and ball of the toe ; and the artery on the second digit anastomoses at the end of the toe with a branch from the dorsal artery of the foot. Near tlie front of the first and second phalanges they form anasto- motic loops beneath the flexor tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. The DORSAL ARTERY OP THE FOOT (fig. 79, e) enters the sole at the posterior part of the first (inner) metatarsal space, and ends by inosculating with the plantar arch. By a large digital artery it furnishes branches to both sides of the great toe and half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half (p. 80). The digital branch (/) extends to the front of the first inter- osseous space, and divides into collateral branches (/i) for the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. Near the head of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch (g) for the inner side of the great toe. The arteries have the same arraugement along the toes as the other digital branches ; and that to the second digit anastomoses at the end with a branch of the plantar arch. The DEEI- PART OF THE EXTERNAL PLANTAR XERVE (fig. 79, '') accompanies the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor obliquus hallucis. It furnishes branches lo all the interossei, to the transversus adductor, and to the outer three lumbrical muscles (Brooks). This nerve corresponds with the deep portion of the ulnar nerve in the hand. Dissection. It will be needful to remove the transverse adductor muscle to see a ligament across ihe heads of the metatarsal bones. The TRAN.SVER8E METATARSAL LIGAMENT is a strong fibrous band, like that in the hand (p. 81), which connects together all the211 THE INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. metatarsal bones at their anterior extremity. A thin fascia covering tlie interoisseous muscles is attached to its hinder edge. It is con- eeixled hy the adductor transversus hallucis, and \>y the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toe.s. Dissection. To complete the dissection of tlie last layer of Dis.sect iiie muscles, the Hexor lirevis minimi digiti may he detached aiicl oTmuscles thrown forwards. Dividing tlien tlie metafcirsal ligament l)etweeu the liones, the knife is to he carried directly hackwards for a .short distiince in the centre of each interosseous space, except tlie first, in order that the two interosseous muscles may be separated from each other. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. The fascia co\-ering tlie muscles should be taken away if any remains, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them should be dissected out. Fourth Layer of Muscles (fig. 79). In the fourth and List Fomth layer of the foot are contained the interosseous muscles, and the lnuZ"Js. tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus. The IXTERO.SSEOUS MUSCLES (fig. 79) are situate in the intervals interossei. between the metatarsal bones : they consist of two sets, planUir and dorsal, like the interossei in the hand. Seven in numlier, there are three plantar and four dorsal ; and two are found in each space, except the innermost. The plcmtar mtisde.'i (o) are slender fleshy slips, belonging to the Thrt^o i.hui- outer three toes. Each arises from the under and inner surface of outer toes"" the corresponding mettitar.sal bone (fig. 76, p. 201) ; and is mserkd partly into the tibial side of the base of the first phalanx of the same toe, and partly by an expansion to the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot. The dorsal muscles (i), one in each space, arise by two heads Four dor.sal froni^the lateral surfaces of the liones between which they lie, bones.'"""' (fig. 76), and are inserted like the others into the side, and on the dorsum of the metatarsal phalanx of certain toes. Thus, the inner two mu.scles belong to the second toe, one to each side ; the next belongs to the outer side of the third toe; and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. The interossei are crossed by the external planUir vessels and Kelatioiia. nerve, and their digital branches ; and they lie beneath the adductor transversus hallucis and the metatarsal ligament. The posterior perforating arteries pierce the hinder extremities of the dorsal set. Action. Like the inteiussei of the hand (p. 81), they will Use as contnlnite to the bending of the metatarso-phalangeal joints, and straighten the two interplialangeal joints. e"fensors- They can act also as abductois and adductors of the toes. Thus, as acUUie-' tlie plantar set will bring the three outer toes towards the second toe ; and the dorsal iimscles will abduct from the middle line of the second toe,—the two attached to that digit nuiving it to the rhdit lid lett of the said line. o o „ ai P 2DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 212 Tracu out llie deep tendons. Insertion of tendon of tibialis posticns into tarsus and nietii- tarsus. Insertion of tendon of peroneus longns: relations Dissection. Follow the tendon of the tibialis po-sticiui inii&cle from its position behind the inner malleolus to its insertion into the navicular bone, and trace the numerous processes tliat it sends for- wards and outwards (fig. 76). Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. The tendon of the tibialis tosticos is continued forwards over the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint and the internal calcaneo-navicular ligament, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the navicular Ijone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot :—One is directed backwards to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. Two offsets are directed for- wards ;—one to the internal cuneiform bone, the other, much the larger, is attached to the middle and outer cimeiform, to the cuboid bone, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. In other words, extensions pass into all the tarsal bones except one (astragalus), and into all the metatarsal bones except two (first and fifth). Where the tendon is placed over the calcaneo-navicular ligament, it contains a filjro-cartilage, or occasionally a sesamoid bone. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle winds round the cuboid bone, and is continued inwards in the groove on the under- surface to be inserted into the internal cimeiform bone and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot (fig. 79), it is contained in a sheath which is completed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth metatarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only liy areolar tissue. A synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains a fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. JJircdions. In examining the remaining articulations of the limb, the student may take first the knee-joint, unless this has lieconie dry ; in that case the ligaments of the leg, ankle-joint, and foot may 1k' dissected while tlie knee is being moistened. Dissection. For the preparation of each ligament of the knee- to see knee, j^jj^j.^ sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons from around it, and to remove the areolar tissue or fibrous structure which may capsuiB, obscure or conceal the ligamentous band. A kind of aponeurotic and capsule is to be defined on the front of the joint; and .some tendons, namely, those of the biceps, poplileus, adductor magnus, Examine lirst thn kuee-joint. Dissection tendons.EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. 213 and semimembranosus, are to lie followed to their insertion, a part of each being left. Articul.\tion of the Knee. The knee is the largest joint in Bones in tim the body, and is formed by tlie contiguous ends of the tibia and femur, and of the patella. The articular surfaces of tlie bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in a]iposition liy strong and numerous ligaments. The aqmile (fig. 80) is an ajioneurotic covering on the front of Cai)suie: the joint, which closes the wide intervals between the anterior and the lateral ligaments ; and it is derivetl from the fascia lafci united imw fonnwi, with filiroas offsets of the e.xten.sor and He.xor muscles. It covers FlO. 80.—E.XTEKNAL AsPECT OF THE Knee-.Joint (Bouiioeky). 1. Anterior ligament. 2. External lateral ligament. 3. Interossicous membrane. 4. Lower extremity of the ilio- tibial band of the fascia lata, forming part of the capsule. Fio. 81.—Internal Aspect op tee Knke-.Ioint (Bouroery). 1. Tendon of the extensor muscle, ending below in the ligament of the patella, 2. 3. Internal lateral ligament. 4. Inner part of the capsule. the anterior and the external lateral ligaments, being inserted below into the heads of the tibia and fibula ; and it blends on the inner arrange- side with the internal lateral ligament. It is separated from the synovial membrane by the anterior ligament and by fat. Dissection. Four additional ligaments, anterior and jiosterior, Theoxtemal internal and external lateral, are situate at opposite jiarts of the articulation. The jiosterior and the internal lateral ligaments will Todeiino appear on the removal of the areolar tis.sue from their surfaces ; but n,e„tf' the anterior and the external lateral are covered bv the ajioneurosis I'o^'v to on the front of the joint, and will not be laid bare'till this has been cut through. If there i.s a second external lateral band present, it IS not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 80,is round and cord-like. External It IS attached to the tuberosity of the outer condyle of the femur, l^onTis"^"" small :214 DISSECTION OF THK LEG. occasional band. Teiulou of the,biceps is divjrletl. Tendon of the popli- teius, and of adductor magmis. Internal lateral ligament: attach- ments : is joined by semimem- branosus. Insertion of the semi- membrano- sus. Posterior ligament. below the tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically, pai tiall}' subdividing the tendon of the bicejis, to a depression on t he upper and outer part of the head of the filjula. Beneath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus and the e.xternal lower articular vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but it is not attached to the femiir ; it is connected above with the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and lielow with the styloid process of the head of the fibula. The tendm of the biceps is inserted by two main pieces into the head of the filnila ; and from Ijoth of these fibres are prolonged to the head of the tibia. The external lateral ligament pa.sses between these pieces into which the tendon is partially .split. The tendon of the popliteus may be follo-iN-ed by di\-iding the posterior ligament. It arises from the fore part of the oblong depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it eros.ses the external semilunar fibro-cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal articvUation. Wlien the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle ; but it slips out of that groove when the limb is extended. The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur, abo\-e the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 81,") is attached above to the condj'le of the femur, where it lileuds with the capsule; but becom- ing broadened out and thicker below, and sepai'ate from the rest of the capsvde, it is fixed for about an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, belo\v the level of the ligamentum patellae : some of the deeper fibres join the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The tendons of the .sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus miLscle-s lie o\'er this ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, and the internal lo'wer articular vessels and nerve are beneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres from the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. The te7idon of the semimembranosus musck is inserted ))en&ith the internal lateral ligament into the lower jiart of the groove at the back of the irmei' tuberosity of the tibia : between it and the ujiper edge of the groove is a synovial bursji. The tendon sends a few fibres into the internal lateral ligament, a prolongation t-o join the fascia on the ]io]iliteus muscle, and another to the po.sterior Hgament of the knee-joint (fig. 52, p. 128). The 2}osterior ligament is wide and membranous, and is formed in great ]iart by a strong process from the tendon of the seniimem- liranosns, which is directed across the joint to the outer .side. It is fixed below to the head of the tibia behind the articular .surface ; and above, it is attached in the centre to tlie femur at the upper border of the intercondylar notch, liut on each side it joins the tendinous head of the gastrocnenuus. Numerous apertures exist in it for the jjassage of vesaels and nerves to the interior of the215 INTERIOR OF THE KNEE JOINT. articulation ; and tlie touclon of the popliteus pierces its outer part. The anterior liyament or ligamentuvi patellm (fig. 81,-) is the Anterior infrapatellar jiart of the tendon of insertion of the extensor muscle '■8"""'"'' of the knee. About two inches long, it is attached above is infra- to the apex and lower border of the patella; and below to the ["j^j";"' tubercle of the til)ia. An expansion of the quadriceps extensor covers it; and a bursa intervenes between it and the front of the tibia above the tubercle. Dissection (fig. 82). To see the reflections of the synovial niem- Open the brane, raise the knee on blocks, and open the joint in front by an j^'f^'i^t"' Fio. 82.—Interior op thk Knee-joint, the Capsule op the Knee- joint COT ACROSS, AND THE PaTBLLA THROWN DOWN, TO SHOW THE Named Folds op the Stnovial Sao. incision on each side above the patella. When the anterior portion of the capsule with the patella is thrown down, a fold (mucous ligament) will be .seen extending from the intercondylar fossa of the femur to a mass of fat below the patella. On each side of the patella is another fold (alar ligament) also over some fat. The limb may be laid flat on the trtble, and some of the posterior mui Ueiiind. ligament I'emoved, to show the pouches of the synovial membrane which project behind over the condyles, of the femur ; but the limb is to be replaced in the former position before the parts are le<irnt. The synovial membrane (fig. 82) lines the interior of the joint, synovial and is continued to the margins of the articular surfaces of the membrane bones. It invests the interarticular fibro-cartilages after the manner a. Mucous ligament. h. Internal, and c, external alar ligament.216 thrown into folds named ligaments,— mucous, Riul alar. Synovial pouches: two behind and one before. Ai'ticular fat: below patella, use; above the patella. Dissect Internal ligaments. Ligamelits within the capsule. DISSECTION OF THE LEG. of serous membranes, and sends a pouch betAveen the tendon of tlie pophteus and the external fil)ro-cartilage and the head of the tibia • It IS also reflected over the strong crucial ligaments at the back of the joint. There are three named folds of the synovial membrane. One in the centre of the jomt is the mucous ligavient (a), which contiuu.s small vessels and some fat, and extends from the interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. Below and on eaclx side ot the patella is another fold—aZa,- liqament (6 and c) which is continuous with the former below the patella, and is placed over a mass of fat: the inner (b) is prolonged farther than the outer bv a semihmar piece of the synovial memln-ane. At the back and front the articulation pouches are prolonged beneath the tendons of muscles. Beliind there are t^^•o, one on each side, between the condyle of the femur and the tendinous head of the gastrocnemius. On the front, the sac projects under the exteiLSor niuscle one inch above the articular surface; and if it communicates with the buraa in that situation, as is usually the case, it will reach two inches aljove the joint-surface of the feniur. When the joint is bent there is a still greater length of the serous sac above the patella. Fat around the joint. Two large masses are placed above and below the patella, a:nd a smaller iiuantity of fat surrounds the crucial ligaments. The infrapatellar mass, the largest of all, fills the interval between the patella with its ligament and the head of the tibia, and gives origin to the ridges of the synovial membrane. From it a piece is continued round the patella ; but it is larger at the inner margin than at the outer, and o\'erhangs the inner perpendicular fticet'"'of that bone. This infrapatellar pad adapts itself to the varying shape and extent of the angular interspace between the bones and the liga- mentum patella3 in the movements of the joint. The suprapatellar pad is interposed Ijetween the common extensor tendon and the femur round the top of the .synovial .sac, and is larger on the outer than the inner side. Dissection (fig. 83). The ligamentous structures within the capsule will be brought into A-iew, while the limb is still in the .same position, by throwing do^\-n the pateUa and its ligament, and clearing away the fat behind it. In this step the student must be careful of a smaU transverse band which connects anteriorly the interarticular fibro-cartilages. The remains of the cajjsule and other ligaments, and the synovial membrane, are next to l)e cleared away from the front and "back of the crucial ]iganient.s, and from the fibro-cartilages. While cleaning the posterior crucial ligament, the limb is to be jjlaced flat on the tul)le with the patella down, and the student is to be careful of a band in front of the ligament from the external fibro-c^irtilage, or of two bands, one before and the other behind it. Ligaments icithin tlie capsule. The ligamentous structures within the caiisule consist of the central crucial ligaments, and of two plates of fibro-cartilage on the head of the tilna.IXTEKNAL LTGAMENT8 OK THE KNEE. 217 Tlie crucial ligaments (fig. 83) aie two .strong fibioii.s cords between the ends of the tibia and fenuir, wliith maintain the bone.s in contact. They cros.s one ancjtlier like tlie legs of the k'tter X, and liave received their name from that circum.st.ince. One i.s much anterior to tlie other at tlie tibial attachment. Tlie anterior ligament (/) is \-erv obliqne in its direction, and is longer than the i)osterior. Inferiorly it is atfaiched in front of the .spine of the tibia, clo.se to the inner articular surface, reaching back to the inner point of the si)ine ; sujieriorly it is in.serted into an impression on the liinder part of the inner surface of the external condyle of the femur. The j^osterior ligament (c), the thicker of the two, is almost vertical between the bones at the back of the joint. By the loM'er end it is fixed to the hiiidniost impression of the hollow liehind the .spine of the tiljia, near the margin of the bone; and above, it is inserted into an imjiression at the lower pait of the outer sm-face of the internal condyle, and extending forwards to the centre of the intercondvlar fo.s.sa. The Kse of these ligament-s in the movements of the joint may now be studied after the external ligaments have been cut through. As long as both ligaments are whole, the bones cannot be .sepa- rated from each other. Eolation inwards of the tibia is limited by the anterior crucial. Rotation out is not checked by either ligament; for the bands mi- cross in the execution of the move- Two cnipial ligatnent.s. Anterior is obli(jiie ; its atlacii- mcuts. Postprior is vertical ; FiQ. 8-3.—Intkkarticulau Lkia- MKNTS OV THK KnEE-.IOINT. a. Internal, and b, external seraihinarfibro-cartilage ; the latter rather ili.splaoed by the bending of the joint. e. Posterior cnieial ligament, with rf, the ascending ligamentous band of the e.\ternal fibro-cartilage. /. Anterior crncial ligament. £/. Patellar surface of the femur. Tlicir use. Hotli unite tlie bones. Rotation inwards cliecked by anterior. nieut, and will permit the tibia to be turned hind part foremost. Supposing the tibia to move as in straightening the limb, the anterior prevents that bone being carried too far foi'wards by the extensor muscle, or by external force; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put 111 front of the fenuir. Its use is shown by cutting it acro.ss^ and lea\ iiig the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half-bent state of the joint. The po.sterior crucial prevents displacement backwards of the til)ia by the flexors or by force; and it is stretched in extreme Special use of anterior. antl posle- rior crucial.DISSECTION OF THE LEO. 218 flexion, in which the tibia is being drawn back over the femur. This use ^vill be exeni]ilifiud by ciittrug across the posterior (in anotlier joint or iu another dissection) and h-aving entii-e tlie ante- rior ; when this has been done, the articular surfaces of the tibia can be carried nearly altogether behind the condyle.s of the femur. Semilunar The two interarticular or semilunar fibro-cartilages (fig. 84) partly .ure tlvo.™ 0" each side the articular surface of the til>ia. Common They are thick at the convex margin, where they are united bv ciiaiacteis. f^]^^,^^ ^he capsule, and are thin, sharp, and free at the concave edge; they are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in giving depth to the fossaj for the reception of the condyles of the femur, Init are flattened below. luserted into the tibia at their extremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attach- ment to the bone, like the crucial ligaments; and they become cartilaginous onh^ where they lie between the articular surfaces. The .syno- vial membrane is reflected over them. The internal fibro-cartilage (a) is oval in form, and is less sharply cur\ed than the ex- ternal. In front it is attached liy a pointed end close to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial ligament. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. External The external fihro-cartikuje (b) is nearly circular in form, and is cuiaHn''" ^'oiinected to the bone within the points of attachment of its fellow, lorm: Its anterior part is fixed in front of the spine of the tibia, close lo the outer articular surface, and opposite the anterior crucial ligament which it touches ; and its posterior extremity is inserted behind and between the two osseous points of the spine. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the fore jiart is in the centre of the joint, and the tendon of the jjopliteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. The outer fibro-cartilage is provided with two accessory liands, one in front, the other behind, its trans- The anterior or transverse ligament (r) is a narrow band of fibres \ersean(l Jjetweeu the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Some- times it is very small or even absent. FiQ. 84.—The Fibho-oartilages of THE Knee-Joint. View of the Head op the Tibia with the fibro-oartilages attached ; the Crucial Lioaments have been oct THROUOn. a. Inner, and h, outer semilunar fibro-cartilage. 0. Transverse, and d, ascending or posterior band (out) of the external cartilage. e. Posterior, and /, anterior crucial ligament.ARTICULAR SURFACES IN THE KNEE-JOINT. 219 The posterior or ascending band (d), tliicker and stronger than the posterior other, springs from the back of the outer tibro-cartihigt', and is '' inserted into tlie funiui', either as a single band (fig. 83, d), wlieii it is generally in front of the ]>oslrerior crucial, or as two bands —one being before, and the other behind that ligament. U.fe. The fibro-cartilages deepen the sockets of the tibia for the u.se of iibro- reception of the condyles of the femur, and fill the interval between '^'"'''''"i;'^''' the articular sui-faces of the bones at the circumference of the joint; they distribute the pressure of one bone on the other over a larger surface, and cause the force of .shocks to be diminished in transmis- sion. In fl.exion and extension they move forwards and backwards in flexion with the tibia over the femoral condyles. During Hexion they slon recede somewhat from the fore part of the joint, and surround the narrow parts of the condyles ; but in extension they are flattened out on the surface of the tibia. Of the two cartilages, the external moves the most in consequence of its being less attached to the capsule. In rotation the fibro-cartilages follow the condyles of the femur, and in rotn- and glide over the tibial articular surfaces, the external moving • more than the internal. The acce.ssory bands in front and behind serve to retain in place use of the le.s3 fixed external fibro-cai-tilage ; thus the anterior ligament bamlT"^ keeps forwards the front of that cartilage in flexion, and the posterior secures the back of the sauie from displacement in rotation. Articular surfaces of the bones. The end of the femur is marked Surfaces of by a patellar and two tibial surfaces. Tlie patellar is placed in the nuddle abo\-e the othei's ; it is on fenuir, hollowed along the centre, with a slanting surface on each side, the I'oteiinr outer being much the larger of the two. The surfaces for contiict with the tibia, two in number, occupy ana tibial: the ends of the condyles, and are separated from the patellar im- ch.-iracters pre.ssion by an oblique groove on each side. At the lower part of = each is a somewiuit llattened surface, which is in contact with the tiljia in standing; while behind there is a more convex portion, which touches the tibia in ttexion. The inner condyle of the fenuir is curved in its anterior third, peculiarities the concavity being directed outwards and backwards ; this has °'' been named the "oblique curvatui'e." Along the concave margin of the curve is a .semilunar facet, which touches the peri^endicular surfiice of the patella in extreme Hexion. On the head of the tibia are two slight articular hollows, the Articular inner being the deeper and larger, which rise towards the middle ti'to""" of the bone, on the points of the tibial si)ine. The joint-surface of the patella has the following marks. Close Subdivision to the inner edge is a narrow perpendicular facet, and along the °'i;jf°^;,'';,f lower border Ls a similar transverse mark. Occujiying the re.st of imtJiUi." the bone is a squarish surface, which is subdivided l)y a vertical and by two transverse lines into three pairs of facets—upper, middle, and lower. The transverse lines are fainter than the vertical. Movements of the joint. The chief movements of the knee are two Kinds of moveinont.DISSECTION OK rriK LEG. 220 Flexion : niDveiiKMit of tibin ; cliange in direction state of ligampnta. Extension mox'enient or tibia; course changes; state of the liga- ments. Two kintls of rotation. Rotation in mo\'enient of tibia; state of ligaments. Rotiition out: sUite of ligaments. Movi;ment of patella: in flexion, where it touches; while straighten- ing; in inunber, bending {fie:don) and .straightening (extevgron) ■ hxxl tliere i.s, in addition, rotatmi of Ibe tibia wlien tbe le" is benl In fleximi, the tibia witli it., libro-cartilages niove.s backwards round tlie end of the femur ; and the motion i.s limited by the e.xtensor nni.scle, and by the meeting of the calf of the leg with the thigh. For the antei'ior third of tlie movement the tibia i.s directed back- wards and inwards along the oblique curve of the inner condyle givmg riseto an inward rotation of the leg; but for the pcsterior two-thirds of the movement the tibia passes straight back and up o\'er both condyles. All the outside ligaments are relaxed, except the anterior ; and the same is the case with the anterior crucial : the posterior crucial ligament is put forcibly on the stretch towards the end of flexion. : In extension, the tibia is carried forwards until it pas.ses .slightly beyond the line of the femur, when the uniting ligaments prevent its farther i)rogress. In the hinder two-thirds of the movement the tibia has a straight course over the condyles of the femur; but in the anterior third the leg-bone is directed forwards and outwards over the oblique curve of the inner condyle and is rotated out. The posterior and the lateral ligaments, together with the whole of the anterior crucial ligament, are rendered tense and set a limit to the movement. Rotation. A half-ljent state of the knee is nece.s.s;iiT for this movement, for the purpose of relaxing tbe anterior crucial and the lateral ligaments ; and the foot mu.st, be free. Then the tibia with its fibro-cartilages rotates .slightly around a longitudinal axi.s, tbe great toe being turned in and out. : During rotation inwards, tlie inner articular surface of the tibia moves but little beneath the inner condyle of tbe femur; but the outer articular surface, with its fibro-cartilage, glides forwards imder the external condyle. Both lateral ligaments are loose ; but the anterior crucial is gradually tightened, and finally stops the motion. In rotation outwards the opposite movement of the tibia fcike.s place,—the outer articular surface being directed backwards. The internal lateral ligament is gradually tightened, and controls the movement : the crucials have not any influence on it. Movement of the jxttella. When the knee ]iasse.s from flexion to extension, the patella travels upwards and slightly inw.nrds over the lower end of the femur, tcmching in succession dilfeivnt jiart.s of the femoral articular surfaces. In complete Hexion it lies on tlie outer part of the joint below the femur, where it is scarcely percejjtible, and is fixed in its .situa- tion. It touches the semilunar surface on the inner condyle by its peqiendicular facet, and tbe uiider-part of tbe outer condyle by the upjier and outer mark on its .S(|uare surface. When the joint is passing from flexion to exten.sion, the iipper, middle, and lower pairs of inipre.ssions on the squareTIBIO-FIBULAB AETICULATIONS. 221 surface of thi' piitelln, rest successively on the troclilwir surface of the femur. In complete extension, the jjatella is situate at the upper part of i" exleu- the knee-joint, where it is very iironiinent, with its apex and the ' ligament of the patella directed down and out to the tibia. For the must part the jiatellar articular surface is raised above the position lo trochlea of the femur, which it touches only at the upper edge by its lower trans\erse fai-et. TiBio-FiBui.AR Articulations. Tlie tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at their Aiiicuiiition extremities where they touch, and by an interosseoiis membrane n^u'ia''' between the shafts of the bones. Dissection. The muscles are to be tiUceii away fr oni the front Dissection and back of the interosseous membrane ; and the loose tissue is to lie remo\-ed from small bands in frojit of and behind the upper and lower ends of the tibia and fibula. The UPPER ARTICULATION has very slight movement, and the Upper ar- structures between the ends of the bones are two small bands, anterior and posterior. The anterior lujament extends over the joint from the outer tulie- by anterior rosity of the tibia to the heiid of the fibula. i^ostcrior ligament, a."'i poste- thinner than the anterior, is attached to the bones behind the joint: "°' it is covered by the tendon of the ])0pliteU3 muscle and a prolon- gation of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The articular surfiices are covered with cartilage ; and the synovial synovial cavitij of the articulation is only separated by the thin posterior ligament from that of the knee-joint. The LOWER ARTICULATION posscsses anterior, posterior, and Lower inferior bands, together with an interosseous ligament (inferior) "rtjculation between the ends of the bones. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower end of the anterior, tibia to the fibula; and the posterior has attachments behind the posterior, articulation similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament closes the notch at the back between the inferior, contiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of transverse yellowish fibres distinct from the posterior ligament. It is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula aliove the pit ; and on the other it is inserted into the contiguous jiartof the tibia, and into the posterior edge of the articular surface, so as to assist in deei)ening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. This band cannot be seen until the astragalus has been disarticulated after the examination of the ankle-joint. The inferior interosseous ligament consists of strong Inindles of and interos- fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards between the nientsl'""' adjacent rough surfaces of the lower ends of the two bones. This also may be seen after the di.ssection of the aiikle-joint, by sawing longitudinally the ends of the leg-bones.222 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Interosse- ous luHni- bniiie be- tween tlie sliafts: attach- ments ; apei'tures. JFolion slight. in upper, and lower articula- tion. The INTEROSSEOUS MEMBRANE fills the interval between the bones of the leg, and serves as an aponeurotic partition between the muscles on the front and back of the limb. Its fibres are directed tor the most part downwards from the tibia to the fibula • but a te^v cross m the opposite direction. Internally it is fixed to the outer edge of the tibia ; and e.xtemallv to the prominent interosseous ridge on the inner side of the fibuk In Its upper part, close to the neck of the fibula, is an oA-al openiuR about an inch in length, which transmits the anterior tibial vessels • and at the lo^^-er end, between the memlirane and the inferior articulation, is another small opening for the an- terior peroneal vessels. Movement. Very little movement is allowed in the tibio-tibular articula- tions, as the chief use of the fibula is to give strength and elasticity to the ankle-joint, and attach- ment to muscles of the 1p(t In the upper joint there is a slight gliding chiefly from within out. In the lower articulation the lisra- o ments permit some yield- ing of the filnila to the Fig. 85.—Inner Side op the Ankle pressure of the astragalus, (altered from BonnQEiir). as when the weight of the \. Posterior, 2, middle, and 3, anterior 1^°^^^' thro\ra on the fibres of the inner lateial ligament. inner side of the foot; 4. Internal caloaneo-navieular ligament. but if the force is violent the fibula will be fractured about the junction of the third and lowest fourths sooner than the ligaments give way. Bones in the ankle- joint. Dissection of the ankle- joint. Articulation of the Ankle (fig.s. 85 and 86). The ankle is a hinge joint, in which the upper jiart of the astragalus is received into an arch formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula; and the four ligaments belonging to tliis kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissection. To make the dissection required for the ligaments of the ankle-joint, the muscles and the fibrous ti.ssues and ve.ssels must be removed from the front iiiid back of the articulation. For the purpose of defining the lateral ligament,s, the linil) must be ])laced first on one side and then on the other. The internal ligament is wide' and .strong, and lies beneath the tendon of the tibialis po.sticus. The external is divided into three separate pieces ;223 ARTICULATION OF THE ANKLE. ami to show these, the peronei muscles, and the remains of tlie annular ligament below the outer nuilleoUis, should be taken away. The anterior ligament is a thin fibrous membrane, which is attached to the tibia close to the articular surface, and to the upper part of the astragalus near the articulation with the navicular bone. In the ligament are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. The posterior ligament is thinner than the anterior, and is attached to the tibia and astragalus, close to the articular surfaces of the bones. Towards the outer side it consists of transverse fibres, which are fixed into the hollow on the inner side of the external malleolus. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 85) is attached by its upper, smaller end to the inner malleolus, and by its base to the bii-sal bones, by fibres which radiate to their inser- tion in this manner :—The posterior (') are directed to the hinder part of the inner smface of the astragalus; the middle (") pass verti- cally to the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis; and the anterior ("), which are thin and oblique, join the internal calcaneo-navicular ligament and the inner side of the navicular bone. The tendons of the tibialis pos- ticus and flexor longus digitorum are in contact with this ligament. The external lateral ligament (fig. 86) consists of three separate pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior, which are attached to the astragalus and the os calcis. The anterior piece (') is a short fiat band, which is directed from the fore part of the malleolus to the side of the astragalus in front of the lateral articular surface. The middle portion (•^) descends from the tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The ■posterior (-) is the strongest, and i.s almost horizontal in direction ; it is fixed externally to the pit on the inner surface of the malleolus, and is inserted into the external tubercle and adjoining posterior part of the external surface of the astragalus behind the lateral articular facet. The posterior and middle fasciculi are placed beneath the peronei muscles. The nnddle piece is but slightly in contact above with the synovial meudjrane of the ankk'-joint; and both it and the Anterior liyament tliin iind imiiert'ect. Posterior li''iuneut. Internal or ileltoiil : nlUicli- nicnts. Fig. 86.—E.kternal Latkual Ligament op THE Ankle (altered prom BonnoERy). 1. Anterior part, 2, posterior part, and 3, middle part of tlic onter ligament. 4. Interosseous of astragalus and os calcis. 5. Exteinal calcaneo-navicular ligament. External has tlireo l)ieces: anterior, nn'dille, and ima- terior : relution.s.224 Open the ankle-joint Synoviiil san. Surfaces of the bones in the .joint. Kinds of motion. Flexion: moving bone : state of ligaments. Extension moving bone ; state of ligaments : .slight lateral motion. Dissection for the joints of the foot. A.stragnlns with OS ciilcis by DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Dissection. Dividing the ligaments of the ankle-joint, .separate the astragalns troni the hone.s of the leg, to .see the oaseou .sm-faces entering into the joint. The _^novial membrane of the .joint line.s the capsule, and i.s simple lu Its arrangement; but the cavity is continued upwards for a short distance hetween the til)ia and fihula Arhcalar surfaces. On the tibia there are two articular surfaces, one of which corresponds with the end of the shaft, and tlie other with the malleolus. On the filaila the surface of the malleolu.s which IS turned to the astragalus is covered with cartilage The astragalus has an upper articular surface, wider before than behind and trochlea-shaped, which is in contact with the end of the tibia; and on its sides are articular impressions for contact with the malleoli, of which the outer is the larger. Movements. Only the mo\'enients of flexion and extension are permitted in the ankle, except slight lateral movement in half extension; m the former movement the toes are raised towards the tore part of the leg ; and in the latter, they are pomted towai-ds the ground. Inflexion the a,stragaliLs moves backwards so as to project behind ; and the motion is arrested by the wide anterior part of the a,stragahis being wedged in between the malleoli. The posterior ligament is stretched over the projecting astragalus, and the posterior and middle pieces of the external lateral, and the posterior part of the internal lateral ligament, are made tense. In extension the astragalus moves forwards over the end of the tibia, and projects anteriorly. A limit to the movement is imposed by the meeting of the astragalus with the tibia behind. The lateral ligaments are partly made tight as in Hexioii, for instance, the anterior piece of the external, and the fore and middle portions of the internal. When the joint is half extended, so that the small hinder part of the astragalus is Ijrought into the arch of the leg-bones, a slight movement of the foot inwards and outwards may .sometimes"be obtained ; but if the foot is forcibly extended, the portions of the lateral ligaments attached to the astragalus prevent this lateral movement by their tightness. Dissection. The joints of the foot will be demonstrated by removing from both the dorsum and the sole all the soft parts which have been examined. Between the dill'erent tiirsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 87). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Articulation of the astragalus and os calcis. These bones form two joints, and are kept together by a strong inlero.sseons ligament; there are also thin bands on each side and behind.225 ARTICULATION OF ASTRAGALO.S AND OS CALCI.S. The posterior ligament (fig. 87, a) consists of a few fibres between the lione.s, where they are grooved by the tendon of tlie fle.\or hallucis ; the internal lujament is a small band passing from the internal tubercle of the astragalus to the sustentaculum tiili ; and the external lujament (b) is connected to the sides of the asti'agalus and OS calcis, near the middle piece of the e.\ternal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 87, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, which are attached above and below to the depressions on the opposed surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across between the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 228) the articular lioslerior, iiiteinal, extenml, and interos- soous liga- ments. Articular .surfaces: Fio. 87.—View ok tuk Dorsal Ligaments op the Taiisus. a. Posterior, l>, external, and c, intercsseous ligaments between astra- gal us and OS calcis. (L Astragalo-navicular. c. External calcaneo-navicular. /. Internal, and g, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments. h. Dorsal naviculo-cuboid band. i, k, I, Dorsal external, middle, and intenial naviculo-cuneiform longi- tudinal bands. //. Dorsal transverse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones. surfaces of the bones will be seen, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial cavities. synovial Movements. It is between the astragalus and os calcis that the important movements of the foot known as inversion and eversion i«tw«"iras. chiefly take place. The motion is one of rotation about an oblique axis, which is directed from the upper and inner part of the head^^^o""' of the astragalus, backwards, downwards, and outwards to the lower motion, and outer part of the posterior extremity of the os calcis. Supposing the astragalus fixed between the malleoli, and the rest of the foot free to move, then in inversion the outer part of the os calcis moves inversion, forwards and downwards, and the sustentaculum tali in the opposite direction, while the anterior end of the bone is carried somewhat inwards. As a result of this, aided by corresponding movements of the anterior tarsal bones, the fore part of the foot is depressed,DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 22fi Eversion. Condition of foot in standing; effect of inversion. Astragnkis with navicular bone: dorsal ligament. To lay bare tliecal- caneo-navi- cular liga- ments. Intenial and and the arch increased ; the toes are moved inwards ; and the outer border of the foot sinks, turning the .sole in In eversion the above movements are reversed In the ordinary mode of standing the foot is everted to the utmost, or nearly so, by the weiglit of the bodv ; if then inversion 18 practised, the inner side of the foot is raised from the ground and the part is supported on its outer edge. ' Astragalus with the navicdlar bone. Tlie head of the astragalus is received into the liollow of the navicular bone, and is united to it by a dorsal ligament ; but the place of plantar and lateral ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the navicular bone. The iistragalo - navicular ligament (fig. 87, cl) is attached to the astra- galus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the navicular bone : its attachments will be better seen when it is cut through. Dissection. The e.vternal ligament of the articulation may be seen on the dorsum of the foot in the hollow between the os calcis and the navi- cular bone, and if the tendon of the tibialis posticus be removed, the internal ligament will be exposed, covering the head of the astragalus on the inner side and below. The internal or inferior calcaneo- navicular ligament (fig. 89, c, p. 227) is attached behind to the inner and fore parts of the sustentaculum tali of the OS calcis, and in front to the inner extremity and lower border of the navicular bone. This ligament is Fio. 88.—Plantar Ligaments OP THE Foot (BouRQERy). partly fibro-cartilaginous ; its inner pxtenial ligament. Synovial sac. SnrfncBs of bone. 1. Long plantar ligament. 2. Inner part ot the short plantar ligament. 3. Tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. side is crossed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle; and its deep surface forms part of the .socket for the head of the astragalus. The external calcaneo-navicular ligament (fig. 87, c) is placed outside the head of the astragalus, and is about, three-quarters of an inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the upper part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for tlie cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is iii-serted into the outer side of the navicular"bone. The synovial cavilg of this articulation is continued backwards into the joint between the front of the os calcis and the astragalus. Articular surfaces. The head nf the astragalus lias Ihree convex articular surfaces, a large one in front, elongated transversely and broader externally than internally, for the navicular bone ; a narrow oldique surface below for the os calcis; and a small intermediate227 LIGAMENTS OF TARSAL BONES. trimigular facet internally for the internal calcaneo-uavicular liga- ment. The surface of the navicular bone is hollowed, and is wide.st externally. Movement. The navicular moves down and in ovei' the head of the astragalus iu inversion, or up and out in eversion. As the bone is forced downwards, the upper and e.xternal liga- ments of the joint are made tight; and when the navicular is moved in the opposite way, the strong internal ligament is put on the stretch. The OS calcis with the cuboid BONE. The ligaments in this articu- lation are plantar, dorsal, and internal. The dorsal, or superior, calcaneo- cuboid ligament (fig. 87, (j) is a rather tliin fasciculus of fibres, which is attached near to the contiguous ends of the OS calcis and the cuboid bone ; it is sometimes divided into two pieces, or it may be situate at the outer border of the foot. At the inner side of the cuboid lione is a variable internal hand (Hg. 87, /) from the os calcis ; this is fixed Ireland to the upper part of the OS cidcis, outside the band to the navicular lione, and in front to the contiguous inner side of the cuboid. The infe)ior calcaneo-cuboid liga- ment is much the strongest, and is divided into superficial and deep parts :— The superficial portion ur tony plantar ligament (fig. 88,1) is attached to the under-surface of the os calcis between the posterior and the anterior tubercles ; its fibres pass foi'wards to be connected with tlie ridge on the under-surface of the cuboid bone ; but the most internal are continued over the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle, as.sisting to form its sheath, and are inserted into the bases of the third and ftnirth metatarsal bones. The deep piece or short plantar ligament (fig. 89, h), seen on division of the superficial (a), extends from the tubercle and the hollow on tlie fore part of the under-surface of the os calcis to the cuboid bone internal or posterior to the ridge. The synovial cavity of the articulation is simple. « 2 Movoiiieiit : state of ligaments. Os ealeis witli cuboid bone, by dorsal. internal, FlO. 89. VlKWOl,' THE In1.'KRK)K Ligaments ok the Tahsal Jjones. u. Long plantar cut. b. Short or deep inferior cal- caneo-cuboid ligament. c. Liternal calcaneo-navicnlar. d. Plantar transverse navi- culo-ouboid ligament. c. Dorsal inner naviculo- cnneiform extending into tlie sole of the foot. Plantar transverse ligament between the inner and middle cuneiform bones. (/■ Plantar transverse band between the cuboid and outer cuneiform. iiuil inferior ligaments. The last is strongest, and divided Into two parts : superlicial and Icep band. Synovial sac.228 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Siirfiices of bones. Jrovement: state of liiranients. Transverse tiu'sal arti- culation includes two joints; movements: amijutation practised here. Dissection. Biirfaoes of OS calcis and astra- gal us. Union of tlic navicular boIH! to Uiecuiiui- fonn; synovial sac : Articular surfaces. Both bones are flattened towards the outer part of the articulation ; but at the inner side the os calcis is hollowed transversely, and the cuboid bone is convex to fit into it. Movement. In this joint the cuboid bone may move in two direc- tions, viz., oljliquely down and in witli inversion of the foot, and up and otit M'ith eversion. In tlie downward movement the internal lateral and the upper ligament are made tight; anil in the upward, tlie calcaneo-cuboid ligaments of the sole are stretched. Tran,sverse tarsal articulation. This name is given to the line of articulation crossing the foot between the astragalus and os calcis Ijehind and the navicular and cuboid bones in front : it will be noticed, however, that it is not a continuous joint, but is com- posed of two separate articulations, viz., the astragalo-navicvJar and the calcaneo-cuboid. The.se joints participate, as has been already seen, in the move- ments of in^'ersion and eversion, the anterior bones moving over the hinder ones, downwards and inwards in inversion, and upwards and outwards in eversion. It is at this line that the foot is divided in the operation known as Chopart's ampiitation. Dissection, Saw through the astragalus in front of the attach- ment of the interosseous ligament between it and the os calcis, and remove the head of the bone in order to see the disposition of the inner and outer calcaneo-navicular ligaments. Then the interosseous ligament uniting the astragalu.s and the os calcis is to be cut through, to demonstrate its attachments, the articular surfaces of the bones, and the synovial sacs (p. 225). Articular surfaces of the two hinder tarsal liones. There are two articular surfaces, anterior and posterior, to both the astragalus and the OS calcis. The hinder one of the os calcis is convex from before back, and the anterior is concave ; but sometimes the latter is subdivided into two. The surface of the astragalus has a form e.xactly the reverse of that of the os calcis, viz., the hinder one concave and the anterior convex ; the anterior is seated on the head of the astragalus. Dissection. Tlie calcaneo-cuboid joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces ; and the student is to keep in mind that all the other articulations of the foot are to l)e opened for the like purpose, even should directions not be given. Articulation of the navicular hose. The navicular bone is united in front to the three cuneiform Ijones, and laterally to the cuboid. In the articulation vith the cuneiform bones (fig. 87) there are three longitudinal dorsal liyaments {i, k, I), one to each bone ; but the innermost is the strongest and widest, and extends round the inside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 89, c)- The place of pUmtar Ijands is sujiplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The naviculo-cuneiforni articulations form one continuous joint,AETICULATION OF THE CUNEIFORM BONES. 229 and froni their synovial cavity offsets are sent forwards between the "'t^" 'ZZncalar and cuboid hones there is an f^i-^^'sal tuee^^ baud of fibres (fig. 87, h) ; a transverse idantar band fig. 89, rt) which is concealed by the tendon of the tib.aUs postR.us ; and a stron'^ interosseous ligament. , . , i ■ , ' When the bones touch, the surfaces are tipped with car ilage, and «ynovai a process of the naviculo-cuneiform synovial cavity extends between "'articulation^ of the cuneiform bone.. These bones are uni.^^^^^^^^ united to one another by cross bands ; and the external one articu- . lates with the cuboid after a similar manner. , , , The three cuneiform hones are connected together by short trans- onew.th verse dorsal bands (fig. 87, n) between the upper surfaces, and mter- osseous ligammts between the rough parts of the contiguous sides ot the bones. Laterally there are articular sv^rfaces between the Ijones, with oflsets of the common synovial cavity. • Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone, the sur- <^^:^;^.^^ faces are covered with cartilage. A dorsal ligament (fig. 8,, n) bone: passes transversely between the two ; and a plantar ligament (fig. 89, (j) takes a similar direction. Between the liones there is also an interosseous ligament. .... Tliis joint is furnished either with a distinct synovial sni', or with Nynovmi a prolongation of the common synovial cavity. _ The synovial cavUy of the articulations of the cuneiform Ijones is Comnvon .•ommon to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the sac navicular and the three cuneiforms, it sends one prolongation for- wards betNveen the inner and middle cuneiform to the joints with the second and third metatarsal bones, another between the middle and outer cuneiform bones, a tliird outwards to the articulation of the navicular with the cuboid bone (when present), and sometnnes a fourth to the joint between tlie external cuneiform and the cuboid. Articular surfaces. On the navicular are three articular facets, .Surfaces of the inner being rounded, and the other two Hattened. The three cuneiforms unite in a shallow elliptical hollow, which is most excavated internallv. Movement. The cuneiform bones glide up and out on the navicular ^^^^J^ in inversion of the foot, and down and in in eversion ; and the inner ,i,„i e;er- one moves more than tlie others in consec|uence of the shape of the • articular surfaces, and the attachment to it of the tibialis anticus. . When the bones pass down the dorsal ligaments are made tight: and as they rise the interoaseous bands will keep them united. In standing these bones are separated .somewhat from each other llj!;!;!™'^^;" with diminution of the arch of the foot, and strelching of the trans- verse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. Tlie bases of the four outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, tarsus by and interosseous ligaments ; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have offsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 90) are small transverse bands from 'lorsai.230 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. plantar, and interos- seous liga- ments. Lateral union : synovial sacs. Great toe separate. Anterior ends. Tarsus and metatarsus .Joint of .irreat toe separate from rest: synovial .sac. Form of hones. Motion up and down, and lateral motion. .Joints of four outer toes; dorsal liga- ments ; the Iwse of one metatarsal bone to the next. The flaniar ligaments (fig. 88) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are .short transverse fibres between the contiguous rough lateral surfaces: they may he afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another late- raUy ; the second metatarsal lies against the internal and external cuneiforms ; and the fourtli is in contact internally with the outer cuneiform. The articulating surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and their synovial cavities are offsets of these serving for the articulation of the same four metatarsal with the tAr.sal bones. The metatar-sal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, is not united to the others at its base by any inter- vening bands. The distal ends of the five metatarsal bones are jmited by the transverse metatarsal ligament (p. 210). Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the Hke parts in the liand, as there is a separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer nietatar.sjils. Articulation of the great toe. The articular ends of the bones are encased l)y a capsule, and are proA-ided with an upjier and a loicer longitudinal band to gi\-e strength to the joint: the lower liand is placed lietween the insertions of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. A siujple sijnovial sac serves for the articulation. The articxdar surfaces are oval from above down, curved inwards, and constricted in the middle ; that of the metatar.sal bone is excavated, and the other is convex. Movement. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone down and in and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform witii the navicular bone ; and this will contribute a little to inver- sion and ever.sion of the foot. The joint ])0.ssesses likewise slight abduclorv and addnctory movement. Articulation of the four outer toes. The three outer tai-sal bones of the distal row correspond with four metatar.sals,—tlie middle cunei- form lieing opiiosite the second metatar.-al bone, the external cunei- form touching the third, and the cuboid carrying llie outer two bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped witli cartilage, and have longitudinal dorisal, plantar, and lateral ligaments, with some oblique in the .sole. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 90) are thin bands of fibres, which are Fig. 90.—Dorsal Lioaments UNITING THE TaRSUS TO THE Metatarsus, and the Metatarsal Bones to each other BBHINT) (Bourgert).LIGAMENTS OF METATARSAL BONKS. 231 more or less longitudinal as they extend from the tarsal to the l\aiLn^^^^^^ The n.etatarsal hone of the second toe receives toe 1 " n nts, one coming from each cuneiform bone. The tlurd J'ne oUains a ligan.ent from the external c.meiform ; and the fourth and iifth ^f^l^^^^^Z^^^^^l band from p.ntar Pla7itar ligaments (fig. 88). ilitie is one to«y«.' . .„„^^, ligaments; each of the outer two cuneiform to the corresponding metataisal bone • but between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are n,:re;rS;e«!:i longitudinal; they lie d^pl^betwear the bones, and are connected with the second and third met^.tarsals hey will be better seen by cutting the tran.sverse bands joining the bases of the bones. To the bone of the second toe there are two bands, one on each side ;-the inner is strong and is attached to the internal cuneiform ; and the outer is fixed to the external cunei- form bone. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is provided with one lateral slip on its outer side, which is inserted l>ehmd into the p\-tprnal cuneiform bone. ObU,ue plantar ligaments. A fasciculus of fibres extends acros,s oV^.<u.o from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsals ; and from the external cuneiform there is another slip to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Tine of the Line of the articulation. The line of the articulation between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in conseciuence of the unequal acvoss the len-ths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulation, the knite should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the outer side of the second metatarsal bone; then about two lines farther back for the union of the second metatarsal w-ith the middle cuneiform ; and finally, half an inch m fron of he last articulation, for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first '""^T^otnovM cavities are present in these tarscmetatarsal articu- Twos>^^o- ''"^^ThCTe is one between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, which serves also for the adjacent lateral articular .surfaces of the latter bones, but this is not always separate from the following one. The second is placed in the joint between the external and middle cuneiforms with their metatarsal bones (third and second), and is an oltset of the common synovial cavity belonging to the articulation of the navicular with the cuneiform bones (p. 229) : prolongations from it extend between the lateral articular facets of the second, third, and fourth (inner .side) metatarsals. Pnr,nofthe Articular surfaces. The osseous surfaces are not Hat; for the Fonnofthe mefeitarsal bones are undulating, and the tarsal are uneven to ht "'Vot-mmr"'From the wedge-shape.l form of the metatarsal bones, Mo«on from only a slight movement from above down is obUunable ; and this is greatest in the little toe and the next. In the little toe there '\s an abductory and adductory motion ; -;«'«;^«c. and a small degree of the same exists in the fourth toe. adduction.232 Separate the bones to see interosseous ligiiments. Union of metutaraus and plia- langes, by two lateral ligaments, and inferior: syno\-ial sac. Form of bones. Kind of motion. Bending and extend state of ligaments: lateral motion; circular motion limited. Union of the I)lialang(!s. Synovial .sac. DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Dissection. All the superficial ligaments having been biken away, the interosseous ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsu-s mav be seen by separating forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and from the cuboid, the latter Ijone from the navicular, and the bases ot the metatarsals from one another. Tlie di.ssector will find that, m using force, the bones will sometimes tear sooner than the ligaments. METATARSU.S WITH PHALANGES. These are condyloid joints, in which the head of the metatarsal bone is recei^•ed into the cavity 01 the phalanx. Each articulation has an inferior and two lateral liga-ments, ns in the hand ; and the joint is further strengthened above by an ex- pansion derived from the tendons of the extensors of the toes. A distinct synovial sac exists in eacli joint. Ill the articulation of the great toe there are two sesamoid bones which are connected with the inferior ligament. ' All these structures are better seen in the hand, where they are more distinct; and their anatomy has been more fully described with the di,ssection of that part. (See pp. 104 and 105.) Surfaces of hone. The metatarsal bone has a rounded head, wliich is longest from above down, and reaches farthest on the jjlautar surface. On the end of the phalanx is a cup-shaped cavity. Movement. In this condyloid joint, as in the hand,\here is angular motion in four different directions, with circumduction. Flexion and extension. When the joint is bent, the phalanx ■ passes imder the head of the metatarsal bone ; and when it is ex- tended, the phalanx moves liack bej ond a straight line with the metatarsal bone. A limit to flexion is set by the meeting of the bones, by the stretching of the upper part of the lateral ligaments, and bv the extensor tendon ; and to extension, liy the tightness of the inferior, and the lower part of each lateral ligament, and by the flexor tendons. Lateral movement. The phalanx passes from side to side across the end of the metatarsal bone. Its motion is checked by tlie lateral ligament of the side from which it moved, and by the contact with the other digits. Circumduction, or the re\'olving of the phalanx over the rounded head of the motatar.s;il bone, is least impeded in the great toe joint; but these movements in the foot are not so free as in the hand. Articulations of the phalanges. Tliere are two intei'pha- langeal joints to each toe, except the first Ligaments similar to those in the nietatir,so-pha]angeal joints, viz., two lateral and an inferior, are to be recognised in these articulations. The joint between the last two phalanges is least distinct; and oftentimes the small bones are immovably united by osseous sub- stance. These ligaments receive a more particular notice with the dis-section of the hand (p. 105). A simple synovial membrane exists in each phalangeal articulation.ARTICULATIONS OF THE PHALANGES. 233 Artioidar mrfaces. In both phalangeal joints, the nearer phalanx Form „r presents a trochlear surface ; and the distal one is marked by two lateral hollows or cups with a median ridge. Movement. Only flexion and extension are permitted in the two KjU,!- iihalangeal joints of the toes, as in the hand. In fle-cion the farther phalanx glides under the nearer : and ,n movement extension the two are brought into a straight line. ■ The bending is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor f^^^'^^^'^' tendon ; and the straightening is limited by the inferior ligament and tlie llexor tendons.234 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. TABLE Ol'- THE ARTERIES OK THE LOWER LLMB. /Externali)u- I Superficial ' die . . 1 Deejj. superficial epigastric superficial circumflex iliac Deep femoral . iiiefliillary to femur. Super- ficial femoral . / \ f Ascending /External circumflex. J transversa ' (^descending. / Muscular internal circumflex . ] articular 'I ascending . [transverse. first perforating second perforating third perforating fourth perforating \niuscular. -t"-tic I Su^-j^i^l branch f Upper muscular upper internal articular upper external articular lower internal articiilar lower external articular azygos articular sural. - Terminal hranches. \popliteal . / Anterior tibial ' Recurrent cutaneous muscular internal malleolar external malleolar tarsal metatarsal first iuteros.seous comnuinicating to deep arch (Tliree interos- l seous. digital / Peroneal \ Posterior tihial . .{ medullary to tibia muscular connnunicating to peroneal internal malleolar J to gi-eat toe ami ( half the next. C Muscular I medullary to fibula ' "i anterior peroneal I Tcmii- (posterior peroneal j nal. internal iilnntar. ^external plantar. ( JIuscular t .superficial digil^l. I Internal calcaneal 1 muscular [ Postprior 1 anastomotic I perforating (plantar ai-cli. 'i digital, for \ lliiw toes and a half. N.U. The branches of the internal iliac arlery which end in the limb will he found in the Table of the Arteries of the Abdomen.NERVES OF THE LOWER LTMR. TABLE OF THE NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. . Iliac lirancli of ilio-hypo!.'astric. Ilio-iiiguiiml. Cniral branch of ^enito-oniral. External cutaneous. /Accessoi-y . (To obturator trunk -. to pectineu.s I to hip-joint. .Obturators sion /Articular I superlicial ilivi- | muscular To hip .joint. I To gracilis . to adductor longus \dppp division Anterior cr»ral\ ■ Superlicial por- tion V deep portion ■( I to adductor brcvis. to plexus in the thigh and artei-y lo skin sonictinies. (To obturator externns . to adductor niagnus > to adductor brevis. . To knee-joint. . J To sartorius I to pectineus I Muscular I articular Muscular I middle cutaneous I internal cuta- I Anterior and posterior branches, neons . . ) (To rectus—articular (Muscular . . ■ to vastus externns—articular ' I to vastus iuternns and crnreus—articular. J j internal saphe- J Branch to plexus over patella I nous . . I to leg and foot. Superior (To gluteus medins and miniums gluteal I to tensor fascia- femoris. gluteal! 3. Small ( Inferior pudendal sciatic 'I cutaneous to gluteal region, thigh, and leg. Great sciatic Muscular external pop- liteal / To hamstrings ■ (to adductor magnus. (Articular external cutaneous of leg peroneal communicating I recurrent articidar musculo-cuta- J To peronei neons . . (cutaneous to foot and toes. (Mn.scular anticular I cutaneous to two toes, 5. To ohtnr- V internal pop- ator inter- liteal nus and superior genieUus. li. To qua- dratus fe- moris and inferior gemellus. 1 7. Perfo- 1 rating \ cutaneous. \auterior tibial . f Articular muscular . tibial conununi- cating , posterior tibial To calf-nuiscles and poplitens. (■Tosoleus, long flexors /Muscular . .- of toes, and tibialis [' ^ posticus, calcaneo-plautar ^ Cutaneous . , , , . , muscular ' '"terual planter ^ ,,|„j,„, (comnumicating branch. l^extenial plantar| Muscular fCutaneous s\iperficial J two digital part . I communi I eating, deep part. Muscular.CHAPTER Y. DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Section I. Before tlie dissection Ijnss catlie- ter. Place the body in position. and fasten npwaids tlie let's. Pass a staff. .Stitch np tlm scrotum The surface limits. PEHINEUM OF THE MALE. Directions. The perineum is allotted to the dissector of the cabdomen, and its examination is made during the first three days that tlie body is in the dissecting-room. Before the body is placed in the position suited for the dissection, the student should practise passing the catheter along the urethra. Position of the body. For the dissection of the perineum the body is fixed in the following manner :—While it lies on the back it is drawn down to the end of the dissecting table till the buttocks project slightly over the edge, and a block is placed beneath the pelvis to raise the perineum to a convenient height. The knees having been bent, the thighs are to be raised upon the trunk, and the limbs fastened with a cord in theii- bent position. For this purpose make one or two turns with the cord round one bent knee (say the right), carry the cord beneath the table, and, encircling the opposite limb in the .same manner, fasten it finally round the right knee. Further directions. When the position has been arranged, the student, standing on the left side of the body, should pass a well-oiled staff into the bladder. This should be done by holding the penis with the left hand and guiding the staff with the right. ^Y^len the point of the instrument passes below tlie pubic arch a resistance will be felt which is caused by the triangular ligament. The staff, with the head kept square and in the middle line, should then be depressed and passed on, but without force. If necessary, the student may guide the point through the urethra under the pubic arch by the left forefinger jjafssed into the rectum. The staff .should now be fixed in position, with the point in the bladder, by tieing the handle firmly over the front of the lower part of the abdomen to the cords on either side of the body. The scrotum should be drawn well up away from the perineum and fastened to the staff above the jjenis by a stitch pa-ssed through its extremity and tied round the stflff. A small quantity of tow should then be pa.ssed into the rectum, but not so as to distend it, and the anus neatly stitched up. Superficial limits and marking. The perineal space in the male isBOUNDARIES OF THE PERINEUM. 237 limited, on tlie surface of the Lody, by the scrotum in front, and by the thi'dis and buttocks on the sides and behind. _ The "kin of this region is of a dark colour, and is covered with Tim,uu.s. hairs In the middle line is the aperture of the anus, which is behind a line extend in- from tiie anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex over the urethra, and presents a longitudinal prominent Ime or ravM which divides the space into halves. Between the anus ii,,. raphe, and the tuberosity of the hip-bone the surface is somewhat depi-essed '-''o-^.s, over the hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa, especially m emaciated bodies. The margin of the anal aperture possesses nmnerous converging a„,i foWs folds but these are more or less obliterated by the position ot the body'and the distention of the anus; and projecting oftentimes through opening, and around the opening are some dilated veins (htemorrhoids). Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineal space will be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to correspond with „;tiiosoor the interior aperture or outlet of the pelvis. The limits are to outlet of be observed on a dry or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire ; and the student should trace on the body the corresponding boundaries with his linger. In front is the symphysis pubis ; and at the back is the tip of the coccyx, with the great gluteal muscles. On each side in front is the portion of the hip-bone which bounds the subpubic arch, viz., from the pubic symphysis to the ischial tuberosity ; and further back is the. great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuberosity to the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as the recto-vesical fascia, which forms its floor. , • -u Form and size. The interval included within the boundanea above ponn of the described is rather heart-shaped, owing to the projection of the coccyx j^i'S,™ behind • and it measures over the surface about four inches from ments. before backwards, and three and a half inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth The depth of the perineum from the surface to the floor, d,,,,ui of which will be revealed in dissection, may be said to be generally t""'*!™"''- about three inches between the anus and the ischial tuberosity, but this measurement varies greatly in different bodies; and it amounts to about an inch at the fore part, between the pubic bones. Division. A Ime from the front of the tuberosity of one side to Aji"" the corresponding point on the other will divide the perineal space into two parts. The anterior half {urethral) contains the root of the '^^^^ penis and the urethra, with their muscles, and vessels and nerves. The posterior half {redal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. This portion of the perineal space contains the lower end of the contents of rectum, surrounded by its elevator muscles and the muscles acting """iDISSECTION OP THE PERINEUM. and iheir fS^t does Uut occupy, however, the whole of the '}'t^rval betweeu the pelvic boues ; for on eacli side is a space the l-fon. ^scIuo-rectal fo...a, iu which is contained much loose fat, S She vessels and nerves for the supply of the end of the "ut Dissection Dissectioil (fig. 91, p. 239 and fig. 92, p. 241). The workers on the two .sides should dissect in conjunction displaying the muscles on the one .side and the nerves and vessels on the other. The skin is to be raised from this part of the perineum by the following cuts --One is to be made across the perineum at the front of the anus, and is to extend rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second IS to be carried across in the same direction a little behind the tip of the coccyx, and ibr the same distance. The two transverse cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the mid-line, and around the anus. The flaps of the skin thus marked out are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle line : in detaching the skin .sphhX' ^""^ "i^-i'g™ °f tlie anus, the superficial fibres of the sj^hincter muscle. muscle may be injured if care be not taken, for they are close to the skin without the intervention of fat. The dissector should trace the external sphincter backwards to the coccyx, and forwards for a short distance beneath the skin, and define a fleshy slip on each .side in front and behind to tlie subcutaneous fattv layer. hi'cwnhv' "^^"^ ''^''^ ^° ^^^■i'^g "1*0 ^iew the ischio-rectal hollow the isciiio-" between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip-bone rectal fossie. Qn the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissection is to be made of them (fig. 92). To take out the fat fi-om the left fossa, begin at tlie outer margin of the sphincter ani, and proceed forwards Dissection and backwards. In front the dissection should not extend farther i^scbio.rectai than a finger's breadth in front of the anus, while beliind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the levator ani (sometimes very pale) is to be exposed by the removal of a thin layer of areolar tissue (anal fascia). On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and the accompanying uerves should be denuded: they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance from the siu'face. .^deffeeii '^'^ necessaiy to clean the muscidar fibres vessels anil when following the vessels and nerves. If the student begins at the uencs. j]jg sphincter, he will find the inferior ha'morrhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to tlie pudic trunks ; some of the branches, which join the superficial j^erineal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space seek a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve, and external to it, branches of the perforating cutaneous nerve from the sacral plexus, with small vessels, turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is the superficial perineal artery with a nerve ; and the last, after communicating with the ha;mor- rhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa. A second perineal nerve, with a deeper position, may be found at the front of the hollow. The iscHio-UKCTAi. fossa (hg. 91) is the interval between the239 ISCHIO-HECTAL FOSSA. rectum and ti.e ischial part of the hip-bone. It is a somevvhat pyramidal hollow, which is larger behind than betore, and diminishes lorn,; in width as it sinks on the inner side of the hip-bone. Its width is about one inch at the surface ; and its depth about two inches at the di■n,.n.siun^ outer side. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner or longest side of the space is very obli<iue, and is boi.iidari.ij formed by the levator ani muscle (d), together with the coccygeus at the back ; Init the outer side is vertical, and is formed by the obturator Fui. 91.—The Rectal Half of the Perineum (Illu.strations of Dissections). Muscles: A. External sphincter. B. Corrugator cutis, only part left. 0. Internal sphincter. I). Levator ani. e. Gluteus maximus. Arlerics : a. Trunk of the pudic arte)-y. h. Inferioi- hsemorrhoicial, anil c. its gluteal branches. Nerxci : 1. Inferior hfemoiThoidal. 'I. Superficial perineal. 3. Perineal branch of the fourth sacral. 4. Perforating cutaneous. iiiternus muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen) ; and behind are the great .sacro-sciatic ligament, and the gluteus ma.vimus muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the teguments, and is overlain in part by the gluteus (e) and the sphincter externiis (a). Vefseh and nerves in the space. Along the outer wall, contained I'miic v"s- in a sheath of fascia, lie the pudie vessels ((6) and the perineal and ontm wnii dorsal divisions of the jiudic nerve ; opposite llie ischial tuber- osity tliey are situate about an inch and a half bidow the surface of the bone, but towards the front of the space they approacli to withinDISSECTION OF THE PElilNEUM. 240 niirl nerves in the .sjjacc. Fii-st cut in litliotomy enters tin's space. Muscles of rectum. Coirugator cutis ani: attach- ments ; Superlicial sphincter; origin ; insertion ; relations: anrl use. De(^I) .sidiincler, a pole band. is part of fibres of intestine ; Insertion of levator nni lualf an incli of the margin of the ischial ramus. Crossing the centre of the hollow are the inferior lisemorrhoidal ve.ssels and nerve (6)— branches of the pudic. At the anterior part, for a shoi t distance, are two superficial perineal nerves (2) (of the pudic); and at the posterior part is a small branch of the fourth sacral nerve (s), with cutaneous offsets of tlie sacral plexus {') and inferior hemorrhoidal vessels (r), beiiding round the gluteus. The surgeon sinks his knife into this .si^ace in the first incision in the operation of lateral lithotomy : and as he carries it fi-oni before backwards, he will divide the superficial h£emorrhoidal vessel and nerve. Muscles. Connected with the lower end of tlie rectum are four muscles, viz., a fine cutaneous mnscle, and two sphincters (external and internal), with the levator ani. CoRRUGATOR CUTIS ANI (fig. 91, b). This thin subcutaneous layer of involuntary muscle surrounds the anus with radiating fibre.s. Externally it blends with the subdermic tissue outside the hitemal sphincter ; and internally it enters the anus and ends in the submucous tissue within the sphincter. Action. This muscle draws upwards and inverts the mucous membrane of the lower end of the gut, after it has been protruded and everted in the passage of the fasces. Tbe EXTERNAL SPHINCTER (sphincter ani externus ; fig. 91 a and fig. 92) is a fiat, orbicular muscle, which surrounds the anal open- ing. It arises posteriorly by a fibrous band from tlie back of the coccyx near the tip, and by fleshy fibres on each side from the sub- cutaneous fatty layer. Its fibres pass forwards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture; and they are inserted in front into the central point of the perineum, and into the superficial fascia by a fleshy slip on each side. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and partly conceals the levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio-rectal fossa ; and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. Actio7i. The muscle gatliers into a roll the skin around the anus, and occludes the anal aperture. Commonly the filires are in a stiite of involuntary sliglit contraction, but they may be firmly contracted under the influence of tlie will. The INTERNAL SPHINCTER (sphincter ani internus; fig. 91, c) is .situate round the extremity of the intestine, internal to tlie pre- ceding muscle, and its edge will be seen by removing the corrugator muscle and the mucous membrane. The fibres of the muscle are pale, fine in texture, quite separate from the Rurrounding external .sphincter, and encircle the anus in the form of a ring about half an inch in depth. The muscle is a thickened band of the involuntary circular fibres of the large intestine, and is not attached to the bone. Action. This sphincter assists the external in closing the anus ; and its contraction is altogether involuntary. The LEVATOR AMI (fig. 91, Daiid fig. 92) can be seen only in ]3art; and the external sphincler may be detached from the coccyx, inLEVATOK AX I. 211 order tliiit its insertion may be more appurent. The muscle descends frmii its orif'in at the inner aspect of the hip-bone, and is inserted into coccyx iium no ^ n i ... .1 • t !■ „ '>"(' tendon along the middle bne from the coccyx to the central point ot tlie i„ front of perineum. The hindmost fibres iu?e attached to the side of the : coccyx ; and between that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a median tendinous line. The middle Coriioin cavernosii. Coi pn.s sponyio.suni nretliraj. Int. sup. per. nerve. Ext. snp. per. nervt'. jjmg pud. nerve, ait. snp. per. ner. K3xt.snp.per.ner. Superficial perineal artery. Worder of gluteus niaxinius. 1 I Inferior hsemor- rhoidal nerve. Flo. 92. Inferior Perforating Branch of Levator ani lupniorrlioiiUil cuUineous fourth sacral artery. nerve. ner\'e. -DiAaUAM OF THE MOSOLKS, NeRVES AND ArTEWES OF THE Male Perineum. Three parts of bnlbo-caver- nosus. Transversus perinei. Sphincter ani extern us. fibres are blended with the side of the rectum. And the anterior into rectum, are joined with the opposite muscle, in front of the rectum, in the "'"I'treof the central point of the perineum ; except that some of them will be perineum: found to be prolonged backwards over the plane of the posterior relations; fibres to the tip of the coccyx. This muscle bounds the ischio-rectal fossa on the inner side, and unites with its fellow to form a fleshy layer (pelvic diaphragm), con- vex downwards, through which the rectum is transmitted. On the I).A. R242 USB Oil vectiiiii. Arteries of the space. Pudic nrtery: posterior part ill ibssa; depth and relations. Branches :- Inferior hsemorrhoi- dal. . Muscular offsets. Veins. Nerves of the space. Pudic nerve divides into three parts: inferior hiPmorrhoi- dal; perineal; DISSECTION OF TMK PERINEUM. pelvic a.spect of the muscle is tbe recto-ve.sical fascia. Along the Junrter border is placed the coccygeiLs. Admu. It compresses the lower part of the rectum durin- the act of defoecation. " Tliis niuscle will be more fully seen and examined in the dissection ol the pelvis (p. 382). Arteries (fig. 92). Tlie pudic artery, with its inferior hemor- rhoidal branch, and other small offsets of it, are now visible. The INTERNAL PTJDic ARTERY is derived from the internal iliac in the pelvis, and in its course to the genital organs distributes oftsets to the perineum ; one portion will be laid bare in the posterior, and the other in the anterior half of the perineum. As now seen, the vessel enters the hinder part of the ischio-rectal fossa, and courses Ibrwards along the outer wall at the deptli of one inch and a half at the back, but of only half an inch in front. It contained in an aponeurotic sheath formed by the obturator fascia. The usual companion veins lie by its side ; and two nerves accom- pany it, viz., the dor.'^al nerve of the penis, which is above it, and the - perineal branch of the pudic nerve which is nearer the surface. Its offsets in this part of its course are the following The inferior hmmorrhoidal branch arises as the artery enters the ischio-rectal fossa, and is directed inwards across the space to the anus, dividing into branches which supply the skin and fat, the levator ani and sphincter muscles, and the lower end of the rectum. On the gut it anastomoses with the other hemorrhoidal arteries. In a well-injected body cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part of the perineum, and to communicate with the superficial perineal artery. Other offsets turn upwards round the edge of the gluteus maximus to the integument of the lower and inner part of the buttock. Small muscular brandies cross the front of the ischio-rect-al fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. Veins accompany the arteries, and have a like course and ramifica- tion : the pudic veins end in the internal iliac. Nerves (figs. 91 and 92). The nerves seen at this stage of the dissection are the three divisions of the pudic trunk, a branch of the fourth sacral nerve, and the perforating cutaneous offset of the sacral plexiLS. The PUDIC nerve is derived from the sacral i^lexus, and lies over the small sacro-sciatic ligament with the artery in the buttock. In the small sacro-sciatic foramen the nerve breaks up into the three following brandies, which enter the perineum:— The inferior hmmorrlwidal branch crosses the ischio-reclal fossa, and reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous offsets of the nerve run forwards over tlie fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial jJerineal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of tiie small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. The i)erineal branch is the largest of the three dinsions, and runs243 SUPKRFICTAL FASCIA OK ANTRRIOU HALK. Ibrwards in a sheatli of the obturator fascia, lying ))elo\v the pudic vessels. At the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa it divides into cutaneous, muscular, and genital ottsets. Its two cutaneous branches (superficial perineal) may be seen on the riglit side, where they lie for a short distance in the fat of tlie hollow. The dorsal iwve of the penis accompanies the pudic artery along ^j!^,'] ^f'^jj^ the outer side of tlie iscliio-rectal lossa to the fore part of the peri- ,,eiiis. neuni. It is also enclosed in the obturator fascia, but is deeper than tlie blood-vessels. The PERINEAL BRANCH OF THE FOURTH SACRAL NERVE reaches f*^|^.jf|"J|j.j.„| the iscbio-rectal fo.ssa between the levator ani and coccygeus, or by nerve, piercing one of these muscles, near the coccyx, and ends by supplying the external sphincter. Tlie PERFORATING CUTANEOUS NERVE is an offset from the lowest Perfonitiii},' part of the sacral plexus, and is named from its piercing the great nerv"™""' sacro-sciatic ligament in its course to the perineum. Turning up- wards round the lower edge of the gluteus maxiraus, its branches are distributed to the .■<kin of the inner and lower part of the gluteal region. ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINEAL SPACE. In tlie anterior part of the perineal space are lodged the crura of Uretliral the penis, and the tube of the urethra as it courses from the interior ' ' ^ of the pelvis to the surface of the body. Placed midway between the mui senerai bones, the urethra is supported by the triangular ligament of the p°rts.°" perineum, and by its union with the penis. Muscles are collected around the urethra and the crura of the penis : most of these are superficial to, but one is within the triangular ligament. The vessels and nerves lie along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send offsets inwards. Dissection (figs. 92 and 93). To raise the skin from the anterior J^'j^^^^y"!," half of the perineum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the skin, scrotum, and is to be continued for a short distance (tw-o inches) on each tiiigh. A second incision along the middle line from the one already made will allow the flap of skin to be reflected outwards. After tlie removal of the skin, the superficial fascia which covers Blow up the front of the perineal space should be blown up by means of a fasd!/,'a'n.l pipe attached to an ordinary cycle infiating pump or a pair of bellows, '''""•t it- introduced beneatli it posteriorly. Each side should be gently inflated separately to demonstrate the fact that there is a partition along the middle line. It will be seen that the air does not pass from the perineal space into tlic thigh, sliowing that tlie fascia is attached to the bony inai-gins of the space. ^ The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side of the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa; and after reflecting it, and removing loose fatty tissue, its line of attachment to the bone externally, and to tiie triangular ligament po.steriorly, will be brriught into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. R 2244 DISSECTION OK THE PERINEUM. Superficial fascia: subcutn- iieous jiart; and mem- branous layer. Define parti- To sliow more completely the attacliment of this layer to the hip. UvTOn^tbigh ^one between the perineal space and the thigh, it will be necessary to and perineal take away from the left limb the fat on the fascia lata, external to the space. ■ r y y margin ol the bune. On right I" the fat of the thigh on the right side the student should seek hiferfor'^ the inferior or long pudendal nerve (fig. 92), which pierces the fascia pudendal lata oue inch in front of the ischial tuberosity, and about the same nene. distance from the margin of the bone ; and he should trace its junc- tion in the fat with the inferior hfemorrhoidal nerve. Afterwards the nerve is to be followed forwards to where it passes beneath the superficial fascia nearer the middle line. The superficial fascia of the anterior half of the perineum is com- posed of two layers, which differ in their character.'? and relations. One is the subcutaneous fatty part, continuous with that of the adjoining regions : its thickness, and the quantity of fat in it vary with the condition of the body. Passing in front into the scrotum, it there loses its fat, and contains involuntary muscular fibres, forming the layer known as the tunica dartos. The other layer (fascia of Colles, and beneath which the air was injected) is a more membranous stratum of limited extent, and is con- nected with the firm subjacent structures. Externally it is fixed to the conjoined rami of the ischium and pubis, outside the line of the crus penis and its muscle, extending as far back as the ischial tuberosity. Posteriorly this layer bends u]3wards to join the triangular ligament of the urethra; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to the scrotum and penis. By means of the connections of the mem- brane on both sides, a space is enclosed over the anterior half of the perineum. From its deep surface a septum extends upwards in the middle line, and divides posteriorly the subjacent space into two: but anteriorly this partition is less perfect, or may disappear. Air blown beneath the i'ascia passes forwards to the scrotum; wbicli is the only possible direction owing to the deep connections of the membrane witli parts around. Should urine be effused beneath the superficial fascia, the fluid will be directed forwards, like the air, through tbe scrotum to tlie penis and the front of tlie abdomen. Dissection. The superficial vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side of tlie perineum, by cutting through the super- ficial fascia in the same manner as on the left side. The long slender artery then visible is the superficial perineal, which gives a transverse branch near its commencement. Two superficial peri- neal nerves accompany the artery; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forward to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perineal and the inferior hfemorrhoidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backwards (figs. 92 and 9.3). Arteriks (figs. 92 and 93). The .superficial and transverse perineal arteries beneath tlie fascia are blanches of the piidic, and are two or three in number. The latter forms a pouch,open in front; and divided by a septum. Course of air and effused urine. Di-ssection of nerves and vessels on right side. Superficial vessels of pudic.SUPEBFICIAL PERINEAL ARTERY. 245 TH. SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL ARTERY, arising at the lore part s>>,^i^iH. The :,uiERFiciAL IE ^j^^ transverse^ of tlie iseluo-rectal fossa, luns o^^^ o , ^^^^ nuiscle. andLeneath the superhcial ta c . , \° „ .vntnm wliere it ends in Hexuous brandies, in its coiuse iniouo ; e t in n tb; vessel snpplies offsets to .be nrnscles ^^--^ „,„. sup,.,ies brand Tlic n-Sa I™;.:.; .„„,....«»... pen... Fig 93.-The Anterior Half ok the Perineum (Illustrations ok Dissections). Muscles, etc. : A. Ejaculator urina;. B. Erector jjenis. c. Transversus perinei. D. Levator ani. e. Gluteus maxiinus. 0. Ci us penis. H. Urethra. Arteries: a. Transverse perineal. h. Superficial perineal. Nerves: 1. Inferior liEBniorrlioiilal. 2 and 3. Snperlicial perineal. -1. Inferior pudendal. 8,,ace, where it is distributed to the integuments and the nuisdes between the urethra and the rectum. It anastomoses with tb. une of the opposite side. v,.i,w wiih Branches of veins accompany tlie arteries, and open into u.l the arteries. trnnk of the pudic vein ; those with the superficial perineal artery are plexiform at the scrotum. r„t,,,„.(,us Nerveh (figs. 92 and 93). Three nerves run U.rwanls lo uic nnrvus of scrotum on eadi side, vi/., the inferior pudendal of the small sciatic, «erotuni. and two superficial perineal branches of the pudic nerve.DISSECTION OP THE PKRINEUM. 246 Two siipiT- liciiU jjeri- neal: exlenial and iiilerual; distributed to scrotum and penis. Muscular branches. Inferior pudendal nerve ends in scrotum. Dissection of muscles of the urethra and penis, and of their nerves. Three muscles over tri- angular ligament. Central point, where muscles join. Erector penis: origin ; insertion : The supjiUFiciAL pekine.^l nekvks, two iu number, are naiuL-d external and internal: both arise in the ischio-rectal fossa from the perineal division of the pndic nerve (p. 242). TJie external branch is continued forwards, beneath the super- ficial fascia, with the artery of the same name to the back of the scrotum. While in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an offset to the integuments in front of the anus ; and this communicates with the inferior hremorrlioidal nerve. The internal branch passes under the transverse muscle, and accompanies the other to the scrotum. The snperficial perineal branches communicate with one another, and the external is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, wliich reach as far as the under sm'face of tlie penis. Other muscular branches of the perineal nerve will be afterwards examined (p. 248). The INFERIOR OR LONG PUDENDAL NERVE Is a branch of the small sciatic. It pierces the fascia lata about one incli in front of tlie ischial tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perineum, to end in the outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Commimications take place between this nerve, the inferior hsemorrhoidal, and the outer of the two .superficial perineal branches. Dissection, ^or the display of the muscles, the superficial fascia, as well as the vessels and nerves of the left side, must be taken away from the anterior half of the perineal space. Afterwards a thin aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the surface of the muscles. Over the middle line lies the ejaculator urinae, or hulho- cavernosus ; along the outer edge of the space is the erector penis, or ischio-cavernosus ; and behind, passing obliquely between the other two, is the transverse muscle. On the right side the student should seek the branches of the perineal nerve to the muscles. Muscles (figs. 92 and 93). Superficial to the triangular ligament, in the anterior half of the perineal space, are tlie tliree muscles, viz., the erector penis, the ejaculator urinaj, and the transversus periuei. Another muscle of the urethra is contained between the layers of the triangular ligament, and will be subsequently seen. Central point of the perineum. Between the urethra and the rec- tum is a small transverse tendinous septum, to the centre of which this name has been applied. It is placed about one inch in front of the anus, and in it the muscles acting on the rectum and urethra are united. Its development varies' greatly in difl'erent bodies. The ERECTOR I'ENis (ischio-cavemosus) is the most external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end t han in the middle. It covers the crus penis : and its fibres arise from tlie ischial tuberosity farther back tlian the attachment of the penis, and from the bone on each Bide of the crus (p. 251). In front, the muscle is inserted into anSUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OK ANTERIOR HAr,K. aponeurosis ove,- the inner and outer surfaces of tl.e crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and ^lie l^one ^^^^ ,.^:f:onj^airr=;:" r=t;. c^p. rinosl by the veins, and in that way .t contnbutes to the "T^K^lcallZ'^ix- (bulbo-cavernosus) lies on the urethra. K;-uao. The ansehom a median tendinous raphe The muscles of oppo.site siiles ame iiuiu •,.„(■ hest marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect, in ^^^^^^ . ofU erector and send a tendinous expansion over tbe doi-Ive of the penis The intervening fibres, forming the greater part of the l^l'Zn round the urethra, surrounding it for two inches, and inin their fellows in a common tendon (hg. 92, p. . ' The e a ulator muscle covers the bulb and the corpus spongiosum ^on.^^^ for nearly three inches below and in front of the triangu ar hga- mei n the muscle be cut through on the left side and turned ofi the urethra, the junction with its fellow above the tube will be The two halves, acting as one muscle can compress the use, urethra, and forciblv eject its contents. During the flow of fluid u l^riiion the fibr. ale relaxed, but tbey come hito use - ™ of the process, when the passage has to be cleared. The action inviilnntarv in the emission of the semen. The tkYnbvkksus pk.i.ei (fig. 93, c) is a small tldn muse e, T— which lies across the perineum opposite the base of tl,e triangular i^ament. Arisin, from the inner side of the ischial luberosity a on,,, the fore part (fig. 92, p. 241), it is ivsertcd into the central point ol - J- the perineum with the muscle of the oppo.site side, and with the pent; sphincter ani and the ejaculator urin^e. In a well-developed muscle .ome of the fibres are partlv continuous with the opposite part ol tlie external sphincter. Behind this muscle the superficial iascia curves round to join the triangular ligament. •,, i „,„ „so Action. From the direction of the fibres tlie muscle will draw backwards the central point of the perineum, and help to fix it pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. . . ^. , . „ .,.,„«,n,.v Sometimes there is a second small fleshy strip in Iront ol tne transver.se transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter; this throws „,usde. itself into the ejaculator muscle. a i,.i„„™i,,r Triangular space. The three muscles above described, when spaco be- separated from each other by dissection, limit a triangular space, tween the of which the ejaculator urina; forms the inner boundary, the erector n„„cle.s; penis the outer side, and the transversus perinei the base In the floor of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with ti.o knifo^ the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. The knile entering the248 DISSRCTION OK THK PERINEUM. ill litho- tomy. Periiieul nerve has cutaneous, mii.scular, and genital branches. Dissection of triangular ligament. Triangular ligament of urethra: attach- ments, aud rela- tions : consists of two strata: apertures in it for urethra, for arteries and nerves of penis; Iiarts between layers. posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions in tlie lateral operation of lithotomy will divide the transverse muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perineal vessels and nerve.s. The PERINEAL BRANCH OP THE PUDic NERVE (p. 242) breaks up in the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa into superficial and deep branches. Its two superficial offsets have been followed to the scrotum (p. 246). The deep branches are imiscular to the fore parts of the external sphincter and levator ani, to the transversus perinei, erector penis, and ejaculator urinaj, and the nerve to the bidh, a long slender branch, which pierces the last muscle and, dividing into filaments, enters the hinder portion of the corjjus spongiosum. Dissection (fig. 94). For the display of the triangular ligament, the muscles and the crus penis, which are superficial to it, are to be detached on the left side in the following way ;—the ejaculator urinse is to be removed completely from the corpus spongiosum aud the surface of the ligament, and the erector muscle from the crus of the penis. Next, the eras penis is to be detached from the bone; but this must be done with care so as not to cut the triangular ligament nor to injure the terminal branches of the pudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis near the pubic ramus. The TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT OP THE URETHRA (deep perineal aponeurosis ; fig. 94, c) occupies the anterior part of the sub-pubic arch, and is about one inch and a half in depth in tlie middle line. On each side it is fixed to the pubic and ischial rami beneath tlie crus penis. Its base is turned towards the rectum, and in the middle line is rxnited with the central point of the perineum ; wliile laterally it is free and sloped towards the bone, so that the ligament is deeper at the sides than in the centre. Superficial to it are the bulb of the corpus spongiosum and the crura of the penis, with the muscles of the anterior half of the perineal space; aud the super- ficial fascia joins it along the hinder border. From its deep surface some fibres of the levator ani arise ; and the thin anal fascia is con- tinued backwards from the ligament over that muscle in the iscliio- rectal fossa. The ligament is composed of two layers of membrane (superior aud inferior) which are united along the base. The superior layer is derived from the fascia of the pelvis. The inferior layer (now seen) is a separate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres ; but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and tlie muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the inferior layer of the ligament, about one inch from the symphysis pubis, is the canal of the urethra ; but the margin of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Nearer the symphysis, and close to the bone on each side, the terminal part of the pudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis (b and 3) perforate tlie ligament by separate apertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained tlie membranous part of tire-urethra, the constrictor urethrce muscle, Cowper's glands,CONSTRICTOR URETHR.I^:. the pudic vessels with their branches to the bulb, and the dorsal nerves of the penis. Dissection. The muscle between the layers of the ligament will be reached by tutting through with care, on the left side, the exposed stratum near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning it inwards. By a little cautious dissection, and the removal Fw. 94.—Dkep Dissection of the Perineum (Illustkations ok Dissections). Muscles, itc. A. Erector penis. B. Ejaculator uriiiie, cut. c. Triangular ligament, inferior layer. D. External sphincter. K. Bulb of corpus spongiosum. 0. Levator ani. H. Superior layer of triangular ligament. 1. Constrictor uretlu'a;. K. Crus penis, out. A iicrks : in the triangular (/. I'udic, ligament. ft. Dorsal of penis. c. Cavernous. d. Deep muscular branch. Nerves : 1 and 3. Dorsal of penis. 2. Perineal branch, giving offset to bulb. of some veins, the fleshy fibres of the constrictor iirethrrs will be e.\posed. Tlie CONSTRICTOR CRETHRyE (fig. 94, i) extends transversely acro.ss Cmmtrjctor the sub-pubic arch, enclo.sing the membranous part of the urethra in the same way as the sphincter ani externus surrounds the end of the rectum. The muscle is attached by tendinous bundles on each side altiicli- to the rami of the pubis and ischium, and other fibres spring from the two layeK of the triangular ligament. Between these attachments yl^i^^^gg'"" the fleshy fibres are directed transversely and obliiiuely across the middle line, one set pa.ssiiig in front of, and another behind theDISSECTION OF THE PERIKEUM. 250 Tiaiiiiverse ligiuiiont. Deep lnin.s\'erse muscle. Use of constrictor. Circular libres of urethra, from the prostate to the bulb : Cowper's glands: situation, size, and structure; leugth and tenninatiou of the duct: they vary in size. Dissection of vessels and nerve. I'udic artery: course and ending. uix-tliraj where they are interrupted in .some ca.ses by a small median tendon. At the anterior border of the muscle there is a short fibrous band stretching across between the inferior rami of the pubic bones, and bounding, with the sub-pubic ligament at the lower margin of the symphysis, an oval opening, through wliich the dorsal vein of the penis enters the pelvis. The hindmost fibres of the constrictor are connected with the central point of the perineum, and are sometimes described separately as the transversus jJerinei profundm. Action. This muscle acts as a sphincter in narrowing the membranous part of the urethra, and ejecting the contents of the tube. It may also aid in producing erection of the penis by com- pressing the veins of the corpora cavernosa, which are surrounded by its fibres. Involuntary circular fibres within the constrictor muscle surround the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about ^th of an inch thick ; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous above with the circular fibres of the j^rostate. This layer is a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate contains the chief part, surrounding the beginning of the urethra. Action. This involuntary layer assists in forcing forwards the urine and the semen. The glands of Cowper will be found by cutting thiough some of the hinder fibres of the constrictor mu.scle. They are situate behind the membranous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle line, and close above the bulb. Each gland is about the size of a pea, and is made up of small lobules. They are hard to the feel and can often be located by grasping a portion of the surrounding muscle in the forceps before its removal. Connected with each is a minute duct, an inch or more in length, which perforates obliquely the wall of the urethra(corpussiiongiosnm), and opens into the canal about three-quarters of an inch in liont of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and they ajipear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. The studeut should now trace out on the right side the pudic vessels with their remaining brsmches, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. From the point of its divisicm beneath the cms into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the artery is to be followed backwards along the bone ; and the nerve will be found by the side of, but deeper than the artery. The iNTERNAi; PUDIC AKTERY has already been dis.sected in the posterior half of the perineum (p. 242). At the front of the ischio- rectal fossa it penetrates the base of the triangular ligament, and then runs forwards close to the edge of the hip-bone (fig. 94, a), in a cjinal formed by the tendinous origin of the constrictor urethra?. About half an inch behind the symphysis pubis it pierces the inferior layer of the ligament, and immediately divides into the arteries of the corpus cavernosum and the doreum of the penis. It is accomiMnied byINTEENAL PUDIC ARTERY. 251 ven. condtes and the dorsal nevve of the penis. Its oHsets in this B™,.,es:_ part of its course are:- the artery is about to enter Muscular. ft 7>eei) m«6-ci(Zar branches (d). As tlie aiieiy ib a Le ween the layers of the triangular ligan,ent :t furnishes one or n!;;; branches t'o the levator ani and sphincter, and fine tw,gs through the li"ament to the constrictor and the urethra. Se artery of the lull is a branch of considerable s.ze, wh.ch ^-u., of arises near the base of the triangular hganicnt. It passes almost , ; iy inwards between the fibres of the constrictor nn.scle ..«-e,a. ab ut half an inch fron. the base of the triangu^r I'S-ent ami reaches the upper surface of the bulb to enter the spongj strac- Ze! Near thl urethra it furnishes a s.nall branch to Cowpers ^^tL distance of this branch from the base of the lif ™ent will iu^tuation be influenced by its origin being nearer the front or back oi he perineal space. If it arises earlier than usual U may be altogether behind the ligament and cross the front ot the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation ot lithotomy. ... The arteru of corpus cavernosmn (c) is one of the ermnial Artery o. branches of the internal pudic. At tirst this vessel lies between the cms penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramihes in the cavernous structure of the penis. . . ^, . ,• „ . , d. The dorsal artery of the penis {h) is in direction he contniuat on Artery of. of the internal pudic ; it runs upwards between the crus anc tUe bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through its suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve will be noticed directly. Accessory pudic artery. In some cases the pudic artery is not large A.ces.oy enrnXo supply the branches above clescribed to the pen>s and the urethra^ P" Oue or moi" offsets will then be contributed by an accessory vessel, which • leaves ll" pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source o£ source, this accessory artery is the internal iliac (p. 399). The imdic veins, two in number, have frequent communications Pudic together, so as to form a plexus round the artery ; they receive similar branches, e.xcept that the dorsal vein of the perns does not The DORSAL J.-ERVE OF THE PKMS has been seen in the ischio- ^^^^ rectal fossa (p. 243). In the anterior half of the perineum it takes a similar course to the pudic artery, but at a deeper level and in a distinct sheath within the triangular ligament, and then pierces t le superficial layer of that structure close to the inferior ramus of the pubis, to be continued with the dorsal artery to the penis. On its way the nerve supplies filaments to the constrictor urethrse muscle. Dissection. The ejaculator urina3 muscle will now be carefully cleared away from the subjacent bulbous and .spongy part of the urethra, and the erector penis muscles will be similarly removed to fully expose the crura. . . The CRURA OF THE PENIS are attached on each side to the conjoined crara of rami of the pubis and ischium for about an inch, and it will be seen 'DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 252 Bulb of urethra. Tegumeu- tary cover- ing of penis is tliin, and without fat. fonns lirepuce, aud ftwniun. Sebaceous glands. Teguineuts in scrotum. Muscular nature, of fascia. Dissection of vessels and nerves. Suspensory tliiit they are tlie pointed posterior extremities of two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue (the corpora cavernosa) containing erectile ti.'sue, wliicli bler.d about an inch and a half from their posterior extremities to form the body of the penis. A slight enlargement will be noticed on each crus, which has been called the bulb of the corpus cavern osum (Kobelt). The structure of the corpora cavernosa will be seen at a later stage. The BDLB OP THE URETHRA is an enlargement of the vascular aud erectile tissue (the corpus s]}onrjiosum) which surrounds the urethra from the triangular ligament onwards. The bulb is firmly united to the under surface of the triangular ligament and usually presents a slight central depression, with a bulging on each side forming two lateral lobes. Cutaneous coverings op the penis and scrotum. The penis is attached to the front of the pelvis by a suspensory ligament, and is provided with a tegumentary covering continuous with that of the abdomen, but devoid of fat. Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way :—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the prepuce ; it is after- wards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous membrane of the uretlira at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans and behind the apertuie of the urethra, the integument fonns a small triangular iolA, fromiim prceputii. AVhere the skin covers the glans, it is inseparably united with tliat part, is very thin and sensitive, being provided with papilla, and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glunduhv odorifera'. In the scrotum the two layers of the superficial fascia of the groin become united in a tliin membrane of a reddish colour. The pro- longation around the testicle on one side is separate from that on the other side ; and the two pouche-s, coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and front of the perineum contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the corru- gation of the skin is owing. Tiiis contractile structure is luimed the durtoid tissue. Dissection. The scrotum should now be accurately divided into two halves by an incision in the middle line and each half containing its testis is to be held aside. The incision should be continued along the under surface of the penis to the frajnum and the skin of the organ dissected off as a sheath. The staff is to be removed from the urethra and the fatty tissue from the root of the penis and the front of the sympliysis pubis should be removed so as to define the suspensory ligament. The dorsal arteries and nerves, with the dorsal vein of the penis, which will be laid bare, are to be followed forwards to the glans. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a band of fibrous tissueTHE PKNIS. '^"^ of a triangular form, which is attached by its apex to the front ot ,.,;menior i lyi^hvsis pubis. Widening below, it is fixed to the upper >^^^^^,^ rface of tl.e body of the penis, and is prolonged for some distance ,„e„ts ; ;n the organ. Perforating the ligament at its junction w.th the ..o„ta,„.s_^^ penis are the dorsal vessels and nerves. nenes. ^ The DORSAL ARTERY, ou each side, pierces the suspensory I'S"^'Do-i u.ent, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends in many branches for that structure : in its course the vessel supplies the integuments and branches to the body ot the penis. The DORSAL VEIN is a single trunk, and commences by numerous Do^^ai ve.n branches from the glans penis and the prepuce. It runs ^ackwards .o.j.tic between the two arteries, through the suspensory ligament, and then i'- through a special opening below the sub-pubic ligament, to joui he prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches from the erectile structure and from the integuments of the penis. Each DORSAL NERVE takes the same course as the artery, and ends Dorsal newe like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes twigs to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, sides, and prepuce of the penis. , „ , . In the female these vessels and nerves are much smaller than in x^on the male, and occupy the upper surface of the clitoris-the organ that represents the penis. The BODY OF THE PENIS is rather prismatic in shape. The upper f°~;,t. surface is slightly grooved along the middle line; and the lower rounded border is formed by the corpus spongiosum, which is received into a groove between the corpora cavernosa. The corpus sfonyiosum urethra encloses the urethral canal beyond spongiosum, the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but much less stron". Commencing posteriorly in the bulb, it extends j.rethia, and forwards around the urethra to the extremity of the penis, where it sweUs^into swells into the conical glans penis. and to The glans penis is somewhat conical in form, and covers the trun- cated ends of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is directed liackwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border—the corona ylandis; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the urinarius base. In the apex is the vertical slit (meatus) in which the urethral canal terminates, and beluw that aperture is an excava- tion which holds the fold of skin named the frceiium lircBpHtii. Dmclioii. The student should be careful not to damage the urethra, as it will be examined at a later stage. Parts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. This i:;^',';^^^ operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz cultin" down to the urethra, opening the canal, and slitting the'tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incision the knife is entered near the middle line of the perineum, one inch in ,„i!Uiva, front of the iniu!-, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as midway between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and fat, the transverse perineal muscle and artery, the inferior254 ill lenc'liiiig thfi staff, and in nm- ning knife along staff. Parts to be avoided are rectum, pudic vessels. artery of bulb, recto- vesical fascia, and acces- soiy pudic arterj'. Directions. DISSECTION OF THE PBRINUEM. haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying acros.s the ischio-rectal fossa, and possibly the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, wiU be cut in this first stage of the operation. In the subsecinent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is introduced into the front of the wound, the hinder part of the triangular ligament and constrictor urethra, and the fore part of the levator ani will be divided ; when the knife is placed within the groove of the staft^ the membranous i)art of tlie urethra will be cut with tlie muscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it incises in its progress tlie membranous portion of the urethra, part of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut, the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards, in the direction of a line from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Parts to be avoided. In the first incision in the ischio-rectal fossa, the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the intestine, instead of being kept jmrallel with it; and if the gut is not held out of the way with the forefinger of the lei't hand. The pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be wounded near the anterior part of the hoUow, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament; but, posteriorly, they are securely lodged inside the projection of the ischial tubero.-?ity. While making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the artery of the bulb lies immediately in front of the knife, and will be wounded if the incisions are made too far forwards ; but the vessel must alraosrt necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should not be incised to a greater extent than is necessary for the extraction of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perineum from the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened. Too large an incision through the prostate may wound also an unusual accessory pudic aitery on the side of that body. Directions. When the di.«section of the perineum is completed, the Haps of skin along the under surface of the penis and the two halves of the scrotum are to be stitched together ; all the parts are to be carefully wrapped in tow containing preservative, and the body will be turned on its lace for dissection of the back. On the third day of this dissection the worker on the abdomen will examine the different layers of the lumbar fascia, and the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis made in conjunction with the dissector of the head and neck.255 PEIllNRUM OF THR FKMALB. Section II. PERINEUM OK THE FEMALE. The perineunx in the female diflV-rs from that in the male more Pe.— in the external forn. than the internal anatomy. On the surlace ,t , eei„l as Jedal parts distinguishing it, vi.., the aperture the vagma P-- and the surrounding vulva, M occupy the position ol the scrotum in the male. ,,,i,l,lle Apoitures ^iurface-markv,HI.-External onjans of cjeneration In ti e i^^^^^^^^ J line there are the aperture of the anus and the cleft of the vuU a vuha. wliich are separated from one another by an interval of about an inch The anus is situate a little farther back than in the male. The cleft or rima of the vulva is bounded at the sides ^y the labia najora, two prominent folds, thick and rounded in front but becoming thinner as they pass backwards, which correspond to the scrotum of the male. The labia are formed externally by skin, which is provided with scattered hairs, and internally by mucous membrane. They are united in front and behind in the anterior and .^wl^eonv Misterior commissures. , • , . AVithin the rima, at the fore part, is the clitoris, Irom which two ciito.is. folds of mucous membrane, the labia minora or nymphw, extend i.,ten.,>i backwards, one on each side of the aperture of the vagina. At its anterior end each nympha divides into two smaller folds, the outer of which unites with the one of the opposite side so as to form a kind of hood over the front of the clitoris-the prceputium clitoridis, P;«P;;ce a,..I while the inner one, much shorter and thinner, is attached to the clitoris, back of the clitoris in contact with its fellow, the two constituting the fnenulum clitoridis. Enclosed by the labia minora, and between the clitoris and the Vestibule, orifice of the vagina, is a median recess about an inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. At the hinder part of theOpenmgof vestibule is the orifice of the urethra {meatm urinariiis), surrounded by a slight eminence, about an inch behind the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. The orifice of the vagimi varies much in size; and in the child Ai.;jrt.m'or and virgin it is often partly closed behind by a thin semilunar fold of the "mucous membrane—the hymen. After the destruction cf IIy^';|^«jj;'"' the hymen, small, irregularly shaped projections, the carunr.ida: myrtiformes, are found in its place. At the back of the rima, within the posterior commissure of the l"^'^^'^^" labia, is a narrow transverse fold of the integument called the nnvicniaris. fourchettc or frwnulum pudendi; and to the interval between the i'raiiiulum and the commissure the name fossa navicidaris is given. Deep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineum are alike Boumiaries in both sexes; but in the female the outlet of the pelvis is larger both .sfxes. than in the male.DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 256 Dissection. Take lirst iscliio-rectal fossa. Tlinii examine anterior half of perineum. Superficial fa.scia. Dartoirt tissue. Superficial vessels and nerve.s. Dissection of tlie muscles. Sphincter vagina- : origin Dissection. The steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the male and leinale perineum. First, the dissection of the i.schio-rectal fossa is to be made. Afterwards the muscles, vessels and nerves of the posterior half of the perineal space are to be examined. (See description of the male iierineuin, pp. 237 to 243.) Next, the skin is to be taken from the anterior lialf of the perineal space, as in the male ; and tlie transverse incision in front is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous ves- sels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 244 et seq.). Superficial fascia. The description of this I'ascia in the male will serve for the like part in the female, with these modifications:— that in the female it is interrupted in the middle line, and is of less extent, in conse- quence of the aperture of the vulva ; and that it is continued for- wards through labia majora to insuinal region. Fig. 95.—VnNons Plexuses op the G-enital Organs, and Opening of the Vagina (Kobblt). Sphincter vaginte muscle. Clitoris. A. B. c. Nyrapba. the the In Bulb of the vestibule. b. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris. c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris. the labia the super- ficial I'ascia contains involuntary muscular fibres, like the dartos tunic of the scrotum, as well as fat. The SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL VESSELS and NERVES, and the INFKRIOR PUDENDAL NERVE have the Same arrangement as in the male (p. 245) ; but they are distributed to the labia instead of to the scrotum. Dissection. The labia and the superficial fascia are then to be removed, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. Two other mu.scles are exposed at the s;ime time, viz., the erector clitoridis lying along the ramus of the ischium, and the transversus perinei passing across the perineum to the central pdnt. The SPHINCTER VAGIN^: (bulbo-cavernosus ; fig. 95, a) is a partially orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, and corresponds to the ejaculator urintc in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the cential point of the perineum, where it blends with the sphincter ani and transveraus muscles ; and its fibres are directed forwards onTHE CLITORIS. ^57 each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris insertion; The muscle covers the bulb of the vestibule and the gland of relations; Bartholin by the side of the entrance to the vagina. Action. Like the other orbicular muscles, the sphincter diminishes and use. that part of the vagina which it encircles ; and it assists in fixing the central point of the perineum. ^ „ . The ERECTOE CLiTORiDis (ischio-caveniosus) resembles the erector Erector ^ of the penis in the male, though it is much smaller (see p. 246). The TKANSVERSus PERiNEi is similar to the muscle of the same Sj'per^c^al name in the male. The one description will suffice for the muscle in both sexes (see p. 247). Dissection. The sphincter vagina should now be caret uliy removed from the subjacent bulb of the vestibule, and the erector muscles from the crura of the clitoris. The BDLB OP THE VESTIBULE (semi-bulb, Taylor, fig. 95, «) is an Butbsrf _ elongi ited and flattened mass of cavernous or erectile tissue, which is enclosed in a thin fibrous coat. It lies by the side of the vestibule and the entrance to the vagina, above (deeper than) the nympha, situation; resting against the lower surface of the triangular ligament, and relations; being"covered by the sphincter vaginte nmscle (a). Each is about an inch and a half long, and is larger at its hinder end, where it size; measures about half an inch in depth. By their narrow anterior ends the two bulbs are united in front of the urethra by a small con- necting venous plexus—the pars intermedia; and they are joined by connected_ a venous plexus to the small glaus of the cUtoris. These bodies answer to the divided bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrie in the male. The CLITORIS (fig. 96, b. p. 258) is a small erectile body, and is the '^^^^^.^^^ representative of the penis. It has the same composition as the penis, except that the urethra is not continued along it. Its anterior extremity is terminated by a rounded part orglans(c),and is covered by a fold of the mucous membrane corresponding to the prepuce of hasa^glans the male. . P""; In its structure this organ resembles the penis in the following coniposi- particulars : —It consists of corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura (one on each side, a) to the ischio-pubic rami, and are blended ^;P°™3^_ in the body. A small suspensory ligament descends to it from the superficial fascia of the mons Veneris; and along the middle is an imperfect i)ectiniforin septum. Moreover, it possesses a portion of corpus spongiosum, but this structure is limited to the glans coi-pus^_ clitoridis (c). (The penis is described on p. 253.) sum Structure. The outer fibrous casing and the septum are alike in ^d^erectiie both penis and clitoris; and in the interior of the clitoris is an erectile tis.«ue, like that in the male organ. The blood-vessels of the clitoris are like those of the penis, and the glans receives the dorsal artery (p. 253). Dissection. To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, the J^.^^^^^^^^^ erector and the criis clitoridis are to be detached from the bone on ligament, the left side. D.A. S268 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Triangular ligament. To see deep muscle. Deep transverse muscle. The TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT transmits the urethra, hut is not so strongly marked as in the male (see p. 248) ; it is interrupted to a large extent in the middle line by the apertui-e of the vagina. Dissection. By cutting througli the superficial layer''of the liga- ment in the same way as in the male (p. 249), the deep muscle, with the pudic vessels and their branches, and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris, will be arrived at. The TRANSVERSDS PERiNEi PHOFDNDUS is the representative of the constrictor urethras of the male (p. 249). It arises on each side from the pubic and ischial rami; and the fibres are directed inwards to be inserted mainly into the side of the vagina. The hindmost ones join Fio. 96.—The Clitoris. a. Crus, and b, body of the corpus cavernosum. c. Glans clitoridis. The lower figure shows the structure on a vertical section ; the same letters refer to Uke parts. Glands of Bartholin : shape and size; duct. the central point of the perineum ; and anteriorly some are con- tinued across from side to side in front of the urethra. Beneath the last is a circular layer of involuntary fibres, as in the other sex. Glands of Bartholin. At the hinder part of the entrance to the vagina on each side is a yellowish glandular body, whieli corresponds to Cowper's gland in the male (p. 250). It lias the sliape and size generaUy of a small bean, its greatest length, which is directed from before backwards, measuring about half an inch. It lies close to the hinder end of tlie bulb of the vestibule, and is covered by the fibres of the sphincter vagiufG. The duct is directed forwards and down- wards lor about three-quarters of an inch, to open on the inner aspect of the nynipha of the .same side, immediately below the hymen or its remains.269 PUDIC ARTERY. The description of the internal podic arteky p. 249) v 11 erve p.kHc^^ for both sexeV, except that the branch to the bulb is small and is urnisl ed o the bulb of the vestibule. The terminal branches are e artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the omoris, and are also much smaller than the corresponding vessels in %Z'lvmc NERVE has the same arrangement as in the male. Pudic ncvo. From its perineal division proceed the two superficial nerves, branches to the superficial muscles, and an offset to the bulb. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris is ot small size. Note.—See the " Directions" at the bottom of page 254. S 2CHAPTEE VI. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section I. Position of the body. Appear- ances on the surrace of the abdo- men. Pit of the stomach. Navel. Eminence of pubes. Mons Veneris. Inguinal furrow. Poupart's ligament. Abdominal rings, outer WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. Position. The body wiU be sufficiently raised by blocks beneath the thorax and head for the dissection of the upj^er limbs and neck, but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pelvis. If tlie abdomen is flaccid, it may be inflated through an aperture in the umbilicus, but if it is firm, proceed with the dissection without blowing it up. Surface-marking. On its anterior aspect the abdomen is fairly uniformly convex, especially in fat bodies ; but at the side there is a sL'ght hollow below the ribs, and a groove marks the position of the niac crest. Along the middle line is a groove over the linea alba, which begins above in a depression over the ensiform process {epigastric or infrasternal fossa), and becoming gradually shallower below ends a little beyond the umbilicus. The latter is a round, depressed cicatrix, situate nearer to the pubic bones than to tiie lower end of the body of the sternum, and opposite, as a rule, the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. On each side of the median groove is the elevation of the rectus muscle, which is intersected in adult well-formed Ijodies by two or tliree transverse furrows. Over the lower ends of the recti and tlie adjacent parts of the pubic bones the surlhce is somewhat elevated, owing to an accumulation of fat ; and the name piibes has been given to tliis part from its thick covering of hair. This projection is especially marked in front of the bones in the female, where it is distinguished as the mom Veneris. Beneath the eminence of the pubes the student will be able to recognise with his finger the symphysis pubis, and to trace outwards from it tlie osseous pubic crest, wliich leads to the prominent pubic spine. From this to the anterior superior iliac spine the curved inguinal furrow extends, separating the abdomen from the thigh. If the finger be carried along the furrow it will detect the firm band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes one or two inguinal glands. Immediately above and to tlie outer side of the pubic spine the opening of the external abdominal ring may usually be felt; and inWALL OF THE ABDOMEl^. 261 the male the prominence of the spermatic cord descending through t t t' ttide. The internal abdcninal ring Is iarther ou than and .ne. the external, and cannot be recognised on the surface with the fin J ; its position may be ascertained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior ihac spine, ■ind a fin.'er's breadth above Poupart's ligament. D ssection. The requisite incisions lor raising the skui from the ^^^^ sides and front of the beUy are the following :-One cut is to extend u,e f,.„„t. outwards over the side of the chest from the ensiform process to about midway between the sternum and the spine (hg. 1, li. , p 3) A second incision begins at the symphysis pubis, and is carried outwards along Poupart's ligament and the iliac crest till it ends opposite the first cut (8). Lastly, the anterior extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the middle hue ot the bellv (3). The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised out- wai-ds, but is not to be taken away ; and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be sought in the fat at the side and front ot the abdomen. , , , . „ •4- #■ Along the side of the abdomen look for the lateral cutaneous Pos.t,o^^^^ nerves (fig. 97, p. 263), five or six in number, wliich issue in a Hue „erves: with the" corresponding nerves of the thorax. At first they lie beneath the fat, and diwle into two ; one offset is to be traced forwards and tlie other backwards, with smaU cutaneous arteries. On the iliac crest, near the front, is a large branch from the last on the side dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back on the crest, and deeper, is a smaller branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line and in front, the small anterior cutaneous nerves will be recognised with com- panion arteries : they are uncertain in number and size, and are to be followed outwards in the fat. In the inguinal region the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be Seek vessels dissected ou the right side, and the superficial fascia on the left. For this purpose, all the fascia superficial to the vessels is to be removed from the right groin. The vessels which will then appeal- are the superficial external pudic internally, the suiierficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial circumflex iUac arteiy externally. Some inguinal glands lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. Two cutaneous nerves ai-e to be sought :—one, the ilio- ami nerves inguinal, comes through the external abdominal ring, and descends j,„i„. to the thigh and scrotum (fig. 97, i—i); the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, and rather outside the abdominal ring (i-h). In the examination of the superficial fascia on the left side two Separate strata are to be made out, one over and one beneath the vessels, leriirroiu straia are w ue luaue uuir, unc uvcx an.^^ w**-- ^^v.-».^««.. — — The layer that is superficial to the ves.sels is to be reflected by means of a transverse cut directed inwards from the iront of the iliac crest, and by a vertical one near the middle line to the pubic bone. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer; and when these are reached, a triangular flap of the fascia is to be thrown towards ^^^^ ^^^^^ the tliigh. To define the thinner deep stratum, cut it across in the ,.,y„js.262 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Superficial fascia is divided into two layers. The subcu- taneous layer con- tains fat, except In the penis and scro- tum. Deeper layer is thin and mem- branous ; special cha- racters and disposition ; and ends on fa.scia lata. Attach- ments deter mine course of efl'used urine. Fascia in the female. Cutaneous nerves are derived from two sources. Lateral cutaneous of intercostal, same nianuer as the other layer, and detach it carefully with the vesiBels from the underlying aponeurosi.s of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum ; and as the student follows it downwards he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and blended with the fascia lata close below that structure. The SDPERPiciAL FASCIA is a single layer over the greater part of the abdomen ; but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous and a deeper stratum by the vessels and the glands. The subcutaneous layer contains the fat, and varies therefore in appearance and thickness in different bodies ; for it is sometimes divisible into strata, while in other cases it is very thin, and some- what membranous near the thigh. It is continuous with the fatty covering of the thigh and abdomen, and, when traced to the limb, is separated from Poupart's ligament beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and scrotum, where it changes its adipose tissue for involuntary mus- cular fibre ; and after investing the testicle it is prolonged to the perineum. The deeijer layer (fascia of Scarpa) is thinner and more mem- branous than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the external oblique by fibrous bands along the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum, through which it is pro- longed to the perineum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts, as before specified (p. 244). Towards the limb, it ends a little below Poupart's ligament by joining the fascia lata across the front of the thigh. Urine effused in the perineum from rupture of the urethra will be directed through the scrotum and along the spermatic cord to the abdomen. From the attachment of the deeper layer to the fascia across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, though its progress over the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the superficial fascia of the groin is separable into two layers, nnd the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the male; but the ]iart that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex enters the labium in the other. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in it. Cutaneous Nerves. The skin of the abdomen is supplied mainly by the lower intercostal nerves ; thus, the cutaneous branches along the side of the belly are offsets from five or six of those nerves ; and the cutaneous branches along the front are the terminal parts of the same trunks. Two other cutaneous offsets from the lumbar plexus, viz., ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The LATERAL CUTANEOUS NERVES (fig. 97) of the abdomen emerge between the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line with the .same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the mostCUTANEOUS NERVES. nosterior. As soon as tl.ey reach the surface they divide with the X epTon of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch Xpostenor Irmckes are sn.all, and are directed back to the intPtnniieuts over the latissimus dorsi muscle. ^Z^a l.-ccncke. are continued forwards nearly to the edge of the recU muscle, and increasing in size from above downward , Jy t" integuments on the side of the belly ; they iurn.sh ollsets to the digitatious of the external oblique muscle ^^e lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve rs larger than the others and does not divide like them. After p.ercmg the fibres ot 263 which aivide into l)Osti;i'ior aud anterior branches. Last dorsal nervo. Anterior cutaneous nerves comins; through the slicath ot the rectus abdominis. Lateral cutaneous nerves. 9J Inner pillar of ex- ternal abdoniinalring. Outer iiillar of ex- ternal abdominal ring- External oblifiue. Linea semilunaris. Linea alba. Anterior superior iliac spine. Poupart's ligament. Deep crural archr->. Gimbornat's liga- ^ ment. Triangular fascia- FlO 97 -DIAGEAM OP THE CuTAKEOUS NeRVES OF THE AbDOMP.K AND OF THE EXTEUNAL OuLIQUE MOSOLE. the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region (p. 110). . +i „ . , The AXTEiuoit CUTANEOUS NEKVES of the abdomen pierce tl e Anto.or^ sheath of the rectus ; in the integuments they bend ontwards owards the lateral cutaneous nerves. The number and the situation ot ."tucostal. these small nerves are very uncertain. The iLio-HYPOGASTRic NERVE is distributed in two branches: one n.o-hypo- passes over the crest of the ilium (iliac brancli) ; the other ramifies u,ua,,vr_ on the lower part of the abdomen (hypogastric brancli) :— («) The iliMC branch lies close to the crest of the hip-bone near the iliac branch, last dorsal nerve, and enters the fat of the gluteal region (p. 110).DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 261 bSLT'"" , ? hypogastric branch i^ierces the aponeurosis of the external obhqxie muscle above the abdominal ring in one or two pieces, and is distributed to the skin of the lower part of the abdomen , IWO-INGOINAL NERVE becomes cutaneous through the extei nal plexus. abdominal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum and ol the upper and inner part of the thigh Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous "vessels run with both sets of nerves on the abdomen. With the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries ; and with the anterior cutaneous are offsets from the internal mammary and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac both lateral The LATERAL CUTANEOUS ARTERIES have the same distribution as the nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edae of the rectus muscle. ° cStaneouf . ^'^'^ ^^™RiOR CUTANEOUS ARTERIES are irregular in number and in position, like the nerves. After piercing the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the nerves towards the other set of branches! femSai Branches of the common femoral artery. Three cutaneous artery three offsets ascend from the thigh between the lavers of the sunerficial branches: ^ - i • /■ • . i • " tascia, and ramify m the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of the abdomen. The beginning of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh (p. 138). ^udi?^' The superficial external pudic branch crosses the spermatic cord,'to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the under-p'art of the penis. epfgaftric! "^^^ superficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligament near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high as the umbilicus. circumflex The superficial circumfiex iliac branch lies below the level of Poupart's ligament, and sends only a few offsets to the abdomen. Veins. The companion veins to these arteries join the internal saphenous vein of the thigh. ^[suinai The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF THE GROIN are three or four in number, and lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. They are jjlaced between the strata of the superficial fascia,, and receive lymphatics from the abdominal wall, from the gluteal region and perineum, from the upper and outer portion of the thigh and from the superficial ducts enter parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass downiwaids to abdomen. , , \ tUe .saphenous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. JxterimT" Dissectiou of the Muscles. The surface of the external muscle oblique of the abdominal wall (figs. 97 and 98) is now to be freed from fascia muscle. o„ jjjjigg ^jjg Precautions. It jg not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because there it has a thin aponeurosis, which may be taken away with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to cany the kuii'e obliiiuely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. 'J'he thin aponeurosis before referred toEXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. is in front Ol a line extended upwards from the anterior end of the iliac crest, and as the dissector approaches that part he must be careful not to injure the tendon, more particularly above, where it Ues on the margin of the ribs, and is very indistinct. , ^ . On the left side the external abdominal ring (c) may be defined, to show the spermatic cord passing through it ; but on the right side a thin fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to he preserved. Lastly, the free border ol the external ohlique should be made evident between the last rib and tiie iliac crest. Muscles of the Abdominal Wall. On the side of the abdomen are three large fiat muscles, which are named from their position to one another, and from the direc- tion of their fibres : the exltrnal oblique; the internal oblique; and the deepest, the transversalis. Near the middle line are placed other muscles which have a vertical direction ; namely, the rectus and the pyramidalis ; and behind is the quadratus luniboruni : these all are encased by sheaths derived from the aponem-oses of the lateral muscles, and will be subsequently seen. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSOLE (fig. 98, A, and fig. 97) is fleshy on the side, and aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by fleshy processes from the eight lower ribs, the five highest pieces alternating with similar parts of the serratus magnus, and the lowest three with slips of the latissimus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs the tiV)res are directed over the side of the abdomen to end in the following manner :—the lower ones descend almost vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of the outer margin of the iliac crest (fig. 47, p. 113) ; and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards obli(juely to the tendon or aponeurosis on the front of the belly. The aponeurosis occupies the front of the abdomen, internal to a line drawn from the prominence of the ninth rib-cartilage to a point about an inch and a half in front of the anterior su])erior iliac spine ; and it is broader below than above. Along the middle line it ends in the linea alba—the. common place of union in the 265 TodeBne abdominal On the side are tln'ee Hat muscles, the aponeu- roses of which en- case three vertical. External oblique muscle: origin from ribs; Fig. 98. The external oblique muscle. Poupart's ligament. External abdominal ring. . Gimbernat's ligament. insertion into pelvis and linea alba. Aponeurosis covers front of the belly ;DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 266 disposition iibove and below. itelations. Lines on the aponeu- rosis ; apertures in it; abdominal ring. Use of both muscles, acting from pelvis, and thorax ; one muscle acting ; influence on abdominal cavity. In the linea alba the aponeuroses are united. External abdominal ring: form anil .situation ; size ; middle line of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued over the thorax to the pectoralis major muscle. Below, its fibres are stronger and more distinct than above, and are directed obli(|uely downwards and inwards to the pelvis ;—some of them are fixed to the front of the pelvis ; and the rest are collected into a firm band, Poupart's ligament, between the pubic spine and the iliac crest (p. 267). Relations. The muscle is subcutaneous. Its posterior border is unattached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but it is usually overlapped by the edge of the latissimus dorsi, e.Kcept for a short distance below. At the outer part of the aponeurosis in the front of the abdomen is a curved white line, the linea semilunaris, marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle (fig. 97) ; and crossing between this and the linea alba are three or four somewhat irregular lines— the linea; transversa. Numeroiis small apertures in the aponeurosis transmit cutaneous vessels and nerves ; and near the pubis is the large opening of the external abdominal ring (fig. 97), which gives passage to the spermatic cord in the male, aud to the round ligament in the female. Action. Both muscles, taking their fixed point at the pelvis, will bend the trunk forwards ; but with the spiue fixed, they will draw down the ribs. If they act from the thorax they will elevate the pelvis. Should one muscle contract, it will incline the trunk to the same side, or raise the pelvis, according as the upper or the lower attach- ment may be movable ; or if the trunk is prevented from being bent, it will turn the thorax to the opposite side. The external oblique also acts powerfully with the other broad muscles in flattening the wall and diminishing the cavity of the abdomen, and in forcing up the diaphragm during expiration by means of pressure transmitted through the abdominal viscera. Direction. Besides the general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line, the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin, and the thickened border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba. This white band on the front of the abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of the opposite sides. It extends from the ensiform process to the pubic symphysis, and is wider above than below. It is perforated here aud there by small apertures, which allow pellets of fat to protrude sometimes. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which now projects beyond tiie surface, though before the skin was removed a hollow indicated its position. External abdominal ring (fig. 97 and fig. 98, c). This opening is situate near the pubes, between the diverging fibres of the aponeu- rosis. It is somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the pubic crest, and the apex directed upwards and outwards. The long measurement of the aperture is about an inch, and tlie transverse about half an inch.APONEUROSIS OF THE EXTERNAL OBLIQUE. 267 Its margins are named pillars, and differ in form and strength in.jersu.e o.- The inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the front of ' ti^^^^y^ pubis, where it decttssates with the corresponding iece of the opposite side. The outer pillar is stronger, and is " ved so as to form a kind of groove ibr the support ol the outer pauu-; snerma'tic cord; it is continuous with Poupart's ligament and is aSeilelow t'o the pubic spine. A thin membrane (intercolumnar fascia), derived from some fibres on the surface of the aponeurosis, margin; covers the oijening. ,. , ,. . The external ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, objecU and in the female to the round ligament; and in each sex the trans- through, mitted part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a coverin.' from the intercolumnar fascia. Tlirongli this aperture an incniinal hernia protrudes from the ^vall of the abdomen The intercolumnar fibres (tig. 97) run transversely on the surface ot nar fibres: the aponeurosis, and bind together its parallel fibres, so as to con- struct a firm membrane. Interiorly, where they are strongest, some attachment weU-marked bundles are connected with the outer third ot Poupart s ligament, and the anterior end of the iliac crest. At the external abdominal ring the fibres stretch from side to side, and close the upper end of tiiat opening ; and as they are prolonged on to the cord from the margin of the ring, they give rise to a membrane named columnar the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is entire, this thin covering will be manifest on the surface ol the cord, or on the round ligament in the female. Dissection. To see the attachments and connections of Poupart s To see^^^ ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both sides ot the body, Poupart^ the lower part of the external oblique aponeurosis towards the thigh. For this purpose an incision is to be carried inwards, through the aponeurosis, from the front of the iliac crest to a spot about three inches from the linea alba ; and the tendon is to be throwdown detached from the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel, external When the aponeurosis cannot be separated farther from the tendons beneath, near the linea alba, it is to be cut in the direction of a line descending to the symphysis pubis. After the triangular piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown and^^^^^^^^^ towards the thigh, the spermatic cord is to be dislodged from tlie fascia, surface of Poupart's ligament, to see the insertion of the ligament into the pubis, and to lay bare the fibres (triangular fascia) which ascend therefrom to the linea alba. Poupart's ligament (fig. 97) is the lower border of the aponeurosis Pouparj^s of the external oblique, which is thickened and folded backwards, so as to form a slight groove with the concavity upwards. In the hollow of the ligament the lowest fibres of the internal obli(iue and trans- versalis muscles and the cremaster take their origin. Externally it onter and appears round and cord-like, and is attached to the anteri.jr superior J;;;;^';^".^^^'^'^- iliac suine. Internally it widens as it approaches the pubis, and is inserted into the pubic spine and the pectineal line of the hip-bone fn.™«^^_^_^^,^ for about three-quarters of an inch, forming a triangular piece with ngament;268 DiSSBCTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Triangular fascia. Dissection to expose internal oblique. its base directed outwards, which is named Gimhertmt's ligament (fig. 97 and 98). ^ direction, -j^ ^^^^^ Poupart's ligament joins the fascia lata of the thigh; and so long as this membrane remains uncut, the band is curved with its convexity downwards, especially when the limb is cont^cJ'wiHi ^''^'^'''^^'^ °^ tr^^iik- The outer half of the ligament is obUque, it. and is firmly united mth the siilijacent iliac fascia; its inner half is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh. Triangular fascia. From the insertion of Gimbernat's ligament into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and inwards to the linea alba, where they blend with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, tliey diverge and form a thin sheet, to which the above name has been given (fig. 97). Dissection. The upper part of the external oblique is now to be taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts beneath. It may be detached by carry- ing the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the free border, and then through the insertion into the iliac crest. The muscle is to be thrown forwards as far as practicable, after the nerves crossing the iliac crest are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs above, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique at the iipj^er j^art. By tlie removal of the fiitty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves issuing tlirough it below, will be ex])osed. At the lower border of tlie internal oblique, where it springs from the deep surface of Poupart's ligament, it will be seen that the fibres are prolonged down upon the spermatic cord. These fibres consti- tute the cremaster mnscle, and should be defined. Tliey consist of fleshy loops which descend through the exlernal aluloininal ring. Internal to the cord they become tendinous, and are easily taken away. Fig. 99.—The Parts uKNKATn the KxTERNAL Oblique Muscle. A. Internal oblique muscle. B. Latissinius dorsi, cut. c. Part of the hinder tendon of transversalis muscle. D. Poupart's liganieut. E. External, v, internal intercostals. the Clean the cremaster.INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 269 Parts covered by the external oblique (fig. 99). Beneath the external Parts^^^ muscle are the internal obliciue, with parts of the ribs and mtercos a muscles. At the lo^ver part of the abdo„>en the muscle conceals obhque. the spermatic cord and the branches of the lumbar ple.xus m the '^SHnTKhL oblique muscle (fig. 99, A) is fleshy at the side .nterna, and aponeurotic in front, like the preceding ; but its fitees (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external oblique. The muscle from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, irom the anteiw ori^m rom two-thirds of the crest of the iliun, (fig. 47, p. 113), and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum, c) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their destination :-The upper ones ascend, and insertion have a fleshy insertion into the cartilages of the last three ribs, ^.^^ where they join the internal Intercostal muscles of the lowest two Unea alba, spaces. The remaining fibres pass forwards, with varying degrees of obliquity, to end in an aponeurosis. ^ . The aponeurosis of the muscle extends from the thorax to the AP-eurosu pelvis and is broader above than below. For the most part it is encioso split to encase the rectus (as will be seen when that muscle is If^^^^ exposed) • but in the lower half of the space between the umbilicus below; and pubis it is undivided, and lies altogether in front of that muscle. Alon" the middle line the two layers are united together, as well as with "those of the opposite side, in the linea alba. Superiorly the aponeurosis is arranged in the following manner :-for a short attaclnnontB distance before it divides, it is fixed to the ninth costal cartilage; an.l the posterior of the layers into which it divides continues this attachment along the eighth and seventh cartilages to the ensilorm process ; while the anterior is prolonged over the che^, blending with the aponeurosis of the external obli(Hie. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and are inserted into the front of the pubis, and and polvis. into the pectineal line for half an inch behind the attachment of Gimbernat's ligament. This lowest part of the aponeurosis is blended with that of the underlying transversalis to form what will be described as the conjoined tendon of the two muscles. Relations. The muscle is covered by the external oblique muscle, r^rts m^^.^^^ It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's ligament and i„t„niai the pubis, where it arches over the spermatic cord, and has the obiiciue. cremaster muscle continuous with it. The parts covered by the internal oblique will be seen when the muscle is reflected. Action. Both muscles depress the ribs, and assist in forcing back U»eof both the viscera of the belly after they have been protruded by the descent of the diaphragm. One muscle may incline the body laterally ; and contracting with of one. the opposite external oblique (the fibres of the two having the same direction), it will rotate the trunk to the same side. The CREMASTER MUSCLK (fig. 100, d) is a muscular slip which Ues Cremaster along the lower borJer of the internal oblique, and is naiucd from its suspending the testicle. The muscle is attached botli at the inner andDISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 270 attach- ments ; external Uesliy, internal tendinous ; forms loops over the cord, giving rise to cremas- teric fascia : In left groin replace the parts. On right side reflect cremaster outer sides, like the lowest fibres of the internal oblique, of which it is essentially a part. E.xternally it is fleshy, and arises from Poupart's ligament, below and in part beneath the internal oblique, with which some of its fibres are connected. Internally it is narrow, and is inserted by tendon into the front of the pubis, joining the tendon of the internal oblique. Between the two points of attachment the fibres descend on the front and sides of the cord, forming loops with the convexity down- wards as far as, and over, the testis. The bundles of fibres are united by areolar tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front of the cord, which is named the cremasteric fascia. Occasionally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides and front of the cord. Action. It elevates the testicle towards the ab- domen, and in some cases is under the influence of the will; but it may be excited to contract involun- tarily by cold, lear, &c. It will be remembered that the fascia (tunica dartos) of the scrotum is reinforced by a number of imstriped muscle fibres, and, moreover, that it is con- nected with the overlying skin. Under the influence of various stimuli (heat, cold, &c.) the unstriped muscle fibres contract, and the scrotal tissues, as well as the coverings of the spermatic cord by the con- traction of the cremaster, are puckered up to form a protecting pad in front of the testis, as it lies at the back of the scrotum. Dissection. On the left side of the body the student is not now to make any further dissection of the abdominal wall; and the layers that have been reflected in the groin sliould be replaced until the examination oftiiat region is resumed in connection with hernia. On the right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by the removal of the internal oblique and the cremaster. The last Fia. 100.—The Cremaster. The Lower Part of the Internal Oblique, with THE Cremaster Mdsole and thr Testicle. A. External oblique, reflected. B. Internal oblique, c. Rectus abdominis. D. Crema-ster, with its loops over the spermatic cord and the testicle.271 TR^mSVERSALIS MUSCLE. muscle maybe reflected from the cord by means of a longitudinal ''T^nsetkeM^.al oUi,ue, it will be necessary f jf.^^^^ Sf""' firstly near the ribs, .econdly along the crest ot the lium and Poupart's ligament, and lastly at the hinder part, so as to connec the first two incisions. Its depth will be indicated by a fatty layer bLeen it and the transversalis, and by a branch of artery between the two muscles near the anterior superior iliac spine (fig. 106, b, p. 287). In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the transversalis with which tliey are often con- joined, and dissect out, between the two, the inter- costal nerves and arteries, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio- hypogastric and ilio-ingui- nal) near the fore part of the ilium. The offsets en- tering the muscle must be cut. Parts covered by the in- ternal oblique (fig. 101). The internal oblique con- ceals the transversalis muscle and the vessels and nerves between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the transversalis fascia. The rectus muscle is covered below by the aponeurosis. The TRANSVERSALIS Parts covered by internal oblique. Fig. 101. A. Tlio Transversalis muscle, with b, its anterior, and 0, its posterior tendon (fascia lunibornm). D. Poupart's ligament. 1. Last dorsal norvo with its accom- panying artery. „ 2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artory. Transversa- j-f Intercostal nerves and arteries. lismiisclo; MUSCLE (fig. 101, a) forms the third stratum in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblifiue muscles in havinc a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the internal oblique, it is attached on all sides, except where the sper- matic cord lies. At the pelvis it arises from the outer third of ongm from^ Poupart's ligament and from the anterior two-thirds of the iliac crest and i.oivia; alon" the inner border (fig. 139, p. 369); at the chest it takes origin by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the lower six costal carti- lages ; and between the chest and the pelvis it is connected with nj-s o.,<i^in the lumbar vertebrte by means of its posterior aponeurosis, or tlie272 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. fascia liimborum. All the fibres are directed to the anterior aponeurosis. The aponeu- Its anterior aponeurosis is widest in the centre, and narrowest at rosis piissos ii ■% 11 • • boiiind tne ujjper end. Internally it is continued to the linea alba, passing rectus, ex- beneath the rectus as low as midway between tlie umbilicus and the lower part, pubis, and in front of the muscle below that spot. Its attachment below to the pelvis is nearly the same as the internal oblique ; for it is fixed to the Iront of the pubis, and to the pectineal line for Fibres to about an inch. Some of the fibres end on the transversalis fascia, fascia."'''" ^^^^ '''I'e connected beneath Poupart's ligament with a thickened band of that fascia which is called the deep crural arch (fig. 97, p. 263). Use. Action. The transversalis muscle draws downwards the lower ribs, and diminishes the abdominal cavity, compressing the viscera and forcing upwards the diaphragm. Atpeivis Conjoined tendon. The aponeuroses of the internal oblique and conjoined trailsversalis muscles are united near their attachment to the pubis, tendon. and give rise to the conjoined tendon. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique extends about half an inch along the pectineal line, while that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge and forms the greater part of the conjoined tendon (fig. 102 and fig. 105, p. 286). Posterior The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the fascia lum- aponeurosis. -[^qj^qj ^^^^ jg described in the deep dissection of the back, and it is siifficient here to state that it consists of three layers: an anterior, attached to the front of the roots of the lumbar transverse process ; a middle, attached to their tips; and a posterior, attached to the spines of the same vertebra. The transversalis is chiefly continuous with the middle of these layers and only slightly with the others. Relations of Relations. Superficial to the transversalis are the two muscles before examined; and beneath it is the thin transversalis fascia. Its fleshy attachments to the ribs alternate with like processes of the diaphragm; and the highest slip joins the lower edge of the triangularis sterni muscle. The lower border of the transversalis is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half, and is arched above the internal abdominal ring. Expose Dissection. Eemove the aponeurotic layer from the rectus muscle pyramidalis °^ right side, make a longitudinal incision through the tendinous sheath, and turn it to each side. As the sheath is reflected, its union with three or more tendinous bands across the rectus will have to be cut through ; and near tlie pubis a small muscle, the pyramidalis, will be exposed. The dissector should leave the nerves entering the outer border of the rectus. Leave the ^'^ ''^'^ ^^^^ ^^^^ 0^ '''^'^ body the rectus should not be laid bare left side. below the umbilicus, in order that the special dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia may be made on this side. Rectus "^'"^ RECTUS MUSCLE (fig. 102, a) extends along the front of the muscle: abdomen from the pelvis to tiie cliest. It is narrowest below, wliere origin from it arises from the pelvis by two tendinous processes :—one, the pubis; internal and smaller, is attached to the front of the symphysis pubis273 SHEATH OF RECTUS. haa crosa tendons: use on tiunk, in common with that of the opposite side ; and the external process springs from the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards tlie tliorax, the rectus is inserted by three hirge fleshy and tendinous ahps into insertion tlie cartihi.'es of the fifth, sixth and seventh ribs, the outermost sfip cartilages; usually e.xt'ending to the bone of the fifth rib. Some of the inner fibres are often attached to the eusiform process. The muscle is con- tained in an aponeu- rotic sheath, except above and below; and its fibres are interrupted at intervals by tendi- nous lines—the inscrip- tiones tendinece. Action. It will draw down the thora.'c and the ribs, or raise the pelvis, according as its fixed point may be below or above. Besides im- parting movement to the trunk, it will diminish the cavity of the abdomen, and com- press the viscera. Sheath of the rectus (d). This sheath is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the rectus. One piece passes before, and the other behind the muscle; and the two unite at the inner border so as to com- plete the sheath. In- separably blended with the stratum in front of the rectus is the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique; and joined in a similar manner with that behind is the aponeurosis of the transversaUs. The anterior layer of the sheath adheres closely to the tendinous inter- sections of the muscle. The sheath is deficient behind, both at the upper and lower end dedcient , ., • 1 1. 4.T above and of the muscle. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the below. intervention of the sheath, which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, at, or somewhat above, a point midway between the D.A. T on abdomen. Its sheath: Fig. Conjoined tendon. 102.—The Rectos Mcsolb of the how formed Abbomen. The muscle is dissected on the right side, and left in its sheath on the left. Close above the pubes the pyramidalis is exposed. A. Rectus. B. Internal oblique. 0. Poupart's ligament. D. Anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus.DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 27i Fold of Douglas. LinesB transvevsie are three or more; situation. Linea semi- lunaris is at edge of rectus. Pyramidalis muscle: attach- ments ; Nerves in wall of abdomen. Intercostal nerves are between oblique and transver- salis; oS'seta. Last dorsal nerve. umbilicus aiul pubis, tbe aponeurosis of the internal oblique ceases to split, and then passes altogether in front of the rectus, with the other aponeuroses. When the rectus is raised, the termination of the hinder layer of the sheath is seen to be marked by a more or less distinct white line, concave towards the pubis, which is termed the semilunar fold of Douglas {fig. 105, p. 286) : below this the rectus is in contact with the transversalis fascia. The lincce transversce (fig. 102) on the front of the sheath are caused by the tendinous intersections of the rectus. The most constant are three in number, and have the following position ; one is opposite the umbilicus, another at the lower end of the ensiform process, and the third is midway between the two. If there is a fourth it will be placed below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole depth or breadth of the muscular fibres, more particularly tlie highest and lowest. Linea semilunaris (fig. 97, p. 263). This line corresponds with the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches from the cartilage of the ninth rib to the pubic spine of the hip-bone : it marks the line of division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. The PYRAMIDALIS MUSCLE (fig. 102) is triangular in form, and is placed in front of the lower end of the rectus. It arises by its base from the front of the pubis, and is inserted into the linea alba below the mid-point between the umbilicus and the pelvis. This small muscle is often absent. Action. The muscle renders tense the linea alba; and when large it may slightly assist the rectus in compressing the viscera. Nervks of the Abdominal Wall (fig. 101, p. 271, and fig. 97, p. 263). Between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are situate the intercostal nerves ; and near the pelvis are two branches of the lumbar plexus, viz., the ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal nerves. Some arteries accompany the nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 283). The LOWER FIVE intercostal nerves enter the wall of the abdomen from the intercostal spiaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and through this muscle to the surface of tlie abdomen near the middle line. About midway between the spine and the Hnea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous briinches to the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous, p. 262) ; and while between the abdominal muscles they supply branches to them and offsets of communication with one another. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is visible, owing to the shortness of the inferior spaces. The last dorsal nerve (fig. 101') is placed below the twelfth rib, and therefore is not in an intercostal space, but it has a similar course and distribution to the foregoing. As it extends forwards to the rectus it communicates sometimes with the ilio-hypogastric nerve ; and its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles (p. 263).275 THE TRANSVERSALIS FASCIA. The iLio-HYPOGASTRic NERVE perforates the back of the njo-hyi-o- transversalis muscle near the iliac crest, and divides into iliac and . hypogastric branches. The tliac branch pierces both oblique muscles close to the crest of iliac part the ilium, to reach the gluteal region (p. 263). The hypogastric branch is directed forwards above the hip-bone, f^djiypo-^^^ "iviug twigs to the transverse and internal oblique nmsclea, and comniunicating with the ilio-inguinal nerve. It perforates the fleshy part of the internal oblique near the front of the iliac crest, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique near the linea alba and finally becomes cutaneous in the hypogastric region (p. 264). The ILIO-INGUINAL NERVE perforates the transversalis muscle near iiio-iuguinai the front of the iliac crest. It afterwards pierces the internal oblique, and reaches the surface through the external abdominal ring (p. 264) : on its way it furnishes offsets to the internal oblique, the transversalis, and tlie pyramidalis. Dissection. To see the transversalis fascia on the right side, it Dissection will be necessary to raise the lower part ot the transversalis nuuscle salia fascia, by two incisions :—one of these is to be carried through the fibres attached to Poupart's ligament; the other, across the muscle from the front of the iliac crest to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily I'roni the thin fascia beneath. The TRANSVERSALIS FASCIA is a thin fibrous layer between the Tiaiisver- transversrtlis muscle and the peritoneum. In the inguinal region, fascia where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is considerably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by some tendinous fibres of is best the transversalis muscle; but farther from the pelvis it gradually ^"groin"; decreases in strength, until at the thorax it becomes very thin. In the part of the fascia now laid bare is the internal abdominal pierced by ring, which gives passage to the spermatic cord, or the round liga- abdominal ment of the uterus, according to the sex ; it resembles the hole into "''i5- the finger of a glove in being visible from within, but not externally, owing to the fascia being prolonged from its margin on to the cord. On the inner side of the ring the fascia is thinner than on the outer, and is fixed to the body of the ])ubis and to the ilio-pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon, •with which it is united. Along the outer half of Poupart's ligament the fascia ends by Ending of joining the posterior margin of that band, and it will be afterwards '""^oia below, seen to unite with the iliac fascia for the same extent, but beneath the inner half of the ligament it is continued downwards to the thigh, in front of the blood-vessels, to form the anterior part of the crural sheath around them. Internal abdominal ring (fig. 105, p. 286, and fig. 106, p. 287). Situation This opening is situate midway between the symphysis pubis and a"ij^^o[„'jnai the anterior superior iliac spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ''"'H- ligament. From its margin a thin tubular prolongation of the transversalis fascia (infundibuliform fascia) is continued around the cord as before said. Dissection, The tubular prolongation on the cord may be traced J^'f^^f*'°" T 2 process on cord.276 Subperi- toneal tissue in groin. Trace re- mains of peritoneum Peritoneum of tlie groin is prolonged on the cord : piece may be imper- ious. or saccu- lated, or open. In female may be partly open Spermatic cord is oblique in the abdomi- nal wall, and vertical beyond; relations; coverings. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. by cutting the trausver.salis fascia liorizontally above the opening of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoneal fat. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer betM-een tlie transversalis fascia and the peritoneum. Its thickness varies much in different bodies, but is greater at the lower than at the upper part of the abdomen. This structure vviU be more specially noticed in the examination of the wall of the abdomen from the inside. Dissection. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be reflected to look for the remains of a piece of peritoneum which extends along the cord in the form of a fibrous thread. The 2Jei-ii07ieum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects forwards slightly opposite the internal abdominal ring. Connected • with it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolongation to the testis in the fcBtus) which extends a variable distance along the front of the cord. It is generally impervious, and can be followed only a very short way ; but it may sometimes be traced as a fine band to the tunica vaginalis of the testis. In some bodies the process may be partly open, being sacculated at intervals ; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in front of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, it may remain unclosed as in the foetus, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the fratal tube of peritoneum sometimes remains pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament; the uuobliterated portion being called the canal of Nuch. The SPERMATIC COKD (fig. 105, p. 286, and fig. 106, F, p. 287) extends from the internal abdominal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and efferent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the stmctures by or through which they pa.<?3. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, since its aperture of entrance amongst the muscles is not opposite its aperture of exit from them ; but, escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. In the oblique part of its course it is contained in the passage named the inguinal canal; it is placed at first beneath the internal oblique, and rests agdnst the transversalis fascia; but beyond the lower border of the oblique muscle, it lies on the upper surftice of Poupart's ligament, with the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the con- joined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from the strata in the wall of the abdomen. Thus, from within outwards are (1) the subperitoneal fat, (2) the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia, (3) the cremasler muscle continuous with the internal oblique, (4) the iutercolumuar or spermatic fascia from the external oblique muscle, and, lastly, the superficial fascia and the skin.277 SPERMATIC CORD. Tlie round ligament, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies i;i^fe;jnj'i;_ the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments ot the ,„entisrn groin." Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord pl««^ of the male except that it wants the cremaster. THE SPERMATIC CORD AND THE TESTIS. Dissection. The constituents of the cord will now be displayed by Dissection, cutting them through longitudinally, as far as the scrotum, and turn- ing aside the different surrounding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and deep epigastric artery into the cremasteric covering, and note the passage of the spermatic vessels between the abdomen and the cord at the internal abdominal ring, and define the vas clcfGrBTis. Vessels and nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together Constiti.-^ the spermatic artery and veins, which convey the blood to and from ^ord. the testicle, the nerves and lymphatics of the testicle, and the vas deferens or the efferent duct. In the female ft branch from the ovarian artery enters the round J^^^^^^^^"" ligament. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is Vas^'}^''^- placed behind the other constituents of the cord ; it will be recog- nised by its resemblance in feel to a piece of whipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen situ-ation through the opening in the transversalis fascia (internal ring), it lies and course, on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle, and, at the same place, winds behind the epigastric artery. A small artery {the artery of the vas) will be seen running along it. It is derived either from the superior or inferior vesical arteries. Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the cord j^^^'^'^^j-^.jml^ has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived from the coverings of deep epigastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The <^°''^ • genital branch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord by the internal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Cutaneous vessels and nerves are supplied to the integuments '^^ij^™'*' covering the cord from the .superficial external pudic artery and the ilio-inguinal nerve. Dissection. The spermatic cord and all its coverings should now be cut through at the external abdominal ring and, with the right lialf of the scrotum and the enclosed testis, removed for examina- tion. The parts should be pinned out on a leaded piece of cork and dissected under water; the different layers being divided by a longitudinal incision and pinned out laterally as they are reflected. In the meantime the anterior abdominal wall should be carefully covered with cloths soaked in preservative. The TESTICLES (testes) are the glandular organs for the secretion of "^^^^^^^ .^^ the semen. Each is suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cord scrotum, and its coverings, but the left is usually lower than the right ; and278 To see tlie serous sac. Tunica vaginalis partly covers tlie testicle, and lines scrotum : visceral part, and parietal Testicle oval; margins. Epididymis. Hydatid of Morgagni. Suspended obliquely. Dimensions, and weight. A dense tunic en- closes .small secreting tubes. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. each is provided with an excretory duct named the vas deferens. A serous sac partly surrounds each organ. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the serous covering of the testicle (tunica vaginalis) make a smal 1 aperture into tlie upper part of the sac when the skin of the scrotum and the superficial coverings have been reflected and inflate it. The sac and the spermatic cord are then to be cleaned; and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. Finally the tunica vaginalis is to be opened from the front to e.vpose the testis. _ The tunica vaginalis (fig. 103, d) is a serous bag, which is con- tinuous in the fcBtus with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen, but becomes subsequently a distinct sac through the obliteration of the intermediate part. It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous mem- branes ; lor the testicle is placed behind it, .so as to be partly enveloped by it. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and projects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an external rough, and an internal smooth surface ; and like them, it has a visceral and a parietal part. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the testicle, except posteriorly where the vessels lie. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and invests the greater part of the epididymis, forming a pouch (digital fossa) between that body and the testicle. The parietal part of the sac (tunica vaginalis scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the con- tiguous layer of the scrotum. Form and position of the testis (fig 103). The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is somewhat compressed from side to side. The anterior margin is convex and free ; the posterior, is flattened, and is pierced by the spermatic vessels and nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer side is the epididymis [b). Attached to the upper end of the testis is a small body(c), the hydatid of Morgagni, which is the remains of the upper end of the fcetal duct of Miiller ; and occasionally other smaller projections of the tunica vaginalis are connected with the top of the epididymis. The testis is suspended obliquely, so that the npper part is directed forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size and weight. The length of the testis is an inch and a half or two inches ; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side ratlier less than an inch. Its weight is nearly an ounce, and the left is frequently larger than the other. Structure. The substance o( the testicle is composed of minute secreting tubes, around which the blood-vessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and supporting the delicate seminiferous tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albuginea. The excretory, or efferent, duct is tlie vas deferens.279 SEMINAL TUBES OF TESTICLE. Fibrous coat: characters; Dissection. With the view of examining .^^'^^^^f JV^X "-t^-" coat let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz., that on which the „^ eSic -mis lies, and let it be fi.xed firmly in that pos.t.on with pm. te.t.s. The fibrous coat is to be cut through aloug the anterior part, and thrown backwards as far as the entrance of the blood-vessels. While raising this membrane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (medias- tinum) may be perceived at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter ; but it will be expedient to remove part of the mass of tubes from the interior (fig. 104), to bring more fully into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albiiginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. This mem- brane protects the secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and unyielding struc- ture : it also sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal tubes. These oflsets of the membrane appear in the dissection ; and one of them at the back of the testicle, which is larger than the rest, is the mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (corpus High- morianum, fig. 104, r,) projects into the gland for a third of an inch with the blooil-vessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower end, and is rather larger and deeper above than below. It is formed of two pieces, which are united in front at an acute angle. To its I'ront and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are con- tained the blood-vessels behind, and a net- work of seminal ducts (rete testis) in front. Of the finer vrocesses of the tunica albuginea (fig. 104, h) -which and , 1.T ^ 1 T iTi« finer septa enter the testis, there are two kinds. One set, round and corct-ni%.e, bnt of different lengths, is attached posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serves to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set forms delicate membranous septa, which divide the mass of si iniual tubes into lobes, and join the mediastinum, like the rest. Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, the tunica a vascular ° layer lines sends inwards processes, as the me- diastinum Fio. 103.— The Testis, with THE Tunica Vaginalis LAID OPEN. a. Testicle. h. Globus major of the epididymis. c. Corpus Morgagni. (I. Parietal part of the tunica vaginalis. e. Vessels of the spermatic cord. /. Vas deferens.280 it (tunica vasculosa) DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Secreting tubules: appearance and length; communi- cations ; and size. Tubes change their name. They form the lobes: number; shape ; tubes in them, and arrange- ment. Tubes next become straight (tubuli recti), afterwards join toge- ther (reto testis). and leave the gland as vasa effereutia. vasmlosa, which lines the fibrous coat, and covers the different <;epta m the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications of the blood-vessels, united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain : in it the arteries are subdivided before they are dis- tributed on the secreting tubes and the small veins are collected into larger trunks. The seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi) are very convoluted and are but slightly held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding blood-vessels, so that they may be readily drawn out of the testil for some distance : their length is about two feet and a quarter (Lauth). Within the lobes of the testis some tubes end in distinct closed extremities; but the rest communicate, forming loops or arches. Their diameter varies from ^^^th to j^th of an inch. I he wall of the tube is formed of a thin translucent membrane but it has considerable strength. ' Names of the different parts of the tubes. To different parts of the seminal tubes, the following names have been applied. Wliere the tubules are collected into masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Communicating in the mediastinum'they produce the rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper end of the gland they are convoluted, and are called vasa efferentia, or coni vasculosi. The lobes of the testis (fig. 104, a) are formed by bundles of the seminiferous tubes, and are situate in tlie intervals between the processes of the tunica albuginea. From 100 to 200 in number (Krause), they are conical in form, with the base of each at the circumference, and the apex at the mediastinum testis ; and those in the centre of the testicle are the largest. Each is made up of two or more tortuous seminal tubules ; and the minute tubes in one lobe are united with those in the neighbour- ing lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are united together ; and the tubuli of the several lobes are farther joined at the same spot into the tubuli recti Tubuli recti (fig. 104, c). The seminal tubes uniting together become narrower and straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa recta : they pierce the fibrous mediastinum and enter the rete testis. JRete testis (fig. 104, e). In the mediastinum the seminal tubes have no proper walls (beyond epithelium), and are situate in the anterior part, in front of the blood-vessels ; they communicate freely so as to form a network. Vasa efferentia (fig. 104, /). From twelve to twenty tubes leave the top of the rete, and issue from the upper end of the testicle as the vasa efl'erentia : these are larger than the tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the canal of the epididymis (part of the common excretorj^ duct). Though straiglit at first, tliey soon become convoluted, and form the coni vasculosi. In the natural state the coni are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled the281 THE EPIDIDYMIS. Fio, 104.—Vertical Section op the Testis to show the arrangement op the Septa and Seminal Tubes. tubes iiiea.sure six inches ; and they join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inche.?. The EXCRETORY DDCT receives the vasa cflerentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis; the re- mainder is comparatively straight, and is tlie vas deferens. The EPIDIDYMIS (fig.s. 103, b, and 104, /t) extends in the form of an arch along the outer side of the testis, at the back from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite tlie upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major (g); and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like—globus minor (i), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epidi- dymis is called the body (h). The epididymis is attached to the testis, most closely at each end, by fibrous tissue and by the retlection of the tunica vaginalis, tlie globus major also being attached by the vasa efferentia. The epididymis is formed of a single tube, bent in a zigzag way, the coils of which are united into a solid mass by fibrous tis.sue. After the removal of the serous mem- brane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it then measures twenty feet or more in length. The diameter of its canal is aboutth of an inch, though there is a slight diminution in size towards the globus minor ; but it increases again as it approaches the vas deferens. The VAS DEFERENS (fig. 104, 7c) begins opposite the lower end of the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis. At first tlie duct is sliglitly wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm, round, and direct tube ; near its termination it is enlarged again and sacculated, as will be seen later. Excretory duet in two parts. Epi'lidymia consisting of head, tail, and body; how fixed ; a. Lobes of the testis. 6. Septa between the lobes. c. Tubuli recti. d. Mediastinum testis. e. Rete testis. /. Vasa efferentia. g. Globus major. h. Body, and i, globus minor of the epididymis. k. Vas deferens. I. Vas aberrans. Horizontal Section. II. Rete testis, in section. o. Finer septa. formed of p. Epididymis, cut across. coiled tube ; r. Media-stinum, cut across. length and size. Vas deferens:282 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. course to urethra; length and size. Vasaberrans frequently present: situation, and size. Three coats form the duct: a fibrous, a niuscular, and a mucous. Organ of Girald^s : remains of "Wolffian body. Spermatic artery. Spermatic vein. Lymphatics and nerves. Vessels of the duct. In its course to the in'ethva it ascends over the hinder part of the testicle, on the inner side of the epididymis, and then along the blood-vessels of the spermatic cord, with which it enter.s the internal abdominal ring; here it bends downwards round the epigastric artery, as has already been seen, and is then continued behind the liladder (p. 389), and through the prostate to open into the urethra. The length of tliis part of the excretory duct is aljout two feet, and the width of its canal about ' th of an inch. Opening into the vas deferens, at the angle of union with the epididymis, there is frequently a small, narrow, caecal appendage, the vas aherrans of Haller (fig. 104, I). It is convoluted, and projects upwards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled. Its capacity is greatest at tlie free end. Structure. The vas deferens has a thick muscular coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined internally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres arranged in strata. Botli externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. T]ie mucous membrane is marked by longitudinal folds in the straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated portion. Organ of Oiraldes. In the spermatic cord of the fcEtus and child, and some- times in the adult, a small whitish, granular-looking body may be recognised, which is named the orrjan of Oiraldes, or the paradidiimis. It consists of several small masses of convoluted tubules, which appear to be remnants of the lower jiart of the Wolffian body. Blood-vessels and nerves op the testicle. The branches of the spermatic artery supjjly offsets to the epididymis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea, before being distributed to the lobes of the testis. Tlie spermatic vein results from the union of branches issuing from the back of the testicle and the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its braiiches form the spermatic or pampiniform plexiis. On the right side it joins tlie vena cava, and on the left the renal vein. The lymphatics of the testicle ascend on the blood-vessels, and join the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the artery to the testis. Vessels of the vns deferens. A special artcrij is furnished to the vas from the upper or lower vesical, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. Veins from the epididymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus.283 VESSELS OF THE ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL WALL. Dissection of the abdominal wall renewed. The dissection of Dissection^ the anterior abdominiil wall will now be resuiueil. By raising the stump of the spermatic cord IVoiii over the pubis towards the internal abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, will appear : it passes inwards to the pubis, and is to be defined with some care. The remain in''vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the deep epi- and of the 1 vessels in gastric and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal niammarj' the'waU of artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary aMomen. arteries will be found on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one at the upper end, and the other at the lower. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced hy removing the transversalis fascia from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poxipart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. DeeiJ crural arch (fig. 97, p. 2G3). Below tlie level of Poupart's Deep crural ligament is a thin band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has received the name deep crural arch from its position and resemblance to the superficial crural arch (Poupart's ligament), attach- This fasciculus of fibres, beginning about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged inwards to the pubis, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the deep aspect of the conjoined tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen. It is closely connected with the front of the crural sheath.* Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen. On the side of the Vessels in ... abdominal abdomen are some of the intercostal and lumbar arteries with the wall. nerves. In the sheath of the rectus lie the deep epigastric and internal mammary vessels. And running along the crest of the ilium is the circumflex iliac branch. The intercostal arteries of the lowest two spaces issue Intercostal T -1 1 1 1 T • T 11 arteries, between the corresijondmg ribs, and enter the abcrominal wall between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles: they extend forwards with the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and forming anastomoses with the internal mammary, epigastric and lumbar arteries. Lumbar arteries. The anterior branches cfr the lumbar arteries supply the muscles in the hinder part of the abdominal wall, and anastomose with the foregoing arteries above, with the circumflex iliac and ilio-lumbar arteries below. The highest artery accom- panies the last dorsal nerve below the twelfth rili, and is distributed with the nerve. From the lowest lumbar artery a branch passes to the integuments with the iliac part of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Internal MAMMARY ARTERY. The abdominal branch of this Superior vessel is called the superior epigastric, and enters the wall of artery'"^'" * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct baud, which is joined hy .some of the lower filn-cs of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times, and this is the most common arrangement, it is only a thickening of the transversalis fascia, with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 281 Inferior or deep epigastric arteiy: relations! in wall of abdomen. Branches: pnbic joins obturator; cremas- teric ; muscular; cutaneous. Epigastric veins. Circumflex iliac artery offsets, muscular, the abdomen beneath tlie cartilage of the seventh rib. Descend- ing in the sheath of the rectus, it soon enters the substance of the muscle, and anastomoses in it witb the epigastric artery. Branches are given to the neighbouring muscles and the overlying integument. The DEEP EPIGASTRIC ARTERY (fig. 106, a, p. 287) arises from the e.xternal ilia;c about a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends in the sheath of the rectus, and above the umbilicus divides into branches which enter that muscle, and ana.stomose with the superior epigastric. As the artery courses to the rectus it passes beneath the spermatic cord (or round ligament of the uterus), and on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and it is directed obliquely inwards across the lower part of the abdomen, so as to form the outer boundary of a triangular space along the edge of the rectus. It lies at first beneath the transversalis fascia ; but it soon perforates that mem- brane, and enters the sheath of tlie rectus over the semilunar fold of Douglas, The branches of the artery are numerous, but small in size :— a. The pt/ftic branch is a small artery, which runs transversely behind Poupart's ligament to the back of the pubis, where it anasto- moses with the similar branch of the opposite side, and with an offset from the obturator artery (fig. 107,/, p. 294). The size of the anastomosis with the obturator artery varies very much, but it is often so large that the obturator artery is derived wholly or in part from the deep epigastric through the enlargement of its pubic branch, giving rise to the commonest form of an abnormal obturator artery. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the muscular covering of the cord. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the ai-tery to the abdominal wall, and anastomose with the intercostal and lumbar arteries ; others enter the rectus. cl. Cutaneous offsets pierce the muscle, and ramify in the integu- ments with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins lie with the artery; they join finally into one, which opens into the external iliac vein. The DEEP CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY arises from the outer ^ side of the external iliac, opposite, or a little below the deep epigastric. It runs at first over the iliacus, close behind Poupart's ligament, in a fibrous sheath at the junction of the iliac and transversalis fascifc, and then along the inner margin of the iliac crest to about the middle, where it ends bj' anastomosing with the iliac branch of the ilio- lumbar artery. Branches. Near the front of the iliac cre.«t a branch (fig. 106, h, p. 287) ascends between the internal obliqne and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomosing with the epigastric and lumbar arteries.DISSECTION OP THE INGUINAL REdlON. 286 As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral oll'sets, which and anasto- siipply the neighbouring muscles, and comnnmicate on the one side with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The deep circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two circumflex collateral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. The lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved J^'^s^i^'"! on the left side of the body, should now be dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The integuments anil the aponeurosis of the external The dissec- oblique having already been reflected, the necessary dissection of groin." the inguinal region will be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 106. To raise the internal oblique muscle, let one incision be made across Keflect^ the fleshy fibres from the iliac crest tqwards the linea alba ; and obl'i™io. after the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By lifting up the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis so that it may be turned inwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is often difiicult in consequence of their lowest fibres being blended together, but a branch of the deep circumflex iliac artery serves as a guide to the intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut the to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface '^^^^'^ of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched j^cent paru. border, and define with care the conjoined tendon of it and the internal oblique to show its exact extent. The transversalis fascia and the spermatic cord should also be nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval below the border of the transversalis muscle show the are the deep epigastric vessels, which lie close to the inner side of the y'^g^'efg''"^ internal abdominal ring, but beneath the transversalis fascia. A small piece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine or other organ situation through the lower portion of the abdominal wall near Poupart's heinfa!""'^ ligament (answering to the inguinal region) is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is favoured by predis- the deficiencies in the muscular sti'ata, by the passage of the sper- n^^Jlfai'iy. niatic cord through the abdominal parietes and by the existence of fossiJB on the inner surface of the wall. The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through the internal Course it abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected through the part ofDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 286 tlie abdominal wall Ijetween the epigastric arterj' and the edf{e of Two kinds: the rectus muscle. These two kinds of hernia are distinguished by the names external and internal, from their position to the deep external or epigastric artery ; or they are called oblique and direct, from the ° '"i"'-'^ direction they take through the abdominal wall. Thus, the hernia protruding through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called external from being outside the artery, and oblique from its slanting course ; while the hernia between the edge of the rectus Posterior layer of sheath of rectus. Transversalis. Cut edge of anterior layer of sheath of rectus. Semilunar fold of Douglas. Transversalis fascia. Spermatic cord. Conjoined tendon. Fio. 105.—Diagram op the Internal Oblique and Traksversalis Muscles, with the Sheath or the Rectus. internal or direct. External or oblique. Anatomy of parts con- cerned. Inguinal canal : and the deep epigastric artery is named internal from being inside the artery, and direct from its straight course. External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the cavity of the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal canal, makes its exit from that passage by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy of external hernia. To understand the anatomy of this form of hernia, it will be necessary to study the passage which it occupies in its course through the abdominal wall (inguinal cjinal), the apertures by which it enters and leaves the wall (abdominal rings), and the coverings it receives in its progress. The inguinal canal (figs. 105 and 106) is the interval between the flat muscles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female.287 THE INGDINAL CANAL. It extends from 'the internal to the external a'jtlominal ring, and extent, measures about oiie inch and a lialf in length. From its beginning length and at the internal ring, it is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, direction; being placed above, and nearly parallel to, the inner liall of Poupart's ligament. Its anterior wall is formed by (1) tlie integuments and (2) by walls in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle (fig. 106) for ' Fio. 106.—Dissection for Inguinal Hernia (Illcstrations op Dissbotions). Muscles, iL-c.: A. External oblique tendon, thrown down. 1). Internal oblique, the lower part raised. c. Cremaster muscle iu its natural position. D. Transversalis muscle with a free border. F. Spermatic cord, surrounded by the infundibuliform fascia, o. Transversalis fascia. H. Conjoined tendon. Arteries : a. Epigastric. 6. Offset of the circumflex iliac. its whole extent, and (3) by the internal oblique in its outer and behind; third. Its posterior wall is formed by (1). the peritoneum, sub-peritoneal tissue and transversalis fascia (o) throughout its whole length, (2) by the conjoined tendon (h) of the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscles in its inner two-thirds, and (3) by the triangularDISSECT10N_ OF THE ABDOMEN. 288 floor, and roof. Canal in tUo female. Internal abdominal ring: situation, form and margin; relations^; parts trans- mitted through it. External abdominal ring: situation. The intes- tine, follow- ing the course of the cord, has cover- ings of the peritoneum and fat, transver- salis fascia. crcmaster, spermatic fascia, superflcial fascia and skin; fnscia derived from the e.\ternal oblique behind the external abdominal ring (fig. 97, p. 263). Its floor is formed (1) by the meeting of the transversalis fascia with Poupart's ligament, and (2) by tlie fibres of Poupart's ligament inserted into the pectineal line (Gimberuat's ligament). Its roof \a formed (1) by the meeting of its anterior and posterior walls, and (2) by the lower arched borders of the internal oblique and transvei'salis. In the female, the canal has the same boundaries, but is usually somewhat longer and narrower. In that sex it lodges the round ligament. The internal abdominal ring (fig. 106) is an aperture in the transversalis fascia, which is situate midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. It is oval in form ; and its longest diameter, which is directed vertically, measures about half an inch; the fascia at its outer and lower parts is stronger than at the opposite sides. Arching above and on the inner side of the aperture is the lower border of the transversalis muscle (d), which, is fleshy in the outer but tendinous in the inner half. Below is Poupart's ligament, which separates the aperture from the external iliac artery. On the inner side its limit is best marked, being formed by the deep epigastric vessels. This opening in the transversalis fascia is the inlet to the inguiaal canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into the wall of the abdomen. An external hernia enters the canal at the same spot, and all the protruding parts receive as a covering the prolongation (infundibuliform fascia) from the fascial margin of the opening. The external abdominal ring (fig. 97) is the outlet of the inguinal canal, and through it the spermatic cord reaches the surface of the body. This aperture is placed in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, near the crest of the pubis ; and from the margin a prolongation (spermatic fascia) is sent on the parts passing through it (p. 267). Course and coverings op an external, or oblique hernia. A piece of intestine leaving the abdomen with the cord, and passing through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, will obtain a covering from every stratum of the wall of the abdomen in the groin, except from the transversalis muscle. It therefore receives its investments in this order :—As the intestine is thrust forwards, it carries before it first the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat, and enters the tube of the infundibuliform fascia around the cord. Still increasing in size, it is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it has the cremasteric fascia applied to it. The intestine is next dii-ected along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing through that o]jeiiing receives the investment of the inter- columnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends towards289 EXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE HERNIA. the scrotuui, it has the additional coverings of the superficial fascia and the skin. In a herniii which has passed tlie external abdominal ring, the seven in coverings from without inwards are therefore the following :—the ■"' ' skin and superficial fa.scia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascise the infundibuliform fascin, the suljperitoneal tis.sue, and the peri- tcnieum or hernial sac. Two of the coverings, viz., the peritoneal iiow i)ro- (lUCG(l and subperitoneal, originate as the gut protrudes ; ljut the rest are ready formed round the cord, and the intestine slips inside them. The difl'erent layers become much thickened in a hernia tliat has existed for some time. Diagnosis. If the hernia is small, and is confined to the wall of Howtotiia- the belly, it gives rise to an elongated swelling along the inguinal ° canal. If it has proceeded farther, and entered the scrotum, it forms a flask-shaped tumour with the large end below, and the narrow neck occupying the inguinal passage. Should a hernia of this kind liecome strangulated, the seat of stricture: stricture is jdaced usually at the internal abdominal ring, and may where 1)6 produced either by a constricting fibrous Ijand outside the narrowed neck of the tumour, or by a thickening and contraction of the peritoneum itself at the inner surface of tiie neck. Division of stricture. In division of the stricture, with the view of To relieve, avoiding the surrounding vessels, the cut is directed upwards on the front and mid-part of the hernia. Varieties of external hernia. There are two varieties of oblique Two inguinal hernia that may be mentioned (congenital and infantile), in addition to the ordinary acquired type above described ; they are distinguished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. Comjenital hernia. This kind is found for the most part in the Congenital infant and the child, though it may occur in the adult male. In it• the tube of peritoneiam (processus vaginalis), which receives the testicle in the foetus, remains unclosed and the intestine descends into iiow con- a sac already formed for its reception. stitnted. Infantile or encysted hernia is much rarer than congenital, and infuntiio cannot be distinguished from the common external hernia during' life. It was first recognised in the young child, and received its name of infantile from that circumstance ; but it may be met with at any period of life. This form of hernia occurs when the iVutal processus vaginalis of imw con- the peritoneum is closed only in the neighbourhood of the internal abdominal ring, instead of being obliterated from that point down to the testicle, so that a large serous sac will be situate in front of the spermatic cord, and may occupy the inguinal canal. With this state of the peritoneum, should an external hernia with its coverings descend along the cord in the usual way, it will pass behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus in a serous membrane. In tins way there will be two sacs, an anterior (the tunica vaginalis) containing serum, and a posterior enclosing the intestine. An infantile hernia is first recognised during an operation by290 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. the knife opening tlie tunica vaginalis before the sac of the hernia. hem'a"' INTERNAL or DiRECT Inqdinal Hernia escapes on the inner side of the deep epigastric artery, and has a straight course tlirough the abdominal parietes. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be understood after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which it passes. Hessefbach- "^^^^o^^'^ INTERNAL HERNIA. In the abdominal Wall near the boundaries;' pubis is a triangular space to which the name of Eesselbarh's triangle has been given. This is bounded by the deep epigastric artery ex- ternally, the outer edge of the rectus muscle internally, and the inner size; part of Poupart's ligament below ; it measures about two inches from above down, and one inch and a half across at the base. coii^sHtuents The constituents of the abdominal wall in this area are—the integuments, the muscular strata, and the layers lining the interior of the abdomen, viz., transversalis fascia, subperitoneal tissue, and peritoneum. The muscles have the following arrangement:—The anddisposi- aponeurosis of the external oblique i.s pierced by the external musdes abdominal ring, towards the lower and inner angle of the space. The internal oblique and transversalis, which come next, are united together in the conjoined tendon ; and as this descends to its inser- tion into the pectineal line it covers the inner two-thu-ds (about an inch) of the space, and leaves uncovered about half an inch between its outer edge and the epigastric vessels, where the transversalis fascia appears. Hernia in Any intestine protruding in this spot must make a new path for ^^^'^^^jg"*^ itself, and elongate the different structures, since there is not any passage by which it can descend, like an external hernia. Further, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent and direction in the abdominal wall, must vary according as the gut projects through the portion of the space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part external to that tendon. Coverings Course and coverings of the hernia. The commoner kind of in- of the more temal hernia passes throush the part of the triangular space which common \ . . , , o j. kind are is covered by the conjoined tendon. peritoneum The intestine in protruding carries before it the peritoneum, the cent'tis'iue Subperitoneal fatty membrane, and the trausversalis fascia; next it transver- ' elongates the conjoined tendon, or, in the case of a sudden ruptiu-e, co'nfo^ned"' Separates the fibres and escapes between them. It then advances tendon, jnto the lower part of the inguinal canal, opposite the external spermatic abdominal ring, and passes through that opening on the inner side fascia,^^^^^ of the cord, receiving at the same time the covering of the spermatic fascia, ami fascia. Lastly, it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of an internal hernia are the same as those of an external ; and in kind the only dillerences are that the covering of transversalis fascia is not furnished by the infundibuli- form jjrocess, and the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremas- teric fascia. The position of the openings in tlie abdominal wall, and the291 INTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. slraightness of its course, should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind ol' liernia. ])ia(jnosis. Tliis rupture will be distinguished from external How knw.i hernia by its straight course through the abdominal wall, and by the ; neck being placed close to the pubi.~, but when an inguinal hernia impossible has attained a large size, it is impossible to tell by an external'''''''"''"'S'"- examination whether it began originally in the triangular space, or at the internal abdominal ring; for as an external hernia increases, its weight drags the internal ring inwards into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling acquires the appearance of a direct rapture. Seat of stricture. The stricture in this form of hernia occurs most Stricture: frequently outside the neck of the tumour, at the opening that has been formed in the conjoined tendon, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum ; and it may occasionally be found at situation ; the external abdominal ring. In dividing the stricture of a large rupture which appears to be in large direct, the cut should be made directly upward.s in the middle of the front of the tumour, so as to avoid the deep epigastric vessels, the position of which cannot be ascertained. Varietii of internal hernia. Another kind of internal hernia Rarer kind , , , . !■ .1 1- ii i. • 1 of internal (superior) occurs through that part ol the area ot tlie triangular i,enii,a space which is external to the conjoined tendon. The intestine is oblique in protrudes through the wall of the abdomen close to the deep epigastric '^'l^h the' artery, and descends along nearly the whole of the inguinal canal conl. to reach the external abdominal ring ; so that the term " direct" would not apply strictly to this form of internal hernia. Goverinos. As the "ut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal Coverings " . ill- same as canal, it has the same coverings as an external Hernia. in external Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in the living body whether a small hernia is internal or external, the °riiture.°'^ rule observed in dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of the tumour ; and if it is necessary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umuilic'al Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine Umbilical throuch or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in size, o J , 1 • 1 n course; and its course is straight through the abdominal wall. Covering.^. The coverings of the intestine are—the skin ami super- coverings tieial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the aperture in the linea alba, together with coverings of the transversalis fascia, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the become tumour the superficial fascia blends with the other contiguous struc- tuinour, tures, and its fat disappears. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment changes in ; otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat nf stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the stricturi>, margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall ; and it may ro,,^,j'_ be either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of U 2DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 292 Other nhdomiiuil lieriiife arc femoral, obtimitoi', sciatic. Dissection to open abdomen. Cords on the abdomi. Dal wall. Three inguinal fossiE: e.xternal, internal, and middle. Situation of fennnnl lu^niin. DisKe(;tion of the parts concerned. Dividi' wall. hernia. It should be rememhered that the narrowed neck is at tlie iip]ier end and not in tlie centre of the swelling. Othkr Forms of Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so as to form a hernia. For instance, there may be femoral hernia below Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia through the thyroid foramen, with the artery of the same name ; and sciatic hernia through the sciatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, wiU be noticed presently ; but the student will refer to special treatises for detailed information respecting the herniie. Dissection. The abdomen is now to be opened to see the cords and depressions on the posterior surface of the wall. A transverse cut may be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, three prominent fibrous cords, the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries, will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords on the abdominal ivall. In the middle line is the urachus, which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus ; on each side is the obliterated hypogastric artery, extending from the side of the pelvis to the umbilicus ; and a little external to the last, near Poupart's ligament, is a less marked prominence of the pei-ito- neum caused by the deep ejjigastric artery. Fossw. With this disposition of the cords, three hollows {inguinal fossce) are seen near Poupart's liganxent, one internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, another outside the deep epigastric artery, and the third between the two. The exiernal fossa corresponds by its lower and inner part to the internal abdominal ring, opposite which there is often a slight depression or dimple of the j)eritoneum, and i.< the place where an external inguinal hernia begins to protrude. The internal fossa is between the oljliterated hypogastric artery and the tirachus ; its outer part is opjjosite the external abdominal ring, and is the seat of the commoner (inferior) variety of internal hernia. The middle fossa is the smallest, and is placed behind the inguinal canal; in it the superior variety of internal hernia leaves the abdo- minal cavity. In some bodies the obliterated hypogastric artery is close to, or behind, the epigastric artery ; and in that case the middle fossa will be wanting. FEMORAii Hernia. In this hernia the intestine leaves the abdomen below Poupart's ligament, and descends in the membranous sheath around the femoral vessels. Only so much of the structures will be described here as can be now seen ; the rest have been noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh (pp. 143 et seq). Dissection. The dissection for femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the body. The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from the umbilicus to the ])ubis, the cut bi-ing made on the left side of the urachus, and care being taken not to injure the bladder, which may293 FEMOBAL HBRNFA, project above th« pubic bones. The peritoneum is to be detached iioUuth from the inner surface of tlie flap, and from the iliac fossa. Tlie I'^it""""'" layer of subperitoneal fatty tissue is to be separated in the same mul fat, way, and in doing this the spermatic vessels and \'as deferens will come into view as they meet at the internal abdominal ring to form the spermatic cord. iJeneath these the external iliac \'essels are to and dean be cleaned, with some lymphatic glands lying along them, and the ' ^"^"'^ geuito-crural nerve on the artery. (In the female the round liga- ment of the uterus is seen entering the internal abdominal ring round the epigastric artery ; while the ovarian vessels cross the external iliac trunks above this dissection.) Any loose tissue remaining is to be taken away to show the beginning of the crural sheath around the femoral vessels, and the interval (crural ring) on their inner side (tig. 107). Afterwards the transversalis and iliac fascitB are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the formation of the crural sheath. Anatomy of femoral herxia. The membranes concerned in Anatomy femoral hernia are the peritoneum, the suliperitoneal fatty layer, the °[njct,„.es. transversalis and iliac fascise lining the interior of the abdominal cavity, with the sheath on the femoral vessels to which they give origin at Poupart's ligament. The peritoneum lines the inner surface of the abdominal wall, Peritoneal whence it is prolonged without interruption into the iUac fossa and the pelvis ; and its thinness and weakness are apparent now it is detached. The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer beneath the Subperi- toneal fat peritoneum, but is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of ' ' the abdomen, where the iliac vessels pas.s under Poupart's ligament. -At that sjjot it extends over the upper opening of the membranous sheath around the vessels, and covers the space of the crural ring internal to the vein. The part of this layer which stretches over the crural ring is forms sep- named the septum crurale; and a lymphatic gland is generally attached to its under-surface. The tra^isversalis fascia has been before noticed (p. 275). At Transver- Poupart's ligament it joins the iliac fascia outside the situation of the external iliac artery ; but internal to that spot it is continued downwards to the thigh in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural sheath. The iliac fascia covers the ilio-psoas muscle, and lies beneath the Hi"'' fascia, iliac vessels.. At Poupart's ligament it joins the transversalis fascia external to the iliac vessels ; but behind the vessels it is prolonged into the posterior part of the crural sheath. The crural sheath is a loose membranous tube, which encloses the siieatli on femoral vessels as they enter the thigh, and is obtained from the vesse'is. fasciaj lining the abdomen. Its anterior half is continuous with the transversalis fascia, and its posterior is derived fronj the iliac fascia and the pubic fascia of the thigh. The sheath is not entirely fiUed294 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Ci'ural ving size and boTindaries by the vessels, for n space (crural canal) exists on the inner side of the vein, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The aperture leading into the crural canal is called the crural ring. The crural ring (fig. 107) is an interval at the base of the sheath, to the inner side of the femoral vein, and is about half an inch wide, being filled liy a lymj^hatic gland. Bounding it internally ai-e Gimbernat's ligament and the conjoined tendon ; and limiting it externally is the femoral vein (6). In front is Pouijart's ligament, with the deep crural arch ; and beliind is the pubis, covered by the pectineus muscle and the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Crossing the front of the space, but at some little distance from it, is the spermatic cord in the male, and the round Gimbernat's ligament. Crural rini; Fig. 107.—Innkr Sukpaoe op the ()s Innominatom, showiko a View op THE Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia (R. Quain). Muscles, dw. : covered by tlie iliac A. Iliacus fascia, B. Rectus. c. Tran.svei'salis, covered by the transversalis fascia. D. Crural ring. e. Grimbernat's ligament. Vessels : a. External iliac artery. b. Iliac vein. c. Deep epigastric ai-tery. rf. Deep circumflex iliac. c. Obturator artery, with its nerve. /. Anastomosis between the pubic branches of the obturator and epi- Kasti-ic arteries. Constricting bounrlaries, how rc- 1,1X0(1. Usual ves- sels iironnd ring. Unusual state of vessels. ligament in the female. The opening is larger in the female than in the male. Two of tlie boundaries, anterior and inner, are firm and sharp- edged, though their c(mdition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the thigh is raised and ajiproximated to its fellow, those bounding parts will be relaxed. Position of rmeh around tlie 7-1)13 (fig. 107). On the outer side is the femoral vein (b) ; and above this are the deep epigastric vessels (r). In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubis ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be i)laced along the anterior aspect of the ring. But in some bodies the; obturator artery takes origin from the deep epigastric by an enlargement of its communication (/) with theFEMORAL HERNIA. 295 pubic branch of that vessel, and lies along the ring as it passes to the pelvis. It may have two positions with respect to the crural ring: either it is placed close to the iliac vein, so as to leave the inner side of that space free from vessels ; or it arches over the aperture, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament; in this last condition the ring will be encircled by vessels except behind. Course of femoral hernia. The intestine leaves the abdomen by Femoral the opening of the crural ring; and it descends internal to the vein in the crural sheath, as far as the saphenous opening in the thigh, where it j)rojects to the surface. Coverings. In its progress the intestine will push before it the CoveringR, peritoneum and subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it will number, displace the gland which fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the sajihenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural shealh, and a layer called the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, it is invested by the superficial fascia and skin of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuUer details (pp. 143—146). Seat of strictwe. The stricture of a femoral hernia is placed stricture opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, or lower down at the ^ei-^^mtit margin of the saphenous opening in tlie thigh. And the constric- saphenous tion may be caused either by a fibrous band outside the upper ''P'"""^' narrow end of the tumour, or by the thickening of the peritoneum inside the neck, as in inguinal hernia. Division of the stricture. To free the intestine from the constricting incision to fibrous band arching over it, an incision is to be made down to the tenili'"^' neck of the sac at the inner and upper part. And to relieve the deep stricture within the neck of the sac, mid internal the peritoneal bag is to be opened and a director introduced, and the knife is to be carried horizontally inwards, or xipwards and inwards, through the thickened sac and a few fibres of the edge of Gimbernat's ligament. Danger to vessels. When the incision is made upwards and inwards Risk of to loosen the constricting l>and in the neck of the tumour, there vess'e'fs m will not be any vessel injured unless the cut should be made so long regular as to reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the same ""'1 i'Tpgu- view, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But oi'ihem'. ' in some few instances (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence) the obturator artery takes its unusual course in front, and on the inner .side of tlie neck of the hernia, and will be Jiefore the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the ves.sel cannot be recognised beforehand, the snrgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 29G Section III. Definition, and con- tents. Dissection to open abdomen. Is largest cavity in tlie body. Bonndaries above and below. In front and on .sides, and behind. Depth is altered by action of diaphragm and levatore.s ani, width by muscles in wall of abdomen. How excreta expelled. Division of space. Abdomen proi)er. Pelvis. Abdomen proper here described. CAVITY OP THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity comprises the abdomen 'proper and the pelvis, and is the space included between the spinal column behind and the muscles stretching from the tliorax to the pelvis in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), and contains the digestive, urinary, and generative organs, with vessels and nerve.-5. Dissection. To prepare the cavitj' for examination, the remainder of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be divided, along the left side of tlie linea alba, as far as the ensiform process. The resulting flaps may be thrown to the sides. Size and form. This cavity is the largest in the body. It is ovoidal in form, with the ends upwards and downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is much wider above than below. Boundaries. Above it is limited by the diaphragm, below by the recto-vesical fascia, the levatores ani muscles and by the other structures closing the outlet of the pelvis. Both these boundaries are concave towards the cavity, and are in part fleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and partly muscular ;—thus, towards the upper and lower limits is the bony framework of the skeleton, viz., the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other ; hnt between these the wall is formed by the broad muscles wliich have been examined already. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous to it, viz., the psoas and tlie quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished by the contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contrac- tion and ascent of the levatores ani; and the cavitj"^ is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscle.*. The widtli is lessened liy the contraction of the abdominal muscles ; but it is increased, during their relaxation, by the action of the diaphragm forcing outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is effected b_\' the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division of the space. As ah-eady intimated a division of the space has been made into the abdomen proper and the pelvis. The Abdomen Proper reaches from the diaphragm to tlie brim of the pelvis, and lodges nearly the whole of the alimentary tube and its ajipendages, togetlier with the kidneys. The Pelvis is situate l)elow the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. The following description concerns the part of the cavity between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. After it has been207 REGIONS OF THE ABDOMEN. dissected the |ielvic portion will receive ii separate notice (pp. 370 et seq). Regions ov the abdomen (fig. 108). For the surface-marking of the viscera and for the purposes of description the alidonien is Lefc LateraJ Line. Trctnspyloric ^nspylonc The disc beCweeff"" Lumbar VerCebrae. InCer-tubercular plauie. ^ Fig. 108.—Diagram showing thk Regions ok thk Abdomen (C.A.) R.E. L.E. R.H. L.H. II. U. L.D. Right epigastric region. Left epigastric region. Right hypochondriac. Left hypochondriac. Right iimbilicaL Left umbilical. R. L. Right lumbar. L.L. Left lumljar. R.Hp. Right hypog-istric. L.Hp. Left hypogastric. U.I. Right ili.ic. L.I. Left iliac. divided into regions by various planes. Two of the planes are horizontal, and three vertical. The upjicr horizontal plane is taken through a point half-way Tmnspy. between the upper border of the symphysis pubis and the upper '""'^ border of the sternum. Its level may be determined with conveni- ence and sufficient accuracy by taking a point on the surface of the front of the body half-way between the umbilicus and the notch at298 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Intevtiibei- cular iihinc. Vertical planes. Names of regions. Other siib- flivisions. Viscera seen without rlisplace- nient. General division of alimentary tnbe; position of several parts : and of solirl organs. tlie lower border of the body of tlie sternum. This plane, from its traversing the pyloric end of the stomach, is called the transpyloric. The loiKi- horixontal flane is half-way between the transpyloric and the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and it fairly corre- sponds to the plane between the tubercles on the outer lips of the iliac crest (Cunningham), and is therefore called the intertubercular. The vertical planes are represented by (I) the middle line of the body, and (2 and 3) by the right and left lateral lines. These lateral lines are drawn vertically on each side through a point mid- way between the middle line and the anterior superior iliac spine. The regions of the aljdomen thus delimited are named re.spectively, from above downwards, on either side of the middle line, the right and left epicjastric, umbilical, and hypogastric regions, and at the sides? of the body the right and left hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac regions. In addition, the middle and lower part of the hypogastric space is named pubic region, while the contiguous portions of the hypogastric and iliac constitute the inguinal region. The various bony and other surface points already referred to on tlie superficial examination of the abdomen (p. 260) are useful in vary- ing degrees as guides to the subjacent parts, but the arch formed by the costal cartilages (costal margin, fig. 108) is very variable in its position, and cannot be relied on as a surface guide except near the sternum. Moreover, the different costal cartilages often cannot be located in fat persons. Superficial view. On first opening the abdomen the following viscera appear (fig. 109, and fig. Ill, p. 303):—Above and' to the right is the liver, which is in great part concealed by the ribs. Lower down, and more to the left, a piece of the stomach is vi.sible ; but this viscus lies mostly beneath the ribs and the liver. Descend- ing from the stomach is a loose fold of peritoneum (the great omentum), which may reach to the pelvis, and conceal the small intestine, but in some bodies is raised into the left hyirochondriac region, and leaves the intestine uncovered. The ctecum is usually to be seen in the right iliac region ; and sometimes a part of the pelvic colon (sigmoid flexure) comes to the surface in the corresponding .situation on the left side. Close behind the pubic symphysis is the apex of the bladder {U), with the urachus {ur) continued upwards from it; and if the organ is distended, it rises above the symphysis. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine ; and the two last are further subdivided, as will afterwards appear. The several viscera have the following general position :—The small intestine is much coiled, and occupies the greater part of tlie cavity ; while the great intestine arches round it. Both are held in position liy portions of the serous lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are situate the stomach, the liver, and the spleen ; behind is the pancreas ; and below it is the convoluted small gut. Behind the intestine, on each side, is the kidney with its excretory tube.RELATIONS OP STOMACH. 299 Before the natural position of the viscera is disturbed, their Relations of situation in the different regions of the abdomen, and their relations jobe g^e,, to surrounding parts, should be examined. Fio. 109.—DiAonAM showing thr Position op the SuperfioiaIj Abdominat, Viscera. The i.ivER is shaded with horizontal, and the stomacu with vertical lines. <j b. Gall-bladder. o h a. Obliterated hypogastric tr c. Transver.se colon. artery. I i. Ligamentum teres of the liver. ur. Drachus. ccc. CfPcum. bl. Urinary bladder.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 300 Piwitioii iiud rulii- tions of tlx stoiiiacli: cardiac orillce, siirraee marking, fundus ; small curvature; pyloric end. Surface marking. upjier and lower surfaces ; great curva- ture is least fixed part. Changes in form and position ; empty and full stomacli. RELATIONS OF THE VISCERA. The STOMACH (figs. 110 and 111, p. 303) intervenes between the , gullet ami the small intestine, and is partly retained in position Ijy folds of the serous membrane. It is somewhat pyriform in shape, with the larger end on the left side ; and it is placed in the left hypochondriac and epigastric regions, and reaches to the upper part of the umbilical. At its large end the stomach is joined by the ocsoijhagus, which fixes it to the diaphragm. The opening of the oesophagus into the stomach, because of its nearness to the heart (from which it is only separated by the diaphragm and pericardium), is named the curduw orifice, and lies behind the seventh costal cartilage of the left side, about an inch from its junction with, the sternum, being on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra. To the left of the orifice, the stomach bulges upwards to its summit in the left vault of the diaphragm, and lies behind the fifth rib in the left lateral line (fig. 111). The con- cave border of the stomach to the right of the oesophagus is the lesser curvature, and is attached to the liver by a fold of peritoneum —the small omentum. The right extremity leads into the small intestine (duodenum) by the pyloric orifice, the situation of which is indicated externally by a slight constriction of the tube, and a thickened band in the wall that may be felt with the finger. The pyloric end of the stomach is placed beneath the liver, a little to the right of the middle line in the transpyloric plane, at the level usually of the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebrte. The \qoper surface (which looks also somewhat forwards) of the stomach is in contact above and to the right with the liver, on the left with the diaphragm, and between these with the abdominal wall. The lower surface (compare fig. Ill and fig. 112, p. 305) lies over the spleen, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum (gastro-splenic omentum), the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, the pancreas, and the trans\'erse meso-colon. This siu-face looks al.so backwards. The convex border or greater curvature is directed to the left forwards and downwards, and has the great omentum attached to it; along it lies the transverse colon. The form and position of the stomach vary with its degree of distension. When the organ is empty, it is flattened, and the jjyloric end reaches but little to the right of the middle line. But when full, the stomach becomes rounded, and its upper surface is directed somewhat upwards and forwards, filling particularly the left hypochondriac and epigastric regions; the fundus pushes upwards the diaphragm, pressing on the heart and left lung ; the great curva- ture moves soniewhat to the left and downwards, as w ell as forwanls; and the jiyloric extremity is carried an inch or so to the right. As will, however, be pointed out later on, the full stomach is accommo- dated to a great extent in a deep hollow to the left of the vertebralSMALL INTESTINE. 301 column, which the late Professor Birmingham aptly called " the stomach bed." The SMALL INTESTINE reaches from the stomach to the right iliac Small region, where it ends in the larj^'e intestine. It is arbitrarily divided u^j,.,,!^^,,,, into three parts,—duodennm, jejunum, and ileum. division-s. The duodenum conij^rises the first nine or ten inches of the small Buodt^mini: intestine (fig. 112,' to ]). 305). By raising the liver it may be traced i)i^t;ii>"iiig, from the pyloric end of the stomach, at first backwards and then downwards, until it disappears beneath the transverse colon. If the great omentum, with the attached transveree colon,be turned up over and ending: the margin of the thora.x, and the mass of small intestine be drawn to the right, the lower end of the duodenum will be seen on the left of the spine. It here ascends for a short distance, and at the level of the second lumbar vertebra passes into the jejunum, forming a sharp bend forwards and downwards ;—the duodeno- jejimal flexure. The relations of the duodenum cannot, however, be satisfactorily to be fully seen at j^resent, and will be examined later (p. 327). The jejunum and ileum include the re- mainder of the small intestine, two-fifths be- longing to the jejunum and three-fifths to the ileum, but there is no natural division be- tween them. This part of the intestinal tube forms many convolu- tions in the umbilical, hypogastric, left lum- bar, and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it descends commonly, but more extensively iu the female, into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convolu- tions is the great omentum; behind, they are fi.xed to the spine by a relations; large fold of peritoneum containing the vessels and nerves, and named the mesentery. The termination of the ileum is more fixed than the end of rest; it ascends slightly from the pelvis to the right iliac fossa, crossing the external iliac vessels and the psoas muscle, to open into surface the large intestine just below the intersection of the intertubercular and right lateral lines, as marked on the surface of the body. The LARGE INTESTINK or COLON (fig. Ill) is more fixed than Largo the jejunum and ileum, from which it is to be distinguished bv l"^"^^'."" ■ -1-1., " now ais- Its sacculated aiipearance, and by its being furnished with small tinKuished ; processes of peritoneum containing fat—the ivppcndices epiplo/cm. It begins in the right iliac region in a rounded part or head course (ciEcuni), and ascends to the liver through the right iliac and lumbar regions. Then crossing the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches seen Flo. 110.—The Stomach op a Child.302 DISSECTION OF THK ABDOMEN. and extent. Divisions. Ciecuni: position; relations; peritoneum around it. Junction of ileum. Vermiform process. Surface marking. Ascending colon: parts around. Transverse colon: extent iind course; splenic (lexnre ; arch of colon ; relations of arch ; the left hypocliondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course in the upper part of the umbilical regions. Finally, it descends, on the left side, through the regions corresponding with those it occupied on the right, and forms a remarkable Ijend in the pelvis on the left side ; then becoming .straight (rectum), it passes through the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. It is divided into seven parts, viz., ccecum, ascending colon, trans- verse colon, descending colon, iliac colon, pelvic colon, and rectum. The ccecum is placed in the right iliac fossa, above the outer half of Poupart's ligament, descending below the level of the anterior superior iliac spine in the right lateral line. Wlien empty it may be entirely covered by the convolutions of the small intestine ; but frequently, more or less distended, it rests against the anterior abdominal wall. The cfficum is as a rule entirely surrounded by peritoneum, which sometimes forms a small fold behind it; but occasionally it is closely bound down by the peritoneum being reflected off each side, so as to leave the hinder surface uncovered, and connected to the iliac fascia by areolar tissue. This part of the laj-ge intestine is joined at its inner and posterior aspect by the termination of the ileum, which marks the division between the CEecum and ascending colon. Attached to the inner part of the posterior surface of the cajcum is a slender worm-like process—the vermiform cqjpendix. This process is usually directed downwards and to the left under cover of the csecum, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum. The root of the appendix (where it joins the caecum) is marked on the surface of the body by a point an inch below the centre of a line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the umbilicus. The ascending colon reaches from the caecum to the under-surface of the liver, where tbe intestine makes a bend known as the hepatic flexure. It lies against the iliacus and quadratus lumliorum muscles, and in its upper part along the outer border of the kidney. In front and to its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The peritoneum fixes the ascending colon to the wall of the abdomen, and surrounds commonly about two-thirds of its circumference ; but it may encircle the tube and form a fold behind it (ascending meso-colon). The trannverse colon begins at the hepatic flexure, forming a loop downwards in the right lateral plane as far as the level of the umbilicus, and then passes across to the left and upwards, along the great curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen. Here a bend, directed mainly backwards, is formed in the lower part of the left hypochondriac*region at the junction with the descending colon, sharper tlian that on the right side, and named the q)lemc /lexure. In this course the transverse colon is deeper at each end than in the middle, and thus forms the arch of the colon, which has its coTnexity directeil forwards. Above tlic arch are idaied the liver and "all-bladder, the stomach, and the spleen ; and btdow, theRELATIONS OP INTESTINE. 303 convolutions of the small intestine. In passing from right to left, <as will be seen by comparing figs. Ill and 112, tlie transverse colon first lies over the right kidney and the second part of the duodenum, and is fixed to these organs by its peritoneum, which is arranged like dispositiun that of the ascending colon. Beyond the duodenum however, it is only tonelmi. loosely attached to the back of the abdomen by a long fold of LXt. Liver. Scomach, Incer-cuberailar plane." Ascendine' Colon. LSplenic/Flexure of Colon. f ends. Iliac Meso- colon begins. FtG. 111.—Diagram SHOwrxo the Disposition of the Liver, the Stom.iou, THE Large Intestine, and the Lines of Peritoneal Attachment, IN the Regions op the Aduojien (C. A.). M.L. Middle line. L. L. Lateral lines. Disc line represents the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebriB. peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon (fig. 114, mc, p. 309) ; while the great omentum (g om), which pa.sses between it and the stomach, covers it in front. The descending colon extends from the .s]ileeu to the iliac crest, and is longer than the ascending part. At first it is placed deeply De.sccmiiiig in the left hypochondriac region, resting against the diaphragm, and ■ partly concealed by the stomach. Lower down, it has the small .sitimlion ; intestine in front and the quadratus lumborum Ijeliind. Along the inner side, it is closely applied to the outer part of the left kidney.Rectum. Position of liver: DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. toneum!' 1^^^* <=olon is Smaller than either the ascending or the transverse portion, and is commonly less surrounded by the perito- neum ; its upper end is attached to the diapliragm by a special fold (phrenico-colic) of that memln-ane. Iliac colon. The iliac colon begins at the iliac crest, and descends in the left iliac fossa, over the ilio-psoas muscle and the external iliac vessels, being fixed in this position by the peritoneum, until it reaches the brini of the pelvis. Here the intestine forms a large loop, wliich IS provided with a long jn-ocess of peritoneum, and liecomes the Pelviccoion. freely movable pelvic colon. The 2Klvic colon commonly hangs down as a loop in the cavity of the pelvis ; but it often projects forwards and reaches the anterior wall of the abdomen. Below the brim of the pelvis, opposite the third sacral vertelira, it ends in the rectum. The rectum, or the termination of the large intestine, is contained in the pehds, and will be examined in the dissection of that cavity. The LIVER (figs. 109 and 111) is situate in the right hj'pochondriac and lumbar and the epigastric regions, and often reaches slightly into the left hypochondriac, the left extremity being usually behind the junction of the left sixth rib with its cartilage. It is covered in front by the ribs with their cartilages, except over a small area in the sub- costal angle. Folds of peritoneum, called ligaments, attach it to the abdominal parietes. The iijjpcr surface fits against the diaphragm, and is convex on each side, but slightly hollowed in the centre below the heart. It extends higher up on the right side than on the left, and reaches the level of the fifth rib in the right lateral plane. The anterior surface is most seen at present, and passes in- sensibly into the upper surface above, and terminates at the well-marked lower border below. This surfece is in contact with the diaph ragm under cover of the ribs and costal cartilages, and, between the costal arches, with the anterior abdominal wall. It is divided into two parts, corresponding to the right and left lobes of the organ, by the falciform ligament. The superior and anterior surfaces pass insensibly into the riylii surface where the liver lies against the diaphragm on the right side and sometimes projects l)elow the ribs at their lower part against the al)dominal wall. The inferior surface looks downwards, to the left, and somewhat l«ckwards ; it is in contact with the stomach, the first and second parts of the duodenum, the .small omentum, the gall-bladder, the right kidney, and the l)eginning of the transverse colon. To thi.« surface the small omentum, containing the hejiatic vessels, is attached. The lower border is thin and directed downwards. On the right side it is concealed by the ribs ; but in the epigastric region it is exposed, running obliquely from the ninth right to the eighth left costal cartilage ; it crosses the middle line of the body a little above the transpyloric plane. The fundus of the gall-bladder projects beyond this edge, close to the costid margin in the right lateral plane. surfaces upper, anterior. right, and inferior. lower border.RELATIONS OF LIVEK. 30 Tlie remaining surface of the liver, the posterior, cannot be seen at present. The left lobe lies in front of the cesophafjus, and is attached to the diaphragm by a triangular fold of peritoneum—the left lateral ligamunt. The two layers of peritoneum fixing the right lobe are for Peritoneal tlie most part widely separated, and constitute the coronary ligament ; "^^tJ,'' but at the right end they come together, and give rise to a small triangular fold which is distinguished as the right lateral ligament LciCeroLl line Mid I Transpuic jlonc ne. ^ ^ The disc beCweerT* che 1^ and a"? Lu m b ar Ver Ceb ree. loder-tubercular pla,ne. LaCerd>l line Fig. 112.—Diaoham showing the Disposition op the Deep Organs in THE Hkgions op thk Abdomen (C.A.). 1, 2, 3 and 4 denote the four parts of the (htodenum. The portion of the surface between the layers of the coronary ligament is adherent directly to the diaphragm by means of areolar tis.sue : in this space also the right suprarenal capsule touches the liver; and the inferior vena cava is embedded in a deep groove in its substance. The liver changes its situation with the ascent and descent of the diaphragm in resjiiration ; for in in.spiration it descends, and in expiration it regains its former level, undergoing a sort of tilting downwards as it rests on the posterior body-wall. In the upright and sitting postures also, it descends lower than in the horizontal D.A. Position ig cliiingod by <lin]>limgni, iin<l liy jicsture of i>0(ly.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 306 position of the body ; so that when the trunk is erect the anterior border may be felt below the edge of the ribs, but when the body is reclined, it is withdrawn within the margin of the tliorax. Spleen: The SPLEEN (figs. 112 and 113 ; also 122, p. 329) is deeply placed position; behind the stomach, at the back of the left hypochondriuiu and the adjoining part of the epigastric region. It lies very obliquely, the upjjer end being near the spine, while the lower end reache.s about half-way round the side of the body, relations of Its Outer or phrenic surface is convex and free and rests against the diaphragm opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. The anterior or gastric surface is concave and applied to the stomach, to whicli it is attached by the gastro-splenic omentum (fig. 115, gs om, p. 310) ; the tail of the pancreas also touches the lower end of this surface. A third narrow surface, the internal or renal, lies against the outer border of the left kidney in its upper half ; and a fold of peritoneum. surfaces, phrenic, gastric, and renal. Fig. 113.—The Spleen, seen prom the Uiobt. Examine renal surface. Kidneys: situation; surface marking. called the lieno-renal ligament (fig. 115, Ir), which contains the splenic vessels, passes between the two. The way to find this surface iu the present stage of dissection is to pass the hand backwards within the concavity of the diaphragm on the left side, the back of the hand outwards, past the phrenic surface of the spleen, so that the fingers will hook round its posterior Ijorder and enter the recess between the spleen and the kidney. Tlie upper end of the spleen is close to the suprarenal capsule; the lower end rests on the splenic flexure of the colon and the phrenico-colic ligament. The KIDNEYS (fig. 112) cannot be seen much at present. The lower part of the left kidney will be exposed by drawing the small intestines inwards from the descending colon, and the lower part of the right kidney can be felt below the liver behind the hepatic flexure of the colon. They may be marked on the surface of the front of the body in the following manner, remembering that they are each about four inches in length and two and a half inches in width (fig. 112). The lateral planes traverse them longitudinally307 REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. ommon to both. somewhat nearer their inner than their outer borders, and the transpy]oric plane crosses them transversely, a third of the right kidney being above this plane and two-thirds below, whilst two-fifths of the left kidney lie above tiie plane and three-tifths below. They are situated at the Imck of the abdomen, opposite the last Position: dorsal and upper two or three lumbar vertebra;, and occupy parts of the epigastric, hypochondriac, umbilical, and lumbar regions. Their position is somewhat oblique, the upper end being nearer to the spine than the lower ; and the surface which is called anterior looks much outwards. They lie behind the peritoneum, and are surrounded with fat. relations They rest upon the diaphragm, the psoas and quadratus lumborum f' muscle-s. The upper end supports the .suprarenal body ; and at the inner border the vessels enter, and the duct (ureter) leaves the organ. The differences on the two sides will be pointed out later on (pp. 353 et seq). The relations of the pancreas must be omitted for the present, but Pancreas they wiU be found on pp. 329 and 330. THE PERITONEUM. This is the largest serous membrane in the body. In the male it Perito- is a closed sac, like other serous membranes ; but in the female there is an aperture of communication with the Fallopian tube, and the .^T™n^l mucous lining of the latter becomes continuous with the serous '• membrane. It lines the wall of the abdomen (parietal peritoneum), and is reHecled over the several viscera (visceral peritoneum), some of which it invests completely, except where the vessels enter. The ••*"'''''f^es; inner surface is free and smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from tlie parts to which it is naturally adherent. The membrane as it pa,sses from viscus to viscu.s, or from the abdominal wall to viscera, forms proce.sses or folds, to which different names are folds, given, and which for the most part consist of two layers enclosing vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced both horizontally and vertically. Horizontal circuit round the lower -part of the. abdomen. From the ^•'''•<^'« of the umbilicus the peritoneum may be followed along the abdominal wall Zv^iu on the left side to the hinder part of the lumbar retrion, where it ••'■"Aliens, partly surrounds the descending colon, and thence over the kidney to the front of the spine. Here it is reflected forwards, covering the superior mesenteric vessels, passes round the small intestine "and returns to the spine along the same vessels, thus forming the mesen- tery. From the .spine it is continued in the same way°on the right side, over the kidney, round the colon, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus again. Vertical circuit (fig. 114). Starting at the under-surface of the Circle f.o„, iiver, tlie small omentum (.5 om) is found desceiidin.^ to the small curvature ol the stomach, where the two layers of which it consists mTs"' separate to enclose that organ, one passing in front and the other " X 2308 DISSECTION OF THF: ABDOMEN. Inmsverse meso-colon its ascend- ing layer; descending layer and mesentery ; in pelvis; along front of abdomen, Small and large bags : behind. At the great curvature they meet again, and give rise to the great omentum or epiploon (g om). After descending to the lower part of the ahdomen, they bend backwards and ascend to the transverse colon, which they enclose in the same way as the stomach ; and they are then continued lo the posterior abdominal wall, forming the transverse meso-colon {mc). (It should at once be pointed out, ' lest the student be misled, that the layers of the great omentimr in front of the transverse colon are usually adherent to one another, and not separated by intervals, as represented in fig. 114, for tlie purpose of clearness.) Opposite the anterior border of the pancreas these two layers, which have been followed over the transverse colon, part company,—the one passing upwards, and the other down^\'ards.* The ascending layer is continued upwards in front of the pancreas and diaphragm, and is then reflected on to the posterior surface of the liver, where it covers the part called the Spigelian lobe, and passes into the hinder layer of the small omentum. This layer, however, cannot be traced in the present stage of dissection. The descending layer immediately passes off along the superior mesenteric vessels to the small intestine (jejunum and ileum), forming the mesentery {m). From the root of the mesentery, this layer descends over the lower end of the aorta and the promontory of the sacrum to the pehds, where it partly invests the viscera of that cavity. Thus, it covers the upper part of the rectum and is reflected forwards therefrom to the bladder in the male, or the uterus in the female, forming a pouch between the two ; and after covering the upper part of the bladder, it passes off at the front and sides to the abdominal wall, forming the fossae before noticed in the inguinal region (p. 292). Lastly, having left the bladder, the membrane is continued upwards, lining the anterior w-all of the abdomen and the under- surface of the diaphragm, nearly as far as the spine ; there it is reflected over the upper surface of the liver, and. then, turning round the lower border to the under-surface, it joins the anterior layer of the small omentum. In the foregoing account it will be seen that two vertical circles have been traced, which surround distinct cavities in figure 114. The portion of the membrane which forms the circle behind the liver and stomach is known as the small sac of the peritoneum; while the part in front of those organs, which is much more e.\tensive, * In the fcctus lit an early ])crio(l tlie reflected portion of the great onientiim is continued up to the .spine ; and while the a-scending layer passes upwai'ds over the pancreas as explained in the text, the posterior or de.scending layer surrounds the transverse colon before passing into the mesentery, thus forming a transverse moso-colou distinct fronj the gre.at omentum. The front of the transverse meso-colon then becomes adherent to the opposed part of the great omentum, so that the two are united in a single jirocess, and the colon appears to be enclosed between the omental Iayei-s. Occasionally ti-aces of the fecial condition are met with in the adult.309 REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. and readies into the pelvis, constitutes the lunje sac. The two sacs their con- are however continuous, and their cavities communicate throiigh '''""'''y' the aperture termed tlie . foramen of "Winslow, as will be apparent by tracing the horizontal circle at a higher level than before, viz., immediately above tlie pyloric end of the stomach. Horizontal circuit at the. level of the foramen of IViHslow (fig. 115, p. 310). IJuginning in front at tlie falciform ligament of the liver (/), the peritoneum may be followed on the left side along the ab- dominal wall and the diaphragm to the outer part of the left kidney, where it is reflected along the back of the splenic vessels to the spleen, form- ing one layer of the lieno- renal ligament(/»■). Hav- ing furnished tlie invest- ment of the spleen, the memlirane passes as the outer layer of the gastro- splenic omentum {gs om) to the stomach, and over the front of the latter into the anterior layer of the small omentum {s om). At the right edge of this it turns round the hejjatic vessels (which are felt as thick cord-like structures within the peritoneal fold) to the back of the .small omentum ; and at the spot where it passes be- hind the vessels it bounds the foramen of AVinslow (!(•), the entrance from the greater into tlie lesser sac. It then iornis ill succession the posterior covering of the stomach, tlie inner layer 1."k."" of the gastro-sijlenic omentum and lieno-renal ligament, and, turning to the right, is continued over the left kidney and the diaphragm to the inferior vena cava, where it forms the posterior boundary of the Fit;. 114 Dl.\GlUH SHOWING THE AllRANOE- oniei,),,,,,,. MBNT OF THE PhKITONEUM IN A MEDIAN ' Section of the Abdomen. I. Liver. si. Stomach. c. Transverse colon. p. Pancreas. d. Duodenum, tljiril l)ai-t. i, i, i. Coils of small intestine. r. Rectum. U. Bladder. s om. Small omentum. fj om. Great omentum. nic. Transverse meso- colon. 111. Mesentery. rv p. Recto - vesical pouch. fonunen of WinslowDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 310 Chief folds of the lieritoneuni. t'oicuiieii of Wiu-^low. Here becoming great sac again, it can he followed over the right kidney to the liver, and round the latter to the falciform ligament. On the right side of the falciform ligament the peritoneum simply jmsses over the liver and diaphragm. Special Parts of the Peritoneu5[. A fter tracing the continuity of the serous sac over the wall and the viscera, the dissector is to study the chief processes or folds of the membrane in connection with the alimentary tube and its appendages. The pieces of peri- FiG. 115.—Diagram or a Hokizontal Section of the Abdomes through THE Twelfth Doksal Vertebra, to show the Akrakgement of the Peritoneum at the Foramkn of Winslow and round the Spleen. I. Liver. St. Stomach. spl. Spleen. h; k. Kidneys. ao. Aorta ; farther forwards the eoronarj' artery is seen, cut twice. V c. Inferior vena cava. W. Foramen of Winslow. s mn. Small omentum, at the riyiit end of which are, from left to right, Note. —The portions of the kidneys are leprcsented too large in this diagram. the hepatic artery, portal vein, and bile-duct. gs om. Gastro-spleuic omentum. Ir. Lieno-ienal ligament. /. Falciform ligament. In front of the left kidney is the splenic artery, sending its branches to the stomach between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum. Gastric folds: omenta. Gastro- hepatic omentum : iittnch- ments; toneum in connection with the viscera of the pelvis will be seen in the dissection of that cavity. Folds connected with the stomach. The processes uniting the stomach to other viscera are named omenta, and are three in number, viz., the small or gastro-hepatic omentum, the large or gastro-colic omentum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The small omentum (ligs. 114 and 115, s om) stretches between the liver and stomach, and ends towards the right in a free border, behind which the foramen of AVin.'slow leads into the cavity of the small sac. It is attached above (o the liver along the transverseTHE OMENTA. ^ uei ^^^ ^ 1 tl,e immediate neiglibomliood VrtiTextUng n-om transverse assure to eo,ae,.u. tttodenum is much thicker, and encloses the »^epat:c arte^ portal vein, common bile-duct, and nerves and lymphatics ot the ''lie yreat ov..Uu.n (fig. 114, y o.,) is the largest fold of the peri- ^^^^ tonln and results fron. the meeting of the two layers wh.ch leave h .^at curvature of the stomach and the first part ot the duodenum, fonnat.on •. The sheet thus formed descends in front of the intesUne, extending Ir her on the left side than the right, and at the lower part of ^h abdomen is doubled backwards to join the transverse colon. The aouoiueu 1= , 1 . .1 «mrp fcavitv of the small cavity; fold therefore enclose.s the lower pail ot a space 1^=1^ ^^,, .ije adult sac^ which originally extended to its lower border ; but in the adult Te anterior and posterior portions of the omentum ai-e usually closely adherent, and the su.all sac seldom exists below the transverse '° Between the layers of the great omentum, especially near the ..tomach, are some branches of vessels, minute nerves, and a variable duantity of fat; but over the greater part ot their extent the layers fusion of are inseparably united, and the resulting membrane is veiy thin, and in places cribriform. Dissection. Divide the part of the great omentum belovv tl e cav.t.^o^ ston,ach, and the cavity of the small sac of the on.entum will be opened, and the hand may be introduced to ascertain its extent. In flont it is bounded by the anterior part of the great omentum the boun.iav.es stomach, the small omentum, and the Spigelian lobe (hg. 131, hl) oi the liver Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon and meso-colon, the pancreas, the lelt kidney and suprarenal capsule, and the diaphragm. To the right it extends as and oxtcnt. far as the inner border of the duodenum (second pait), and to the left as far as the spleen. Between the duodenum and the liver it opens into the general cavity or large sac by the foramen of The/orameu of Wimloio is bounded in front by the right portion no«n,,a™ of the small omentum, containing the he]iatic vessels ; below are the or Winsiow. same vessels and the first part of the duodenum ; above is the caudate lobe of the liver ; and behind, the inferior vena cava. The cjastro-splenic omentura (fig. 115, cjs om) reaches f™ra the Oastro- stomach on the left side to the spleen, and is continued below into o,no,a,nn. the great omentum. Between its layers are the gastric branches of the splenic vessels. Folds ON the large intestine. The disposition of the peritoneum Pj|r.tonoai round the several portions of the colon has been explained in givingDISSECTION OF THIS ABDOMEN. 312 lulestino • ^^'f relations (pp. 301 et seq.). The following processes pass between the large intestine and the abdominal wall :— meso-?oTon • V^^ transverse meso-colon ((ig. 114, m c) extends from the anterior ' or lower border of the pancreas to the transverse colon, to the left of the spot where the latter crosses the duodenum, and contains the middle colic, vessels. In the adult it is formed by a continuation of the layers of the great omentum, but in the fojtus it was a separate mesentery for the bowel. The upper end of the left colon has a distinct Md—phrenko-colic or costo-colic, fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a wide end to the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs, it passes transversely inwards to the colon, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The pelvic meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, which attaches the loop of the intestine to the wall of the pelvis : it contains the sigmoid and superior hsemorrhoidal vessels In some bodies the ascending and descending colon are surrounded by peritoneum, which meets behind the gut and forms a fold the ascendiny or descending meso-colon, between the bowel and the abdominal wall. The csecum may also be provided with a similar fold {meso-ccecum) attaching it to the right iliac fossa. The meso-appendix will be seen by lifting up the cascum, and is a fold attached on the one hand to the vermiform appendix, and on the other to the adjacent part of the ctecum and the lower surface of the mesentery near the termination of the ileum. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse and pelvic colon ; they are the appendices epiplo'icce, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not enveloped by the jperitoneum after the same manner throughout. For while the jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall bj' one process (mesentery), the duodenum has special relations -with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodemim. The first part of the duodenum has peritoneal relations like those of the stomach, but its posterior or left surface is only covered for a short distance hy the serous membrane. The second part is concealed in front by the converging layers of the transverse meso-colon. The third part, which crosse-s the aorta, is separated from the peritoneum in the middle line by the superior mesenteric vessels, but is covered in front bj^ the serous membrane on each side of them. The root of the mesentery comes off from the front of the fourth pai't, which is closely invested by peritoneum on the left side and partly in front. Fold of the jejunum and ileum. The mcseuteri/ supports the rest of the small intestine, and is stronger than any other piece of the serous membrane. Its hinder end is narrow, and is att^iched along the front of the spine and great vessels from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right .sacro-iliac articulation (fig. Ill, p. 303; the attachment being shown by a line interrupted with short pliieiiico colic fold lielvic tueso-colou sometimes au ascend* ing or descending meso-colon or meso- ciecum. Meso- appendix. Appendices epiploieae Feritoneal covering of small intes- tine. Peritoneum on duode- num. Mesentery; form altncli- ments.313 LIGAMENTS OF THE IJVEK. cross lines). The other end of the fold i.'S wide, and is connected with the intestine. LiGAMExNTS OF THE LIVER. On the Upper surface of the liver is i-«ritoueai^^ the suspensory ligament ; and along the back there is a wide the liver: process which is divided into coronary, and right and left lateral ligaments. The susneiisoni or falciform liqament extends from before backwards fiilciform between the upper convex surface ot the liver and the parietes ot the abdomen. Its lower border is concave, and fixed to the liver ; while the upper border is convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall on the right of the linea alba, and to the under-surface of the diaphragm. In its free anterior border or base is the remains of the umbilical vein, which is named the round Uijament of the liver. The coronaru liqament is placed at the back of the right lobe of eoronaiy the liver, and is composed of two layers which are separated liy an interval (fig. 114). The superior layer passes from tlie liver to the diaphragm; but the inferior layer (fig. 131, id, p. 346) is reflected over the front of the kidney and inferior vena cava. This layer becomes continuous round the Spigelian lobe with the posterior layer of the small omentum. The riijU lateral ligament (fig. 131, rll) is a small fold at the right rigia hitenil end of the coronary ligament, formed by the meeting of the two • layers for a shoi't distance. The left lateral ligament, larger than the foi-egoing, is a triangular left^Iateral fold of peritoneum, with a free edge tiu-ned to the left. It is °" ' ' attached by its anterior border to the liver above the margin of the lel't lobe, and by its posterior border to the diaphragm in front of the oesophageal opening. At its right end the upper layer is con- tinued into the left side of the falciform ligament, and the lower layer into the front of the small omentum. Folds of the spleen (fig. 115). These are the gastro-splenic .splenic omentum and the lieno-renal ligament, the formation of which has ab'eady been exi^lained. Accessory peritoneal folds and fossae. Minor peritoneal folds and fossa3 should be looked for in the neighbourhood of the duodeno- jejunal flexure and about the crecum ; also the lower surface of the pelvic meso-colon should be examined for the mouth of a small pouch {intersigmoid} that someiimes exists there. Two ]30uche3 are often Duodenal found in the neighbourhood of the duodeno-jejunal flexure. One, to the left of the upper part of the flexure, looking downwards, is called the superior duodenal fossa, and another, along the left .side of the Suiierior, last (fourth) part of the duodenum looking upwards, is called the inferior duodenal fossa. K para-duodenal fossa is occa.sionally found infi'rior, to the left of the last part of the duodenum on the posterior paia. abdominal wall, being produced by a fold raised by the inferior mesenteric vein. Himning up behind the ctecum or the beginning of the ascending Uetro-colic colon there is often a retro-colic fold, producing a pouch on one or both sides of it, more commonly on the inner side. A very constant314 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. iieo-cwciii fold (ileo-ccecal), mostly containing fat, passes from the lower border poucli"'^ of the last three inches or so of the ileum on to the csBCum and appendix, often producing a deep pouch looking downwards and to the left. iieo-colic A small ileo-coUc fold, produced by a branch of the ileo-colic artery, pouch."' is sometimes seen immediately above the ileo-colic junction, producing a pouch looking upwards. MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. Examine first ves.sels to intestine. Mesenteric vessels. Dissection of superior mesenteric ve.S8els, and nerves. Superior mesenteric artery coursi!s in the me- sentery ; relations, and branches Directions. The mesenteric vessels and nerves, which supply the greater part of the alimentary tube, may be first dissected. After these have been examined and the relations of the aorta and vena cava have been learnt, most of the intestine will be taken out for examination and to give room for tlie display of the ^'iscera and vessels in the upper part of the abdomen. Mesenteric Vessels. The superior and inferior mesenteric arteries are two large branches of the aorta, which supply the intestine, except a part of the duodenum and some of the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve. Dissection (fig. 116). For the dissection of the superior mesenteric vessels' and nerves, the transverse colon and the great omentum are to be lifted up and placed over the margin of the ribs. The small intestines should be drawn over to the left, and spread out fanwise, so that the anterior or right layer of the mesentery can be removed. Wliile tracing the branches of the artery to the snuiU intestine, corresponding veins and slender ofl"sets of the sympathetic nerve on the arteries will be met with. Mesenteric glands and lacteal vessels also come into \'iew at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intes- tine are to be next followed under the peritoneum ; and after all the branches have been cleaned, the trunlc of the artery should be traced back beneath the pancreas. The surrounding plexus of nerves should also be defined. The SOPEBIOR MESHNTERic ARTERY (fig. 116, rt) supplies all the small intestine beyond tlie duodenum and half the large intestine, viz., as far as the end of the transverse colon. Arising from the aorta near the diaphragm, it is directed down- wards between the layers of the mesentery, forming an arch with the convexity to the left side, and terminates in offsets to the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies beneath the pancreas and the ,'<plenic vein ; and as it descends to the mesentery it is placed in front of the left renal vein and the duodenum. It is surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and accompanied by the vein of the same name. Branches. The artery furnishes a small ofl'set to the pancreas and duodenum, intestinal branches to the jejunum and ileum, and colic liranches to the large intestine.315 SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. (/. The inferior ■panmaUco-(hwdenal artery (6) is small, and Bincn-alico- usually arises in common with tlie first intestinal branch. It is ' directed to the right between tlie pancreas and duodenuui, to both of which it supplies branches, and anastomoses with the superior pancrealico duodenal artery from the hepatic. The inlestiual branches [ov the jejunum and ileum (/) are twelve f™;,'^'/,^^^^;' or more in number, and pass from the left side of the artery between tine: Fio. 116.—SupEKioii Mesenteric Auteuy and its Beanokes (Tieuemann). (f. Superior mesenteric. «. Ileo-coHc. b. Inferior pancreatico-duodenal. f. Intestinal branches to the jeju- c. Miildle colic. num and ileum. d. Right colic. the layers of the mesentery. About two inches from their origin briincluw tlie branches bifurcate, and the resulting pieces unite with similar offsets from the collateral arteries, so as to form a series of arches. From the convexity of the arches other branches take origin, which divide and unite as before. This process is repeated three or four times between the origin and the distribution, but at each branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the last set of arches twigs aistiibuUon are sent to the intestine on both aspects of the tube, and anastomose °" round it. aDISSECTION OK THE ABDOMEN. 316 Ai"terie.s of large gut. Ileo-colic branch runs to Ciccum. Right colic braiicli sup- plies ascend- ing colon. Middle colic branch passes to transverse colon; number and aiTange- ment in arches. Superior mesenteric vein. Mesenteric gland.s ; lymphatics entering them. Me.so-colic glands. Di.ssection of inferior mesenteric artery, and vein : The brandies to tha large intestine are three in number, ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic arteries. c. The ileo-colic artery (e) ari.ses from the right side of the trunk, and divides opposite the coscum into ascending and descending Lranches. The ascending branch supplies the csecuiu and the beginning of the ascending colon, and ana.?tomoses with the right colic artery ; while the descending branch joins in a loop with the termination of the mesenteric trunk, and distributes offsets to the lower end of the ileum. The ascending branch sends an artery {appendicular) behind the termination of the ileum, which enters the meso-appendix, and is distributed to the appendix. d. The right colic artery (d) is frequently conjoined at its origin with the preceding. Near the ascending colon it divides into ascending and descending branches, which anastomose with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and with the middle colic on the other. e. The middle colic branch (c) springs from the upper part of the artery, and entering between the layers of the transverse maso- colon, divides into two branches ; the right one anastomoses with the artery to the ascending colon, and the left with the left colic branch of the inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 117, c). The intestinal twigs are united in arches before entering tlie gut, like those to the small intestine. The superior mesenteric vein (fig. 125, b, p. 334) is formed l)y the union of branches from the intestine corresponding to the offsets of the artery. The trunk passes beneath the pancreas on the right side of the artery, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena poi-tJE. At the lower border of the pancreas it i-eceives the right gastro- epiploic branch from the stomach. The MESENTERIC LYMPHATIC GLANDS are Humerotis between the layers of the mesentery. An upper group lies by the side of the artery, and contains the largest glands ; and a lower group, near the intestine, is lodged in the intervascular spaces. The chyliferous vessels of the small intestine, and the absorbents of the part of the large intestine supplied by the superior mesenteric arterj', pass througli the mesenteric glands in their course to the thoracic duct. Along the side of the ascending and the transverse colon are a few other small lymphatic glands, meso-colic, which receive some absorb- ents of the large intestine. Dissection (fig. 1I7). By drawing the small intestine over to the right side, llie dissector will observe the inferior mesenteric artery on tlie front of the aorta, a little above the bifurcation. The peri- toneum should be removed from its surface, and the branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intes- tine ; a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be dis- sected afterwards. On the arlerj and its branches the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves ramifies, and should be preserved, especially near the origin of the vessel. The inferior mesenteric vein also is to be followed upwards317 INFERIOR MRSBNTEIUC ARTERY. beneath the pancreas to its junction with the superior mesenteric or the splenic vein. On the aorta tlie dissector will meet with a plexus of nerves, nortic . . plfixus. which is to be left uninjured. The INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY (fig. 117, b) Supplies branches inferior , 1 • mesenteric to the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, and communi-^jgrj-: Fig. 117.—The Inferior Mesenteric Artery, and the Aorta, as seen BY TURNINQ ASIDE THE DpPER MESENTERIC ArTERY AND THE SlIALL Intkstinb (Tibdehann). /. Superior mesenteric. (/. Renal. h. Spermatic of the left side. a. Aorta. b. Inferior mesenteric artery. c. Left colic, iL Sigmoid, and c. Superior ha;morrlioidal branches. eating with the superior mesenteric, continues the chain of anasto- moses along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the aorta from one to two inches above the bifurcation. It descends, lying at first on, and then close to the left side of the aorta, and, after giving otf branches to the descending, iliac and pelvic colon, terminates as the superior hemorrhoidal artery to the rectum. rt. The left colic artery (c) passes out in front of the left kidney, and divides into an ascending and a descending liranch for the origin, and branches. Left colic lirnndi to descending colon.318 DLSSBCTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Sigiiiokl branch to sigmoid llexiire. Brnucli to rectum. Inferior mesenteric vein : origin, course, and termination. No valves in veins. Lympliatic L'lands, Plexuses of the sympa- tlietic to tlie viscera. Dissection of aortic plexus, and hypogastric plexus. Superior mesenteric ]ilexus is on artery of .same name: secondary jilexnse.s. supply of the descending colon : by tlie ascending offset it anasto- moses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric. b. The sigmoid artery (or commonly arteries) {d) is distributed to the iliac and pelvic colon (sigmoid flexure), and divides into offsets which anastomose above with the preceding colic, and below with the hajuiorrhoidal branch. Here, as in the rest of the intestinal tube, arches are fornied by the arteries before they reach the intestine. c. The superior luemorrhoidal artery (e) crosses over the left common iliac vessels, and enters between the layers of the pelvic meso-colon, to be distributed to the lower end of the large intestine, its branches reaching in the mucous membrane of the rectum as far as the anus : it wiU be described in the dissection of the pelvis. The inferior mesenteric vein (fig. 125, d, p. 334) begins in the part of the large intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, and ascends over the psoas muscle higher than the origin of the artery. Passing beneath the pancreas, the vein inclines to the right, and opens into the superior mesenteric trunk at its junction with the splenic, or sometimes into the splenic vein. Both mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be injected from the trunk to the branches, like an artery. Lymphatic glands are ranged along the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The absorbents of the intestine, after passing through these glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Nerve. The following plexuses of the sympathetic on the vessels, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, and in- ferior mesenteric, are derived from the solar plexus beneath the stomach,and can now be exposed. The remaining portion of the sympathetic uerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to (pp. 336 et seq.). Dissection. On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have already made out- the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intes- tinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses, by taking away the peritoneum from the front of the aorta below the pancreas. From the upper jjart of the aortic plexus au oflset is to be followed along the siiermatic artery ; this may be done on the left side, where that vessel is jiartlj^ laid bare. By detaching the peritoneum below the bifurcation of the aorta, and following downwards over the iliac arteries the nerves from the aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric ]ilexus, above the promontory of the sacrum. The superior mesenteric flexiis is a large bundle of nerves, and is distributed to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric artery. The nerves surround closely the trunk and larger branches of the artery ; but near thj intestine some of them leave the vessels, and divide and communicate before entering the gut. Tlie offsets of the main plexus are named after the arteries which they accom- pany, viz., intestinal nerves to the small intestine, and ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic plexuses to the large intestine.VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. 310 The aortic pUxiis is an open network of nerves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery ; it is stronger on the sides than on the front of the aoi-ta, in consequence of its receiving acces- sory branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. Above, the ple.Kus derives an offset, on each side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends below, on each side, in branches which ofVscts. cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus. From it offsets are furnished to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. . The spei-matic plexus, formed by roots from both the aortic and the Sj^rmatu- renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle ; in the cord it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the ovarian (spermatic) artery are in (emnW. furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The infm-ior mesenteric plexus supplies the part of the intestinal J^'^f^rior tube to which its artery is distributed. This plexus is furnished p,ex„s from the left side of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are wliiter and larger than in either of the preceding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the colon the branching of the nerves and j'.»>;^-J,«Jo'" the union of contiguous twigs are well marked. Its offsets (plexuses) vessels; are left colic, sigmoid, and superior liremorrhoidal: they ramify on ^f,^™^^^^ those arteries, and have a like distribution. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre for the Hypogastric supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate ^ in front of the last lumbar verteljra. It is formed by the union of situatinn; the prolongations of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it formation ; are of large size, and interlace in a dense llattened mass, without any interspersed ganglia. Below, the plexus divides into two portions, an.i ending, richt and left, which are continued downwards on the inner side of internal iliac vessels to the pelvic plexuses. RELATIONS OF AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Before any of the viscera are removed from the body, the relations of the abdominal aorta and vena cava may be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior J'^'^^^^J;'"" mesenteric artery, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic arteries along the great curvature ; and afl^er raising the stomach, to remove the peritoneum fi'om the gastric surface of the pancreas. A sliort arterial trunk (coiliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be quite cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed up and vena cnvn as far as the liver, where it disappears, by separating the transverse colon from the duodenum and by carefully lifting up the outer ])art of tlie duodenum ; where the latter lies over the inner part of the right kidney, the confluence of the renal vein and the inferior vena cava will be exposed. Care must be taken however not to injure tlie duodenum and the adjacent head of the pancreas. The relations ofDISSECTION OF THK ABDOMEN. 320 Aorta lies oil fiont of spine: parts arouiifl. Vena cava inferior: extent ; relations; is by the side of the aorta, except above. Arteries crossing it, and vein. its upper end of the vein can be better observed after tlie dissection of the vessels of the liver. The AORTA (fig. 138, p. 363) enters the abdomen between the pillars of the diaphragm, and finally divides into the common iliac arteries opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra. At its beginning the vessel lies somewhat to tlie left of the middle line; and it commonl}' inclines slightly inwards as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta is covered at first by the pancreas, then by the third part of the duodenum, and for a short distance below that hy tlie peritoneum. Beneath the pancreas it is crossed by the splenic vein above the superior mesenteric artery, and by the left renal vein below that vessel; and the solar and aortic plexuses of the sympathetic lie along its anterior surface throughout. It rests on the lumbar vertebrse, with the pillars of the diaphragm embracing it at the beginning. To its right side is the vena cava. Its relation to other deep parts cannot be examined at present. Tlie INFERIOR VENA CAVA begins opposite the fifth lumbar vertebrae by the union of the common iliac veins, and reaches thence to the heart. The venous trunk is placed on the front of the vertebral column, to the right of the aorta (fig. 138). It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the duodenum and pancreas as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but above that spot it is inclined away from the tartery, and ascending in front of the diaphragm, is embedded in the back of the liver for about an inch and a half. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of, and higher than the aortic opening. Its relations with vessels are not the same as those of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the Iddney is the right spermatic artery. iSuperficial to it beneath the pancreas is the beginning of the portal vein. REMOVAL OF THE INTESTINES. Dissection. The jejunum, the ileum, and the whole of the large intestine, as far as tlie lower part of the pelvic colon, are now to be removed. Place two ligatures on the jejunum, one at the duodeno- jejunal flexure and another an inch further on, and divide the bowel between them. In the same way divide the lower jjart of the pelvic colon between a double ligature. The whole of the intestine between these points is then removed by cutting through its peritoneal attachment close to the bowel wall. Care should be taken not to cut into the bowel, and in removing the transverse colon the arteries of the st(nnach must be avoided. After removal, ligature the ileum about six inches from the ileo- colic junction and divide it above the ligature. Proceed then in the following manner :— 1. Cut off the upper four inches of the jejunum and the lower four inches of the ileum above the cut, .and put them a.side in a tray in water.321 REMOVAL OF THK INTESTINES. •2. Cut off the next twelve inches of the jejnmini ; wash it through with running water from the tap, inflate it with air, and hang it up lo dry. 3. Cut through the ascending colon ahout six inches above the ileo-colic junction. Wash through the detached portion, consisting of the lower part of the ileum, the cseeum, and a piece of the ascending colon, inflate it, and hang it np to dry. 4. Remove the pieces of mesentery left on the remaining long piece of the small intestine. Wash the intestine through from end to end by putting one end on the tap and allowing the water to run through freely ; and, finally, treat the remainder of the large intestine in the same way. SMALL INTESTINE. The JEJUNUM and the ileum together measure about twenty feet Je.iumim ... mi ■ t f""! ileum, in length, and are connected with the mesentery, ihere is not any perceptible difl"erence between the termination of the one and the beginning of the other, but two-fifths of the length are assigned to the jejunum, and three-fifths to the ileum. Between the upper and lower extremities, however, a marked difference may be perceived. The upper part of the jejunuui_is thicker and more vascular than Characters, the lower end of the ileum ; it is spongy to the feel, owing to its voluminous mucous membrane, and markedly diff'ers from the thin- walled ileum ; the vnAth. of the upper part of the jejunum is also greater. Structure. In the small intestine the wall is formed by the Ktructmo same number of layers as in the stomach, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. Dissection. Open the small pieces of jejunum and ileum by cutting along the mesenteric attachment; pin them out on cork with the mucous membrane uppermost. Wash them gently with water, and remove all contained matter and adhering mucus, and examine the villi with a hand lens. Villi. The mucous membrane will be seen to be thickly studded Tlie villi, with small projections, like those on velvet. These bodies exist Their shape, along the whole of the small intestine, and are irregular in form (fig. 118), some being triangular, others conical or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from j^th to ^th. of an inch ; and they are best marked where the valvuke conniventes are largest. In the duodenum their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, and number, but in the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 on the same surface (Krause). Dissection. Now turn the pieces of intestine and pin them out on the cork with the serous coat outermost. The serous covering is to be torn off for a short distance, to show the muscular coat, but in doing this the external longitudinal fibres will be taken away unless great care is observed. The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular Serous coat layer. To the jejunum and ileum it furnishes a covering, e.xcept322 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. at the attached side where the vessels enter: at this spot the peri- toneum is reflected off to foiTa the mesentery, and a space exists between the serous layers like that at the borders of the stomach. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, a superficial, longitudinal, and a deep, circular. The fibres are pale in colour, and are not striated. longitudinal The longitudinal fibres form a thin covering, which is most marked at the free border of the gut. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat. These circular fibres are best exposed by again turning the specimen and stripping off the mucous membrane and the subjacent submucous tissue in one piece. Dissection. The long length of small intestine should now be opened to show the mucous coat, but the gut should be cut along the nearly complete. Muscnlar coat is foi nieil by a and a cir- cular layer. Show mu- cous coat. JIucous coat: thickness ; folds ; villous surface, and glands. Valvulsc conni- ventes; form ; size and depth ; how formed B B.'A "SoLiTAKr Gland " OP THE Small Intes- tine, ALSO KNLARGED, COVERED BY VlLLI (Boehm). Fio. 118.—A. A Piece of Mucous Membrane enlarged, with its Villi AND Tubules. Part of a Peter's Patch is also repkesented with the Follicles (a), each having a EiNG OP Tubes at the Circum- ferenob. line of attachment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's gland."; on the opposite side. Mucous coat. Tlie lining membrane is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than at the ending of the small intestine. It is marked by numerous prominent folds (valvulm conniventes); and the surface of the membrane is covered with small processes (villi) like the jjile of velvet. Occupying the substance of the mucous coat are numerous glands. The valvular conniventes are permanent ridges of the mucous membrane, M'hich are arranged circularlj- in the intestine and project into the cavity of the tube. Crescentic in form, they extend round the intestine for half or two-thirds of its circum- ference, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger and smaller folds are met with, sometimes alternating; and the larger are about two inches long, and one-third of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each is formed of a doubling of the mucous membrane, which encloses a prolongation of the submucous coat, with vessels between the layers.323 STRUCTURE OP SMALL INTESTINE. They begin, as will be seen, in the duodenum, about one or two inches beyond the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle of the jejunum ; but beyond that point they become smaller and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudimentary. The folds are largest and most uniform beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile-duct. By inspection of the dried portion of the jejunum the disposition of these folds is readily seen. Glands. In the glandular apparatus of the small intestine are included the crypts of Lieberkiihn, solitary glands, and Payer's and Brunner's glands, the last-named occurring only in the duodenum. The crypts of JAeberk/ilm are minute simple tubes, which exist throughout the small intestine. They open on the sur- fiice of the mucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands ; but they are not to be recognised with the naked eye. The so-called solitary glands (fig. 118, b) are roundish white eminences, about the size of mustard-seed if distended, which are scattered along the small intestine, but in greatest number in the ileum. Placed on all parts of the intestine, and even on or between the valvulse conni- ventes, they are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and are sur- rounded at their circumference by aper- tures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. These small bodies are nodules of lymphoid tissue. The ayminated glands or glands of Peyer (fig. 119) exist chiefly in the ileum, and, beginning at the lower end, they should be looked for by holding the bowel up against the light. They form oval patches, measuring from half an inch to two inches or more in length, and about half an incli in width. They are situate on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment of the mesentery, and their direction is longitiulinal in the gut: usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the lower part of the ileum they are largest and most numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower end of the jejunum they become irregular in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. The patches are most distinct in young persons, and generally disappear in old age. The mucous membrane over the glands is hollowed into pits (fig. 119, 6), and is generally destitute of villi (fig. 118, a) between the pits it has the same characters as in other parts. Y 2 extent on the inteS". tine. Simiili! tubes. Fio. 119.—Pkyer's Patch, foor times enlarosn (Kolliker). a. Surface of imicous mem- brane covered with villi. b. Pits over the follicles where villi are absent. composi- tion. Patches of Peyer: size ; situation; number; peculiari- ties ; butDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 324 composi- tion. Arteries of the intes- tine ; absorbents and ner\ es. These patches are simply ooUections of lymphoid nodules of the same nature as the " solitary glands." Vessels of the intestine. The arteries are derived from the intestinal branches of the superior mesenteric trunk, and enter the wall of the intestine at the attached border. They run at first beneath the serous coat, round the side of the bowel, and give off numerous ramifications, which anastomose freely together, and perforate the muscular coat, .supplying branches to its substance. Finally, they break up into very minute twigs in the submucous layer, before entering the mucous coat. The veins have their usual resemblance to the companion artei-ies. The absorbents (lacteals) leave the intestine with the vessels and pass to the mesenteric glands. Nerves of the small intestine come from the upper mesenteric j)lexus, and entering the coats by the side of the arteries, fomi plexuses with interspei'sed ganglia. LARGE INTESTINE. Extent of the gut; lengtli; Compared with small gut, larger, more fixed, not coiled, sacculated with bands. Append- ages. Definition of ciEcum ; length and width; receive.s ileum and appendix. Vermifonn appendix: attach- ment ; dimensions; it is hollow. The large intestine is the part of the alimentary canal between the termination of the ileum and the anus. In length it measures about five or six feet,—one-fifth of the length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement of the ctecum, and gradually decreases as far as the upper part of the rectum : in the lower part of the rectum there is a dilatation above the anal canal. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished by the following characters :—It is generally of greater capacity, being in some places as large again, and is more fixed in its position. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations. Its wall is thicker and attached to the surface, especially along the transverse and pelvic colon, are .small processes of peritoneum containing fat—the appendices epiploicse. The inflated portion of the large intestine, containing the ileo-colic junction, will now be examined. The c^CUM, or the head of the colon (fig. 120, a), is the rounded end of the large intestine, which projects, in the form of a pouch, below the entrance of the ileum. It measures about two inches and a half in length, and rather more in width, though gradually narrowing below : it is the widest part of the colon. At its inner .side it is joined by the small intestine (6); and still lower there is a small worm-like projection (c)—the vermiform appendix. Aiijicndix vermiformis (fig- 120, c). This little convoluted tubals attached to the lower and hinder part of the ca3cum, of which it was a continuation at one period in the embryo. From three to six inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is connected to the inner side of the cajcum and to the lower face of the mesentery of the ileum by the meso-appendix. Its interior325 THE ILEO-COLIC JUNCTION. has an aperture of communication with the intestine (d). In struc- ture it resembles the rest of the colon, except that the longitudinal muscular bands coalesce upon it. Its mucous membrane contains a great amount of adenoid tissue. Dissection. To e.xamine the interior of the dried specimen of the cEBcum, and the vulve between it and the small intestine, the foUowino; cuts should be made in it:—One oval piece is to be taken from the upper aspect of the ileum near its termination ; and another from the side of the caecum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine. lleo-colic valve (fig. 120). This valve is situate at the entrance of the ileum into the large bowel. It is composed of two pieces, which project into the interior of the colon and bound a niirrow, nearly transverse, aperture of communication between the two parts of the intestinal canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo- colic (e), projects horizontally into the large intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum with the colon. And the lower piece, ileo-ccecal {f), which is the larger of the two, has a nearly vertical direction between the ileum and the ctecum. At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together ; and the re- sulting prominence ((y) extends trans- versely on the front and back of the intestine, forming the fraina or reti- nacula of the valve. The size of the opening is altered by the distension of the intestine ; for when the retinacula of the valve are stretched the folds bounding the aperture are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is formed by cii'cular muscular fibres of the intestinid tube, covered by mucous membrane and submucous tissue ; and the ileum projects into the interior of the coecum as if it were thrust obliquely through the wall of the csecum, after being deprived of its peritoneal coat and the layer of longitudinal fibres. This construction is easily seen on a fresh specimen by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and gently drawing out the ileum from the caecum. these are joined at tlie ends. FiQ. 120.—Tntehior op C.EOnir, BRIEl) AND OPEN. TUK LAID .md form flUMlIl. a. CiECUui. b. Small iutestine. c. Vermiform appendix, and Oijenin;; in d, its aperture. valve. e. lleo-colic piece of tlio valve at the junction of the small intestine. /. Ilco-ciBcal piece of the valve. g. Retinaculum of the valve on each side. ti,;, valve a prolonga- tion of the wall of the gut.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 326 Appendix opens into cteciim. Bidges in the Cfficum; how formed. Four strata in the wall of the gut. Serous coat difl'ers along the intes- tine. Two layers of fleshy fibres; longitudinal in three bands, Ijosterior, anterior, and internal; and circular. Submucous coat as in small gut. Mucous coat is without folds and villi. Tubular glands, The opcnimj of the appendix into the cajcuin {d) is placed below that of the ileum. The mucous membrane partly closes the aperture and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of the gut, and correspond with depressions on the outer surface : these folds result from the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest enclose vessels. Dissection. Portions of the transverse colon and the pelvic colon should be examined to show the disposition of their coats, in the same way as the pieces of small intestine, after the whole piece of large intestine has been slit open and washed clean. Structdre of the colon. The coats of the large are similar to those of the small intestine, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. Serous coat. The peritoneum does not clothe the large intestine, throughout, in the same degree. It usually surrounds the caecum, but covers only the front and sides of the ascending and descending colon (p. 302). The transverse colon is encased like the stomach, and has intervals along the borders, where the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed of longitudinal and circular fibres, as in the small intestine. The longitudinal fibres may be traced as a thin layer over the sui-face, but most are collected into three longitudinal bands, about a third of an inch in width. One of these bands is placed along the posterior or attached margin of the bowel, the other two are on the anterior and inner sides respectively. On the vermiform appendix the fibres form a uniform layer, but they are continued thence into the bands on the caecum and colon, and ou the rectum the anterior and internal bands become united. When the bands are divided the intestine elongates,—the sacculi and the ridges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. The circular fibres are spread over the wliole surface, but are most marked in the folds projecting into the intestine. At the end of the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The fibrous or submucoiis coat resembles that of the small intestine. It will be e.xposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings. The mucous coat, which may be examined on opening the intestine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour ; and it is not thrown into special folds. The surface is free from villi ; and by this circum- stance the mucous membrane of the large can be distinguished from that of the small intestine. This difference in the two portions of the alimentary tube is well marked ou the ileo-colic valve ; for the surface looking to the ileum is studded with villi, while the surface conlinuous with the mucous lining of the large intestine is free from those eminences. Glands. The mucous membrane is thickly beset with very smallTHE DUODENUM. ^'^^T tubular glands or crypts of Lieberkliim, like those of the «nmll intes- tine ; and lymphoid nodules (solitary glands) are scatiereci o^ ei uie lymphoid whole of the large intestine, but are most abundant in the ccecum nodules, and vermiform appendix. . Vessels and nerves. The distribution of the vessels and nerves in Vessels, the wall of the large intestine is the same as in the small. and iym- The absorbent vessds, after leaving the gut, join the lymphatic P • "lands along the side of the colon. RELATIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Dissection. The student should moderately inflate the stomach Remove^ and duodenum from the cut extremity of the latter, and remove he ^ the loose peritoneum and the fat: while cleaning them, he should lay duodenum, bare the larger vessels and nerves. The stomach should be turned upwards, and the pancreas traced and from the spleen on the one side to the duodenum on the other with duct. (Bcr ]22, p. 329), and the parts behind the stomach cleaned of their fat and peritoneum, care being taken not to injure the vessels and nerves. By pulling forwards the duodenum, the common bile-duct may be found behind, between the intestine and the head of the pancreas ; and some of the pancreas wiU afterwards be removed, to show its duct entering the duodenum. Duodenum (figs. 121 and 122). The first part of the small intes- Duodenum: tine, or the duodenum, begins at the pyloric end of the stomach, and extent; crossing the spinal column, ends at the duodeno-jejunal flexure on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It makes a curve round ^^^»^^^^'} the head of the pancreas, and is placed mainly in the right epigastric and umbilical regions of the abdomen. From its winding course round the pancreas it is divided into four portions (flg. 121, \\ ^ divi.sion. and ■*). It may be roughly marked on the surface of the body by a surface parallelogram formed by the middle line internaUy, the right lateral line externally, the transpyloric line above and a line mid- way between the transpyloric and intertubercular lines below; it being remembered, of course, that the duodenum begins to the right of the middle line. The first portion is dkected backwards and a little upwards, and Fj^^t P^rt is is free and movable like the stomach. It measures about two inches js ' in length, and is directed backwards from the pylorus to near the movable, upper end of the right kidney. Above and in front are the liver and gall-bladder ; below is the head of the pancreas ; and behind it are the common bile-duct, the portal vein, and the gastro-duodenal artery with a portion of the head of the pancreas (lig. 123, p. 331). The second or descending portion, about three inches in length, SecmuUinrt descends in a groove along the right border of the head of the Jind^nxed. pancreas to the level of the third lumbar vertebra, and is fixed almost immovably by the peritoneum and the pancreas. In front of it are the liver and transverse colon ; behind it are the inner border of the kidney, the ureter, and the renal vessels ; and on its inner sideDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 328 the head of the pancreas, witli the common bile-duct. The ducts of the liver and pancreas open into this part of the duodenum. k,ng1r aud ^^'^ ""'''^ ; it crosses from ri<.ht to left also fixed, opposite the third lumbar vertebra, in front of the vena cava and aorta. Its anterior surface is crossed from above downwards by the superior mesenteric vessels, and above it is the pancreas. The fourth portion ascends on the surface of tlie left psoas muscle Laceral line Transpuloric pIcCne The disc bebwe'en Lumbar Vertebra, cbe I nCer-bubercu I ar plane Fig. 121.—Diagram showing the Disposition of the Dkki' Organs in THE RkQIONS of THE ABDOMEN (C.A.). 1, 2, 3 and 4 denote the four parts of the duodenum. Fourth part along the left side of the aorta to the inferior surface of the pancreas, ascend.s. ■vv)iere it becomes free at the duodeno-jejunal flexure. The DUODENO-JEJUNAL FLEXURE reaches up to the transpyloric plane a little to the left of the middle line. It is firmly held up to the inferior surface of the pancreas by a strong band of fibres—the Suspensory suspensory ligament (Lockwood)—which jiasses upwards beliind the ligament. pancreas. In the child this band consists largely of uiistriped muscle fibres, and is readily defined. It passes upwards to the left of (he cceliac axis, and blends with the diaphragm to the right of the oesophageal opening.THE PANCREAS. 32n The peritoneal relations of the duodenum have heen noticed at p. 301. Pancreas (fig. 122 and fig. 123, p. 331). The pancreas is situate Pancreas: behind the stomach, extending from the duodenum to the spleen, andtom; and occupying parts of the right umbilical, the epigastric, and the left hypochondriac regions. In form it is elongated, witli its right ])ortion much expanded from above down, con.stituting the head ; this part lies in front of the first and second lumbar vertebras, tlie great vessels and muscles intervening. The gland has a massive head embraced by the duodenum, a neck or iieail, Anterior border of pancreas. / Spleen. A.scending colon. Superior mesenteric vessels. Lower part of the splenic flexure of the colon. Fig. 122.—Deep Viscera of the Abdomen of a Child. (From a specimen in the Charing Cross Hospital Museum.) slight constriction near the middle line, usually above the conver- gence of the mesenteric vessels, and a body extending across to the body left as far as the spleen. The left extremity of the body is commonly spoken of as the tail, but the gland is often not at all tapering in tail, this part. The BODY has usually somewhat of a twist upon it as it passes to Surfaces: the left (fig. 123) ; and it presents an anterior or gastric surface, au inferior or jejunal surface, and a poslerior. These surfaces are separated by upper, anterior, and lower borders. The transverse meso-colon springs from its anterior border; the upper layer of the peritoneum jjasses upwards over the gastric surface, and the lower layer is directed bacliwards across the inferior surface.330 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Its anterior surface is for the most part concave, corresponding to the stomach ; but at its upper border, in front of the vertebral column, it forms a projection {omental txiberositij, His) opposite the small curvature and lesser omentum. Its inferior surface is in contact with the duodeno-jejunal flexure and coils of tlie jejunum, as well as sometimes at its left extremity with the splenic flexure of the colon. Its posterior surface rests on the vena cava, the termination of the right renal vein, the aorta, the solar plexus, the pillars of the diaphragm, the left kidney, and the lower part of the left sujjrarenal body with the renal and suprarenal vessels. The splenic vein and the beginning of the vena portse lie also behind it, and are often somewhat embedded in its substance. Relations to Projecting above the pancreas, where it crosses the aorta, is the cceliac axis, from which the splenic artery runs to the left along the upper border (fig. 123) ; while on the right side the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum lie above it. At the lower border is the third part of the duodenum ; and the superior mesenteric vessels emerge between the two, usually passing in front of a portion of pancreatic substance {lesser pancreas) (fig. 122) which extends more or less over the Iront of the fourth part of the duodenum, occasionally even reaching into the root of the mesentery. The common bile-duct lies between the duodenum and the head of the pancreas for a short distance behind, and wiU be traced out later. antorioi' surface, inferior, posterior. Stomacli bed. THE STOMACH BED (fIG. 122). With the stomach lifted well up and the parts behind it exposed, the student will realise the character of the hollow in which it lies to the left of the vertebral column. The floor of the stomach bed (Birmingham) is formed (I) internally by the diaphragm covering the vertebral column and (2), further outwards and above, by the gastric surface of the spleen. Below this is (3) a portion of the left supra- renal body resting against the crus of the diaphragm, and, it may be, (4) a small part of the left kidney above the pancreas (tig. 121). Below these is (5) the gastric surface of the pancreas, which, in passing to its prominent anterior border, forms the commencement of a shelf supporting the stomach below ; and the shelf is completed by (6) the transverse meso-colon passing forwards and downwards from the anterior border of the pancreas to (7) the transverse colon. This shelf is itself supported by the small intestines below the transverse meso-colon. Variations The shape of the body of the pancreas is much determined by the imi'posilion pressure of the stomach above and that of the small intestines below, of the When the stomach is low and distended the pancreas becomes pancreas. ^^j^^^j^^j ^^^^ pushed down on the left kidney. On the contrary, when the stomach is high up and the small intestines distended, the pancreas becomes pushed up and its anterior border more prominent.331 CCELIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. CCELIAC AXIS AND PORTAL VEIN. A short branch of the aorta—the cccliac axis—furnishes arteries to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, pancreas, and spleen : it sub- divides into Ihiee primary branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The veins corresponding to the arteries (except the hepatic) are collected into one trunk—the vena portte. Dissection. The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and in tracing them out fully the student should spare the nerve-plexuses around them. Supposing the liver well raised, he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, and show its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach. Artftries of viscera. Veins. How to dis- sect coeliac axis, and branches, coronary, Common bile-duct. Portal vein. Hepatic artei-y. Coronary artery. Splenic artery. Gastro-dnodenal artery. Superior pan- / creatico-duo- denal artery. Gastro-epi- ploica de.vtra artery. Superior mesenteric vein. Colica de.xtra artery. Anterior border of pancrea.s. Inferior mesenteric vein. Colica media arteiy. Superior mesenteric artery. Fia. 123.—The Pahoreas and the Blood-ybssels in Relation with it. (From a specimen in the Charing Cross Hospital Museum.) Next, the hepatic artery, ^vith the portal vein and the bile-duct, may hepatic, be traced to the liver and the gall-bladder ; and a considerable branch of the artery should be pursued beneath the pylorus to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which and splenic, lies along the upper border of the pancreas, is to be cleaned ; and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should be defined. In doing this one student should hold aside the stomach and spleen whilst the other does the dissection. The veins will be dissected for the most part with the arteries ; Veins, but the origin of the portal trunk is to be made out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The CcELiAC Axis (fig. 124, p. 333) is the first visceral branch Cieiiac axis of the abdominal aorta, and arises close to the upper margin of the tilree'foi-''''' opening in the diaphragm. It is a short thick trunk, about half an 'owing :— inch long, which projects above tlie upper border of the pancreas,332 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Corouaiy, whicli gives offsets to tlie oeso- phagus and the stomach. Splenic artery supplies the spleen, the pancreas by large and small twigs, and the stomach by vasa brevia, and left gastro- epiploic. Hepatic artery courses to the liver. in which it ends, and supplies ofl'sets to and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic-radiate from tlie trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the surrounding viscera (see also fig. 123). The CORONARY ARTERY (fig. 124 d) is the smallest of the three, and runs upwards between the peritoneum and diaphragm to the cardiac orifice of the stomach. Having furnished some oesophageal branches, it bends downwards, and passes between the layers of the small omentum, along the small curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the pyloric branch (o) of the hepatic artery. Its offsets are thus distributed:— a. CEsophageal branches ascend on the guUet through the opening in the diaphragm, and anastomose with branches of the descending thoracic aorta. 6. Gastric branches a.ve given to both sides of the stomach, and those on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. The SPLENIC ARTERY (e) is the largest branch of the coeliac axis in the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally to the spleen along the upper border of the j^ancreas (fig. 123). Near the spleen it divides, into terminal branches, about seven in number (from four to ten), which enter thatviscus by the surface towards the stomach. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it ; and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. a. Pancreatic branches. Numerous small branches are supplied to the pancreas ; and one of these {arteria 'pancreatica magna) sometimes arises near the left end and runs to the right in the gland with the duct ; but this artery is usually not larger than some others. 6. Gastric branches arise from the artery or its divisions near the spleen, and pass to the stomach between the layers of the gastro- splenic omentum. Most of these (vasa brevia) are small, and ramify over the left end of the organ ; but one larger branch, the left gastro- epiploic artery (/), turns to the right between the layers of the great omentum, along the great curvature of the stomach, and inosculates with the right gastro-tpiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces cf peritoneum forming the great omentum. The HEPATIC ARTERY ((/) is intermediate in size between the other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course to the liver, the vessel is directed at first to the right and forwards to the pyloric end of the stomach, where it supplies its gastric branches. It then ascends between the layers of the small omentum, on the left side of the bile-duct and portal vein, and divides near the transverse fissure of the liver into two—the right and left hepatic. Branches are distributed not only to the liver, but also to the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas, as below :— a. The gastro-duodenal artery (figs. 123 and 124) is a short vessel which descends beneath the duodenum near the pylorus, and divides into the two following branches : —333 CffiLIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. The right gastro-epiploi'c artery (fig. 124 h) is the continuation of the stomach, gastro-duodenal trunk, and runs from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach. It gives offsets upwards to the surface of the stomach, and downwards to the great omentum, and ends by inosculating with the left gastro-epiploic artery. The superior pancreatico-duodenal artery (i) is of small size, and diiociemmi descends between the duodenum and pancreas to join the inferior pancreas, pancreatico-duodenal branch of the sujoerior mesenteric. Ofl'sets are given to both the viscera ; and on their posterior aspect is another Fia. 124.—View op the C(eliao Axis, and op the Visceua to WHICH ITS Branches are supplied (Tiedemann). A. Liver. B. Gali-bladder. C. Stomnch. D. Duodenum. E. Pancreas. P. Spleen. Arteries : a. Aorta. b. Upper mesenteric c. Cceliac axis. small artery of the pancreatico-duodenal, with a similar position and distribution. b. The pyloric branch (o) descends to the small cur\-ature of the stomach, and, running from right to left, anastomoses with the coronary artery ; it distributes small twigs on both surfaces of the .stomach. The hepatic Irranches sink into the liver at the transverse fissure, Br.-inches to and ramify in its substance :— c. Tlie riyht branch is divided when about to enter the organ, and onp for the supplies the following small artery to the gall-bladder. ami'Va°l-'' The cijstic artery (n) bifurcates on reaching the neck of the gall- 'jl'»'<l'^''> bladder, and its two twigs ramify on the upper and lower surfaces. d. The left branch is smaller than the other, and enters the liver "id one for ' the loft lobe. d. Coronary. c. Splenic. /. Left g.astro-epiploic. {/. Hepatic. h. Right gastro-epiploic. i. Superior, and k, inferior pancreatico-duodenal. 1. Phrenic, n. Cystic. 0. Pyloric.DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 334 at the left end of the transverse fissure ; a branch to the Spigelian lobe of the liver arises from this piece of the arter)^ Dissection. The veins forming the portal will now be exposed by raising up the pancreas from the left, as may be required. Fig. 125.—Portal Vein and Tributaries (Hknlk). a. Trunk of the portal vein. c. Left gastro-epiploi'c. h. Upper mesenteric. /. Pyloric (in this case of large c. Eight gastro epiploic. size). d. Inferior mesenteric. g. Venie breves. The splenic vein is not indicated by a letter. Portal Portal Vein. The veins of the stomach and intestine, and of vems?' °^ the spleen and pancreas, pour their blood into the vena porta;. The two mesenteric veins and their branches have been referred to (pp. 316 and 318) ; and tlie three following, with the trunk of the portal vein, remain to be noticed. Coronary The coronary vein accompanies the artery of the same name along the small curvature of the stomach, and bending downwards at the cardia, passes to the lower end of the portal vein or the adjacent part of the splenic vein.PORTAL VEIN. 335 The pjloric vein (tig. 125,/) lies with the pyloric branch of the Pjjioric hepatic artery along the lower part of the small curvature of the stomach, and opens into the portal vein opposite the duodenum. The splenic vein (tig. 125) is of large size, and is formed by the splenic union of branches from the spleen. It runs below the artery, and under cover of the pancreas, to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein (b) to form the vena porta. Between its origin and termination it receives branches corre- tributaries, spending with the following arteries,—vasa brevia {g), left gastro- epiploic (e), and pancreatic. The inferior mesenteric and coronary veins (d) sometimes open into it. The PORTAL VEIN (vena portaj, fig. 125, a, also fig. 123) is formed Portal vein: by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its origin origin; is placed behind the head of the pancreas, and in front of the inferior vena cava. The vessel is about three inches long, and ascends beneath the first part of the duodenum, and then between the layers eourso and of the small omentum, to the transverse fi.ssure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. While in the small omentum it lies behind the hepatic artery and bile-duct. The right branch is shorter and larger than the left, and ramifies brandies; in the right lobe of the liver. The left branch gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe, and enters the left half of the liver. In its course the portal trunk is joined by the coronary and pyloric ancl tribu- veins from the stomach ; and the cystic vein from the gall-bladder enters the right branch. This vein commences by tributaries from the viscera of the abdomen. Peculiarities like any other vein ; but it has no valves, and it ramifies through "eiu"'^'*^ the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery. Its radicles communicate with the systemic veins on .some parts of the intestinal tube, but more particularly on the rectum. Dissection. The common bile-duct will now be traced upwards and downwards, the duodenum being raised up from the right and thence to the left as required. Bile-ducts. Two hepatic ducts issue at the transverse fissure of RiRhtand the liver (fig. 131, p. 346), one from the right and the other from the diJ^u^^*''*^ left lobe, and unite to form the following :— The common hepatic duct is an inch and a half long, and receives Common at its termination the duct of the ^all-bladder, the union of the two !iuct.''° gi\'ing origin to the common bile-duct. The common bile-duct (fig. 131, bd) is about three inches long. Cmnmon It descends almost vertically beneath tlie upper portion of the ■ duodenum; then passing between the pancreas and the second course-'"'' piece of the duodenum, it opens into this portion of the intestine tnrmina- at the inner side, and about the middle. While in the small ' omentum the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. As it pierces the wall of the intestine it is joined commonly by the .ioi'if' by pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the duodenum separately. poni-reatic.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 336 General dis pusition of nerves. Two largo centres, epigastric and hypo- gastric. How to lay- bare solar plexus, and the semilunar ganglia. Follow the ending of the vagus nerves. Solar plexus: appearance and extent; SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nerve. In the abdomen, as in the thorax, the syniimthetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side of the vertebral column, and of jirevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. The chief prevertebral plexuses in the abdomen are the epigastric or solar and the hypogastric. The epigastric plexus is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis : it is continued downwards to the hypogastric plexus by the aortic plexus (p. 319). The hypogastric plexus dis- tributes nerves to the pelvic viscera, and has already been noticed at its commencement (p. 319). The knotted or gangliated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its offsets is to be now examined. Dissection. To denude the ejngastric plexus, the following dissection is to be made: The air should be let out of the stomach and duodenum ; tlie portal vein, the common bile-duct, and the gastro-duodenal artery are to be cut through near the pylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, the vena cava appears ; this is to be cut across above the junction of the renal veins with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish semi- lunar ganglion of the right side ; and mixed up with the nerves of the plexus are numerous lymphatic glands (coeliac glands), with a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. From its inner part he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the ccEliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on the branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion offsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper end the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen; and deeper than the last, one or two smaller splanclinic nerves may be found as they issue through a fissure of the diaphragm, and enter the coeliac, renal and supra- renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumo-gastric nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the small curvature in front, near the oesophagus; and the right nerve will be seen at a corresponding spot on the opposite aspect. Branches from the right nerve are to be followed to the plexus of the sympa- thetic by the side of the coiliac axis; and from the left, to the hepatic plexus. The epigastric or solar plexus is a large network of nerves and ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and pillars of the diaphragm, and behind the pancreas and inferior cava: it fills the space between the suprarenal capsules of opposite sides, and sur- rounds the coeliac axis and the suijerior mesenteric artery. TheSYMPATHETIC PLEXUSES. 337 plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves ; and it is joined also by a great part of the right pneumo- sastric nerve. Large branches are furnished to the different viscera gives ofTaets too on oiootl- along the vessels. vessels. The semilunar (jancjlia, one in each half of the plexus, are the ^^J^'^,'™'^'' largest in the body, and are placed close to the suprarenal capsules, resting on the diaphragm, the ganglion of the right side being beneath the vena cava. At the upper end each is joined by the great splanchnic nerve. Each ganglion is irregular in sliape, and is often divided into smaller ganglia; from its outer side nerves are directed form, to the kidney and the suprarenal capsule. Offsets of the plexus. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses round the vessels ; thus, there are cceliac, mesenteric, renal, the plexus, spermatic, diaphragmatic plexuses, &c. The diaphragmatic or jjhrenic plexus comes from the upper end of iJJ^'^j']^ *° the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the phrenic artery to enter pi,ragm the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phrenic nerve from the cervical plexus and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion ^^J^'^jj^^j^ where the plexus is joined by the spinal nerve ; and from it filaments right side, are supplied to the vena cava and the suprarenal body ; this ganglion is absent on the left aide (Swan). The suprarenal nerves are very large and numerous, in comparison Suprarenal with the size of the viscus supplied, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. The lesser splanchnic nerve directly communicates with this plexus. The reiial plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion and outer Renal side of the solar plexus, and is joined by the smallest splanchnic i'''^''"''' nerve. The nerves surroimd the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 319). The cmliac plexus is a direct continuation of the plexus around its Coeiiao artery : it is joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and P''"'"^ by a branch from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. The plexus divides like the artery into three offsets—coronary, splenic, and jj^g'^^^j!^"' hepatic. a. The coronary plexus accompanies the vessel of the same name into coro- to the stomach : it communicates with the left vagus nerve. b. The splenic plexus furnishes nerves to the pancreas, and to the splenic, stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery ; and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. c. The/ippah'c ^jZexMS is continued on the vena portfc, the hepatic and hepatic; artery, and the bile-duct into the liver, and ramifies on those vessels : in the small omentum the plexus is joined by offsets from the left vagus. The following secondary plexuses are furnished around the the last has brandies of the hepatic artery, and have the same name and distribu- plexuses,^ tion as the vessels : viz., A pnjloric plexus courses along the small curvature of the pyloric, stomach. D.A. z338 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. gastro- epiploic, duodenal, and cystic. Ending of large splanchnic nei've, small, and smallest. Ending of left vagua and right. Two otlier plexuses—riiy/t^ gastro-epiplotc and imwreatico-ditxidmial, correspond in distribution with the branches of each art«ry. A cystic plexus passes to the gall-bladder with the artery. The remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already noticed (p. 319) ; but the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can now be seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves. The large nerve perforates the crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- lunar ganglion. The small nerve comes through the same opening in the diajihragm as the iireceding, and joins the coeliac jDlexus. The smallest nerve, which is often absent, passes into the supra- renal and renal plexuses. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves pass on to the stomach :— The left nerve divides into branches, which extend along the small curvature, and over the front of the stomach and sends offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach near the upper border ; it communicates with its fellow, and gives branches to the coeliac and splenic plexuses. removal op the stomach and other viscera. Definition. Separate and Wow up the stomach. Form, size, and divisions. Left end, and right. Dissection. The oesophagus should be cut through as it pierces the diaphragm and the stomach, duodenum, pancreas and spleen are to be removed by cutting through the vessels and nerves left passing to them. the stomach. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between the oesophagus and the small intestine, into wliich the masticated food is received. Dissection. The stomach and duodenum must be blo^ni up moderately with air, and the surfaces cleaned; but, previously, let the student detach the spleen and put it aside. Form and divisions. The stomach is rather pyriform in shape, and in its natural condition strongly curved with its surfaces looking, one upwards and forwards, and tlie otlier downwards and backwards. Its size varies much in different bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction to the right of the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four wide. There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or curvatures to be examined. The left end is called the fundm, and projects upwards to the summit to the left of the end of the otsophagus (fig. 110, p. 301). The right or pyloric end is much smaller, and tapers to the duodenum. The stomach is usually narrow and cylindrical aSTRUCTURE OF STOMACH. 339 short distance before tlie pylorus, and tlie constricted part is styled the ■pyloric canal (Jonnesco). The cardiac opening, which communicates with the oesophagus, is ^^^''^^'j^j. placed two or three inches from the most prominent part of the openings, fundus, and is funnel shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The pyloric orifice opens into the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (jsylorus), at this spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, and a firm circular thickening can be felt. The anterior, or upper, and the posterior, or lower, surfaces are Surfaces, somewliat flattened when the viscus is empty, but round when it is distended, and the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 300). The upper border or lesser curvature is concave, except for a short Small , „, , , , , , . curvature distance at the pyloric end. The lower border or greater- curvature is Fig. 126.—Diagram of tue Mdsoular Fibres op the Stomach. The external and middle layers are partly removed. a. External or longitudinal fibres. b. Middle or circular. c. Sphincter of the pylorus. d. Oblique fibres on the right of the cardiac opening. e. Oblique fibres, more numerous, on the left of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great end of the stomach. much longer, convex, and when tlie organ is distended forms at the fi"d iavge. pyloric end a slight projection to the right, wliich has been named the antrum pylori or small cul-de-sac. Structdre. In the wall of the stomach are four coats, viz. serous. Four strata muscular, fibrous, and mucous ; and belonging to these there are '° vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a covering to the stomach, and Tiio serous is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an interval ™,''u'(1il'e-'" exists corresponding with the attachment of the small and large omentum: in these .spaces are contained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. Z 2DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 340 The muscu- lar coat is made up of longi- tudinal, ciroulai-, and oblique fibres. Tlie fibrous coat is thin but firm. Mucous coat: feel and colour; folds; thickness; disposition at pylorus. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous covering. Its fibres are unstriatecl or involuntary, and arranged in three sets, viz., longitudinal, circular, and oblique, in the order mentioned from without inwards. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 126, a) are derived from the cesoj^hagus; they spread over the surface, and are continued to the pylorus and the smaU intestine. The fibres are most marked along the borders, particularly at the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of the stomach. The circular fibres (fig. 126, b) form the middle stratum, and wiU be best seen by removing the longitudinal fibres near the pylorus. They reach from the left to the right end of the stomach, but do not encircle the fundus. At the pylorus they are most numerous and strongest, and form a ring or sphincter (c) round the opening. The oblique fibres (fig. 126, e) are continuous with the circular or deep layer of fibres of the oesophagus. On the left and right of the cardiac orifice they are so arranged as to form a Idnd of sphincter {d and e) (Henle) ; those on the left (e), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and S23read out on the anterior and pos- terior surfaces, gradually disappearing on them. Dissection. Eemove the muscular layers over a small space and the fibrous or submucous coat will appear as a white shining stratum of areolar tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their distribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening be made in this submucous coat, the mucous coat will project through it. Finally the stomach should be oijened along the lesser curvature to near the pylorus. The finger should be jjassed through the pylorus to feel its sphincter, and then the incision should be continued through the pylorus and along the convexity of the duodenum to its termination. The mucous coat will come into view, but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a recent specimen, or in one well preserved by formalin injection. This coat is a softish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death, in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the membrane is less vascular than during digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is greater than in childhood or old age. When the stomach is contracted the membrane- is thrown into numerous wavj' ridges or rugcB, which become longitudinal along the great curvature, towards the pylorus. The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opjjosite the muscular Fig. 127.—Alveolar Depres- sions OF THE Mucous MEM- BRANE oy THE Stomach, MAGNIFIED 32 DiAMKTERS, WITH THE Minute Tubes OPENING into them (SpEOTT Boyd).DUODENUM AND PANCREAS DISSECTED. 3il ring, which assists in closing the opening. If this membrane and the submucous layer are removed from the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. With the aid of a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when On the sur- weU washed, may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or oTaiveou'''* alveoli (fig. 127), which measure from Tjihyt'i to rJuth of an inch their size, across. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows shape, become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the appear- stomach ; and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irregixlar. In the bottom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubular glands. Blood-vessels. The arteries of the stomach are derived from the Arteries; branches of the creliac axis, and have been seen to form an arch along each curvature (pp. 332 et seq.). From these arches branches pass to both surfaces of the stomach, and after supplying the muscular coats divide in the submucous layer into minute vessels which enter the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins have a corresponding veins; arrangement, and pass to the portal system (p. 334). Lymphatics, The lymphatic vessels proceeding from the stomach lymphatics; run with the blood-vessels, and have a few small glands coTinected with them along the two curvatures. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneiimo-gastric and and nerves, sympathetic, and can be followed to the fibrous coat: small ganglia have been observed on them. THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS DISSECTED. Dissection. The duodenum will now be washed and its mucous surface examined. The commencement of the valvulte conniventes one or two inches from the pylorus will be noticed, and the opening of the biliary and pancreatic ducts examined. The aperture of the common Idle and j}ancreatic ducts (fig. 128, e) Opening of is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches below the jiylorus, and '^''<'-''"<=t: situate in a small prominence of the mucous membrane, at the where inner and posterior part of the duodenum. A probe passed into the bile-duct will show its oblique course (half an inch or more) under the mucous coat. Occasionally the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct orifice. Structure of the common bile-duct. The bile-duct consists of an Two coats external, strong fibrous layer, and of an internal mucous coat. On the surface of the inner membrane are the openings of numerous branched mucous glands, which are embedded in the fibrous coat; giauds. some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. The coats of the duodenum are like those of the rest of the small intestine (pp. 321 et seq.), but Brunner's glands should be noticed. The Glands of Brunner are small compound bodies, similar to the Glands of buccal and labial glands of the mouth, which exist in the duodenum. They are most numerous for a distance of one or two inches near3i2 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Trace out the duct. It is a compound gland, wiiliout a distinct capsule. the pylorus, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as henip-seed and appear lost after removal of the muscular coat. Dissection. The pancreas should now be placed on its anterior surface, and the excretory duet traced from the head to the tail by cutting away the substance of the gland. The duct will be recognised by its whiteness. Structure. The pancreas resembles the parotid gland in struc- ture, consisting of separate lobules, each of which is provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct capsule; but it is surrounded by areolar tissue, which projects into the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a Fig. 128.—A Small Piece op the Duodendm opened, with a pakt op THE Pancreas, showing the Temunation of the Bile and Pancreatic Duots (Henlk). a. Duodenum. d. Pancreatic duct. h. Pancreas. e. Common opening of the ducts c. Common bile-duct. in the intestine. The duct of the gland: extent; branches; size and structure. greyish white colour, and are united into larger masses by areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. The dud of the pancreas (canal of Wirsung ; fig. 128, d) extends the whole length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, where it presents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to the head, it receives many branches. It is readily recognised from its whiteness on dividing the gland longitudinally. Of the tributiiry branches, the largest is derived from the lower part of the head of the pancreas. An accessory dmt is often found a short distance above the main one. The duct measures from i^th to '^^th of an inch in diameter near the duodenum. It is foruied of a fibrous coat with a very smooth mucous lining.343 OBVIOUS STRUCTURE OF SPLEEN. Veisels, himvhatics, and nerves. The arteries ami veins have been Veiseia and described (pp. 332 et seq.); and the lymphatics pass to the cCEliac ghwds. The nerves are furnished by the soLir plexus. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or purple Consistence colour, sometimes approaching to grey. Its texture is friable, and " ' easily broken under pressure. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed obliquely Form and behind the great end of the stomach. Its size varies much. In the position, adult it measures commonly about five inches in length, three orgj^eaud four inches in breadth, and one inch to one inch and a half in thick- ness. Its weiclit lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather weight. Fia. 129.—Thb Spleen, seen fkom the Right. less in the female than the male. Its relations are described on p. 306. At the outer or phrenic aspect it is convex towards the ribs. On surfaces are the opposite side a longitudinal ridge separates an anterior or ga.stric ^J'stric'^' surface from a narrow internal or renal surface, both of which are and renal, concave. Just in front of the ridge is a groove, or more commonly a series of small depression.s, where the branches of the vessels enter : this part is called the hilum of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often Borders and notched. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than '''' the upper. Small masses of splenic substance, or accessory spleens (spleniculi), Sometimes varying in size from a bean to a moderate-sized plum, are found sp^eeus!^ occasionally, near the hilum of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic omentum, or in the great omentum. Steuctdee. Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, a serous Two coats and a fibrous, and the spleen itself is formed of a network of fibrous ^"aterial.'''' or trabecular tissue, which contains in its meshes the splenic pulp. Throughout the mass the blood-vessels and the nerves ramify. It has no duct.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 344 ne'iriy^'"^ P^^'^^oneal coat encases tlie spleen, covering the complete. Surface except at the hilum and the ridge behind. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous coat. find^"u''°''* '^^^ fibroiis coat (tunica propria) gives strength to the spleen, and forms a complete case for it. At the hilum this investment passes into the interior with the vessels, to which it furjiishes sheaths; and if an attempt is made to detach tliis coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with its deep surface. Its colour is whitish; and it is made up of areolar and elastic tissues. wards pro cesses, structure. Interior of spleen, disposition of fibrous tissue to form an areolar structure. Pulp of spleen. Malpigliian bodies. Splenic artery: ending; no anasto- moses. Vein begins by open spaces; branches anastomose. Lymphatics Nerves. Bissection. The spongy or trabecular structure will best appear by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh bullock's spleen under water, so as to remove tbe inner gruraous-looldng material. The trahecular tissue (fig. 130) forms a network through the whole interior of the spleen, similar to that of a sponge, which is joined to the external casing, and forms sheaths around the vessels. Its processes or threads are white, flattened or cylindrical, and consist of Bbrous and elastic tissues, with a few muscular fibres. The interstices communicate freely together, and contain the pulp of the spleen. The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass, ■which is lodged in the areolae of the trabe- cular structure, and consists in great part of blood. In a fresh section small whitish spots (uVth of an inch in diameter) may be seen scattered amongst the dark pulp: these are the Malpighian corpuscles of the spleen— lymphoid nodules attached to the small branches of the artery. Blood-vessels. The larger branches of the splenic artery are surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabeculaj; but the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which are said to open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. There are few or no anastomoses between the arterial branches in the organ. The splenic vein is sup]30sed to begin in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. The small branches resulting from the union of these radicles anastomose freely together, and unite into tninks larger than the accompanying arteries, which issue by the hilum of the spleen. Lyvipliatics and nerves. Tlie lymphatics are superficial and deep, and, leaving the organ at the hilum, traverse small glands lying along the .splenic vessels on their way to the cceliac glands. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and surround the arteiy and its branches. Fia. 130. —Trabecular Struoture op the Spleen of the Ox.345 REMOVAL OF THE LIVER. REMOVAL OF THE LIVER Dissection. The liver should now be removed from the abdo- men, iu order that it may be more particularly examined. Begin in front by cutting througli the round and falciform ligaments. Then, drawing the liver downwards, cut througli the long left lateral liga- ment and the short right one, and the upper layer of the coronary ligament, taking care not to cut tlie diaphragm. Beyond the upper layer of the coronary ligament there is an area over which the posterior sm-face of the liver is not covered by iieritoneum, but is simply bound to the diaphragm by areolar tissue, and from which it can be separated by the handle of tlic scalpel. The inferior vena cava, as it leaves the liver to pierce the diaphragm, will now be exposed, and it must be cut across. Finally, the lower layer of the coronary ligament will be divided, and the liver will come away with a portion of the inferior cava embedded in it, as that vessel had been divided akeady before its entry into the liver. THE LIVER. The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the body, qniceof the Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection. Preparatory to examining the liver, the vessels at the Clean under surface should be dissected out (fig. 131, p. 346). This ^fj^^''°" proceeding will be facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena surface; portse with tow or cotton-wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its duct. The several vessels and the ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder is to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the portal vein to the follow loft . longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found united vena'portiE. anteriorly with the round ligament (c) or the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the thin fibrous remnant of the ductus venosus (rf). The LIVER is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence, and Colour and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds. Trans- ,,,g,g),t. ' versely the gland measures from ten to twelve inches ; from li-ont to measure- back between six and seven inches; and in thickness, at the right luonts. end, about three inches, but this last measurement varies much with the spot examined. Tlie natural shape of the liver when within the body is very fo""™ diflerent from the form it assumes when removed and placed on a removed fiat surface, unless it has been previously hardened in situ. As already described (pp. 304 et seq.) the liver has five surfaces, of which the anterioi-, superior and right have already been examined, while the posterior and inferior can now be fully seen. The inferior and posterior surfaces are farther subdivided into lobes by fissures which contain vessels, and marked by fossaj and impressions. The peritoneal ligaments are described at p. 313. The Inferior Surface (fig. 131) is rendered irregular by fissures J"ff[j,°'' and fossa;; and a longitudinal sulcus separates it into a large right340 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and a small left lobe. It embraces the liver substance as far as the upper part of the renal impression on the right side, as far as the Spigelian lobe in the middle, and it includes the whole of the left lobe except a small part to the left of the Spigelian lobe which lies upon the ojsophagus. Posterior The POSTERIOR SURFACE, wliich is also divided into two by a con- surface. Fig. 131.—The Liver, viewed prom (After Subdivisions arid markings: On the left lobe— ce g. Oesophageal groove. gi. Gastric impression. 01. Omental tuberosity. On the right lobe— S I. Spigelian lobe. c I. Caudate lobe. q I. Quadrate lobe. S7'i. Suprarenal impression. d i. Duodenal impression. ri. Renal imijression. c i. Colic impression. Vessels, <i-c.: 1) c. Inferior vena cava. Below and slightly from Behind His.) p V. Portal vein. h a. Hepatic artery. b d. Couunon bile-duct: the last three occupy the portal fissure. 11. Ligamentum teres, lying in the fore part of the longitudinal fissure. g b. Gall-bladder. Cut edges of lyeriloneum : so. The two layers of the small omentum. i c I. The inferior layer of the coronary ligament. r 11. Right lateral ligament. * Surface uncovered by peritoneum. tinuation of the longitudinal fissure, is broad over the right lobe, but narrow on the left. In the centre is a hollow for the spine, upon which the Spigelian lobe lies, to the left of this is the depression for the a3Sophagus, and to the right the inferior vena cava is pai-tly embedded in the liver. On the right of the cava, the surface is rough between the layers of the coronary ligament where it wa,s adherent to the diaphragm; and close to the vein is a snuiU hollowLOBES OP THE LlVEB. 347 {suprarenal imincssion; sr i) into wliicli the right suprarenal body is received. Border. Tlie anterior border is thin, and is marked by two notches ; ^^^^^'^ one is opposite the longitudinal fissure on the under surface before alluded to, and tlie other is over the large end of the gall-bladder. Extremities. The right extremity is thick and rounded ; and the Extremities, left is thin and flattened. Lobes. On the inferior and posterior surfaces the liver is divided Lobes are primarily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the antero-posterior two'largo, or longitudinal fissure ; and occupying part of the right lobe are three others, viz., the quadrate, Spigelian, and caudate lobes. The left lobe is smaller and thinner than the right; on its posterior Left lobe^ aspect is a groove {oesophageal groove; fig. 131, a g) which lodges the by uisopha- lower end of tlie oesophagus, and widens out below into a hollow for the stomach {gastric impression; g i), occupying the greater part of the under surface of the lobe ; but next to the longitudinal fissure is a considerable elevation {omental tuberosity ; o t), which lies against the small omentum and the lesser curvature of the stomach. The right lobe forms the greater part of the liver, and is separated l^^g|^y^°^« from the left by the longitudinal fissure below and behind, and by P'^'*®" the suspensory ligament above. The under surlace has a fossa for fossa for the gall-bladder, and is marked to the right of this by three impres- s^'i-'^''"''!"'' sions;—the one next to the gall-bladder is the duodenal impression impressions, (fig. 131, d i), and corre.sponds to the second part of the duodenum ; d°num,' more externally is the renal impression (r ^ov the right kidney ; kidney, and farther forwards is the colic impression (c i) where the liver rests colon, on the transverse colon. On the posterior surface is the suprarenal ^^'j^J"JP^" impression {sr i) already referred to. The three following so-called "^^"^ ° ^' lobes also are portions of the surface of the right lobe ;— The quadrate lobe {q I) is situate between the gall-bladder and the and three^ longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the ^"^^ ° liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels quadrate, enter the viscus. It is impressed by the pyloric end of the stomach and the first part of the duodenum. The Spigelian lobe (S I) is the part between the longitudinal fissure Spigelian, and the inferior vena cava, and belongs to the posterior surface of the liver. It forms the bottom of the hollow for the spine, "from which it is separated by the diaphragm and the aorta ; and it appears on the under aspect of the organ as a slight projection behind the transverse fissure. The caudate lobe (c I) is a narrow, elongated eminence, which is and caudate, directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse fissure, so as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates this projection subsides in the right lobe. Fissures. ExtendinjT nearly lialfwav across the right part of the Three 1 fissures liver, between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, and yjz.^ the quadrate lobe on the other, is the transverse or portal fissure. It is situate much nearer the back than the Iront, and contains the portal vein, hepatic artery, and the nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of transverse,DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 348 end it is united at a right angle with tlie longitudi. mil parts), and one for vena cava. the liver. At tlie left longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure extends from tlie front to the back of the liver, between the riglit and left lobes ; that is, between the left lobe and the quadrate in front and the Spigelian behind. In it, anterior to the transverse fissure, lies the remnant of the umbilical vein {I t), which is called the round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis); and behind that intofwo"^"^ ^'^^o"^ remains of the vessel named the ductus venosus in the foetus, which will be found running deeply in the fissure between the Spigelian and the leit lobe. In reference to these structures the fore part of the longitudinal tissiu-e is often spoken of as the fissure for the round ligament, and the back part as the fissure for the ductus venosus. The groove, ot fissure fm- the vena cava is placed on the right side of the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by an extension of the Spigelian to the right. If the cava {v c) be opened, two or three large and some smaller hepatic veins will be observed entering it. The groove which lodges the gall bladder is often inappropriately called the fissure for the gall bladder. Vessels in the Transverse Fissure. The vessels in the transverse fissure, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery and duct have the following position: the duct in anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The hepatic duct is formed by two branches,—one from the right, and one from the left lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it i.-3 joined by the duct of the gall-bladder ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile-duct (6 d). The hepatic artery {h a) is divided into two for the chief lobes, and its branches are surrounded by nerves. The portal vein {p v) divides, like the artery, into two trunks for the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe; its left branch is the longer. Faiial condition of the umbilical vein. Before birth the umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the vena cava; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied fi'om it to both lobes of the liver ; and a large one, directed to tlie right lobe, is joined by the portal vein. Placental or purilied blood courses through the vessel at that period. Adxdt state. After birth the part of the umbilical vein in front of the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament or ligamentum teres. The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord remaining in its jylace. But the lateral branches remain open, and subsequently form some of the divisions of the portal vein. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found pervious for some distance. Vessels in the trans- verse ttssure. Hepatic duct. Hepatic artery. Vena portfe. Umbilical vein in the foetus; condition after birth.OBVIOUS STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. 349 Obvious structure of the liver. The substance of the liver Lobular consists of small masses called lobules, together with vessels which **''"<^'^""'> are cnncernecl both in the production of the secretion, and in the nutrition of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and encased i)y , two coats. a serous coat. Serous coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, Serouscoat, and adheres closely to the fibrous coat. At certain spots intervals exist between the two, viz., in the fissures occupied by vessels, along where the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching ' the gall-bladder. The fibrous covering is very thin, but it is rather stronger where Fibrous the peritoneum is not in contact with it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheath into the (capsule of Glisson) surrounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lohules. The lobules (fig. 132, I) constitute Lobules of the proper secreting substance, and can be seen either on the'^'"^''^™' exterior of the liver, on a cut surface, or by means of a rent in the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of a size and pin's head, and measure from ^th to -^th. of an inch in diameter. "PP"'"''"!'''': Closely massed together, they possess a dark central jioint; and form; there are indications of lines of separation between them, though they are to some extent united together. By means of transverse and vertical sections of the lobules, their form appears flattened on the exterior, but they are many-sided in the interior of the liver, position to They are clustered around the smallest divisions of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre, something like the union of the stalk with the body of a small fruit. Vessels of the liver. Two sets of blood-vessels ramify in the Vessels in liver:—One enters the transverse fissure, and the branches are directed transversely in spaces (portal canals) where they are enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set (hepatic veins) runs from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver for the most part without a sheath. The ramifications of these difterent vessels are to be followed in the liver. The ca2)siile of Glisson is a layer of areolar tissue, which envelops Capsnie of the vessels and the ducts in the transverse fissure, and is continued on their branches in the portal canals. In this sheath the vessels ramify, and become minutely divided before their termination in the lobules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrounding tissue. The portal vein ramifies in the liver like an artery ; and the Portal vein blood circulates through it in the same manner, viz., from trunk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides occupies into large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces, with 1?°''''' ofl'sets of the hepatic artery, tlie hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 132, p). The division is repeated again and againDISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 350 branches'-''^'' ^'^^^ branches of the vein {interlohular) penetrate between the lobules, where they communicate together, and supply the hepatic substance. In the portal canals the offsets of the vena portas are joined by small vaginal and capsular veins, which convey blood from branches of the liepatic artery. The hepatic artery (tig. 132, c), while surrounded by the capsule, furnishes vaginal branches, which ramify in the sheath, giving it a red appearance in a well-injected liver, and supply twigs to the coats of the portal vein and biliary ducts, and to the areolar tissue : from the vaginal branches a few offsets {capsular) are given to the coat of the liver. Finally, the receives vaginal branches. Hepatic artery nourishes the vessels and capsule: ending in lobules. Hepatic veins with- out a sheath, begin in the lobules. and end in the vena cava. artery ends in fine interlobular branches, from which offsets enter the lobules. The hepatic veins (venae cavae hepaticas) begin by small intra- lobular veins from the centre of the lobules ; these are received into the sublobular branches, which anastomose together, and unite into larger vessels. Fin- ally, imiting with neighbouring branches to produce larger trunks, the hej^atic veins are directed from before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into which they open liy large ori- fices. Tlie hepatic veins may be said to be without a sheath, except in the larger trunks ; so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent, in con- sequence of their close connec- tion with the liver structure. Hepatic duct. The biliary ducts follow the portal vein in their mode of branching, and run with the other vessels in the portal canals (fig. 132, d). They issue from the liver at the trajisverse hepatic""""" fissure in right and left trunks, which by their union form the ducts. common hepatic duct.* Structure Structure. Tiie moderately-sized hepatic ducts consist of a fibrous siVt'ddudii. coat, lined by a mucous layer ; and penetrating the wall is a longi- tudinal row of openings, on each side, leading into sacs, and into branched tubes which sometimes communicate. • Aberrant ducts exist between llie pieces of the peritoneum in tlie left lateral ligament of the liver, and in tlie bands bridging over the round ligament and vena cava ; tbey anastomose together, and arc accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. Biliai-y ducts fomi right, left, Fig. 132.—Vessels in a Portal Canal, and the Lobules of THE Liver (Kibrnan). I. Lobules of the liver. p. Branch of the portal vein, with a, a. small branches which supply interlobular offsets. c. Hepatic artery. d. Hepatic duct. i, i. Openings of interlobular branches of the portal vein.351 THE GALL-BLADDER. Lymphatics of the liver are siipevficial and deep. The superficial Lympim- of tlie upper surface in part join tlie lymphatics of the thorax by suporficini, piercing the diapliragm, and enter the anterior mediastinal glands ; those of the under surface mainly join the deep lymphatics issuing at the portal fissure. The deep lymphatics accompany both sets of vessels in the liver ; and deep, those with the ijortal vein descend through some small glands in the lesser omentum and end in the coeliac glands ; while those accompanying the hepatic veins pass through the diaphragm, and enter the glands of the posterior mediastinum. Nerves come from the sympathetic and Nerves, the pneumo-gastric, and ramify with the hepatic artery. THE GALL-BLADDER. The gall bladder (fig. 131, g b, p. 346) is the receptacle of the bile. It is situate in a depression on the under surface of the riglit lobe of the liver, and to the right of the quadrate lobe. It is pear-shaped, and its larger end (fmidus) is directed forwards beyond tlie margin of the liver; while the smaller end (neck) is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to terminate in the cystic duct by a zigzag part. In length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the widest part. It holds from an ounce to an ounce and a half. By one surface it is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end touches the abdominal wall opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib (fig. Ill, p. 303), where it is contiguous to the transverse colon. The neck is in contact with the duodenum. Structure. The gall-bladder posses.ses a peritoneal, a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free surface of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the fundus. The fibrous coat is strong, and forms the framework of the sac ; intermi.ved with it are some involuntary muscular fibres, the chief being longitudinal, but others circular. Dissection. The gall-bladder should now be slit open and washed out to show its lining. The mucous coat is marked internally by numerous ridges and intervening depressions, which give an alveolar or honeycomb Gall Bladder: situation; form; size; relations. 1.33.—G.\LL-BLADDER AND ITS Duct. Gall-bladder. Cystic duct. Ridges in the interior. Common bile-duct. Common bepaiic duct. Structure of wall. Serous coat. Fibrous and muscular stratum. Mucous layer is alveolar on surface;352 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. projections of the wall. Duct of gall- bladder : appearance to the surface. This condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to diminish towards each extreinity. In the bottom of the larger pits are depressions leading to recesses. Where the gall-bladder ends in the cystic duct (fig. 133) its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges resembling those in the sacculated large intestine. The cystic duct (6) joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form the common bile-duct. It is about an inch and a half long, and IS distended and somewhat .sacculated near the gall-bladder.° Anterior border of pancreas. Spleen. Ascending colon. Superior mesenteric vessels. Descending colon. Lower part of the splenic flexure of the colon. Fig. 134.—Deep Viscera op the Abdomen of a Child. (From a specimen in the Charing Cross Hospital Museum.) Mucous coat like a screw. structure. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of the sac from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are very few. The mucous lining is provided with glands, as in the hepatic and common bile-ducts. On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to form about twelve semi-lunar projections (6g. 133, c), which are arranged obliquely around the tube, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This structure is best seen on a gall-bladder which has been inflated and dried, as in this state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Blood-vessels and nerves. The vessels of (he gall-bladder are named cystic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic; and the cystic vein nerves and opens into the light branch of the vena portse. The nerves are Artery and vein :THE ANATOMY OF THE KIDNEY. 353 derived from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the lymphatics on lymphatics. the under surface of the liver. THE KIDNEYS AND THE URETERS. Dissection. The student will now return to the abdomen, and thoroughly clean up the kidneys and the suprarenal bodies and their ve.ssels, removing the fat and enveloping areolar tissue, which is parti- cularly strong at the upper part of each kidney where it passes on to the diaphragm. Care should be taken not to injure the suprarenal bodies, which somewhat resemble the fat. After the anterior surface of the left kidney has been examined, its vessels will be cut through about an inch from the hilum, and the kidney, with the upper four inches of the ureter, removed for separate examination. The parts behind the kidney will then be cleaned, taking care of the anterior divisions of the last dorsal and first lumbar nerves as they cross outwards over the quadratus lumboruiu muscle. The KIDNEYS have a characteristic form (Hg. 134 and fig. 135, Kid>>ey: p. 354), resembling an oval with one side (the inner) somewhat ' hollowed out, and they are compressed from before backwards. With the special form above mentioned, each kidney is of a deep Colour; red colour, and has an even surface. Its average length is about four size; inches ; its breadth two and a half inches ; and its thickness rather more than one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. Its usual weight is about four ounces and weight, and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The left kidney is slightly heavier than the right. The up2)er extremity or i^ole, of the kidney is broader than the Extremi- lower, and is in contact with a suprarenal body. The lower pole is ' more pointed. The outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is imrders. marked by a longitudinal fissure—the hihm. In the fissure the Contents of tilQ IISSl-11^0 * vessels are usually jilaced so that the divisions of the renal vein are in front, the ureter behind, and the branches of the artery between position. the two. On the vessels, the nerves and lymphatics ramify; and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. The fissure leads into a hollow named the dnus, in which the vessels and the duct are Sinus. contained before they pierce the renal substance. For the purpose of distinguishing between the right and the left To distin. kidneys, let the excavated margin be turned inwards, with the ureter from'ieft*'' or excretory tube behind the other vessels ; and let that end of the viscus be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. The surface markiny of the kidneys has been described on p. 306. They lie opposite the last dorsal and the upper two or three lumbar vertehrso ; the right kidney being somewhat lower than the left. Both overlie the twelfth rib in tiieir iipper part; the Position, upper pole of the right kidney reaches above that i-ib and the upper pole of the left commonly overlies the eleventh rib.364 Surfaces. Anterior of riglit kidney, DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. Their anterior surfaces look somewhat outwards, and are more convex than the posterior, which, latter, look partly inwards and are moulded on the posterior abdominal wall. In well-preserved specimens the anterior surfaces are distinctly facetted by the pressure of the overlying viscera; the distinctness of the ridges indicating the extent of the moulding that the kidney has undergone. Tlie position of the overlying parts has already been studied, and the extent of tlie contact with the subjacent kidneys is diagraramati- cally shown in the accompanying figure (135). A large part of tlie anterior surface of the right kidney is in contact with the liver, and its limit below and internally is usually defined by a well-marked ridge. The whole of this surface is covered by peritoneum except at the upper and inner angle, where the suprarenal body overlaps the kidney. The lower end of the kidney usually presents a well-defined surface looking downwards of left kidney. Posterior surfaces. Right Kidnev. Fio, Left Kidnky. 135.—Diagram of the Rklations of the Anterior and Octkr asi'kcts of the kidneys. I.V.C. marks the surface in contact with the vena cava. and forwards, where it is impressed by the ascending colon. The duodenum lies, to a variable extent, over the inner part. The spleen above and the descending colon below usually give rise to distinct impressions on the outer margin of the left kidney; tlie suimarenal body, along tlie inner border above, reaches down as far as the liilum ; the pancreas extends across in front of the hilum us far as the splenic impression, and a small part of the anterior surface of the kidney above this is usmilly in contact with the stomach. The lower half of the anterior surface below the pancreas presenlfi a large surface, upon which lie coils of the jejunum. The POSTERIOR SURFACE of eacli kidney presents an inner area, where it lies against the psoas muscle and the cms of the diaphragm as these parts clotlie the sides of the bodies of the vertebra;, and anTHE STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. 355 outer area which looks backwards and overlies the twelfth rib and the diaphragm for about its upper third, and below this the quadratus lumboruni. Crossing outwards and downwards behind this part of the kidney the anterior divisions of the last dorsal and first lumbar nerves will be seen upon the quadratus luniborum (fig. 138, p. 363). When the kidney has been hardened in situ, particularly in thin subjects, an indentation produced by the first two lumbar transverse processes may be present near the hilum. Dissection. The left kiduev should now be cut through from Opon the . . . kidney, and the inuer to the outer border, and to remove the loose tissue Irom clean the the vessels and the divisions of the excretory duct. The sinus containing the blood-vessels now comes completely into view. The interior of the kidney (fig. Renal 136) is. seen on section to con-[li^.-j^ji sist of an external granular or cortical and ° . pyramidal. cortical portion, and oi an inter- nal part made of darker coloured pyramidal masses" converging towards the centre. The 'pyramidal masses (pyra- pyramids: mids of Malpighi ; d) are from eight to eighteen in number, but number; generally more than twelve. The apex of each mass which is free .apex from cortical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a ends in T T 1 papilla ; smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla. In it are the o})enings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in num- Structure ; ber in each papilla, some being situate in a central depression, and others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the divisions (calyx, c.) of the excre- tory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united in one papillary termination. The base is embedded in the cortical substance, and base, from it slender processes are continued into the cortical covering. The cut surface of the pyramid has a striated appearance, owing to the arrangement of the uriniferous tubules composing it, and the blood-vessels. If the mass is compressed in a fresh kidney, urine will exude from the tubes through the apertures in the apex. The cortical fart (fig. 136, e) forms about three-fourths of the Extent of kidney ; it covers, the pyramidal masses with a layer nearly a quarter substanco: of an inch in thickness, and sends prolongations between llRin nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is colour; blanched; and its consistence is so slight that the mass gives way consistence. A A 2 136.—Section THnouGH a Pikob OF THE KrUNKY, SHOWING THE Meddllaky and Coutical Poit- TIONS AND THE BEGINNING OF THE Ureter. Ureter. 6. Jelvis. c. Calyx. d. Pyramids. e. Cortical portion of the kidney. a.DISSEOTION OK THE ABDOMEN. 356 Fibrous coat sends iu offsets. Blood- Yessels. Branching of tlie renal artery. Vein agrees witli artery. Nerves. Lymphatics, Ureter: office; length; size varies; and relations. Occasion- ally double. bunealli tlie pressure of the fiuf^er. In the injected kidney red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered through the cortex, giving it a granuhir appearance. Tlie kidney has a fibrous tunic or capsule, whicli is connected to the ghindular substance by fine processes and vessels, and is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner margin of the kidney it sinks into the sinu.i, where it sends processes on the enter- ing vessels, and becomes continuous with the outer coat of the excretory duct. BLOOD-VE.SSELS. The artery and vein di.stributed to the kidney are very large in jjroportion to the size of the organ they supply. Ecnal artery. Before reaching tlie kidney the renal artery divides into four or five pieces ; and these in the sinus break up into smaller branches, which enter the organ between the papilla?. They run in the processes of cortical .sub.stance that separate the pyramids, being surrounded by sheaths from the fibrous capsule, and undergoing farther subdivision, until they reach the bases of the pyramids. Here the branches form arches, from which the minute offsets to the secreting structures are given off. Some twigs are supplied to the capsule of the kidney ; and these anastomose with the subperitoneal branches of the lunabar arteries. Renal vein. The larger branches of the vein spring from arches like those of the artery, and take a similar course through the cortical septa to the sinus. In the neighbourhood of the hilum all are commonly united into one trunk, which joins the inferior cava. Nerves. The ramifications of the sympathetic nerve may be traced to the smaller branches of the artery. The absorlents are superficial and deep. Both unite at the hilum of the kidney, and join the lumbar glands. The URETER is the tube by whicli the fluid excreted in the kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and termination the canal measures from fourteen to sixteen inches in length. Its size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill. Near the kidney it is dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named pe'vis; and near the bladder it is again somewhat enlarged, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the narrowest part of the tube ; but this part of it will be studied later. In its course from the kidney to the bladder the ureter is close beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the pelvis. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas, inclining on the right side towards the inferior vena cava ; and about the middle of the muscle it is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or external iliac artery, being beneath the pelvic colon on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it inclines forwards below the level of tlie obliterated hypogastric artery to reach the base of the bladder. Sometimes the ureter is divided into two for a certain distance.THE SUPRARENAL BODIES. 357 Part in the kidney (fig. 136, h). Near the kidney tlie ureter is Ureter (liliited into a funnel-shaped part called the j^elvis. It begins in the ti'.o kui "ey^ sinus of the kidney by a set of cuji-shaped tubes, named calices or ims calices, ivfundibula (c), which vary in nunil)er from seven to tliirteen. Each which cup-shapc'd process embraces the rounded end of a pyramidal mats, papUia. and receives the urine from tlie apertures in that projection : some- times a calyx surrounds two or more papillaj. The several calices are united together to form two or three larger tubes ; and these are finally blended in the pelvis. Structure. The chief part of the wall of the ureter is composed of Three coats a muscular coat, in which there is an outer layer of circular, and an ''° "■'•^''^''^ inner layer of longitudinal fibres. This has an external investment fibrous, of fibrous tissue, and is lined by mucous membrane. ai'cfmucous. The calices resembles the rest of the duct in having a fibrous, a The calices muscular, and a mucous coat. Around the base of the jmpilla the eoa"'''™" outer coat of the calyx is continuous with the enveloping tunic of the kidney; and at the apex the mucous lining is jsrolonged into the uriniferous tubes through the small openings. Vessels. The arteries are numerous but small, and are furnished Vessels, by the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The veins corresjaond with the arteries. The lymyhatics are received into those of the kidneys. Lymphatics. THE SUPRARENAL BODIES. These small bodies (tigs. 134 and 135) have received their name Suiirareuai from their position in regard to the kidney. Their vessels and nerves '^"1'''"''' = are numerous, but they are not provided with any excretory duct. One body is situate on tiie upper end of each kidney, with an "o duct, inclination to the inner side, and, without care, may be removed • with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its colour is a brownish-yellow. Both bodies are rather triangular in shape, and colour; flattened, but with the upper angle rounded off, and the base or "'"^ '^°'™' lower part hollowed where they touch the kidney. The right suprarenal is more definitely triangular than the left, and is often spoken of as cocked-hat shaped, while the left is larger from aljove downwards, and is somewhat 23yramidal. Tliey are each somewhat flattened, and their two surJ'aces look outwards and forwards, and backwards and inwards respectively. On the anterior surface of each is a fissure, termed the hilum, where the vein is,sues. Hilum. In the adult they measure about one inch an a half in depth, and Size and rather less in width ; and the weight of each is between one and two "'^'k'"^- drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right Areolar tissue attaches the suprarenal body to the kidney ; and Relations, the vessels and nerves retain it in place. Tbe relations to surround- ing parts are nmch the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus each rests on the diaphragm, as it clothes the vertebrae on both sides ; while in front of the right suprareiuil is the liver externally, and the inferior vena cava internally ; and in front of the left the pancreas, stomach and spleen, from below upwards. On the inner side of the358 DISSECTION OF THE ABD0MI5N, rifjlit capsule, beside Uie vena cava is the solar plexus ; and internal to the left are the aorta, with the ccetiac axis, and the solar plexus. Obvious structure. A vertical section of a fresh suprarenal body shows it to be formed of an external or cortical layer, and an internal or medullary substance. The whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule, which sends processes into the interior, and along the blood-vessels. The cortical part is of a deep yellow colour, and firm. It forms about two-thirds of the thickness of the whole body, and in the section appears striated perpendicularly to the free surface of the organ. The medullary part is dark brown or nearly black, and very Soft and puljjy. If the specimen is not fresh, it may look as if the cortical part enclosed a cavity. Blood-vessels. Numerous arteries are furnished to the suprarenal bodies. Generally there are three vessels, one directly from the aorta, and one each from the diaphragmatic and renal arteries. Their small branches penetrate the organ at many spots of its circum- ference. The veins are for the most part collected into one long trunk, which issues by the hilum, and opens on the right side into the vena cava, on the left into the renal vein. Other smaller veins pass out through the cortex to the renal vein and the vena cava. Nerves. The nerves are very numerous and large, and come from the solar plexus. Lymphatics. Lijmphatics are superficial and deej) ; both join those of the kidney. Consists of two parts, fi brous capsule. Cortical and medullary parts. Aiteries. Veins. Nerves. To see tlie diapliragm. Define arches. Diaphragm situalion and form ; origin at tlio circum- ference ; THE DIAPHKAGM WITH AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Dissection. The student will now clean, first the diaphragm, then the large vessels and their branches, and afterwards the deep muscles of the abdomen. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be necessary to remove the peritoneum, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the strong processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebra). While cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on its surface, and of others in and near the pillars. The right kidney and suprarenal will be drawn downwards or thrown over to the left in cleaning the diaphragm, but their vessels should be preserved. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches near the spine, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected ; one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle ((piadratus lumborum), and will be made more evident by separating it from the fascia covering the muscle. The DIAPHEAGM or midriff (fig. 137, A p. 360) forms the vaulted movable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and tendinous in the centre. The oriyin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is alike on both sides. Thus, it arises on each side by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the ensifomi process and the six lower rib cartilages ; from359 THE DIAPHRAGM. two aponeurotic arches between tlie last rib and the spinal column,— one being placed over the quadnitus lumboruni, and the other over the psoas muscle ; and, lastly, i'rom the lumbar vertebrae by a thick muscular piece or pilhir. From this extensive origin the fibres arc directed inwards, witli diQcrent degrees of obliquity and length, to insi^rtion of ' , , ...... .' , lll)iu.s into a the central tendon ; but some have a peculiar ilisposition m the eentnil pillars which will be afterwards noted. The abdominal surface is concave, and is covered for the most Parts in^^ part by the peritoneum. In contact with it on the right side are the ti,e i,„dei- liver, kidney and supra renal ; and on the opposite side, the stomach, spleen, kidney and supra renal ; in contact also witli the pillars are the pancreas and the solar plexus with the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura of each side and the peri- and witli cardium. At the circuui Terence the fleshy processes of origin alternate with like parts of the transversalis muscle; but a slight interval oftonier. separates the slip arising from the ensifurni process from that attached Intervals in to the seventh cartilage, and a second s[iace comes between the fibres from the last rib and the arch over the quadratus hunborum muscle. These apertures mark the situation between the three parts of which Apertures, the diaphragm is essentially formed, viz., sternal, from the ensiform cartilage, costal, from the costal cartilages, and vertebral, from the vertebra) and the tendinous arch over the psoas muscle. The interval between the vertebral and costal parts near the last rib is occasionally large, and through it a communication between the abdominal and thoracic cavities may take place and altdominal viscera be found in the thorax. iStrudure. The muscle is convex towards the chest, and concave Vault: to the abdomen. Its vault reaches higher on the right than the left side, and is constantly varying during life in respiration. In the condition of re.st, as met with after death (state of expiration), the oxtont up- central portion is about opposite the xiphi-steriial articulation ; on the right side it rises to the level of the tifth, and on the left side to the sixth chondro-sternal articulation. Special parts of the diaphraym. The following named parts are Special now to be noticed more fully, viz., the central tendon, the pillars, examil^ed!' the arches, and tlie apertures. The central tendon (cordifoim tendon) occupies the middle of the Central diaphragm (fig. 137), and is surrounded by muscular fibres: the''"'"'""' large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tentliiious fibres cross indifl'erent directions. In form it is compared to a trefoil leaf; of its three lobes or segments the right (c) is the likcMi trefoil largest, and the left (a) the smallest. The pillars (crura) are two large muscular and tendinous processes Two pillars, ((/ and e), one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are narrow anil tendinous below, where they are attached to the upper lumbar witiiairii vertebrae, but large and fleshy above ; and between them is a tendinous ' arch over the aorta. In each pilhir the fleshy fibres pass upwards and forwards, diverging aiTnngement from each other ; the greater number join the central tendon without rach"™ "'360 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. as they ascetid to tendon; differences in the pillars. intermixing, but tlie inner fibres of the two crura cross one anotlier in tlie following manner :—Those of the right (e) ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line, decussating with the fibres of the opposite crus between that vessel and tlie opening of the oesophagus. The fibres of the other crus {d) may be traced iu the same way, to form the right half of the oesophageal opening. In the decussation the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is generally larger than, and in front of, that from the left. The pillars difter somewhat on opposite sides. The right (e) ie the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebrae, and their intervertebral substances, reaching down to the disc between the third and fourtli vertebrae. The left pillar {d) is situate more on the side of the spine. Fig. 137.—Under Surface of the Diai'Hragii. A. Diaphragm. B. Pso.'us magnus. 0. Quadratus lumborum. a. Left piece of the tendon of the diaphragm. b. Middle, and c, right piece. d. Left, and e. right crus. /. Inner, and g, outer arched ligament. h. Opening for vena cava, i, for oesophagus, k, for aortii, j, for splanchnic nerves. Two arched ligaments, Internal and external. is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra, and it is even occasionally wanting. The arches (ligamenta arcnata) are two fibrous bands on each side over the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, which give origin to fleshy fibres. The arch over the psoas (lig. arcuat. intei-num: f) is the stronger, and is connected by the one end to the tendinous part of the pillar of the diajjliragm, and by the other to the transverse process of the fir.st or second lumbar vertebra. The arch over the tx^adiiit'is lumborum {lig. arcuat. externum; g)ACTION 111' rill': hi.\i'iiii.\(i.M is only a thirkmed [lii-ci' iil' I In- r.-isi;iii c()\HM iiiL; thai mhisi-Il', and fxlonds IViiin tin' lii-sl lumbar transvorsu pnice-s lu I,he last rili. Ajiniiiri's. 'I'iioic; luv llircc lart,'(' o|K'iiin,L;s ; (Hic carh Inr the. aoila, A|i.Tt,iin's lliu vena rava, and Llic a'Sn]iha,i;ils ; w illi s(inir snialkT lissiii'iis lor iiurvt's and vcsst-ls. The opuiiini,' lor tlic aovla (/,■) i.srallu-r l>L'liinil than in tlic diiiidiia.L;in, I'm- Uiu lor it is siluale bclwueu llic iiiUars ol' Uie muscle and tlie s]iinal '"" ''' ' . , 111 it's cuiilinus. column : it tiausinits the aorta, llii; thoracic duct, and llie laige azy^'os Vein. 'J'lic opening I'or the a)so])lia;;us and the pneumo-i;astric nerves (i) ForKnHut, is ahove and slit^htly to tlie left of the aortic aperturi' : it is placed in the muscular ])art of the iliuphra,L;m, and is hounded hy the fibres of Ihe pillars as ahove exjilaiued. The opcMiing for the vena cava (foi'amen ipiadralum ; h) situate between the middle and ri^^dit divisions (d' the central tendon ; and its margins are attacheil to tlie vein by tendinous fibres. There is a lUsnir ( )) in each i)illar for the three siilanchnic nerves ; Fissures in 11 1 ' 1 • 1 1 ,• 1 11 ■ 1 i'"' I'illiii's. and through that m the lelt erus the small azygos vein also passes. Aclinit of tint (Uaiilu-miin. By the contraction of the niusciihir libres Uso in . . 1 1 • 1 1 • 1 • 1 i'cs]jir;Uion. Ill inspiration tlie temlon, ]iarticularly its lateral parts, is moved downwards, anil the arch of the diaphragm lessened. During relaxa- tion in expiration, the centre of the muscle is elevated, and the height of the vault increased owing to the elasticity of the lungs, and tile pressure of the viscera below, which are forced iqnvards by tlie action of the abiloininal muscles. In forced expiiation the muscle neigljt in reaches as high as the fourth rib on the right side, and tlie lifth on oxpinitiim. the left, close to tlie sternum. In the descent of the dia|ihragm, the parts of the tendon move ('""inil imrl une(|ually, in consei|ueiice of diU'en-nces in their relations, and in icnst, ; the length ami direction of the lleshy libres connected with them. Thus, the central loln', above which the luiart is placed, moves least; while the lateral lobes, which are below the lungs descend more freely. It is estimated that the central lobe of the tendon moves left part lllfist. ■rago downwards in full inspiration about two-lifths of an inch, the right a" lobe twice as much, and the left lobe one inch, (llassel licscmi in . ' InU iiis|iiiii- Keitli IS ol opinion that an important part ol the action ol the linn. crura, tiie libres of which pass into the central part of the tendon, is t(; render tense, ami de])ress the attachi-d fibrous pericardium, and to exerci.se a jmll u|)oii the aorta of the lungs, which are liekl to the upper surface of the tendon of the diaphragm hy the broad liganii-nt of the lung. With the movement of the diapliiagm the size of t he cavities of mteet on the alidomen and thorax an^ altered. By its descent the tlmrax IuXiml""'^ is enlarged anil the abiloinen diminished; and the viscera in the on vi.scern, iqiper jiait of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach and spleen, are partly moved from beneath the ribs. By its ascent the cavity of the lln.rax is le.s.seiied, and that of the abdomen is restored to its former size; and the di.splaced vi.scera return to their usual ]ilace. By the contraction of the libres the aperture hir the lesophagiis will iirertmcs.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 362 Action in- voluntary. Take away greater part of the diaphragm. Clean aorta, vena cava, and branches ; also iliac vessels. Dissect muscles; psoas and nerves of lumbar plexus, quadratus lumborum, and iliacu.s. Extent of abdominal aorta. surface marking. Relations be rendered smaller, and that tube conipre.ssed ; but the other opening,s for the vena cava and aortn, having tendinous surrounding?, are not niuterially changed. The possible sphincter action of the fibres around the esophageal opening is mo.st likely to secure closure of that part against the gastric contents when the descending diaphragm, in its contraction, presses upon the stomach. The action of the diaphragm i.s commonly involuntary, but it is perfectly nnder the control of the will. Dissection. After the diaphragm has been learnt the ribs that support it on each side may be cut through if the thora.^c has been sutficiently dissected, and the loose pieces of bone with the fore part of the diapliragui may be taken away, to facilitate the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. But the posterior third of the diaphragm, with its pillars and arches, should be left ; and the vessels ramifying on it should be followed back to their origin. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the vena cava, are to be cleaned by removing the fat, the remains of the sympathetic plexuses, and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are to be followed to the diaphragm, to the right kidney and supra- renal body, and to the ovary, or to the inguinal canal for the testicle, as the case may be. In like manner the large iliac branches of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. The ureter and the .spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery; and on the same vessel, near the thigh, branches of a small nerve (genito-crural) are to be sought. The muscles are to be laid bare on the left side, but on the right side the fascia covering them is to be shown. The paoris muscle, the most internal, lies on the side of the spine, with the small psoas (if present) superficial to it. On its surface, and in the fat external to it, the following branches of the lumbar plexus will be found :—The genito-crural nerve lies on the front. Four nerves issue at the outer border,—the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower -p&vt (fig. 138 and fig. 140, p. 373). Along the inner border of the psoas the gungliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands ; and lower down the obturator nerve may be recognised entering the cavity of the pelvis. External to the psoas is the quadratus luviborum, and crossing the latter near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, with an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the iliacus muscle, which unites below with the large psoas. Tiie ABDOMINAL AORTA (fig. 138, {!)) extends from the lower part of the last dorsal vertebra to about the middle of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm ; and its termination is placed opjiosite a spot below and slightly to tlie left of the umbilicus, and nearly on a level with the highest point of the iliac crest. The chief relations of the vessel to surrounding parts have beenABDOMINAL AORTA AND BRANCHES. Fio. 138.—Deep View op the Mdscles, Vessels, and Nerves op the ABD()MIN.iL CaVITT (iLLnSTBATIONS OF DiSSECTIONs). Muscles and viscera : A. Diaphragm, with D, internal, and 0, external arched ligament. D. End of the oesophagus, cut. E. Small psoas. F. Large psoas. G. Quadratus luniboruni. H. Iliaciis. I. Kidney. J, Rectum. K. Bladder. Vessels : a. Diaphragmatic artery. b. Aorta, r. Renal. d. Spermatic. e. Upper mesenteric, cut. /. Lower mesenteric. g. Common iliac, and h, external iliac artery. k. Deep epigastric artery, cut ; by its side is the vas deferens, bending into the pelvis. /. Deep circumflex iliac. VI. Vena cava. n. Renal vein. 0. Right spermatic vein. 2). Common iliac vein, and r, ex- ternal iliac (this letter is put on the left artery instead of on the vein just below it). s. Ureter. Nerves: 1. Phrenic. 2. Uio-hypogastric. 3. Ilio-inguinal. 4. External cutaneous of the thigh. 5 and fi. Genito-crural. 7. Anterior crural.DISSECTION OF THE ARDOMEN. Place of origin of tlie bmiichos: n.'sM.Ls""'' I'^^'crre^ (P- 320), but some deep vessels in connection witli It now come into view. As the aorta rests on the spine it lies on the left lumbar veins, which end in tlie inferior cava. And between it and the right crus of tlie diaphnigni are tlie large azygos vein and the thoracic duct. Along the sides of the vessel are the lumbar lymphatic glands, from which large vessels run beneath it to end in the beginning of the thoiacic duct. The BRANCHES of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following order :—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which leave the front of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm, the single trunk of the ccEliac a.xis arises fronrthe front; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the front, the trunk of the superior mesen- teric artery begins. Half an inch lower, the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the lateral part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the small suprarenal branch ; and below the renal is the slender spermatic artery. From the front of the trunk, one or two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery. And from the back of the vessel arise five lumbar arteries on each side, and the middle sacral close above the bifurcation. The branches may be classified in two sets,—one to the viscera of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdominal wall (parietal). The visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and inferior mesenteric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. Of these, the first three have already been examined. The renal arteries (fig. 138, c) leave the aorta nearly at a right angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney each divides into four or five branches, which enter the hilum of the organ between the vein and the ureter. Each artery lies beneath its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and supplies small twigs to the suprarenal body {inferior capsular), to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidnej'. The arteries of ojiposite sides have some differences. The left is the shorter, owing to the position of the aorta : the right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. The middle capsular or suprarcneal artery is a small branch which runs almost transversely outwards to the suprareneal body from the renal and diaphragmatic arteries. It is of large size in the foetus. Spermatic The spermatic artery of the testicle (fig. 138, d) is remarkable for remarkable; if^s small size in jjroportion to its length, and for its leaving the cavity of the abdomen. The part in the abdomen is straight, but that in the cord is tortuous, course to From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards ' along the posterior wall of the alxlomen to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord. In its course beneath the peritoneum the vessel runs along the front of the psoas, crossing over the ureter ; and on the right side it passes over the vena cava. It is their classi' flcation. Some visceral branches. Benal artery is beneath its vein; gives off- sets ; difference between left and right. Capsular aitery.r.HANOHKS OK THE ABDOMINAI. AORTA. acc'iiiniiiiiiied I13' tlie .■ipcriiiatic vein, :ui(l tlie s]ieiiiiatic plexus cil' nerves. In the I'letus licfure the testicle leave.s th(^ abduiueii the cnnditioii in spermatic artery is very .^Imrt, but tlie vessel elongates as tlie testis is reinoveil From its original position. In the I'eniale the corresponding arter}' (nmriioi) descends into the i" Uio pelvis to end in the ovar}' and the uterus. The piiridal hnmclics oi the aorta are the dia[ihragniatie, lumliar, liranclios . . , , It) w:lll of and midille sacral. aiiiioim n. The iluiphragmatic (oVtc/cs (inferior phrenic ; lig. 138, a) are infoiior frequently united together at their origin, or with the c(eliac'''"'""^' axis. They course upwards along the posterior part of tlie under com-si) of surface of the diaphragm, the left artery passing behind therigi,'t,; oesophageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each ends in two branches :—One (internal) pa.sses onwards towards the iiistribu- front of the diaphragm, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with the superior phrenic and musculo-phreiiic branches of the internal mammary. The other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it communicates with tlie intercostal arteries. Branches. Small offsets to the suprarenal body from the external .small division of tliis artery are named superior citpsular. Some twigs are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. On the nnder-surface of the diapliragm are two branches of ouut the internal maiiimary artery of the thorax, one, superior phrenic, iiiaphmgrn. accompanies the phrenic nerve, and ramihes over the middle of the mu.scle ; the other, lausculo-phvaic, appears opposite the ninth cartilage, and supplies the up[ier costal slips of the diaphragm. The other jiarietal brunches of the aorta, viz., lumbar and middle sacral, are not learnt in this stage : the former will be examined after the lumbar plexus (p. 374), and the latter in the pelvis (p. 400). The co.MMON ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 138, (/) is directed downwards Common and outwards from the bifurcation of the aorta, and divides into artery: two large trunks opposite the fibro-cartilage between the last lumbar nxtnntanil vertebra and tlie sacrum ;—one of these {external iliac) su]i])lies the lower limb, and the other {internal iliac) enters the pelvis. Placed relations; obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by tlie peritoneum, and is crossed by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes l)y the ureter. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does usually no not furnish any named brancli, but it may give origin to the '^''^"ciies. ilio-liinibar artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some dilferences. The rifjIU artcnj lius the vena cava to its outer side above, and Hiin'rcnccs near its termination touches the psoas mu.scle. Tlie companion vi4n l-i.-ht ' " [p) is at hrst beneath, but becomes external to the artei'y at the u]iper part ; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left arterij is crossed by the sujiorior haiinorrhoidal v'lLoi.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 366 Variations in lengtli. External iliac leads to lower limb; extent and direction: surface marking. relations with parts around, with other vessels, mth nerve, and veins. Two named branches: unnamed offsets. Origin of branches occasional branches. Veins of the abdomen, except vena portce. Anatomy of external iliac vein: vessels ; and its companion vein is situate to its inner side. It lies close to the psoas muscle throughout. The length of the common iliac artery ranges from less tban half an inch to four inches an,l a half ; but in the majority of instances it varies between one inch and a half and three inches (R. Quain). The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 138, h) is the first part of the vessel leading to the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity of the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of the common iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it becomes tlie common femoral. And its direction would be indicated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to a point midway between the symphysis pubi.s and the anterior superior iliac spine. The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis in its course to Poupart's ligament, and is covered closely by the peritoneum and the subperitoneal fat. The right artery is crossed by the lower end of the ileum, and the left by the pelvic colon. To its outer side is the psoas, e.xcept at its termination under Poupart's ligament, ■where it lies over the muscle. A chain of lymphatic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. Close to its origin the artery is often crossed by the ureter ; and near Poupart's ligament the vas deferens bends down along its inner side ; while the spermatic vessels, and the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve lie on it for a short distance. The external iliac vein (r) is behind the artery above, but gradually comes forwards and gains its inner side over the pubis. The circumflex iliac vein crosses it nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament. Branches. Two considerable branches, deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac, arise about a quarter of an inch from the end of the ai'tery, and are distributed to the wall of the abdomen (p. 284). Some small unnamed twigs are given to the j)Soas muscle and the lymphatic glands. Peculiarities in brandies. The ei5igastric and circumfle.f iliac branches may wander over the lower inch and a half or two inches of the artery. The obturator artery is often derived from the external iliac, in which case it generally arises in common with the deep epigastric artery (p. 294.) In rare cases the internal circumflex artery of the thigh is given off from the eijigastric or the lower part of the external iliac trunk. Iliac Veins and Vena Cava (fig. 138). The larger veins of the abdomen correspond so closely with the arteries, both in number, extent, and relations, as to render unnecessary much detail in their description. As the veins increase in size from tlie circumference towards the centre oi the Ijody, those most disf.ant from the heart will be first referred to. The external iliac vein (»•) is a continuation of the common femoral vein Ijeneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting witli the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac), to form the common iliac vein. On the pubis367 TRIBUTARIES OF INFERIOR VENA CAVA. it is internal to its companion artery, ami lies between the psoas and position to pectineus muscles ; but as it ascends it gradually passes behind the artery. The veins opening into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliac tributarie.s. and a puhic branch from the obturator vein. Tlie COMMON ILIAC VEIN (p) ascends by the side of its accompany- Common ing artery, the right almost \-ertically, and the left obliquely, to the 'fon';i cava: front of the body of the filth lumbar vertebra (the right hall), where it blends with its fellow in one trunk—the ^ ena cava. The riyht vein is the shorter, and lies at first behind, but after- difTei-ence in wards outside the artery of the same name. The left is internal to '^-filjons"? and below the artery of its own side, and crosses beneath the right common iliac artery to the commencement of the vena cava. Each vein receives the ilio-lunibar branch ; and the common iliac triijiitaries. of the left side is joined l)y the middle sacral vein. The INFERIOR or abcending vena cava (m) collects and conveys vena cava to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin "'f'*'''"'"- opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra, lower than the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right fide of the arterial trunk, extent; and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its relations relations; to surrounding parts have been already noticed (p. 320), but the description may be again referred to, as the position of the branches of the aorta to it can be better seen now. Tributaries. The cava receives parietal branches (lumbar and receives diaphragmatic) from the wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm ; ' and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal from , , 1 ii 1- abdomen, body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the stomach, the intestinal canal, the except those spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena portaj (p. 334) ; apparatus." and the blood contained in those vessels reaches the cava by the hepatic veins, after it has circulated through the liver. The spermatic vein (o) enters the abdomen by the internal Spermatic abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord. At first there are two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery ; but these soon join into one trunk. On the left side it opens into the renal vein at a ends differ- right angle, and there is generally a small valve over the aperture ; an°d" on the right side it enters the inferior cava below the renal vein. '< As the vein a<'cends to its destination, it receives one or more branches from the wall of the abdomen, and the fat about the branches: kidney. In the female the corresponding vein {ovarian) has the same ending vein in the as in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. Valves are absent from the vein and its branches, but commonly there is one at its union with the renal. The renal or eraulcjcnt vein (n) is of large size, and joins the vena Renal vein; cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the kidney ; and the trunk resulting from their union is superficial to position to the renal arterv. '"''^''y'DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 368 difference on two skies. Suprarenal ends dift'e- rently on each aide. Hepatic veins; before noticed. Lumbar veins. Phrenic veins. The right vein is the shorter, and usually joins the cava a little lower than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery; it receives the left spermatic and suprarenal veins. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is compared with the body from which it comes. The right opens into the cava, and the left into the renal vein. ' The heiJatic veins enter the vena cava where it is contact with the liver. They are described on pp. 348 and 350. The lumbar veins correspond in number and course with the arteries of the same name. They will be dissected later. The diaphragmatic veins (inl'erior), two with each artery, spring from the upper surface of the diaphragm. They join the caVa either as one trunk or two. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. Psoas magnns : situation; origin from lumbar vertebrse: insertion into femur; relations in front, behind, of outer border, of inner border; lumbar nerves in its subslanco; use to bend hip-joint The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumbornm. The PSOAS MAGNUS (fig. 138, P.) reaches from the lumbar vertebraj to the J'emur, and is situated in the abdomen and in the thigh. The muscle arises from the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, from the bodies and intervertebral discs of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrte by five fleshy pieces— each piece being connected with the intervertebral substance and the borders of two contiguous vertebrte, and from tendinous bands over the blood-vessels opposite the middle of the vertebrte. The fibres give rise to a roundish belly, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament, and ends below in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives also most of the fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The abdominal part of the muscle lias the following relations :— In front are the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and, near Poupart's ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery : beneath these, the muscle is covered by the inner part of tlie iliac fascia. Behind, tlie muscle is in contact with the transverse processes of the vertebrae, with the quadratus lum- borum, and with the hip-bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and iliacus ; and branches of the lumbar jjlexus issue from beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to tlie vertebra;, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis ;—along the attached part of this border lies the sympathetic nerve, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side ; along the free or pelvic part are the external iliac vessels. The nerves of the lumbar jjlexus lie between the slips of origiii from the transverse processes. Action. If the femur is free to move it is raise«l towards thePSOAS AND ILIACDS MUSCLES. 369 belly ; and in flexing tlie hip-joint the psoas is always combined with the iliacus. will> iiiacus, When the lower limbs are fixed the two muscles will draw forwards or to bend the lumbar part of the spine, and bend the hip-joints, as in stooping tiio limb, to the ground. One muscle under the same circumstances can incline the spine laterally. The PSOAS PARVUS (fig. 138, e) is a small inconstant muscle, with Pso.is a long tendon, which is placed ou the front of the large psoas. Its ingiir;' fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra?, with the intervening fibro-cartilage. Its tendon becomes broader below, and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence and in.sertion ; the brim of the pelvis, joining the iliac fascia. Transversus periuei. Fio. 139.—Os Innominatum—Inner and Anterior View. Action. This muscle aid.s in flexing the lumbar portion of the use. spine, either drawing forwards the upper part of the trunk, or raising the front of the pelvis, according to which end is fixed. The ILIACDS iiuscLE (fig. 138, h) occupies the Oiac fossa on the iiiacusims inner aspect of the hip-bone, and Ls blended interiorly with the uJe uiac °' psoas. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy origin from the iliac fof^a; fossa (fig. 139), and slightly from the ala of the sacrum and the ' anterior sacro-iliac ligament The fibres pass obliquely inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it down to its insertion into the insertion;DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 370 partR cover ing it on two sides, beneath it; femur ; and a few liave a separate attachment to the femur below the small trochanter (fig. 61, p. 158). Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia ; and over the right iliacus are placed the cajcum and ascending colon, over the left, tlie sigmoid flexure : beneath it is the hip-bone. The inner niai-gin is overlapped by the psoas ; and the anterior crural nerve lies between the two. The relations of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the dissection of the thigh (p. 167). Action. The iliacus raises tlie femur witli the psoas when the limb is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the Umb is fixed. The psoas and iliacus may be regarded as two heads of one muscle —the iLio-PSOAS. The QDADRATDS LUMBORUM (fig. 138, g) is a short, flattened muscle between tlie pelvis and the last rib. About two inches wide below, it arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the iliac crest behind, and for an inch outside that baud (fig. 139); it generally receives in addition two or three slips from the transverse processes of the lower lumbar vertebrae. The fibres ascend to be inserted by distinct fleshy and tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, and into the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia lumborum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Behind the quadratus is the erector spinse muscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the s2Jine (one muscle autagonising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterally the lumbar region of the spine to the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the quadratus. Covering the surface of the quadratus is a thin membrane, derived from the hinder aponeurosis of the trans- versalis abdominis (anterior layer of the fascia lumborum), which passes in iront of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. A thickened band of this fascia i'orms the external arched ligament, to which the diaphragm is connected. Iliac fascia Iliac FASCIA. This fascia covers the double flexor of the hip- ilio-p^soas; joint, and is fixed to the bone on eacii side of the muscle. The attachments membrane is strongest ojjposite the pelvis, where it is attached below, (.Q j^ijg iijj^g gj,^gf. Q,j outer side, and to the brim of the cavity on the inner side : it receives a strong accession from the tendon of the and above, psoas parvus when that muscle is present. Over the U]i)3er part of the psoas it becomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebraj; while on the other it is blended with the fascia over the quadratus ; and above, it joins the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part use to bend hip-joint. Quadratus lumborum; origin ; insertion: is contained in a sheath : use of both muscles, of one. Fascia of the quadratus.SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 371 that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been before explained (p. 293). Dissection. The student is now to remove the right kidney and Trace the to clean the lymphatic glands lying along the vertebrte, and to trace '^■"1''"''''"'"' ujiwards some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic dud. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides : a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (receptaculum chyli), and the lower end of and the the large azygos vein may be well seen : and the two are to be cinumfand followed upwards into the thorax. On tlie left side the student may trace the splanchnic nerves and splanchnic the small azygos vein through the pillar of the diaj)hragm, and may show the knotted cord of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic Glands. A chain of glands is placed along the side LimiiMi- of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the gu'mis'f lumbar vertebra? ; they are connected by short tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number, and opposite the first lumbar ducts eml in vertebra form one principal trunk which enters the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of some of the viscera and of the wall of the abdomen are received. Another cluster of large glands surrounds the cojliac axis, and Cceliac covers the upper end of the abdominal aorta. They arc distinguished ^''""'is: as the cmliac glands, and receive the lymphatics of the stomach, spleen, pancreas, and great part of the liver. Tlieir ducts unite ducts join with those of the mesenteric glands, and give rise to one or more ",'Sin°'" large trunks, which pass to the common thoracic duct. Receptaculum chyli. The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen Beginning of by the union of three or four large lymphatic trunks. Its commence- diet."'"""'"' nient is marked by a dilatation, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. The iluct enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm with the aorta. THE SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The spinal nerves of the loins enter into a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous portions of the trunk. Dissection (fig. 140, p. 373). The lumbar nerves and their plexus Dissection are to be learnt on the left side, although the woodcut shows them bL'p'iexil^" on the right side ; and to liring them into view, the dissector should °" leftside, cut through the external iliac vessel, and al'terwards scrajie away the psoas. For the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely ; but a small branch (accessary of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. On, or in the substance of, the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dors.il and the first lumbar nerve. The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the wi"' sym- psoas, and offsets of it join the spinal nerves ; these are to be followed P""'""''- back along the lumbar arteries. B B 2DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 372 On tlici right side the psoas is to be left untouched, in order that the place of emergence from it of the diflereut offset.s of the plexus may be noticed. Lumbar Spinal Nerves. The anterior primary branches of the lumbar nerves, five in number, increase in size from above down, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the interverte- bral foramina. With the e.Yception of the last, tliey enter the lumbar plexus, having previously given oft" branches for the supply of the quadratu.s lumborum and psoas muscles. The fifth nerve receives a communicating branch from the fourth, and is to be followed into the pelvis to its junction with the sacral plexus. After the two are united, the name Inmho-mcral cord is applied to the common trunk. The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 140) is fonned by the intercommunica- tion of the first four lumbar nerves. Contained in the .substance of the psoas, near the posterior surface it consists of loops between the several nerves, and increases in size from above downward.?, like the ^o^l^tions individual nerves. Superiorly it is sometimes united by a small " branch with the last dorsal nerve ; and inferiorly it joins the sacral plexus through the large luinbo-sacral cord. The branches of the plexus are six in number, and supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the muscular covering of the sper- matic cord, the fore and inner parts of the thigh, and the inner side of the leg. The first two branches (ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) end as cutaneous nerves of the hip, the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, and the thigh. 1. The ilio-hyjjogastric branch (fig. 140,/) is derived from the first nerve, and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the upper end. It is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen by piercing the transversalis muscle. Its termination in the integuments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hypogastric branch has been already mentioned (pp. 110, 2G3 and 275). 2. The ilio-iiigidnal branch (g) arises with the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses outwards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the iliac crest, where it pierces the transversalis. The farther course of the nerve in the abdominal wall, and its distribution to the scrotum and the thigh, are before noticed (pp. 264 and 275). 3. The genito-crural nerve (/() is distributed to the cremaster muscle and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from tlie connecting loop ))etween the first two ; issuing from tlie front of the psoas, it descends on the surface of the muscle, and divides into genital and crurnl branches. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and tlie brandies perforate the muscle separately. The genital branch descends on the external iliac artery, ancl furnishes olfsets around it ; it passes frpm the abdomen with the Four limiljiir iiev\'0« cntei- jilexus and supply muscles: fifth to tlie .sacral plexus. Plexus how formed ; situation; Six branches, riz. :— Two cutaneous branches. Ilio-hypo- gastric : course m abdomen. Ilio-inguinal arises with preceding, and accom- panies it. Genito- cniral pierces psoas, and divides into genital and373 LUMBAR PLEXUS. spermatic vesaels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. The crural branch issues beneatli Poupart's ligament to supply the integument of the thigh (p. 140). 4. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh ai ises from the loop between the second and third nerves, and appears aljout the middle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then crosses the iliacus to the interval between tlie anterior iliac sjiinous processes, and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, to be distriljuted on the outer aspect of the limb (p. 140). 5. The antei'ior crural nerve {k) is the largest offset of the plexus, and supplies branches mainly to the extensor muscles of the knee-joint, and to the integuments of the front of the thigh and inner side of the les. Taking origin from the second, third, and fourth nerves, this large trunk Fm appears towards the lower part of the psoas, where it lies between that muscle ^ and the iliacus. It passes ^ from the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament ; but before the final branching T'le figures 1 to 5 mark the trunks of the in the thigh (p. 160), the nerve sends off the follow- ing twigs:— Some small hranchea to the iliacus ai'e furnished from tlie outer side of the nerve. A branch to the femoral artery, the place of originr crural branch. Course of external cutnneous to the thiRh. Origin of anterior crural; 140. — dlsskctiun op the lumbar Plexus and its Branches (Illustra- tions OK Dissections). E.xternal iliac artery, cut across. Thoracic duct. Azygos vei?is. ]}Osition in the abdomen : Nerves : The figures 1 to 5 mark the trunks of live lumbar nerves. d. Splanchnic nerves. e. Last dorsal. /. Ilio-hypogastric. r/. Ilio-inguinal. h. Qenito-crural. I. External cutaneous. li. Anterior crural. /. Accessory to obturator. n. Obturator. o. Gargliated cord of the sympathetic. its branches to iliacus, to I'onioral artery.DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 374 of which varies much, is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. 6. The obturator nerve (n) is distributed chiefly to the abductor muscles of the thigh (p. 164). Arising in front of the anterior crural from the second, third, and fourth nerves in the plexus (sometimes not from the second), it makes its appearance at the inner border of the psoas near the sacro-iliac articulation. Escaped from beneath tlie muscle, the nerve crosses the side of the pelvis below the external- iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters the thigh through the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen. Occasionally the the obturator gives origin to the following branch :— The accessory obturator nerve Q) arises from the trunk of the braS.^^°'^ obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its course is along the inner border of the psoas, beneath the investing fascia, and over the hip-bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip-joint (p. 163). Gangliated cord of the sympathetic (fig. 140, o). The lumbar part of the. gangliated cord of the sympathetic is continuous with the thoracic part beneath the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. It lies on the front of the spinal column, along the inner border of the psoas muscle, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena cava, on the left by the aorta. The cord has four or five oval ganglia, which supply connecting and visceral branches. Connecting branches. From each ganglion two small branches are directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, with the lumbar artery ; these unite with one or two spinal nerves near the intervertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long in the lumbar region, in consequence of the gangliated cord being carried forward by the psoas muscle. Brconches of Distribution. Most of the internal branches throw themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebras and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 138, p. 363, and fig. 140, e). The anterior primary branch of the last doi'sal resembles the intercostal nerves in its distribution, but ditt'ers from them in not being con- tained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumborum, hut beneath the external arched ligament and the fascia of the quadratus. At the outer border of that muscle it perforates the niiiklle layer of the fascia lumborum, and enters the wall of the abdomen, where it ends in an abdominal and a lateral cutaneous branch (pp. 110 and 274). The first lumbar artery accompanies it. Near the spine it furnishes a small branch to the quadratus mu-scle; and it may communicate by means of this with the fii-st lumbar nerve. The LUMBAR ARTERIES of the aorta are furnished to the back, the spinal canal, and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble Obturator in the abdomen: ends in the thigh; occasionally Sympathe- tic cord in tlie abdo- men .joins that iti thorax; has four or Ave ganglia branches to the spinal nerves, and to the viscera. Last dorsal nerve: course to wall of the abdomen : brancli to muscle. Lumlxar arteries live in number on each side:375 THE LUMBAR ARTERIES AND VEINS. the novtic intercostala in their course ami distribution. Commonly five in number on each side, they arise from the back of the aorta, and the vessels of opjjosite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk. Tiiey pass backwards over the hollowed surface of the course; bodies of the last dorsal and upper four lumbar vertebral, and benealh the pillar of the diapliragm and the psoa?, to reach the and tonni- interval between the transverse processes, where each ends in an '°" "' abdominal and a dorsal branch. The arteries of the right side lie beneath the vena cava. The poaterioi-ov dorsal branches continue to the back between the a branch to transverse processes, and supply offsets to the muscles and to spinal canal. The anterior or abdominal branches are directed outwards, and enter and a the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they are distributed t|','il"vli'ii'° (p. 283). The first lies with the last dorsal nerve across the front °[^^'"' of the quadratiis lumborum, but the others u.sually pass behind that' muscle. Oflsets are furnished to the psoas and cpiadratus muscles, and to the subperitoneal fat, and they anastomose with branches of the renal, cai)sular, spernuitio, I'ight and left colic, and some other vi.sceral arteries. The LUMBAR VEINS are the same in number, and have the .same The veins course as the arteries. Commencing by the union of a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the transverse proces.s, each trunk is ^p^^ directed forwards to the vena cava. They open into the back of the J,'^';"''.''® cava, either singly, or conjointly with those of the opposite side. On ^^^^ io„ggr the left side the veins are longer than on the right, and pass beneath the aorta. Around the transverse j)rocesses, and beneath the psoas muscles, a plexus the lumbar veins communicate freely with one another, with the transverse' ilio-lumbar, and with the common iliac, so as to form a plexus of processes, veins. Issuing above from the plexus is a branch, the ascending lumbar vein, which joins the azygos vein of the corresponding side of the body. Beginnino of the azygos veins. The azygos vein begins on Origin of each side above the first lumbar vertebra by the above-mentioned ascending lumbar vein ; and it is often joined by a branch of com- munication with the inferior cava or the renal vein. The rigid vein entrance enters the thorax usually with the thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies. The le/t vein passes through the pillar of the diapliragm, or sometimes through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins in the tliorax is given at p. 483.CHAPTER VII. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Section I. Definition and situa- tion. Boundaries beliind and before: below. Contents. THE CAVITY OF THE PELVIS. Bissection. For the convenience of examination the pelvis should now be detached from the rest of the trunk by cutting through the disc between the third and fourth lumbal' vertebral and severing the soft parts and ligamentous tissues as required. The lower limbs will already have been removed. The cavity of the pelvis is the part of the general abdominal space situate below the brim of the true pelvis. ; Boundaries. The space is surrounded by the firm ring of the pehic bones : it is bounded behind by the sacrum and coccyx, with the pyri- formes muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; and laterally and in front by the hip-bones covered by the internal obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perineum, the cavitj' is limited by the fascia passing from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ani and coccygei muscles : it is only in this direction, where the bounding structures are to some extent moveable, that the size of the space can be aj)preciably altered. Contents. In the pelvis are contained the urinary bladder with, the beginning of the urethra, the lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organ.s, according to the sex. The viscera are supplied with vessels, nerves, and lymphatics ; and the serous membrane is reflected over them. THE PERITONEUM, THE PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. Directions. The student will now in a good light make a detailed examination of the cavity of the pelvis and of its lining peritoneum. *FosSiE OF THE PELVIS (fig. 141). The pelvic colon terminates in tlie rectum at the back of the pelvis ojiposite the third sacral vertebra, and at that point the bowel ceases to have a mesentery. Tlie peri- The peritoneum invests the sides and front of the rectum in its o euni. upper third, and then, leaving its .sides, continues down the front of the middle third of the bowel, when leaving it altogether, it is reflected on to the upper jiart of the soininal vesicles and thence on to tlie upper surface of the liladder in the male, or on to the upper * For tlie subjoined description the Editor is much indebted to work of Dixon and Binninghani.377 THE PELVIC PERITONEUM. part of the vagina where it adjoins the uterus and thence along the back of the uterus in the female. There is thus produced a deej) hollow at the back of the pelvis which is called the recto-genital pouch, or the recto-vesical in the male Recto- and recto-uterine (Douglas's Pouch) in the female. pouch' When the bladder and rectiuu are distended the floor of this o pouch rises and, in moderate distension of both, the reflection of peritoneum from tlie rectum on to the seminal vesicles is about an inch above the prostate and three inches above the anus. On either side of the rectum is a hollow, occupied in varying Pum-rectiil fossil.378 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Sacro- genital fold Contains unstriiied muscle. Middle Para-vesioal fossa. Transverse vesical fold. Distended bladder. Bladder in the child. False liga- ments of the bladder. Outline of the fascia of the pelvis. Steps to define the pelvic fascia: in the pelvis, degrees by the bowel when distended, which is styled th„ pan^redal TOSSQ/t The para-rectal fossa is limited in front by a fold (tlie sacro- gemtalfold) which passes from the front of the sacrum on either side on to the seminal vesicles or cervix uteri, as the case may be. It is a strong fold containing fibrous and some unstriped muscular tissue. In front of and above the sacro-genital fold along the wall of the pelvis will be seen a fold produced by tlie ureter as it pa.«ses downwards to the lateral angles of the bladder. The slight hollow between the sacro-genital fold and the ureter is spoken of as the middle fossa of the pelvis. In front of the ureter is a hollow on either side of the empty bladder which is appropriately named the 2Mra-vesical fossa. In the male the vas deferens will be seen passing downwards along the side of the pelvis towards the back of this fossa. " Passing outwards from the upper part of the bladder when empty, across the pelvic floor on to the side of the pelvis at the fore part of the para-vesical fossa, is a fold (the transverse vesical fold) which passes over the brim of the pelvis towards the internal abdominal ring and often corresponds to the course of the superior vesical artery. From the summit and upper surface of the bladder the peritonemn is reflected on to the wall of the pelvis and abdomen leaving the front and lower part of that organ entirely uncovered by peritoneum. When the bladder is distended and rises into the abdomen a part of this uncovered surface is in contact with the anterior abdominal wall above the pubic bones, and the bladder may be opened through it without injury to the peritoneum. It should be pointed out that in the child the bladder is only accommodated to a small extent in the pelvis and its anterior surface is in contact with the anterior abdominal wall above the pubis, having no peritoneal investment in front. The reflectives of the peritoneum on to the walls of the pelvis are commonly described as the false ligaments of the bladder, but it is not a satisfactory terminology. The superior fahe ligament is the peritoneum covering the uraches which extends from the summit of the bladder to tlie anterior abdominal wall. The lateral false ligaments are the peritoneal reflections on each side from the bladder to the pelvic wall ; and the posterior false ligaments are simply the 25eritoneal coverings of the sacro-genital folds. The pelvic fascia. Lining the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which covers the obturator internus and pyriformis muscle.", and sends a process inwards to support the viscera. Dissection. To bring into view the pelvic fascia, the external iliac vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissection of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the wall of the pelvis, tlie fascia will be seen on scraping away with the handle of the scaliiel a quantity of fat. The fascia is strong in part but is thin towards the back and in this part the studentTHE TELVIC KASCFA. 37!) should ]irocue(l L-autiously. ]iy tliis proceeding tlie lueinbrane is dissected in its upjier liall', or as low us the sitniition of the portion (recto-vesical) which is directed inwards to the viscc-ra. To display the lower hall", the student must raise the outlet of the jielvis ; and, should the perineum be undissected, the fat nmst and the be taken from the ischio-rectal fossa. The lower part of the pelvic i"^''""''"" • Fig. 142.—Dissection op the Pelv ac. Acetalmlum. 0 c. Aperture of canal for obturator vessel.s and nerves, hounded below by 0 m, tlie upper end of tlie obturator inenil)rane, the greater part of which has lieen taken away. Below these, the f ascia of the obturator internus is exposed by tlie removal of a por- tion of the bone and the muscle. ** Line along which the recto- vesical fitscia is given oil" from the inner side of the obturator fascia. 1 a. Tendinous fibres of origin of fascia will now appear on the outer side of that fossa, as it covers the obturator muscle. To see the outer surface of the fascia (fig. 142), the obturator from outer externus muscle and the obturator membrane should now be'''''''= removed, with the exception of a small portion of the latter at the ic Fascia (drawn bv C. F. Beadi.ks). the levator ani, sliowing through the obturator fascia. f J'!/- Fascia of the pyriformis. .s' ;/ ». Superior gluteal nerve. (-/ a. Gluteal artery. ;)//• Pyriformis muscle. .'/ 4" n. Grreat sciatic nerve. *■ a. Sciatic artery. p V n. I'udic vessels and nei've, entering the sheath in the obturator fascia. (J ssl. Great sacro-sciatic ligament.380 and over pyriformis. Pelvic fascia divided into three parts, viz. :— Obturator fascia: attach- ments ; relations. Fascia of pyriformis. Reoto- vesical fascia later. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. upper end of the thyroid foramen, where it hounds tlie aperture through which the vessels and nerve issue. A portion of the bone IS then to be cut out behind the foramen, and extendinf; into the small sciatic notch, as in the iigure ; and tlie obturator internus muscle IS to be carefully separated from the fascia and taken away Lastly, by turning back the pyriformis muscle and the great sciatic nerve, a thin piece of the fascia covering those structures will he exposed m the great sacro-sciatic foramen {fpy). The PELVIC FASCIA is a thin membrane which covers the deep surface of the muscles bounding tlie cavity, and may be described m three parts. Two of these are parietal and line the wall of the pelvis,—one covering the obturator internus muscle is named the obturator fascia, and the other extending over the pyriformis muscle is the fascia of the pyriformis. The third portion of the fascia is reflected inwards from the wall of the pehds on the upper surface of the levator ani and enters into the formation of the floor of the pelvis, and supports the rectum and bladder, whence it Ls known as the recto-vesical fascia. The obturator fascia (fig. 142) invests closely the pehic portion of the obturator internus muscle, and is fixed to the bone aromid the attachment of the fleshy fibres. Thus, it is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line of the hii>bone between the sacro-iliac articu- lation and the upper end of the obtiu-ator foramen ; at the latter spot it joins the obturator membrane over the edge of the muscle, so as to form the floor of the canal transmitting the obturator vessels and nerve ; and in front it is fixed to the body of the pubis, following the border of the niuscle. Below, it is inserted into the inner side of the inferior ramus of the puliis, and the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium in conjunction with the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. 'Behind, it is fixed to the hip-bone along the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch ; and between the ischial spine and the tuberosity, it is united with the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where the obturator internus issues from the pehas. From the inner surface of this membrane the recto-vesical fascia is given ofl", along a curved line extending from the ischial spine to the upper and inner part of the obturator foramen (fig. 142, * *). Above this line the obturator fascia bounds the cavity of the pelvis at the side, and is in contact with the peritoneum ; while below, it looks into the ischio-roctal fos.sa, except over a small space in front, where it is closely united witli the pubic origin of the IcA'ator ani (I a). The fascia of the pyriforviii (fpy) is very thin, and is continued backwards from the hinder part of the obturator fascia to the sacrum, passing over the front of the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, but beneath the internal iliac vessels, by whose gluteal, sciatic and jnidic branches it is perforated. The recto-vesical fascia may now lie seen in ]iart l)y looking into the pelvis ; and the student may notice a whitish line extending from the lower part of the pubis, close to the symphysis, to theSrDB VIEW OF THK PKLVIS. 881 iscliial spine. This line corresponds in its liiiiiliT jiart, to the origin of the recto-vesie.ll fascia from the obturator fascia ; Init in front, the levator ani extends upwards between the two laniinao of fascia. The disposition of this part of the fa.scia will lie better seen after the hip-bone has been taken away. Dissection. To obtain a side view of the pelvis(tig. 143, p. 382), it will now be necessary to remove the left hiij-bone. The obturator "'' ... , .... ^ 1 1 1 T 1 ili'tllfh la.scia and great sacro-sciatic ligament are nrst to be detached, and ixscin, then the bone is to be sawn through, about three-cpiarters of an saw bone, inch outside the symphysis pubis in front, and at the articulation with the sacrum behind. After the bone has been pulled somewhat away from the rest of the ])eh'is, the ischial sjiine, with tlie recto- vesical fascia attached to it, may be cut ofl' with a bone-forceps ; and the loose piece of the hip-bone may then be removed Ijy cutting and divide thi'ough the fibres of the iliacus and pyriformis muscles, and any ''"f''P'"''**- other structure that may retain it. A block is afterwards to be placed beneath the peh'is. The Then blow bladder is to be moderately distended with air through the ureter, aJd'^cnst'cnd and the urethra is to be tied. Some tow is to be introduced into other parts, the rectimi, also into the vagina if it is a female jielvis ; and a small piece is to be placed in the pouch of peritoneum between the bladder and the rectmn. After the viscera are thus made prominent without distension, the ischial sjjine and the recto-vesical fascia should be raised with hooks, while the levator ani (d) and coccygeus (c) muscles below it are cleaned. Parts closing the pelvis below, fn addition to the recto- Outlet of vesical fa.scia, the following parts close the pelvic cavity on each dasedby .side, between the sacrum and the pubic symphysis. Behind, the student will meet with the pyriformis passing through pyriformis, the great sacro-sciatic foramen, with the gluteal \'essels and ner\'e gJus°and' (fig. 142, (J a and s(j n) above it. Next comes the coccygeus muscle snero scintic (fig. 143, c) on the small sacro-sciatic ligament, between the ischial spine and the coccyx ; one border of this muscle is contiguous to the with vessel pyrifonnis, the other to the levator ani: and Ijetween its upper border and the pyriformis lie the great sciatic and pudic nerves, with some other branches of the sacral plexus, and the sciatic ancl pudic vessels. The greater part of the pelvic outlet is closed by by levator the levator ani (d), which extends forwards from the coccygeus to the symphysis pubis. It meets its fellow behind, but the mu.scles mi'i by of opposite sides are separated in front by the urethra, with the Hga!lfe',',t.'' vagina in the female ; and the interval between them in front is closed by the triangular ligament of the ]K'rineum (h). The coccYGEDs muscle (fig. 143, c) is Hat and triangular, and Coccysjeus: has much tendinous substance mixed with its filires. It arises from origin; the upper part of the inner surface of the ischial spine (fig. 139, p. 369), and some fibres are attached to the adjoining part of the obturator fascia. Widening as it passes inward.s, tiie muscle is insertion; inserted into the side, and the contiguous anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lowest piece of the sacrum. The inner surface looks to the pelvis, and is in contact with the relations'of surfaces382 iiiul boidiii-s use. Le\-fitor situation ; DISSECTION OF THE I'ELVIS. rectum : the opposite surface is in great part covered by the small sacro-scatichgnment, to which it is closely united. The t p e border IS contiguous to the pyriformis nutsde, vessels and ne ve intervening ; and the lower meets the levator aid Action This muscle helps the levator ani in supporting, and ™g^tlie i^oor of the pelvis : it n.ay also dra. the c<!^yx "iglSy The LEVATOR ANI (fig. 143, D, also fig. 92, p 241) is a thin «at mttscle, which is attached above to the side of tit p 1-^ anj descends ,nto the outlet of the cavity, where it joins its Uw a^d supports the viscera. origin from inibis, triangiiliir ligamont, ischial .spi [ic, and pelvic fa.scia ; inaartion into central point of perineum, Pia. 143.—Side View of the Mosoles in the Ootlet op the Pelvis (Illustrations oe Dissectioxs). Muscles: A. Gluteus maximus, cut. B. Ilio-psoas, cut. c. Coccygeus. u. Levator ani. E. External sphincter. i\ Ejaculator nrinaj. o. Ischial spine, cut off. H. Triangular ligament. Arteries: a. External iliac artery, cut. b. External iliac vein, cut. c. Obliterated hypogastric. d. Upper, and e, lower vesical. /. Internal pudic. ]\^eri-cs: 1. Great sciatic. 2. Inferior liiEniorrhoidal and peri- neal of pudic. 3. Dorsal nerve of penis. It arises anteriorly liy tuiidiiious fasciculi from the back of the pubis along an oblique line in front of the obturator internus(fig. 139); and below this some lleshy fibres often spring from the upper surface of the triangular ligament. Posteriorly it is attached to the lower and inner part of the ischial s]iine (fig. 139) ; and between tlie,se csseous attachments the muscle takes origin in the angle between the obtura- tor and recto-vesical portions of the pelvic fascia (along the curved line**-in fig. 142). From this wide origin the fibres converge, the anterior being directed backward.?, and the posterior downwards and inward.s, to be inserted in the following manner:—The mostRBOTO-VESK^AL FASCIA. 383 anterior fibres, few in niunber, join with the muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perineum ; the succeeding fibres, which arise from the pubis, are the longest, and i)ass backwards over the prostate to the side of the rectum, where they mix to a iwtiim, small extent with the fibres of the sphincter muscles, but most of them are continued to the tip of the coccyx (jnibo-coccijgeus) ; and the posterior fibres meet the opposite muscle in a narrow aponeurosis n metliaii beiiind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx {kchio-coccyjeus). ' '^"•^'^^''^' The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the trian- relations of gular ligament; and there is an interval between the two muscles which allows the urethra, with the vagina in the female, to i)ass from the pelvis. The posterior border is adjacent to the coccygeus muscle. The upper surface is in contact with the recto-vesical and fascia; and the under surface looks to the ischio-rect<il fossa, and is ^'^^'^"■^"^ '• covered by the thin anal fascia. Actim. The levatores ani acting together support and raise the u.se, floor of the pelvis, and compress the pelvic viscera. They are used floor"'^''' in expelling the contents of the organs, and, in forcible expiratory on cavity of efibrts, they act in conjunction with the muscles of the abdominal "Momon, wall. At the end of deftBcation, they empty the lower part of the °" ■'ectum. rectum, compressing it from behind forwards ; and the lower fibres assist in closing the anal passage. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles form a lleshy layer or pelvic diaphragm across the outlet of Pelvic the pelvis, similar to that which sejjarates the abdomen from the ''''^i*'''''8'"- chest : this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives l^assage to the rectum. Dissection. The recto-vesical fascia will now be seen by Dissection detaching the fibres of the levator ani and the coccygeus at their ("Jsicnf"" origin, and throwing both downwards. The thin membrane descends above the levator ani to the side of the bladder and the rectum, and sends downwards .sheaths round the prostate and the gut. To demonstrate' those sheaths, one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the attachment of the fiiscia ; and the sheaths are to be separated from the viscera. The RECTO-VESICAL FASCIA supports and partly invests the viscera necto-vosi- of the pelvis. Covering the pelvic surface of the levator ani, it is ^"^"'^ '■ fixed above, like that muscle, to the pubis in front, and to the obturator fascia at the side ; while behind, it is continued over the ' coccygeus muscle into the fascia of the pyriformis. Below, it meets the fascia of the opposite side in the centre of the pelvis, and forms forms the a partition across the cavity, like that of the levator ani, which is I',°°'"°f • perforated by the bladder and the rectum. The partition ^ strengthened on each side by a thicker band (the so-called white line of the pelvic fascia) stretching from the pubis to the ischial spine. It is concave above and convex below, and divides the cavity sni)ports of the pelvis from the perineal space. This septum is attached to = the viscera which jiierce it, forming ligaments for them : and from the under surface sheaths are prolonged on the rectum and the prostate, prolongn- tioiLS are,shciith on the rectum anrl on prostate. The pros- tate plexus, Fascia in the female. Ligaments of the fascia anterior ligaments, and lateral of tlie bladder; ligament of rectum. Contents of the pelvis, and outline of their position. Take away fascia, and clean vessels. DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. The sheath on the rectum encloses the lower three inches of the intestine and gradually becomes very thin towards the anus : it is separated from the intestine by a layer of fat. On the prostate the sheath is thinner than on the rectum, and very closely adherent ; it is continued downwards to the apex of that body, where it passes into tJie upper layer of the triangular ligament of the urethra: between it and the proper investing capsule of the prostate are the 2yrostate plexus of veins and some small arteries. In the female the fascia has much the same arrangement a.« in the male ; but the vagina perforates the membrane, and receives a tube from it, like the prostate. The true ligaments of tlie bladder are two on each side, anterior and lateral, and are portions of the recto-vesical fascia. The anterior (or puho-prostatic) reaches from tlie back of the pubis to the fore part of the prostate and the neck of the bladder; it is a narrow white band, and encloses muscular fibres of the bladder. The lateral ligament is the side piece of the fascia, which is fixed to the upper border of the prostate gland, and to the side of the bladder close above the vesicula seminalis ; from it an oflfset is continued inwards behind the vesicula seminalis, so as to join a like piece from the other side, and form a sheatli for those bodies. On each side of the rectum is a strong wide piece of the recto- vesical fascia, which is attached externally to the ischial spine of the hip-bone, and supports that viscus like the bladder. RELATIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Directions. If the student dissects a female pelvis, he will pass on to page 390 referring to this section for the description of the rectum, iDladder and other parts. Contents and jmsition (figs. 144 and 145). The viscera of the male pelvis are—the rectum, the bladder with the prostate and first part of the urethra, the lower ends of the ureters, parts of the vasa deferentia, and the vesiculse seminales. The rectum (fig. 145, k) lies at the back of the pelvis, and takes a curved course in the hollow of the sacrum and coccjrx, round the end of which it bends backwards as the anal canal (Symington). The bladder (a) is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland (6) ; and the urethra, after per- forating the prostate, curves forwards to the penis. The ureter (h) descends by the side of the rectum to the lateral angle at the hinder part of the bladder on each side ; and the vas deferens (/) and vesicula seminalis (g) are between the bladder and rectum on each side. Some of these organs are partly invested by peritoneum, as already described. Dissection. All the recto-vesical fascia, except the anterior true ligament of tlie bladder, may be taken from the prostate and rectum. The obliterated hypogastric cord from the internal iliac artery should be followed forwards along the l)]adder from the back of the pelvis; and tlie branches of the s;inie artery to the bladder shouldMALE PELVIS. l)e cleaned. WWn tlio fat lias been cleared from the rectum, willi- out injuring its arteries, the jiouch of the peritoneum, in which tow Fio. 144 -Vkrtioal Section op a Male Pklvis (Dixon and B.rminouam). [btiOH THE JoOUNAL OF An/iTOHY AND PlIYSIOLOGY, VoL. 3G.) a. Vesical arteries. Ghiteal artery. />. OMuralor artery. /. i„t. i„,dic artery. c. Infenor vesical artery. ^. Sciatic artery. «. MiiJ. Iiiemorrlioidal artery. lias been placed, will be brought into view, with the ureter passing to the bladder across its side. The bladder below the peritoneum is to be cleaned ; and the vas Ti.o sovernl ueterens is to be followed down to the seminal sac. Take away to'i"'""''' Q y clenneil.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Recluiii; extent and length ; conrse and supports; Covered by peritonenni with care tlie remains of the sheath of the vesicuhi seiniiialis, defining at the same time the vas deferens internal to the latter. Tlie iiECTDM, or last part of the great intestine (figs. 144 and 145, Ic), extends from the third piece of the sacrum at the termina- tion of the pelvic colon to a little more than an inch in front of the tip of the coccyx where it hends downwards and backwards as the anal canal. It is about five inches in length. The bowel follows the curve of the sacrum and the coccyx, and is supported mainly by the peritoneum, the recto-vesical fascia, and the peiineal muscles. It lies behind the bladder, and is covered by peritoneum in front Fig. 145.-—Side View of the Dissected Male Pelvis. Urinary bladder partly filled. Prostate. Membranous part of the nretbra. Spouwy part of the urethra. Cru.s penis, divided. Vas deferens. g. Vesicula semiualis. h. Ureter. i. Recto-vesical fascia, /r. Rectum. /. Levator aui. cut. for about the upper two-thirds of its extent, and on the sides for its iipper third only (p. 376). Immediately below this it ]nerccs the recto-vesical fascia, and receives its sheatli from that membrane, relations.- Resting on it is the triangular base of the Idaddur, with the vesicula; seminales and vasa deferentia ; and beneath it are the sacrum and coccyx. On eacli side is the coccygeus muscle. I'liri not After the peritoneum leaves it, the rectum is directed down- periToneum: Wards and forwards from the end of the coccyx, tlirough the hinder part of the perineum, for a distance of about one inch and a liali',387 URINARY BLADDER. to tlie anal passage. This part of the bowel is supported by the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by llie levatores ani and external sphincter muscdes. In front of this part are the jjrostate, the membranous part of the rolations urethra, and the bulb of tlie corpus spongiosum urethraj. The avomid-^'* levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it as in a sling. Sometimes the lower half of tlie rectum soin.-iiincs is very much enlarged, especially in women and old men ; and in ^l^ll^i that condition in the male it rises up on each side of the prostate. The anal 2>a>isaye or canal (Symington) leads downwards and An.ii caiuii. backwards from the lower end of the rectum to the anal opening. Its length varies from half an inch to one inch, being shorter wlien the bowel is distended. It is surrounded by the internal and e.vternal sphincter muscles, and is compressed laterally in the intervals between defsecation, so that its side-walls are in contact, and the lumen has the form of a median slit. The URINARY BL.VDDER (vesica urinaria; figs. 144 and 145, a) BltirldCT is is the receptacle for the urine, and is situate in the fore uart of the '" i""'^''* pelvis. ,MMi,ly, When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and lies against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when distended it becomes rather egg-shaped, with the larger part and projeots towards the rectum, and the ape.x to the abdominal wall. In distension during life it is slightly curved forwards over the pubic bones, and projects above them ; and if its a.vis were prolonged Axis, forwards and backwards, it would touch the abdominal wall a variable distance (according to the distension) above the jiubic .symphvsia in front, and the lower end of the sacrum liehind. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in Position in early life as in the adult. In the new-born child it rises much above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and has little or no basal surface, sim]dy tapering down to the urethral orifice which is the lowest part and is opi)osite the upper border of the .symphysis pubic (Symington). During early years the bladder rapidly sinks, but it is only after pubeity that Its final position is atUained. At all tinie.s its anterior .surface is uncovered by peritoneum. In the adult the bladder is fur the most ])art contained within in tin-,ul,ilL. the space enclo.sed by the pelvic bones, and the base iiroiects backwards. Funn. In the empty condition the bladder is somewhat Hattened Fonn. from above downwards, and triangular in outline, presenting an upper surface with a ]>osterior bcnxler and two lateral borders converging in front at the apex or summit, a basal surface oppased to the rectum, and an anterior surface ojjposed to the pubic symphysis. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and tlie peritoneum, as already described (pp. 378 and 384) The relations of the moderately full bhidder are as follows :— The summit or apex is rounded, and from it three ligamentous ApexluiH ihvtivi cordd C C 2 from it.388 Basal surface. Anterior, superior and lateral. Neck, Condition of empty bladder. Ureter in pelvis, enters bladder. Prostate: position : fonn ; axis ; relations of anterior surface, posterior surface, and side; upex and base : DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. cords are prolonged to the umbilicus ; the central one of tliese is the nrachus ; and the two lateral are the obliterated hypoKastric arteries (fig. 109, p. 299). All the surface behind the obliterated vei3sels IS covered by peritoneum. Surfaces. The base or basal surface rests against the middle part ot the rectimi. Connected with it are the vesiculse seniinales and the vasa deferentia ; and l)etween these is a triangular simce trom which the peritoneum is mostly absent. ' The anterior or pubic surface of the body is in contact with the pubic bones and anterior true ligaments, as well as with the abdominal wall if the bladder is very full. It is alto<^ether free from peritoneum. ° The superior or abdominal surface is entirely covered bv the serous membrane, and has the small intestine and the pelvic '^colon resting on it ; the ureter enters its postero-lateral angle at either side, and the vas deferens courses over the hinder part of this surface beneath the peritoneum. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the obliterated hypogastric artery, which marks the extent of the peritoneal covering at the side. The surface below this is connected with the pelvic fascia by very loose areolar tissue. The neck (cervix) is the part of the bladder near the urethra, and is surrounded by the prostate gland. This is the lowest part of the organ. When the bladder is empty, the upper wall falls upon the lower; the apex lies at the upper end of the pubic symphysis ; and the base is of very small extent and looks downwards. In a median section the cavity then appears as a slit, which is continued backwards for a short distance beyond the beginning of the urethra. The DKETER (figs. 144 and 145, h) crosses the common or the external iliac arterj^, and inclines forwards below the level of the obliterated hypogastric artery, being covered by the peritoneum aliove the sacro-genital fold. It enters the bladder at the upper and outer part of the base, at the distance of one inch and a half or two inches from the prostate gland. The PROSTATE GLAND (figs. 144 and 145, b) surrounds the neck of the bladder. Its shape is conical with the base turned upwards, and its size about equals thai of a large chestnut. In the recumbent position, a line from the apex through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely Ijackwards and slightly downwards towards the sacriuu ; but in the erect state of the body the axis is nearly vertical. The anterior surface is about three-quarters of an inch from the symphysis pubis, to which it is attached by the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. On this surface the dorsal vein of the penis divides to enter the prostatic plexus. The posterior surface has the greatest extent, and is close to the rectum ; this is the jwrt that is i'elt by the linger introduced into the bowel through the anus. On each side the prostate is covered by (he levator ani. The apex rests on the upper surface of the triangular ligament;389 THE URETHRA. and tlie base surrounds the neck of the bladder and the common seminal duets. The iirostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto- it is con- vesical ihacia (p. 349), and the prostatic plexus of veins surrounds luZh^"'' it. Through the gland the urethra takes its course to the perineum ; and the common seminal ducts pierce it obliquely to open into tlie urethra, as will be seen in the examination of the organ after its removal from the body. The size of the prostate varies much ; size may and in old men it may acquire a considerable magnitude. increase. The VESICUL/E SEMixN'ALES (fig. 145, (/) are two small sacculated Seminal bodies, each about two inches long, between the base of the bladder : and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and has the larger their end turned upwards towards the ureter, while the smaller touches relations, the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostjite gland the vesiculse approach one another, only the vasa deferentia intervening; but higher up they diverge, and enclo.se a triangular space at the ba.se of the bladder. The vesiculce are and si.eatl. contamed in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and is lined by involuntiiry muscular fibres. The VAS DEFERENS, or the e.xcretory duct of the testis (figs. 144 Vas and 145,/), in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, and crossing the obliterated hypogastric artery, is directed downwards along the hinder part of the bladder to the base of the prostate, where it forms the common seminal or coi.rse • ejaculatory duct by joining with the duct from the vesicula nnites ivith seminalis. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it jiasses internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is saccidated. Dissection. The prostate being cleaned the membranous and spongy parts of the urethra will now be cleanly laid bare on the left side l)ut not opened. /c'^'',^'!f''™f'' '^^■'^I'^toiy passage for the urine and semen Urethra- (hg. 144), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis In length it measures about eight inches, and presents one or two length • curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is cnrves •' directed do^^^nvards and forwards through the triangular ligament of the perineum to the root of the penis, forming a large curve with the concavity to the pubis. Thence to its termination the urethra is contained in the penis ; and while this body remains pendent the canal forms a second ben.l with the concavity downwards : but If the penis ,s rai.sed the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divi.,ion. divided into three parts—prostiitic, membranous, and .spongy tngth IS about one inch and a quarter, and in (he erect posture of the body It descends nearly vertically to the triangular ligament. The membranous part (c), about three-quarters of an inch long, Mem- intervenes between the ape.x of the prostate and the lower surface = ot the triangular ligament. It slants forwards in the erect posture to the lower part of the triangular ligament; and as the bull, ofDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 390 relations. Spongy. Fixed curve of iiretlir.i: extent; wliere greatest. Voluntary and invo- luntary muscles surround it. Size. Contents of the female pelvis, and their situation. The peri- toneum on the uterus; tlie next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, its under surface measures only half an inch. This portion of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament (n). Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethrte ; and close behind it are Cowper's glands and the rectum. The sjiongypart (d) is so named from its_ being surrounded by a cellulo-vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and the canal terminates anteriorly in the orifice named the meatus urinarius at the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethi'a, and measures about six inches. At its com- mencement this division of the excretory canal is covered by the ejaculator urinse muscle. The fixed mrve of the urethra is the bend at the hinder part of the canal as it lies behind the pubis. It extends from the bladder to an inch and a half in front of the aperture in the triangular ligament, and comprises the prostatic and membranous portions, with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned downwards and backwards, is greatest immediately below the triangular ligament in the erect posture of the body ; and from this point it ascends to the bladder, but is directed nearly horizontally forwards to the penis. It is surrounded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres ; thus, above the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of the prostate ; within the ligament by the voluntary constrictor urethrse, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle; and lielow the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urinse. The size of the canal is least where the tube lies between the layers of the ligament, except at the external urinary meatus ; and it is largest in the middle of the prostate. RELATIONS OP THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. In the 23elvis of the female are contained the rectum and the bladder, with the ureters and urethra, as in the male ; but there are in addition tlie uterus with its accessories, and the vagina. Position. The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the male pelvis, and forms a like curve. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of all are the liladder and the urethra. There are tlnis three tubes connected with the viscera in this sex, viz., the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum ; and all are directed downwards to the surface. The Peritoneum. The student should first master the descrip- fion of the peritoneum of the pelvic cavitj' contained on pages 376 to 378. In addition to wliat has already been de.scribed it will be noticed that whilst the peritoneum covers the whole of the back of the uterus it only passes some two-thirds of the way down its anterior surface and is then reflected on to the upper surface of the bladder without .again touching the vagina.THE BROAD LIGAMENT. ■m On each side of the uterus it forms a broad fold (broad ligament) which attaches that organ to the wall of the pelvis. The blaikler in distension rises and occupies the shallow utero- vesical poueli in front of tlie uterus ; and the deep recto-uterine or Recto-genital fossa. Sacro-genital fold. Fig. 146.—Vesical Section throcoh tub Female Pelvis (Dixon and BiKMiNoiiAM). (From the Joounaloe Anatomy and PiiYsroLOQT, Vol. 36.) Doughus's pouch behind is variously occupied by the pelvic colon and coils of the small intestine. The BROAD LIGAMENT of the uterus passing from the side of the the broad uterus to the pelvic wall completes the division of the pelvic cavity "sament. of the female into these two main parts Along the upper border of the ligament the Fallopian tube will be noticed, and at the back, against the side wall of the pelvis, the ovary will be found. The part of the ligament below the Fallopian tubs392 Meso- salpunic. Meso- ovniium ; ligament of the o\'ary; ovario- pelvic ligament; round liga- ment. Use descrip- tion of male pelvis for muscles and fasciae. Then clean the viscera of the female pelvis. Helations of the rec- tum, and anal canal. Utenis: form and situation ; DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and above the ovary is caUed the Tmso-salpinx and the short fold attaching the ovary is the meso-ovarmm. Passing from the lower and inner end of the ovary to the upper part of the uterus behind IS a well-marked band—the ligamenl of the ovary; and a fold con- taining the ovarian vessels will be seen connecting the ovary to the pelvic wall oyer the external iliac artery ; this is tlie ovarvj.pdvu ligament, or the suspensory ligament of the ovary. Finally in front of the broad ligament a fibrous cord-the roimd ligament of the nterus—can be traced from the uterus over the pelvic brim to the internal abdominal ring. The false ligaments of the bladder are substantially the same as in the male (p. 378). The so-called posterior false ligament is Identical with the utero-vesical fold of peritoneum and contains the superior vesical vessels. Directions. The instructions for the removal of the hip-bone and for the distension of the viscera, as well as for the dissection of the fascia and muscles of the pelvis given on page 378 should now be followed, and after the student has learnt the muscles and the fascia, which are nearly alike in both sexes, as described on pages 380 to 384, he will make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. On taking away the recto-vesical fascia and much fat the viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of the uterus, fasten it up with a piece of string passed through the upper end. The reflections of the jiieritoneum on the viscera°are to be preserved ; and a piece of cotton-wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated cord of the hypogastric artery is to be followed on the bladder ; and the ureter is to be traced forwards by the side of the uterus to the bladder. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum are to be cleaned and separated a little from one another at the lower part of the pelvis; but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The RECTUM is not so curved in the female as in the male, and is generally larger. Descending along the front of the sacrum and coccyx to the anus, its relations are similar to those of the rectum in the male (p. 386). It reaches an inch and a half in front of the tip of the coccyx, and has the vagina in front, and in contact with it; the connection between the two being consideraUy stronger Ijelow than above. Inferiorly it ends in the anal- canal, which inclines backwards, away from the vagina so as to leave between the two a space which corresponds, on the surface of the body, with the perineum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani are on the sides, and unite Isehind the rectum in front of the coccyx, and the sphincter muscles surround the anal passage as in the male. The UTERUS (fig. 146 and fig. 147, o) is rather 23yriform in shape, and flattened from liefore backwards. Unless enlarged, it lies below the brim of the pelvis, between tlie bladder and the rectum ; and it is supported by its ligaments. Its wider end is free and393 THE UTERUS. placed upwards ; and the lower end communicates witli the vagina. Tlie axis of the uterus may be said to correspond generally with po-sition and that of the inlet of the i)elvis ; but the position of the organ "is sub- ject to considerable variation, and is especially iiiHuenced by the state of the bladder. The fundus is commonly directed forwards, and the anterior surface rests against the bladder ; but sometimes the organ is more upright, or even inclined backwards, and then the small intestine descends into the vesico-uterine pouch. 147.—Side Vikw of Muscles and Viscera: A. Pyriformis muscle, cut. B. Large pso.as, cut. c. Gluteu.s maximus, cut. D. Coccygeus, and e, levator thrown down. F. Sphincter vaginse. Urethra. Urinary bladder. Vagina. Rectum. Ovary and its ligament. G. H. I. K. L. M. Fallopian tube. THE Female Pelvis (Illustrations of Dissections). N. Round ligament, o. Uterus. Arteries : ani, a. External iliac. b. Internal iliac. c. Ovarian. d. Uterine. e. Vaginal. /. Upper hajmorrhoidal. ff. Gluteal, cut. h. Obliterated hypogastric. /. Vesical. oZlt TT T'^"''' f l'^r'^'^ peritoneum, relations of except in tlie lower third where it is in contact with the bladder '""•f''«es, 1 he ^;o.<enor.mr/ace is rounded and is invested altogether by the serou-s membrane. Tlie upper end ov f undus is the largest part of the organ and i.s in extrcn.itios contact with the small intestine. The lower end or neck (cervix) is received into the vagina.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 394 and side. Round ligament. Falloiiian tube. Ovary, and its ligament. Vagina: extent and form ; length; axis: relations. Bladder resembles tliat of the male; differences in the two sexes. the To ecacli side are attacheil the broad ligament with the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. The round or suspensory ligament (n) is a fibrous cord about five inches long which is directed forwards and outwards to the internal abdominal ring, and then through the inguinal canal to end in the groin (see p. 277). This cord lies over the obliterated liypogastric and the external iliac artery ; and it is surrounded by peritoneum, which accompanies it a .-^hort way into the canal. The Fallopian tube (m), about four inches long, is contained in the upper or free border of the broad ligament. One end is con- nected to the uterus close to the fundus, while the other is folded round the ovary. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but at the op])osite extremity it is dilated like a trumpet, and fringed (fig. 146), forming the corpus fimbriatuvi: one of the fimbria} is attached to the upper part of the ovary. The OVARY (l) is oval in form, but rather flattened, and very variable in size. It forms a projection at the back of the Ijroad ligament, and is invested by the peritoneum except along one (the attached) border. In the natural condition it lies nearly vertically against the side wall of the pelvis, and is embraced by the outer part of the Fallopian tube : the direction of its free border varies. Its lower end, which is directed somewhat forwards, is attached to the uterus by the special fibrous band already noticed, about one inch and a half in lengtb, the ligament of the ovary. The VAGINA (fig. 146 and fig. 147, i) is the tube by which the uterus communicates with the exterior of the body. It is com- pressed from before backwards, being slit-like in section from side to side ; and its length is about three inches. As it follows the bend of the rectum, it is slightly curved ; and its axis corresponds below with that of the outlet, but higher up with that of the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the vagina are the base of the bladder, and the urethra; and behind it is the rectum, but the peritoneum inter- venes between the two for a short distance at the upper end. It is transmitted through an opening in the recto-vesical fascia, wbicli sends a sheath along the lower lialf of the tube ; and the levator ani lies along the side external to this. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior wall; and lower end, the narrowest part of the canal, is encircled by sphincter vaginaj muscle. A large plexus of veins surrounds vagina within its sheath. In children, and in the virgin, external aperture is partly closed by the hymen (p. 255). The BLADDER (fig. 146 and fig. 147, h) is jilaced at the fore part of the pelvis, in front of the vagina, and in contact with the back of the 2Hil)ic bones. Its positions and relations .so closely resemble those of the bladder in the male body, as to render unnecessary a separate description of them (p. 387). The chief differences in the bladder of tlie two sexes are tlie following :— In the female the bladder is more globular than in the male, and the transverse often exceeds the longitudinal measurement. the the the theVESSELS AND NERVES OK THE PELVIS, 896 Tlie boHG is of loBB extent, and iH in contact with tlic vagina aixi tlic n(!(:lc of till; iit<ii'iiH. 'I'lie va«a defercntia, vi-Bicidoa Beniinaleo and proflalc are almelit. 'J'lie URKTKK liiiB a loiigf!!' course, in tlie female tiian in tlie male Oiiusi! of jH-lvit) ijefore it reacIiCH llie l)la<ldei'. Aft<;r crossing tlie internal iliiic vessels, it passes hy the neck of llie uterus to its destination. Tlie i;nCTnnA (fig. 140 and (ig. 147, a) is aliout (jiie indi and a Undlira: half long, anrl hy its position corresjionds to the prostatic and l>-iii{tli; meiiihranous portions of the male passage, although it represents only the up[)er half of the prostatic uretlira. It is sitiu-ite in front poHition ami of tli<i vagina, an<l descrihes a slight curve, with the concavity'^""""' forwards, helow the symidiysis jiuhis. Its external opening {mi'.alm urinariun) is placed within the vulva 2.0.')). In its course to the surface it i« enihedded in the tissue of the reUtloiiH. vagina wall, and perforaUis the triangular ligament of the perineum, where it is surrounded hy lihres of the deep transverse muscle, and a layer of circular involuntary fihres (p. 2.08). A plexus of veins surrounds the urethra as well as the vagina. VEHSKLK AND NERVEH OK THE PEI,VIH. In the pelvis are contained the internal iliac vessels and their VPHwinand hraiiches i(> the viscera, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sym- ['/'"■^"."f pathetic nerve. This section is to he used by the dissectoiu of hoth the male and female j)elvis. JJirectimH. Thu internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. The air should he previously let out of the bladder ; and this viscus and the rectum, with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn aside from their situation in the centre of the jielvis (fig. 148). Dissection. The loose tissue and fat are to be removerl from To <li»Bect the trunk of the vessels, as well as from the branches of the arteries that leave the pelvis, or supply the viscera; and the cord of the" 'obliterated hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. AVith the vessels are offsets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, neneii, though these will probably not be seen ; but in dissecting the veasels to the blatlder and rectum, visceral branches of the sacral spinal nerves will now come into view. The veins may be removed veinK. in a general dissection. When the vessels have been prepared the bladder may again be distended, and the viscera replaced. The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 148, </, p. 397) is One of IiiUriu.1 the trunks resulting from the division of the common iliac artery, = and furnishes branches to the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the organs of gftneration, and to the limb. In the u<lult the vessel is a short trunk of large cajiacity, which »iz.!nn.i mea8ur(!S from an inch to an inch and a half in length. Directed • 'lownwards tfjwards the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the artery terml- termination; nates generally in two divisions (anterior and posterior), from whichDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 396 reliitions ; position of vein ; branches. Artery in the foetus, on the bladder, and beyond branches. Transforma- tion into tliat of tlie adult. Trunk often varies in length, rarely in size. the seveival offsets are furnished. From the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends forwards on the l;ladder The artery is covered by the peritoneum, and the ureter cro'sses Its upper end obliquely on the inner side. It lies on the sacrum and the lumbo-sacral cord. It is accompanied by the internal iliac vein, which is posterior to it, and somewhat to its inner side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the following manner : From the posterior division . 1. Ilio-lumbar. 2. Upper lateral sacral. 3. Lower lateral sacral. 4. Gluteal. From the anterior division: 1. Sujjerior vesical. 2. Inferior vesical (vaginal in the female). 3. Obturator. 4. Middle hsemorrhoidal. 5. Uterine (in the female). 6. Sciatic. 7. Internal pudic. Artery in the fmtus. In the ftetus the hypogastric artery takes the place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus. At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery ; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the bladder, and along the side of that viscus to its aj^ex. ; Beyond the bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally, at the umbilicus, the vessels of opposite sides come in con- tact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, where they receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, brandies similar to those in the adult are furnished by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. Change to adult state. Wlien uterine life has ceased, the hypo- gastric artery shrinks in consequence of the arrest of the current of blood through it, and finally liecomes obliterated, more or less completely, to within an inch or so of its commencement. The part of the trunk whicli is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the bladder, forming the early part of the siqierior vesical artery. Peculiarities. The Icnfjth of the internal iliac artery varies from half an inrli to tliree inches, its extreme measurements ; but in two-tliirds of "a large number of bodies it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half (R. Qnain). Size. In the rare cases where the femoral trunk is derived from the internal iliac, antl is placed at the back of the thigh, this vessel is larger than the external iliac. Branches of ^- The BRANCHES arising from die posterior division of the pi'rt'"''''''""'^ internal iliac may be fii-st examined. iiio-iumimr ^he iUo-lumbar artery (lig. 148, h) passes ouhvards beneath the Ita.s an397 THE INTEENAL ILIAC ARTEEY. psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the lumbo- sacral cord, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch :—■ The cmmdiiKj or lumbar branch runs beneath the jisoas ; it ascf-ndiny supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, anastomoses with the last lumbar artery, and sends a small .fpinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra. The transverse or iliac branch divides into olfsets that ramify in a transverse bi'anch. Gluteal artery. Sciatic artery. Internal imriic artery. Fig. 148.- A. BUulder. B. Lower end of the rectum c. Levator ani. D. Psoas magnus. E. Psoas imrvus. F. Iliacus. o. Vas deferens. H. Vesicula semiualis. Arteries: a. Aorta splitting into the common iliaos. 6. Mjddle sacral, c. Common iliac. The Internal Iliao Aeteky (Tiedemann). d. External iliac. e. Deep epigastric. /. Deep circumflex iliac. g. Internal iliac, continued by an impervious cord along the bladder. h. Ilio-lumbar. i. Lateral sacral. k. Obturator. I. Middle hemorrhoidal. Neri'es: 1. Lnmbo-sacral cord. 2, 3, 4. Upper three sacral nerves. 5. Obturator. the iliacus muscle, some running over and some beneath it. At the iliac crest these branches anastomose with the lumbar and deep circumflex iliac arteries ; some deep twigs communicate with the obturator artery, and enter the hip-bone. The ilio-lumbar vein opens into the common iliac trunk. The lateral sacral arteries (tig. 148, i) are usually two in number, .:^a"mr' arteries398 supply spinal bniiiclies. Gluteal artery : small oflsets. Branches of anterior part. Upper vesical. Lower vesical or vaginal. Middle hiemor- rhoidal. Hypogastric trunk. Obturator artery courses across pelvis: oflsets in jjelvis ; iliac branch, pubic btancli. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. superior and inferior: they correspond in situation with the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by the side of the apertures ui the sacrum. These arteries supply the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with each other, a.s well as with the middle sacral. A spinal hranch enters each aperture in the sacrum. ^ The gluteal artery {^iq. 148, m) is the continuation of the posterior division of the internal iliac, and is destined for the gluteal muscles on the outer surface of the hip-bone. It is a short, thick trunk which leaves the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic fcramen above the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein and the superior gluteal nerve, passing between the lumbo-sacral cord and the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, or sometimes between the anterior divisions of the first and second sacral nerves, as in fig. 148. In the pelvis the artery gives small hranclus to the con- tiguous muscles, viz., iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a twi- to the hijj-bone. ° B. The BRANCHES of the anterior division of the internal iliac artery are the following :— The superior vesical artery is the imperfectly obliterated portion of the foetal hypogastric artery. It divides into three or four branches, which ramify over the apex and body of the bladder : the lowest of these is sometimes called the middle vesical branch. The inferior vesical artery often arises in common with the branch to the rectmn. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculaj seminales, and the prostate. A small oflFset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens, and is known as the artery of the vas deferens. The vaginal artery (fig. 147, e) of the female takes the place of the inferior vesical of the male. It descends on the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice ; while, superiorly, it communicates with the lower branches of the uterine artery. This branch is often given ofl:' by the uterine artery. The middle hmmorrhoidal artery (fig. 148, ij commonly arises from the inferior vesical (or vaginal), or from the pudic trunk. It is spent on the anterior and lower part of the rectum, and anastomoses with the other hsemorrhoidal arteries. The preceding arteries sometimes arise in common with the superior vesical, and the trunk of origin is termed the hypogastric trunk. The obturator artery (fig. 148, h) is directed forwards below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen ; passing through that opening it ends in two branches, which ramify on the membrane closing the thyroid foramen, beueAth the obturator externus muscle. In the pelvis the artery luis its coiu- IJanion nerve above, and vein below it ; and it there gives rise to :— An iliac branch which enters the iliac fossa to supply the boue and the iliacus muscle, and anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. A pubic brandi (fig. 107, /, ]i. 294) ascends on the ])osterior asjiect of the pubis, and communicates with the correspontlingBlUNCHKS OK THK JNTKUNAL IJJAC AUrKHY. 399 bjauch of tlic opposiUi wde, aud with au offset from the epigastric arteiy. Sometimes the olAuiatoi' takes oj'igiji from the deep epigajilric, as expiaim'-d oii p. 284, or fiom tlie external iliac aiteiy. 'J'he Hcialu: arlery (tig. J 48, n) is the hiigest branch of the aiiterioi' Sciatic di visiou of tJie iutci'iial iliac, aud is coutiuued over the j.)N'rifoi'mis Jiiuscle and the saci-al ];lexus to the hjjmjr j>arl ol the griMit sacro- iiiili. i«:lvi«, sciatic foiamen, wheje it issues \>til\WMU the j^yriformis aud the coccygeus miLsdes. OuUide the j>elvis it divides into branches iui<l uuuide beneath the gluteus maxiinus, and is distributed to the buttock : in the j>elvi8 it sujjjdies the pyi'ifojniis aud coccygeus mus<;les. The iiUvnuil jjudic artery («g. 148, 0) suj^plies the jjerineujji aiid J'u.ii.-loUry tlie genital ojgans, aud has nearly the sauie relations iu the ]>elvis ^.'-ivSk: as the sciatic. It a<;<;<jmj>anies the sciatic ai-tery, though external U) it, aud leaves the pelvis betweeu the ]>yi-iformis aud coccygeus. At the l>ack of the pelvis it wiuds over the ischial sjjine of the hi]j-)wue, aud euters the perineal space, wheie it has already been examiued. The ai-tery gives some luiimjjoi-taut offsets iu the ]>eh'is, aud frequently the middle hsemori-hoidal branch aiises some small flom it. oBsels. Accuswy pudic (R. ^uain). Tbe pudic artery is Boiuetiiaes smaller than An acc«ai. u.sual, aud fails ty supply some of its ordinary i>eriiic-al braucbes, especially sory piidic (lie tenuiual oue to the penis. Id those cases the deti.;ient hraiiches are derived froiu au accessory aitery, which takes origin from the internal iliac (mostly from the trunk of the pudic), and courses forwards on the side of the bladdej and the jjroKtate gland, to perforate the triangular ligament. It furniBhes braucljes to tbe jxjuis to supply the place of those tlat are wanting. The uUrim arUry (fig. 147, rf) passes inwaids between the layers b'teriue of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, where the vessel ' clianges its dijection, and asoeu<is iu a toi-tuous manner along the side ol' the uterus up to the fundus. Numerous branches enter the sub«un<;e of the utej'us, aud j-aujifying iu it, are remarksible for their U..nuous c<..nditiou. At the neck of the uterus some small oiisei* to twigs are supplied to the ujjptr part of the vagijia and to the ' bladder, wjmmunicating with biauches of the vaginal arterv. At joins the fundus of the uterus some branches j^i'oceed outward along the Falloj^ian tube aud auastomose y^ 'iVh the o\ariau artery from the a<ji-ta. A branch ako j^ro'Mjeds from the upper jjart oi' the uterus along the round ligament. The IKTKKXAL ILIAC vjci.\ receives the blood from the wall of jntemal the ijelvis, aud the pelvic viscera, bv braiiches corresponding = the most part with those of the aiteiy. The vein is a short thick Kttr,^ tiiiiik, which is situate at the posterior aud iuuer aspect of the arteiy ; aud it ends by uniting with the external iliac to form tlie ending; common iliac vein. Trihutarus. Most of the vessels entering the trunk of the its branches U)t..iual iluc vein have the same auaU.my as the arteries ; but the J^^elull^ ar. iollowiug branches,—the pu.Jic and the doi«al vein of the penis, the vesical aud hsemorrhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities.400 pudic, dorsal \eii[ of penis, liienior- rhoidal, vesical, uterine, and vaginal veins. Other arteries in the pelvis. Ovarian artery : offsets. Superior hfemor- rhoidal end.s in loop.s. Middb sacral, which has lateral offsets. Dissection of the nerves of the pelvis DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. The imdic veins receive roots corresponding with the branches of the pudic artery in the perineun,, but not those corresponding with the oHsets ot tlie artery ou the dorsum of the penis. I he dorsal vem of the penis receives veins from tlie corpora cavernosa and corpus .spongiosum of the peni,s, and enterin- the pelvis below the symphysis pubis, divides into two, a right" and a lett branch, which join a large ple.xus round the prostate (prostatic The middle hreviorrhoidal vein communicates with a lar<^e ijlexus (hajmorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum Ijeiieath the mucous membrane. The vesical veins begin in a plexus about the fundus of the bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hsmorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates ahove with the ovarian plexu,s, and below with one on the vagina. The vayinal veins surround their tube with a large vascular plexus communicating with the veins of the bulb of the vestibule below and with the uterine plexus above. The arteries in the pelvis, which are not derived from the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior hseniorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The OVARIAN ARTERY (p. 365), after passing the brim of the pelvis in the ovario-pelvic ligament, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary : it supplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round ligament ; and a large branch anastomoses internally with the uterine artery. ' The SUPERIOR HEMORRHOIDAL ARTERY, the continuation behind the rectmn of the inferior mesenteric (p. 318), di\'ides into two branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends in about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches from the anus ; they terminate opposite the internal sphincter in anastomotic loops beneath the mucous mem- brane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior htemorrhoidal arteries. The MIDDLE SACRAL ARTERY arises from the back of the aorta just before its bifurcation (fig. 148, h) and descends along the middle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sjicruni, and the coccyx. The artery gives small branches laterally, opposite each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral s;icral arteries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the periosteum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to tiike the place of the middle liaamorrhoidal artery. The middle sacral veins end in the left common iliac. Dissection (fig. 149, p. 401). To dissect the nervej? of the pehis, on the right side, it will be ncccssiiry to detach the triangular ligament with the urethra from the bone; and to cut through, on the right side, the fore jiart of the recto-vesical fascia and levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order thatTHE SACRAL NERVES. 401 If the the \-i.scei'a iii;iy \k- drawn from l-lie sidu of tlie pelvis, liladder is still distended, let the air escape from it. By mecaiis of the foregoing dissection tlie sacral nerves may be fomid as they Lssiie from the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the .Scleral plexus, and some liranclies from the third and fourth to the viscera. The last sjicral and the cocc\'geal nerve are of small size, and will lie detected coining through the coccj-geus muscle, close to the coccyx : these are to be dissected with care ; and the student will suc- ceed best liy tracing the connecting filaments which pass from one to anotlicr, beginning above with the offset from the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a large plexus of the .sympathetic (pelvic plexus), which sends branches to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally de- stroyed in the previous dissection ; but if any of it remains, the student may trace the offsets dis- trilnitcd from it, and its communicating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral spinal nerves (figs. 149 ; 1.50, p. 40:3). The anterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are live in numlier, and decrease rapidly in •size from above down- wards. Issuing by the first four Fro. 149.—The S.\cr.\l Nkrves and Plkxus (altered from Henle). Urinary blaiUler. 0. Rectum. c. Levator aui. d. Coccygetis. Serves : il and 5?. Fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, giving rise to the lunibo-sacral cord. 1 S to 5 Five sacral nerves. 1 c. Coccygeal nerve. 1. Upper gluteal uerve. 2. lirancli to lev.ator ani. 3. liianch to the bladder. 4. Branch to coccygeus. 5. Branch to the perineum. 6. Comnion branch of 4 S, 5 S, and 1 <; for the back of the coccyx. The sympathetic chain lies on the front of the sacrum, just outside the plane of section. Sacral nerves ara five: apertures on the front of the .sjicrum (the fifth nerve excepted), they receive .short filaments of eoninuinication from the gangliated -"■d ot the sympathetic. The first three nerves and i)art of the ourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of ilie coccyx. D.A. DD most cuter plcKus.402 DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. Fourth, which gives visceral, and muscu- lar dfl'sets. Fifth is be- low aper- tures in sacrum; ends on coccyx. Coccygeal nerve. Sacral plexus ; situation ; how formed ending; and branches: Great BClatic. Tlie coccygeal nerve and the peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral will be noticed before the plexus is described. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 149, 4 sends one branch upwards to the sacral plexus, another downwards to join the fifth nerve, . and distributes the following offsets to the viscera and the muscles of the floor of the pelvis :—■ The visceral brandies C) supply the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Offsets are added to them from the third sacral nerve (fig. 150, v). The muscular brandies are three in number. One rather long branch (fig. 149, ^) enters the levator ani on the ^^sceral aspect; another (*) supplies the coccygeus; and the third (perineal) or htjemorrhoidal branch (^) reaches the perineum by piercing the levator ani or coccygeus muscle, and supplies the external sphincter. The FIFTH NERVE (5 S) comes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx, and receives the communicating branch from the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nerve, and perforates that muscle, the sacro-sciatic ligament, and the gluteus maxinius, to end on the posterior surface of the coccyx. The COCCYGEAL NERVE (1 c), after issuing bj' the lower aperture of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve as above stated. Sacral plexus. This plexus is formed by the lumbo-sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral. It is situate on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery ; and the nerves entering it converge towards the large sacro-sciatic foramen. Here they are united for the most part in a broad flat band, which, becoming gradually narrower as it leaves the pelvis below the pyriformis, forms the great sciatic nerve. A part of the third nerve, however, and the branch of the fourth entering the jjlexus unite to form a lower smaller trunk—the pudic nerve ; and other branches are given ofi" by the several nerves before their union. Brandies. Most of the offsets of the plexus are distributed out- side the pelvis, and are met with in the dissection of the buttock (ijp. 109 et seq.) ; of these only the origin is to be seen now. The branches of the plexus are :— 1. The great sciatic nerve. 2. The small sciatic nerve. 3. The superior gluteal nerve. 4. Inferior gluteal nerve. 5. The pudic nerve. 6. Nerve to the obturator internus and superior gemellus. 7. Nerve to the quadratus feraoris and inferior gemellus. 8. Nerve to the pyriformis. 9. Perforating cutaneous nerve. a. The great sciatic nerve (fig. 150, gs) is the principal nerve of403 THE SACRAL PLEXUS. Ihu lower Hiiib, and is formed by tlie union of four lai'gu roots from the lumbo-sacral cord and the first three sacral nerves. /). The superior ijluteal nerve (llg. 150, sg) ari.scs liy two roots Siiiiorioi- from tlie back of tlie lumbo-.sacral cord and the first .sacral t'l"i-rai. nerve, and leaves the pelvi-s with the gluteal artery above the FlO. 150.—DlARRAM OF THE SaoUAL PlE.XUS, LSC. Liinibo-sacral cord, foniied by the fifth huiil.ar nerve and a small branch from the fuurtli. f^I to S\'. First to fifth sacral nerves. Co. Coccygeal nerve, gs. Great sciatic nerve, ss. Small sciatic, p. Pudic. Sf;- Superior gluteal, ig- Inferior gluteal. t'RO.M JiniIINl). py. Branch to pyriformis. oi. Nerve to obturator internus. q. Nerve to quadratus. V. VLsceral branches of third and fourth sacral nerves. la. Branch to levator ani. CO. Branch to coccygeus. h. Ilicmorrhoidal or perineal branch of fourth sacral. pc. Perforating culaneou.s. •supply of the n.u.scles on the outer surface of pyriformis for the the ilium. c. The M-/mW v/ute,; (ig) is the nerve of the gluteus maximus r r ■ sacral neives, and passes out below the pvrifor.nis d. The small sciuHe (.sb) is the cutaneous nerve of the l,ack of the .s.naU sciatic. D D 2DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 404 Pudic. Perforating cutaneous. Brancli to pyriformis. Branch to obturator iutemus. Brancli to quadratus. Sympathetic In tlie pelvis. The gan- gliated cord joins that of opposite side below in a loop; offsets of the ganglia, to the spinal ner\'es, to the pelvic plexus and the vLscera. Pelvic plexuses ; situation: how formed: onsets to tlie viscera of the male, viz., to the rectum: thigh, and arises befoie the foregoing (with which it i.s often con- nected) from the second and third sacral nerves. e. The fudic nerve (p) supplies the perineum and tlie genital organs. It arises from the third and fourth sacral nei-ves, and courses over the small sacro-sciatic ligament, in company with its artery, to the small sacro-sciatic foramen. /. The perforating cutaneous nerve (pc) arises from the fourth, or the third and fourth, sacral nerves, and passes backwards through the great sacro-sciatic ligament to the skin of the buttock (p. 112). g. The branch to the pyriformis (py) is usually given off from the second sacral nerve, and enters the anterior surface of its muscle. h. The nerve to the obturator internus (oi) springs from the front of the part of the plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral cord with the first sacral nerve. It leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winding over the ischial spine and through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, enters the perineal surface of the muscle : it gives a branch to the superior gemellus. i. The nerve to the quadratus femoris and inferior g&inellns (q) arises from the front of the plexus below the preceding. Sympathetic Nerve. In the pelvis the sympathetic nerve con- sists of a gangliated cord, and of a plexus on each side. The Gangliated cord (fig. 149) lies on the front of the sacrum, internal to the series of apertures in that bone. Inferiorly it con- verges to its fellow, and is united with it by a loop in front of the coccyx, on which there is often a median ganglion {gang, impar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five : from them branches of communication pass outwards to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are usually two to each ganglion, grey and white, and are very short. The internal branches are small, and communicate around the middle sacral artery with the branches of the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the pelvic plexus ; and from the terminal loop ofl'sets descend o^"er the coccyx. The Pelvic plexuses (lateral inferior hypogastric) are two in number, right and left, and are continuous wth the lateral pro- longations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 319). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and rectum in the male, and by the side of the uterus and vagina in the female, and is joined by oflsets of the third and fourth sacral nerves. Numerous ganglia are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets. From each plexus offsets are furnished along the branches of the internal iliac artery to the viscera of the pelvis, and the genital organs ; these form secondary plexuses, and have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed. The inferior hmmorrhoidal plexus is an oftset from the back of the plexus to the rectum, and joins the sympathetic on the superior hDemorrhoidal artery.405 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white-fibred to the or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and neck of the bladder. It gives one ple.xus to the vesicnla seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexm leaves the front of the pelvic ple.xus, and to the pro- supplies the substance of the prostate. At the front of the prostate "J'"' an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the following additional plexuses for the offsets in supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— r fenuaio, Ovarian jylexus. The chief nerves to the ovary are derived from to tiie the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the o^'ariall artery; > but the uterine nerves supply some filaments to it. Vaginal nerves. The nerves of the vagina are large, and are not to the plexiforui, but consist in greater part of sjiinal nerve-fibres; they '• end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus with only a small and to the admixture of the spinal nerves ; they ascend along the side of the uterus, and consist of long slender filaments without ganglia or coiiiiiuinications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves. Some few ner\'es surrounding the arteries of the uterus are plexiform and ganglionic. The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OP THE PELVIS fomi one chain in front Chain of pel- of the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac vessels : their s'li'ds; efferent ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands run the deep lymphatics of the penis, of the genital organs in the female, lymphatics and the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the pelvis. entering tliem. Section II. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE PELVIS. Directions. The rectum with the bladder and the bodies at Its base, VIZ., the vesiculce seminales, and the prostate gland, are now to be taken bodily away for examination. Dissection. In order to remove them from the pelvis the Take ont student should carry the scalpel round the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundary so as to detach the eras of the penis from sepamte uie bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When •""'^t'Um; the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be separated from the other organs; but the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. Aft.r the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue clean the IS to be removed from its muscular fibres. The prostate gland ancl the vcsiculse seminales are then to be cleaned ; and the duct of tlie latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland Any integument left on the penis is to be removed. and penis406 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Prosliito gland: situation; form; dimensions: THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate Gland (fig. 151, p. 408). This is a firm muscular body containing glands, which surrounds the neck of the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its relations have already been enumerated at p. 388. The prostate is conical in form, like a chestnut, with the base directed upwards. Its dimensions are the following : Trans- versely at the base it measures about an inch and a half; from apex to base an inch and a quarter ; and from before backwards about three-quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and backwards will be the longest that can be and weight, practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this respect it varies greatly. Surfaces; The anterior surface of the prostate is narrow and rounded. The posterior surface, larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes. The base is thick, and at its posterior part has a median notch, which receives the common seminal ducts. The apex is pierced by the urethra. Three loljes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle and two lateral, though there is no fissure in the firm mass. The lateral lobes (fig. 151, 6, c) are similar on the two sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form tlie chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe (rf) will be brought into view by separating the vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia from the bladder : it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, which extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contained in the substance of the prostate as w ill be seen immediately. The former is transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. Structure. On section the prostate apj^ears reddish grey in colour, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of muscular and fibrous tissues, with interspersed glandu- lar substance ; and the whole is enveloped by strong proper capsule and is surrounded by a fibrous sheath derived from the recto-vesical fascia, which is sometimes styled t.he fabe capsule. Muncular tissue. The firm mass of this body consists mainly of involuntary muscular fil)res, intermixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. One set of muscular fibres is arranged circularly round the urethral canal,—these are continuous above with the annular fibres of the bladder, and bi-loA\' with a thin layer of circular filires surrounding the memljranous portioii of the urethra ; others run radiating, transversely liehind the urethra, and radiate in each lateral lobe base; and .ipex. Tliree lobes, two lateral, and a cen- tral. often enlarged. Gland con- tains three tubes. Structure. Muscular llbros arc plain— circular.407 STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. through the glandular suLstaiice. 0\-er the greater part of the nnrt super- surface is an external stratum, forming a kind of capsule, which ^^^^ j ^J^^. ^ adheres to the fibrous sheath. Along the front and towards tlie apex, the superficial part of the organ is composed of striated mus- cular fibres, also disposed transversely, which are continued into the constrictor urethrse muscle between the layers of the triangular ligament. Glandular substance. This is composed of a number of small oiands in branched glands, which are embedded in the muscular stroma. nmsse.s: There are three chief collections,—a small one in the central lobe, and a larger one in each lateral lobe. The ducts of the glands Jucts open vary in number from twelve to twent}', and open into the prostatic urethra! part of the urethra (jJ. 413). Blood-vessels. The arteries are small, and are furnished hy the Arteries, iiiferior vesical and middle haemorrhoidal. The veins form a plexus ^'pjjr^fj^'™ roimd the gland, which receives in front the dorsal vein of the penis, and is continued behind into the plexus at the base of the bladder. The plexus is situated between the fascial investment and the proper capsule of the gland, and the vessels of the plexus are specially large at the back of the pubis at the entry of tlie dor.sal vein of the penis. In old men these vessels may give rise to considerable haemorrhage in the operation of lithotomy. The nerves are supplied from the i^elvic plexus. The b/mjjhatics Xervos. of this body and of the vesiculte seminales are received into the Lympliatics, glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. VesicdL/E Seminales (fig. 151, e). These vesicles are two niem- seminal branous sacs, which serve as receptacles for, and probably secrete a ^'f'-''''^'''-^ '• special Huid to mix with, the semen. They are placed at the base definition; of the bladder above the prostate, and diverge from one another so situation; as to limit laterally a triangular space in that situation : their form and relations have been already described (p. 389). Though fo™! Sixcculated and bulged above, the vesicula becomes straight and narrowed lielow (duct); and at the base of tlie prostate it blends with the vas deferens to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct (g). The vesicula seminalis consists of a tube bent into a convoluted con.siatofa form, so as to produce lateral sacs or pouches, the bends of which are bound together by fibrous tissue ; this cellular structure will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, as may be done by carefully dissecting away the investing tis.sue, its formative tube, which is about the size of a qiull, measures from four to six inches in length, and ends above in a closed extremity : connected with the tube at intervals, are lateral length ami blind ctecal apjiendages (fig. 151). s™- Structure. The wall of the seminal vesicle like the vas deferens Vesicic! has has an outer and inner layer of longitudinal muscle fibres with an : intermediate circular layer, but the tubal nniscular C(jat is thinner. Within the casing of the recto-vesical fascia, tlie vesicula) and a coveriuK vas deferentia are covered by a layer of transverse and longitudinal nbl-es plain muscular fibres. The transverse are the more superficial408 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and a mu- cous coat. (the base of the bladder being upwards), and are strongest near tbe pro-state, acting most on tbe vasa deferentia. Tlie longitudinal fibres, placed cbieliy on the sides of the vesiculjB, are continued forwards with the common seminal ducts to the urethra CRov Med. Chir. Trans. 1856.) ' ^' The mucous viembrane is thrown into ridges by the bending of the tube, and presents an alveolar or honeycomb appearance ; it is provided with tubular glands, as in the vas deferens. Fig. 151.—The Posterior SnRFACE of the Bladder, with the Vesiculj: Semixales and Vasa Deferentia (sliqhtlt altered from Hallbb). a. Bladder. 6 and c. Eight and left lateral lobes of the prostate. d. Middle lobe. e. Vesioula seminalis, the right one unravelled. /. Vas deferens. g. Common seminal duct, formed by the union of the vas deferens with the duct of tlie vesicula. Ji. Ureter. End of vas deferens. Seminal ihicts, how formed: extent; course: End of vas deferens (fig. 151). Opposite the vesicula the vas deferens is enlarged, and is rather sacculated like the contiguous vesicle ; but before it joins the tube of that body to form the common .seminal duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. In the mucous lining are numerous tubular glands (Henle). Common ejaculutory duds (Kg. 151, g, and fig. 153, /, p. 412). These tubes (right and left) are formed by the junction of the narrowed part or duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens of the same side. They begin opposite the lifise of the prostate, and are directed downwards and forwards through an aperture in the transverse prostatic fibres, and along the sides of the uterus masculinus•109 STRUCTURE OF THE URINARY BLADDER. (p. 412), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather lenatii; less than an inch, and their course is convergent to their termination tunnimitic close to each other in the floor of the urethra. Structure. The wall of the common duct is thinner than that of atnictm-c the vesicula seniinalis ; but it possesses similar coats. It is sur- rounded by longitudinal involuntary muscular fibres, which blend in the lu-ethra with the submucous stratum. THE BLADDER. While the bladder is in the body, it is ovoidal in .shape, and rather Fonn; flattened from aliove down (pp. 387 and 388) ; but out of the body it is rounder than when in its natural position, and it loses the arched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about fi\'e inches dimensions, in length, and three inches across. Its capacity is greatly influenced by the age and haljits of the individual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint without inconvenience during life, though it can contain much more when distended. Structukb. a muscular and a mucous coat, with an intervening Coats of the fibrous layer, e.\ist in the wall of the bladder: at certain jmrts "^''"'aer. the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. The imperfect covering of ^^mtojiewm has been described (p. 378). Peritoneal. The muscular coat is formed of three thin layers of unstriated Mnscular muscular filn-es, ^'iz., an e.xternal or longitudinal, a middle or strata™' circular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 152, 1) form a continuous covering. External or with the usual plexiform disposition of the muscular bundles, and extends from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the ""ta'cl. urachus and the subperitoneal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior "'"'ts'; and lateral fibres enter the prostate ; while the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, but a fasciculus on each side is united to the back of the pubis through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than on the sides, forms Sometimes this outer layer of filires is called detrusor urinm from its '''■!''"'<°'' action in the expulsion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 152, 2) are thin and scattered on the body Mi.uiio of the bladder ; but around the cervix they are collected into a ™ntinnous thick bundle, tlie sphincter vesica), and are continuous Ijelow with the slate."™' filn-es of the prostate. When these fibres are hypertrophied they project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder; and in some bodies the mucous coat may Ije forced out- wards here and there between them, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated Ijladder. ° The submucoiisslralmn (fig. 152, 3) forms a continuous layer over Snbmucous the lower half of the bladder, but its fibres are scattered above In = the lower third of the viscus the fibres are longitudinal and are continued around the urethra ; but they become oblique above that =410 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. addition to it. Strata are joined. Fibrons coat. Open the bladder. Mucous coat ha.s folds except at one part. Interior of the bladder. Opening of urethra, point. At the back of tbe bladder tbe layer is increa.sed in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The muscular strata communicate freely, so that one cannot be separated from another with- out division of the connecting bundles of filjres. In both sexes the disposition of the fibres is similar (Roy. Med. Chir. Trans. 1856). Fibrous or submucous coat. A fibrous layer is placed between the muscular and mucous strata, and is enume- rated as one of the coats of the bladder ; it is composed, as in other hollow viscera, of areolar and elastic tissues, in which the vessels and nerves ramify. Dissection. The bladder is now to be opened by an incision along the part of the uj)per and along the anterior sirrface ; and the cut is to be carefully continued down the front of the prostate gland in the middle line, so as to open the prostatic portion of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the bladder is of a pale rose colour in the healthy state soon after death. It is con- tinuous above with the lining of the ureters, and lielow with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular layer; and it is thrown into numerous folds in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small triangular space behind the urethral opening. Objects inside the bladder. FiQ. 152.—MdsouLAR Fibres of the Bladder, Prostate, and Urethra. 1. External or longitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Circular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra. 6. Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous with the circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corjjus spon- giosum. 8. Corpus spongiosum. 9. Corpus cavernosum. 10. Ureter. Within the bladder are the following special parts, viz., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, with the triangular surface (fig. I.')4, p. 414). Orifices. At the lower part of the bladder is the orifice of the urethra, surrounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longitudinal folds; and the aperture is partlyINTERIOR OF THE BLADDER. •Ill closed by <a small elongated prominence behind, uvula vesica, occa- with tin) sioned by a thickening of the subniucoii.s nuiscnlar and fibrous layers. This eminence is i^laced over the middle lobe of the pro- state ; and from its anterior end a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra. About an inch and a half from the orifice of the urethra, and Openings of ratlier more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openings of the ureters (fig. 1.54). The tubes perforate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of three-quarters of an inch, so that the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the Ijladder is di.stended. Each terminates by a slit-like opening in a prominence of the subjacent muscular fibres. Trigone. Triangular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the Ti ■igone of urethra is a smooth triangular .surface, which is named trigone ^^'^ ' (trigonmn vesicte ; fig. 154, a). Its ape.x reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaiies may be marked out by a line how on each side from the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse''""'"''^'^" one, behind, between the openings of the ureters. This surface part corre- corresponds with the triangular space externally at the base of the eK™iny. bladder, between the vesiculoe seminales and vasadeferentia. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occurring as in the other parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The arrangement of the fle.shy fibres of the ureters To expose will come into view on the removal of the mucous memljrane from uretcrr °' the lower third of the bladder. E7iding of the fibres of the ureter. As soon as the ureter pierces Muscnlm- the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are "raters! thus disposed :—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the corresponding fibres of the other urine tube ; while the remainder are continued down over the triangular surface, and blend with the submucous layer of the bladder fiJires. niood-ves.mh and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries, and Arteries; the termination of the veins, have been detailed. The vessels are veins; disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though supplied from nerves of the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic, are derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymphatics enter the glands by the side of the Lymphatics, internal iliac vessels. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 1,54). The tube of the urethra extends Urethra: from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has i™,';[t""'' an average length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life. It is .supported by the prostate, the triangular ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is '}''■'"''"'" into parts.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 412 divided, as already stated (pp. 389 and 390) into prostatic niemln-aiious and spongy parts. How to open Dissectioil. To open the uretlira, let the incision through the prostate be continued onwards to tlie extremity of the penis" alon" the dorsal surface, passing as accurately as possible in the septum between the two corpus eavernosum. The prostatic part (figs. 153 and 154) is nearer the anterior than the posterior surface of the mass surrounding it. It is one dimensions inch and a quarter in length, and is the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the s iape; middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement aUhe neek diameter. ^^^^ bladder is nearly a third of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the lower end rather less than at the beoinnin<r the uretlira. Prostatic part: Fig. 153.—Section throuoh the Bladder, Peostate, and Urethra, to SHOW THE VeSIOULA PrOSTATIOA AND THE CoMMON SeMINAL DuCT. ft. Bladder. h. Prostate. c. Prostatic part of urethra. d. Vesicula seminalis. e. Vas deferens. /. Common ejaculatory duct. g. Uterus niasculinns ; above this is the middle lobe of the prostate. On tiie Hoor Separating the prostatic portion of the urethra from the bladder is a crest: jg ^.j^g eminence known as the uvula vesicas. Beginning half an inch below this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining of the prostatic urethra (fig. 154, rf), about three-quarters of an inch in length, and larger above than below, which is prolonged towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of tlic urethra (verumontanum, caput gallinaginis) : it is formed of erectile substance, with a framework of elastic and muscular tissues. lu the crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is in the crest the opening of the litems masciUinus or utriculus (sinus pocularis i» a pouch, jjj. ^.esicula prostatica). Ve.siciila The uterus inasculinus (lig. 153, g) is a blind pas-sage directed theprostate" backwards in the prostate, from a quarter to half an inch, passing beneath the middle and between the lateml lobes. The student•113 INTERIOR OF THE URETHRA. can readily measure its length by passing a probe into it, and on opening it, it will be found that its blind extremity is somewhat dilated. Along its wall, on each side, is placed the common seminal and by its duct (/), which terminates on or within the margin of the mouth ejacuiato'-y of the sac; and if bristles are introduced into the common senunal ducts, duct behind the prostate, they will render the ajiertures evident. Small glands open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle, which is the remains of the luiited lower ends of the foetal ducts of Midler, and represents the uterus and vagina in the female. On each side of the central crest is an excavation, which is named Prostatic the jyostatic sinus (fig. 154, /). Into this hollow the greater num- '^n'floor." ber of the ducts of the prostatic glands open; but the aj)ertures of some are seen at the back of the central eminence. The MEMBRANOUS PART OF THE URETHRA (fig. 154, g) is three- Membran- quarters of an inch in length, and intervenes between the apex of i""^ • the prostate gland and the bidb (k) of the corpus spongio.9um uretlircB. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the dimensions; narrowest piece of the whole tube, with the exception of the outer orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, and is supported parts by a thin stratimi of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of unstriated circular fibres, and outside all by the constrictor urethrte muscle. The SPONGY PART (fig. 154, i) reaches to the end of the penis. Spongy It is about six inches in length, and its strength depends upon a ' surrounding material named the corpus spongiosum lu-ethrte. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in dimensions; diameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. On a cross section it appears star-shaped, but in the glans as a vertical slit. Two dilatations exist in the spongy portion ;—one is two diiata- along the floor close to the triangular ligament, being contained in one'iiTbulb the bulb or bulbous jjart of the urethra, and is named the sinus 0/o"e in glans; the bulb; the other is an elongated hollow, situate in the glans penis, and is called the fossa navicularis (w). There are many small pouches or lacunas (0) in the canal as far lacunse, back as the membranous part, which have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these, larger than one larger the rest, lacuna magna, is found generally immediately within the "'"tl ""^ meatus, in the roof of the fossa navicularis. The duels of Gow^ier's glands (fig. 154, h) are two in number. Ducts of and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the cowper?^ bulb ; but their openings are generally too small to be recognised. Mucous lining of tlie urethra. The mucous membrane of the Mucous urethra is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts"'™'*'™'"'! opening into the canal, and joins in front the tegumentary covering of the glans penis. It is of a reddish colour in the spongy and colour; membranous portions, but in the prostate it becomes whiter. In the spongy and membranoiLS parts it is thrown into longitudinal folds; folds during the contracted state of the penis.DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 414 Fig. 154.—Tue Lower Paist op the Bladder and thb TJrkthra laid open. ft. Trigone of the bladder. Z>. Openiiig.s of the ureters. c. Prostate, cut. d. Crest of urethra. c. Uterus masculinus and utri- culus. /. Prostatic sinus, with openings of tlie glands of the prostate. ff. Membranous part of the urethra. Ji. Cowper's glands, a duct from each opening into the urethra. i. Spongy part of the urethra, k. Bulb of the corpus spongiosum. I. Ulans penis. ?i. Fossa navicularis. o. Openings of the lacuna; and glands. r. Corpus cavornosum of the penis.STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. Its surfacL' is sl udik'ti thi'Oiigliout witli the apertures ol' iiiinute Khimis. glands, which are Iodised in the sulinuicous tissue, and tlie duels of which are inclined oMii[uely i'oi-wanls. Submucous tissue. Beneath the nuicous lininj,' of the urethra is suiimncous a stratum of longitudinal unstriated nuiscular fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous beliind with the sub- mucous fibres of the liladder, and is joined in the prostate by the nature; muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal duct-s. The stratum differs at spots :—it is most developed in the prostate ; in uniuiKcmiMit the membranous portion the muscular structure is less aliundant; "' "^'■''■■■'>' and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms most of the submucous lawyer. Around the membranous and pn'ostatic divisions of the urethra Eicctih! there is, in addition, immediately Ijeneath the mucous membrane, a tllTou'-hout thin layer of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued back- wards from the corpus spiongiosum to the neck of the bladder. Structure of the pexis. The form and the relations of the Penis penis having been described (pp. 251 et seq.) the bodies of which it is tworastniiar composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one erectile side of the jjenis, it will show this organ to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) encased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them, and having the corpus spongiosum attached along their under surface. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 154, /■). These bodies form the bulk Corpora of the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, arched* containing erectile structure. Each is fi.xed behind by a pointed Miiud . , • • 1 • r- .1 ■ 1 ■ 1 , . separately, proces.s, cms penis, to the conjoined rami of the ischium and pubis bicml for about an inch, and blends with its fellow in the body of the J"*]".'',',". penis, about an inch and a half from its posterior e.xtremity. There is a slight swelling on the cms, called the bulb of the corpus caver- hn\b. nosuni (Kobelt). Each corpus cavemosmii is composed of a fibrous case containing .structure: a cavernous or trabecular structure, with blood-spaces between the tralieculw of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septiuu exists along the body of the penis. The fibroids case is a white, strong, elastic covering which, along a case the middle of the penis, sends inwards a septal process between the that sends two corpora cavernosa as well as numerous other finer threads, '"P'ocesses; which are connected with the trabeculoe of the spongy structure, of which the corpiLs ciivernosum is composed. It is formed of white shinuig fibres which are disposed in two libresrorm layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum is formed of longi- ■ tudinal fil)res with close meshes. The inner stratum consists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform disposition ; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meeting in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are inseparably united by communicating bundles. , The septal 'process (fig. 155) is placed vertically along the body a septal of the penis, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed416 wliich is innierfect how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. Vessels. Source of the arteries termination in venous spaces. Veins in two sets. Spongy material of the penis : its atructuro like caver- nous. Tlie Qbrous case. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. cavity into two ; but as it readies forwards it becomes less strong and IS pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance ot a comb from winch its name, septuvi pediniforme, is derived Ihrongh the lnter^'als in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa communicate. It is formed by the circular fibres of the tibrous case. The cavernoics or trabecular structure is a network of fine threads winch fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its proce.s.ses are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference; and the areolar space,s are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained cavity, than at the cir- cumference or in the crura of the penis. The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Blood-vessels. The blood-vessels of the penis are of large size, and serve to nourish as well as to minister to the functions of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are ofisets of the pudic ; the chief branch (artery of the corpus cavernosum; p. 251) enters at the crus, and runs forwards through the middle of the cavernous structure, distri- buting ofisets ; and the rest, coming from the dorsal artery (p. 251), pierce the fibrous case along the dorsum of the penis. In the interior they divide into branches, which ramify in the trabeculse, becoming finer, until they terminate in very minute branches, which open into the intertrabe- cular venous spaces. By the distension of these spaces the erection of the corpora cavernosa is produced. The veins spring from the intertrabecular spaces, and some issue along the upper and under aspects of the penis to join the dorsal vein; but the principal trunks escape at the crus penis and pass to the pudic veins. CoRPDS SPONGIOSUM URETHR/E. This constituent part of the penis surrounds the urethra, but not equally on all sides ; for at the bulb only a thin stratum is above tlie canal, while at the glans penis (fig. 154, 1) the chief mass is placed above the urethral tube. Structure. The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is similar to that of the corpus wivernosum ; tlius it consists of a fibrous tunic enclosing a trabecular structure with blood-spaces. The fibrotis covering is less dense and strong than in the corpora cavernosa, and consists only of circular fibres. A septal jiitce Fio. 155.—Peotiniforji Septum of the Penis. a. Apertures in the partition. h. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a comb, which are formed by the circular fibres.THE RECTUM. 417 projects inwards from it in the middle line, opposite the tube of tlie impei-foot urethra ; this is best marked for a short distance in front of the "ep'-"'"; bull), and assists in dividing that part into two lobes. The tmbe- cular bands are much finer, and more uniform in size than in the tiabecuii«. corpora Ciivernosa. Blnod-vesseh. The arrangement of the blood-vessels in the niood- erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is similar in tlie bulb = to that in the corpora cavernosa ; but in the rest of the spongy substance the arteries are said to end in capillaries in the usual way The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side ; a larrre sowrco of one behind, the artenj of the bulb (p. 251), enters the upper surface of the Imll,; and several in front, offsets of the dorsal artery of the penis, penetrate the glans. Kobelt describes another branch to the fore part of the bulb. Most of the including those of the glans, end in the large termination ciorsai veins ot the penis, some communicating with veins of the ""^ cavernous body ; others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein. Nerves and lymphatics. The nm-res of tlje penis are lar^e and Nerve, are supplied, as previously described, by both the spinal and sympathetic nerves. The s.cpe^JicM bjmphatics of the integuments, Lympl>atics. and those beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra, join the inguinal glands; the deep accompany the veins beneath the subpudic arch, to end in the lymphatic glands in the pelvis THE RECTUM. w;t?'?^°*'°''; J^'" '° ''''''^'''^ ^"'^ then distended To prepare With tow, and the peritoneum and the loose fat are to be removed loJei'l °^ the intestine is al,out five inches in length. Its Rectum: ° , , '""'^T'^y ^IJ^^ted, especially in old people, and the length; anal canal m which it terminates is the narrowest part of the lar.e mmts one • bowel. It ,s sacculated, although not so distinctly as the colon ; the s^o ' pouches are arranged in two rows, right and lefl, and they become iarger and less numerous towards the lower end Structicre. The rectum contains in its wall a peritoneal a muscular, a submucous, and a mucous stratum ; and Uie rscular-^tir The pmtoneum forms but an incomplete coverinc. and it. p 0 th nl T^^^ r "'''^ the union of two 1 b t, d t 1 '''' tl>e continuation of tlie band lying along the attached ],order of the colon. These D.A. E EDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 418 and circular tibres. Jlucous poat is thick and vascular; folds in it. Permanent folds in wall of rectum. " Rectal valves." bands are shorter than the other strata of the wall, and thus give rise to the sacculations. The circular fibres describe arches around the intestine, and become thicker and stronger towards the anus, where they are collected along the anal canal into the band of the internal sphincter muscle (p. 240). The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and resembles in this respect the lining of the cesophagus ; it is also thicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestine. When the bowel is contracted the .mucous lining is thrown into numerous accidental folds, for the most part transverse or oblique ; but in the anal canal they are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are also permanent transverse folds of the intestinal wall (Rectal valves) corresponding to the depressions between the sacculi externally. The largest and most regular of these are in the lower portion of the gut, one being on the right side and front about three inches from the anus, and corresponding approximately to the spot where the recto- vesical pouch of peritoneum ends, another on the left side about one inch higher, and a third, which is less constant, on the left side posteriorly, below the first. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the front, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus disappears. Blood-vessels. The arteries are sujjplied from three different sources, viz., superior hsemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric, middle hemorrhoidal of the internal iliac, and inferior hEemorrhoidal of the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut; but only the upper hsemorrhoidal, which is the largest, arrangement requires notice here. The final branches of this artery, about six in number, pierce the muscular layer three inches from the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sphincter, where they unite in loops just within the anus. The veins have no valves, and communicate freely in a largo plexus (hcernorrhoidal) between the muscular and mucous coats, round the lower end of the gut. Above they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and through it reach the vena portae ; and below they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by the middle and inferior hsemorrhoidal branches. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the intestine are ol.itained from the synqjathetic ; but those of the external sphincter come Lymphatics, from the si^inal nerves. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on the sacrum. structure of membrane. Arteries: of superior hsemor- rhoidal. Veins are without valves. Nerves. Section III. ANATOMY OF THE FEMALE PELVIC VISCEEA. To remove Dissection. In the ca.se of the female pelvis, the bladder, urethra, the viscera, ^-^^ genital organs and the rectum are to be removed together forE E 2 THE VAGINA. 4in separate examination. For this purpose the student should keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of tlie pelvic outlet, so as to avoid injuring the end of the rectum ; and he .sliould also detach the erus of the clitoris from the bone. After the parts are taken from the body, the rectnm is to be and p, separated from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest of the viscera may remain united until after the genital organs are examined. The bladder and rectum may be moderately distended ; and the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed from the viscera. GENITAL ORGANS. The genital organs, or external organs of generation, consist of External the following parts:—the mons Veneris and external labia the °f clitoris and internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius; they have been seen in the dissection of the perineum (p. 255 et seq.). Within the internal labia is the aperture of the vagina, mth the hymen. The name vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. GENERATIVE ORGANS. The generative organs, or internal organs of generation, are the Separate uterus and vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes Dissection. The viscera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent examination The surface of the vagina and the lower part of the Oean uterus should be cleaned ; but the peritoneal investment of the ^''S""'- latter is to be left untouched for ihe present. THE VAGINA. The general relations of the vagina have been described onvagina- page 394. The tube of the vagina (fig. 146, p. 391), is con-^"'"""^' nected with the uterus at one end, and with the vulva at the other. a„d curved It las a slightly curved course between the two points mentioned ■ '^""'""^ = and the anterior and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the Jormer measures about two inches, and the latter three. In the body the vagina is flattened from before backwards, so fonn that the opposite surfaces are in contact; and the upper part of the posterior wall is applied to the lower end of the uterus. Its size „nd size vanes at d.flerent spots ;-thus the external orifice, which is sur- rounded by the constrictor vaginsB muscle, is the narrowest part ; the middle portion is the largest; and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the side, mtorior the position of the uterus in the anterior wall, instead of at th^ extremity of the passage, may be remarked ; and the tube may be seen to extend farther on the posterior than on the anterior lip of theDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 420 has columns and niga>. Tliickuess. Three coats mucous, muscular, and fibrous also erectile tissue. Mucous membrane. Arteries. Veins are plexiform. Nerves. Lymphatics. OS Uteri. On tlie inner surface, towards the lower part, is a lon^ri- tudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columm oftlie vagina Before tlie tissue of the vagina has been distended, otlier transverse ridges or rugse pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina IS thicker in front round the uretlira than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall has a muscular coat, composed of un- striped fibres both longitudinal and circular, which is thin above, and increases in thickness below. It is lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered externally by a layer of connective ti.ssue containing a dense network of veins. The prominence of the columns is mainly due to a coUection of vascular cavernous tissue between the mucous and muscular layers. The mucous membrane is continued through the lower aperture to join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many mucous glands open on the surface, especially at the upper part. Blood-vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from the vaginal and uterine branches of the internal iliac. The veim form a pfexus around the vagina, as well as in the genital organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. The nerves are derived from the pehdc plexuses, as described on page 404. ^ The hjmphatics accompany the blood-vessels to the glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE UTERUS. uterus: The uterus or womb is formed chiefly of unstriated muscular fibres. Its office is to receive the ovum, and to contain the developing foetus. form; This viscus in the virgin state is somewhat pear-shaped, the body being flattened (fig. 146 and fig. 156, p. 422), and the narrow end below. dimensions; Before impregnation the uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume always exceed the measure- ments here given. upper end; The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum: the name fundm is given to the part of the organ aliove the attachment of the Fallopian tubes, the lower The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a transverse end is aperture of communication between the uterus and the vacina, small, and i . ■ . . o i has an named os uteri externum: its margins or hps {labia) are smooth, opening; and anterior and posterior in situation, but the liinder one is the longer and thinner. Towards the lower part the uterus is con- neck ; stricted ; and the smaller portion is called the ntcl; {cervix uteri; h); it is nearly an inch in length, and gradually tapers towards the extremity, M'here it projects into the vagina, being enclosed by tliis tube to a greater extent behind than in front.ANATOMY OF THE UTERUS. 42i The body (a) of the uterus is more convex posteriorly than ante- biidy; riorl)', and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except at the lower part in front (about half an inch), where it is connected to the bladder. To parts each side the parts contained in the bi'oad fold of the peritoneum ".'"^"^''^'l to are attached (j). 391), viz., the Fallopian tube at the top, the round ligament rather below and before the last, and the ovary and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut is to open the be made along the front from the fundus to the external os uteri; and then some of the thick wall is to be removed on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity (fig. 156). The thickness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the middle its thick- of the body. It is greater at the centre than at the extremities of the fundus, the wall becoming thinner towards the att<achment of the Fallopian tubes. Merior of the uterus. Within the uterus is a small space, m ti.e which IS divided artificially into two—that of the body and that of the neck. The space occupying the body of the viscus (c) is triangular in is a trian- torm, and compressed from before backwards. Its base is at the fntXl fundus, where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged into the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed down- which is wanls, and joins the cavity in the neck by a narrowed circular '^Z7"^ part, or isthmus (os uteri internum) which may be narrower than the opening of the uterus into the vagina. The space within the neck (d) terminates below at the external os and a uteri, and is continuous above with the cavity within the body It is t''"'!,'- larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, and 'I'-eln is somewhat flattened like the cavity of the body. Along both the anterior and the posterior wall is a longitudinal ridge ; and other ridges (ruc/m) are directed obliquely from these on each side • this appearance has been named arbor vilce uterinus. In the intervals m the neck •Hjetween the rugae are mucous follicles, which .sometimes become ^'l °f distended with fluid, and give rise to rounded clear sacs "''^"^ Sthuctdre. The dense wall of the uterus is composed of layers uterus is a ot unstriated muscular fibre, intermixed with areolar and elastic tis.sues and large blood-vessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum ; and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period of There are gestation to form three strata in the wall of the uterus viz ''trata, external, internal, and middle:— ' The external layer contains fibres which are mostly transverse ; external but at the fundus and sides they are oblique, and are more marked than along the middle of the organ. At the sides the fibres con- verge towards the broad ligament; some are inserted into the subperitoneal fibrous tissue ; and others are continued into the i^allopian tube the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. itie internal fibres describe circles round the openings of the internal, Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet atDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 422 and middle. Jfucoiis membmne. Vessels are large. Arteries. Veins. the middle line. At the neck of the uteni.s they are arranged in a transverse direction. The middle or intervening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining of the uterus is continued into the va^na at one end, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the body it IS thin and soft, of a reddish-white colour, smooth, and closely adherent. In tlie cer^dx it is stronger, and presents the folds before referred to. The blood-vessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and occupy canals in the uterine substance in which they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the uterine, vaginal and ovarian vessels (p. 398 et seq.) and tLe veins correspond with the Fig. 156.—Interior of the Uterus, with a Posterior View of the Broad Ligament and the Uterine Appendages. a. Body, ami b, neck of the uterus. c. Cavity of the body, and d, of the neck. e. Fallopian tube, and /, its trumpet-shaped end. g. The fimbria attached to the ovary. h. Ovary. i. Ligament of the ovary. Ic. Parovarium. Nerves. Lympha- tics ; two sets. Hound liga- ment ends in groin; attachment to uterus, arteries ; they are of large size, and form plexuses in the uterus, which communicate with the vaginal plexus on the one hand and the ovarian on the other. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic (p. 405), and are very small in projjortion to the size of the uterus. Lymphatics. One set accompanies the uterine vessels to the glands on the iliac artery. Another set issues from the fundus, enters the broad ligament, and accomj)anies the ovarian artery to the glands on tlie aorta : the last are joined by lymphatics of the ovary and Pallopian tube. Round ligament of Hie utents (p. 394). This firm cord supports tlic uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament, and jiartly in the inguinal canal. It is about five inches in length, and is attached to the upper eud of the uterus close below and in front of the Fallopian tube. A process of the peritoneumSTRUCTDRE OF OVARY. 423 accompanies it in the inguinal canal, and remains pervious sometimes for a short distance. The ligament is composed of unstriated muscular fibres, derived how formed, from the uterus, together with vessels and areolar tissue. OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary : position; form and colour; dimensions and weight. Connec- tions. Ovary (fig. 156, h). The ovaries are two bodies, corresponding with the testes of the male. They are contained in the broad liga- ments of the uterus, one in each. Each ovary is of an oval form, and somewhat compressed in one direction. It is of a whitish colour, with either a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is varialde ; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half as much in width, and a third of an inch in thickness. Its weight varies from one to two drachms. The ovary is placed at the back of the broad ligament, and is attached to that membrane by one margin, where the vessels enter the organ at the liilum. The other margin and both surfaces are free. One end (the upper in the natural position) is rounded, and is connected with one of the fimbria) {g) at the mouth of the Fallopian tube. The o^jposite extremity is narrowed, and is fixed to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord,—the ligament of the ovary (t), below the level of the Fallopian tube and round ligament. Structure. The ovary consists of a stroma enclosing small sacs named Graafian v&sicles, which con- bvin the ova, and the whole is surrounded by a fibrous tunic. The peritoneum invests it except at the attached margin. The fibrous coat is continuous with the contained stroma. Some- times a yellow spot (corjjus luteum), or some cicatrices, may be seen in this covering. Stroma (fig. 157), The substance of the ovary is spongy, vascu- stroma; lar, and fibrous. At the centre the fibres radiate from the hilum towards the circumference. But at the exterior is a granular material (cortical layer) which contains very many small follicles, about T^th of an inch in size—the nascent Graafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles or ovisacs (fig. 157) are round and transparent sacs, containing fluid, and scattered through the stroma of the ovary below the corliciil layer. During the child-bearing period some are larger than the rest (a) ; and of this larger set ten to tliirty, or more, may be counted at the same time, which vary in size from a pin's head to a small pea. The largest are situate at the Fia. 157.—Ovary during the CiiiLD-BKARiNa Period Laid Ope.s (Faure). a. Graafian vesicles in different stages of growth. b. Plicated body remaining after the escape of the ovum. Structure a fibrous coat; Graafian vesicles, number and size.424 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. tliey may Le seen Shedding of an ovum: corpus lutoum. Artery; veins: nerves. Appendage to ovary : situation: form; structure. Fallopian tube: length; and form; It is dilated externally, and flmbri- ated; size of the canal is least at the ends. A muscular structure; fibres pro- longed from uterus. Mucous coat circumference of the organ, and sometimes projecting through the fibrous coat. When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the surface of the ovavy, and the contained ovum escapes into the Fallopian tube After the shedding of the ovum the ruptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus luteum, which finally changes into a cicatrix (&). ° Blood-vessels and nerves. The ovarian artery pierces the ovary at the attached border, and its branches run in zigzag lines through the stroma, to which and the Graafian vesicles they are distributed The veins begin in the texture of the ovary, and after escaping from Its substance, forms a plexus {imminniform) within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Parovariuvi or organ of Rosenmuller [epoophoron of Waldeyer; fig 156 k) On holding up the broad ligament of the uterus to the light, a collection of small tortuous tubules will be seen between the ovary and the Fallopian tube these are the remains of the upper part of the Wolffian body of the fcetus and correspond to the vasa efi^erentia of the testicle in the male. The mass is about one inch broad, with its base to the Fallopian tube and its apex towards the attached border of the ovary. The small tubes are from twelve to twenty in number ; at the wider end they are joined more or less perfectly by a tube crossing the rest (the remnant of the Wolffian duct), which is prolonged some- times a short way into the broad lignment. " Fallopian tubes (fig. 156, e). Two in number, one on each side, they convey the ova from the ovaries to the uterus. Each is about four inches in length ; cord-like at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, it increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a wide extremity (/), like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated end is fringed, aiid the pieces are called fimbrice. When the fimbriated end is flojited out in water, one of the processes (the ovarian fimbria; g) may be seen to be fixed to the distal end of the ovary. In the centre of the fimbria is a groove leading to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained space and its small aperture into the uterus can be observed. Its canal varies in size at diff"erent spots ; the narrowest part is at the orifice into the uterus (ostium uterinum), where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle; towards the outer end it increases a little, but it is rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture (ostium abdoniinale). Structure. This tube has the same structure as the uterus with which it is connected, viz., a muscular layer covered externally by peritoneum, and lined by mucous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer ; both these are continuous with similar strata in the wall of the uterus. The mucous membrane forms longitudinal folds, i)articularly at tlie outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it is continuedBLADDER AND URETHKA IN FEMALE. 425 into the mucous lining of the uterus, but at tlie outer end it joins i'' contiim- the peritoneum. ous with The hlood-vesscU and nerves are furni.slied from those supplied to vILT""' the ovary and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the form of the female bladder Anatomy of have been detailed in the description of the relations of the viscera ''''"W"-- of the female pelvis (p. 394). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male ))ladder is to be referred to (p. 409). Dissection. To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and Preparation remove the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the = muscular fibres. After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has Ijeen o„en it. learnt, they are to be slit open along the fore part, as described in the dissection of the male jsarts. Urethra. The length and the relations of the urethra are Uretiun- given at p. 395. length; " The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter size; ot an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder ; near the external aperture is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of its not being surrounded by resistant it can be structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the , corresponding pa.ssage in the male. ' • Stmcture Like the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like coat, which IS enveloped by a plexus of blood-vessels, and bv muscular fibre. ^ The muscular layer extends the whole length of tlie urethra. Its Muscular fibres are circular, corresponding with those in the prostatic enlarge- ™f of"-- ment of the other sex, and continuous above with the middle lam- " ' of the bladder. In the perineal ligament this stratum is covered Dy the fibres of the deep transverse muscle. The mucom coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds; and one of these, in the floor of the canal, resembles the median crest in the male urethra (v 412) Around the outer orifice are some r,uuom follicles; and towards tl e , inner end are tubular mr^cous glands, the apertures of whicli are » arranged m lines between the folds of the membrane lies^'cSZe'itf t?"" °' '°"«'t^^dinal elastic and muscular tissues Submucous lies Close beneath the mucous membrane, as in the male "ssue. dist^'nJh?!'?" -.i^^' ""'^f P'^P'"'"^ examination by Preparation cii.tcmling It with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering °f''=<^"""- the tw?ir ''''T ''''''''''' i« ^i""!'-^-' «-tum like uie two .sexes; and the student may use the descriiHion in the'""^"f"'" Section on the viscera of the male pelvis (p. 417 et seq.). INTERNAL MUSCLES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Two muscle.^, the pyriformis and obturator intenuis, have their Two ougin within the cavity of the pelvis. muscloa.426 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Uo&ne the muscles and the levator ani. Pyriformis origin in the pelvis ; insertion : relations with parts around; use as an external rotator of hip-joint. Obturator internus is bent over ischium; origin in the pelvis ; arching of its tendons over the hip-bone; insertion; relations of part in pelvic cavity; Coccygeus muscle. Dissection. Take away any fascia or areolar tissue which may remain on the muscles ; ami define their exit from the pelvis,—the l^yriformis passing through the great, and the obturator through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. On the right side the dissector may look to the attachment of the levator ani muscle to the pubic part of the hip-bone. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to the great trochanter of the femur. The muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises by three slips from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between and e.xternul to tbe anterior sacral foramina ; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the hip-bone forming the upper boundary of the large sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the great trochanter of the femur. The anterior surface is in contact with the sacral plexus, with the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels, and with the rectum on the left side. The opposite surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip-bone, the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve being between ; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. Action. The pyriformis belongs to the group of external rotators of the hip-joint; and its use has been given with the description of the rest of the muscle in the dissection of the buttock (p. 117). The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE has its origin in the pehds, and insertion at the great trochanter of the femur, lilce the preceding; but the part outside forms an acute angle with that inside the pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the obturator membrane, except from a small part below, from the pehac fascia covering its surface, slightly from the bone anterior to the thjToid hole and from all the smooth inclined surface of the pelvis (fig. 139, p. 369) behind and above that aperture except oi^posite the small sacro-sciatic foramen where a thin layer of fat separates the fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres are directed backwards and down- wards, and end in four or five tendinous pieces, which turn over the edge of the hip-bone corresponding with the small sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis the tendons blend into one, which receives the fibres of the gemelli and is inserted into the upper boi-der of the great trochanter of the femur. The muscle is in contact by one surface with the wall of the pelvis and the obturator membrane ; by the other surface ^vith the obturator part of the pelvic fascia, and towards its lower l>order with the pudic vessels and nerve. Action. The mnscle is chiefly an external rotator of the fenmr (p. 123). Coccygeus muscle. The position and the relations of this muscle may now be studied from within: it is described on p. 381.ARTICtJLATlOl^S OF THE SACRUM. 427 Section IY. ligaments of the pelvis. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at Outline of its apex to the coccyx, aud laterally to the two hip-bones. And the fat'jo'i^'''"' hip-bones are connected together at the symphysis pubis in front. Union of pieces of the sacrum and coccyx. So long as Li-aments the pieces of the sacrum and coccyx remain moveable they are °l\rate articulated as in the other vertebras by an anterior and a posterior ' common ligament, with an intervertebral disc for the bodies, and l>y ligaments for the neural arch and processes. After the sacral vertebrse have coalesced, only rudiments of the and joined, ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised ; and when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, their ligaments disappear. LuMBo-SACKAL ARTiCDLATiON. The base of the sacrum is Sacmm articulated with the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to ui^baf * those uniting one vertebra to another (pp. 492 et seq.); and by one vertebra, special ligament—the lateral lumbo-sacral. Dissection. For the best manner of bringing these different Dissection, ligaments into view, the dissector may consult the directions given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebrte (pp. 492 et seq.). The commo7i ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an By liga- anterior aud a posterior, with an intervening fibro-cartilaginous sub- "^"ther'' stance. Between the neural arches lie the ligamenta subflava, and vertebra, between the spines the supra- and interspinous bands. The articular processes are united l )y capsular ligaments with synovial membranes. The lateral lumbosacral ligament is a variable bundle of filjres, and by a which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse 'S' process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral mass at the base i^and. of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the sacro-iliac articulation. Sacro-coccygeal articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are Union of united at the centre by a fibro-cartilage, and by an anterior and coccj""'"^ a posterior ligament. There are also lateral and interarticular ligaments on each side. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. Dissection. Wlien the areolar tissue has been removed altogether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fibres that An anterior pass between the bones in front of the fibro-cartilage. ""'^ The posterior ligament is wide at \{& attachment to the margin of a posterior the lower opening of the sacral canal, but narrows as it descends to be inserted in the coccyx. The fibro-cartilage resembles that l)etweeii the bodies of the other with a nbro- vertebraj, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones cartilage. Interarticular ligaments. The cornua of the sacrimi and coccyx a band do not usually form jointe, but are united by a ligamentous band ItSl^r on each side. amcuiar,428 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and trans- verse pro- jn-ojections first Motion. Sacro-sciatii 1 iganients are two: gi'eat, and small; apertures formed by them; Illo-lumbar ligament: The lateral ligament passes oix each side between th representing tlie transverse processes of the last sacral and coccygeal ^'ertebrse. Movement. While the coccyx remains unossified to the sacrum a slight antero-posterior movement %yin take place between them. ' Two SACRO-sciATic LIGAMENTS pass from the side of the sacrum and coccyx to the hinder border of the hip-ljone, across the .space between those bones at the back of the pelvis : they are named great and small. The great or looderior ligament (fig. 158, a) is attached above to the posterior inferior iliac .spine, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and Ijelow to the inner margin of the ischial tuberosity, sending forwards a prolongation {falciform lorocess) along the ramus of the ischium. It is wide at the sacrum, and gets narrower towards the lower end; but it is somewhat expanded again at the tuberosity. The svudl or anterior liga- ment (fig. 158, is attached in- ternally by a ^^'ide piece to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is imited with the origin of the j^receding band. The fibres are directed outwards, and are inserted as a narrow band into the ischial spine of the hip-bone. Its deep surface is blended with the coccygeus ; and it may be looked upon ;is being a fibrous jjortion of that muscle. Above it is the large sacro-sciatic foramen ; and below it is the small foramen of the same name, which is bounded by the two ligaments. By their jjosition these ligaments convert into two foramina (sacro-sciatic) the large sacro sciatic excavation in the dried bones : the openings, and the structures they give passage to, have lieen described with the buttock (p. 124). Use. The sacro-sciatic ligaments, by holding down the lower part of the sacrum, serve to prevent that bone from rotating at tlie jitcro-iliac articulation, under the influence of the weight pressing on its upper end in the erect position. The iLio-LUMBAR LIGAMENT is a strong triangular band, which springs by its narrow end from the extremity of the transverse process of the fiflli lumbar vertebra. Directed outwards and some- what backwards, it spreads out to be inserted into the iliac crest for about an inch, opposite the back part of the iliac fossa. To the ui)per border of the ligament the anterior layer of the fascia Fio. 158.—Saoro-sciatio Ligaments. a. Large, and b, smalLTHR SACBO-ILIAC LIGAMENTS. 429 luml)onim is attached ; and its posterior surface is covered by the (juadratus lunibonun. Use. T]ii.s ligament supports the upright moveable portion of use. the .siiinal column, and resists the tendency of the last lumbar vertelira to slip forwards over the inclined base of the sacrum. Sacro-iliac articulation. The irregular surfaces by which union of the sacrum and the hip-bone articulate are covered with cartilage 'S'l':''"" '""l and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior .sacro-iHac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the sti'ong sixcro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the jMsterior ligaments, the mass of muscle To dissect at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which ''K"- the hip bone remains. The thin anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar ti.ssue. The small sacro-sciatic ligament will be brought into view by removing the fleshy fibres of the coccygeus; and the large ligament has been dissected with the lower limb. The anterior mcro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered Anterior fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. ligament. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament is very strong, and consists of Posterior bundles of fibres which pass obliquely from the rough part of the liB^'iie'it: inner side of the ilium above the auricular surface to the depressions on the back of the first and second pieces of the sacrum. A distinct band, longer and more superficial than the rest, runs from the «special posterior superior iliac spine to the third and fourth pieces of the band, sacrum ; it is named the long ■posterior ligament. Articular cartilage. This may be seen after the sacro-sciatic and A layer of ilio-lumbar ligaments have been examined, by opening- the articula- o" tion and separating the bones. It covers the articular surfaces of both .sacrum and ilium, but is much thicker on the sacrum. Its surface is generally uneven ; and the intermediate cleft is .some- times partly interrupted by transverse fibres uniting the two layers Mechani^n. There is scarcely any appreciable movement in this Use of joint articulation, owing to the tightness with which the two liones are bound together by ligaments, and the irregular form of the articular surfaces, which are consequently unable to glide over one another In the erect posture the sacrum is suspended between the two hii)- to render bones by the thick posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and the upper Pf'^;'? arch of the pelvis is thereby rendered le.ss rigid than would be the " case If It were formed of continuous bone. The sacro-iliac articula- tion thus serves to give elasticity to the pelvis, and to diminish the enect of shocks pa.ssing to the spine. .J.^'T («ympl>y«i« pubis ; fig. 159, «). The two Sy„n>l.ysis pnbic bones are united by an interpubin disc, by ligamentous fibres "'"'i^- m h-ont and above, and by a strong subpubic ligament The anterior pubic ligainent is composed of interlacing fibres Anterior which are mixed with fibres of the tendon of the external oblidue "«•■""'■'>*• muscle. ^ There is not any definite posterior band; but the periosteum is Fewiibros tnickened by a few scattered fibres. behindDISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 430 and above. The superior ligamentous fibres fill the interval between the bones above the disc. Ugament" "^'^^^ subpubic licja-ment (ligamentum arcuatum ; fig. 159, d) is a strong triangular band occupying the angular interval between the pubic rami at the lower part of the symphysis. Its apex is continuous with the fibrous portion of tlie interpubic disc ; its base is free and concave, and forms the summit of the subpubic arch. Sow disc. Dissection, The disc will be best seen by making a transverse Fig. 159.—Ligambnts of the Symphysis Pubis, Thtboid Fobambn, ani> aceiabulcm. a. Anterior ligament of the sym- physis. b. Obturator membrane. c. Interpubic disc, with a slit in the middle. d. Subpubic ligament. e. Surface of the acetabulum coTered with cartilage. /. Fatty substance in the aceta- bulum (" gland of Havers "). g. Cotyloid ligament, which is cut where it forms part of the transverse band over the notch. /(. Deep part of the ligament over the cotyloid notch. section of the bones, which will show the disposition of the anterior ligament of the articulation, and the thickness of the plate, with its toothed mode of attachment to the bone ; and when another opportunity offers, ii vertical section may be made. Interpubic The inicrpubic disc consists of a layer of cartilage on each side, which is firmly adherent to the ridged surface of the bone, and a fibrous portion in the middle. The fibrous part is thickest in cleft in it. front ; and at the upper and back portion of the symphysis there is generally a fissure, produced by tlie absorption of the fibrousINTERPUBIC DISC. 431 substance. In some bodies the fissure extends through the whole of the disc, so as to divide it completely into two. The thin obturator membrane (fig. 159, b) almost closes Obturator the thyroid foramen, and is composed of fibres crossing in cio."s an"^ difl"erent directions. It is attached to the bony margin of the aperture foramen, except above where the obturator vessels pass through ; " ™° ' and at the lower and inner part of the aperture it is connected to the pelvic aspect of the hip-bone. The surfaces of the ligament give attachment to the obturator muscles. Branches of the obturator vessels perforate it.THE ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 432 TABLE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. ^1. Phreuic. . Superior cap.sul.ir. /Coronary . 2. coeliac axis* hepatic \ splenic (CEsopliageal ■ 1 gastric. (Gastro-duodenal . pyloric left hepatic branch right hepatic branch I pancreatic 1 vasa brevia ■ I left gastro-epiploic I splenic. (Right gastro-epipIoic ■ I superior pancreatico-duodenal. . Cystic. 3. superior JInferior pancreatico-duodenal intestinal ileo-colic o mesenteric* riglit colic I midde colic. 4. middle cap- sular 5. renal 6. spermatic 7. inferior mesenteric* | sigmoid 8. lumbar 9. middle sa- cral* Inferior capsular. Left colic sigmoid superior liaenioiThoidaL / External iliac 10. common V iliac. / Pubic fDeep epigastric . J cremasteric . J I muscular (deep circumflex v cutaneous, iliac. f Ilio-lumbar lateral sacral /'Parietal branches. gluteal sciatic f Superficial V internal iliac 1: I deep. ("Coccygeal I comes ner\i ischia- dici mnsculari anastomotic. internal pudic obturator Inferior ha^mor- rhoidal superficial perineal I transverse ]ierineal artery of tlie bulb artery of corpus cavern osuni dorsal arl-ery of penis. . (Iliac ' \ pubic. Vvisceral branches .superior vesical. I inferior vesical. J middle ha'mor- . I rlioidal vaginal ^ uterine. " The branches marked with an asterisk are single.VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN. TABLE OF THE VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN. ^ / 2. ' Visceral branches .. 'internal iliac./ 1. Common iliac .( lumbar . right spermatic . renal. right capsular diaphragmatic 7. hepatic veins, wliich bring blood from the vena portae. . (Epigastric external ihac . i circumBex , ^ I iliac, ilio-lumbiir middle sacral into the left. . ( Right (left . [Capsular I spermatic / HffimoiThoidal plexus vesico-prostatic plexus . . 1 Vesical 1 dorsal of the penis. uterine vaginal, 'obturator pudic. parietal branches . sciatic I gluteal ^lateral sacral. Veins of corpus caverno sum of the bulb transverse perineal superlicial perineal nilerior htemorrhoidal. I coccygeal , comes nervi ischiadici muscular I anastomotic. Vena POBT^ Splenic Splenic branches vasa brevia pancreatic left gastro- epiploic. 'Inferior me- senteric ( Left colic I sigmoid - superior hiemoi'- rhoidal. 1 / intestinal superior mesenteric < ileo-colic right colic middle colic right gastro- epiploic imncreatico. coronary ^ duodenal, pyloric \cystic. U. A.SPINAL NERVES OF THE ABDOMEN. 434 TABLE OF THE SPINAL NERVES IN THE ABDOMEN. /Posterior branches Internal external . (Muscular 1 spinal. . (Muscular t cutaneous. Lumbar SPINAL NERVES\ divide \ into ^Ilio-liypogastric. ilio-inguinal genito-crural Anterior branches: of these the four lirst end in the lumbar PLEXUS, which supplies external neous anterior crural Vobturator f Iliac branch l hypogastric branch. J To integuments of 1 the groin, f Genital branch 1 crural branch. cuta- J To integuments of . t the thigh. j" Branches inside the J To the iliacus muscle I pelvis . . . 1 to the femoral artery. Branches outside the f are noticed in the [ pelvis . . . ( thigh. Accessory (Other ofl'sets are \ described in the I thigh. Sacral SPINAL NEKVE3 divide into / Posterior branches i Muscular unite together and J and give off. . .1 cutaneous ( filaments. /Terminal branches Theanteriorbranches of the four superior unite with the, lumbo-sacral in the\ SACRAL PLEXUS; • and furnish . collateral \ branches Great sciatic .pudic , described in the lower limb. / Inferior haimorrhoidal perineal \ dorsal of penis. /Superficial, internal and external muscular ^to the bulb. Superior gluteal | inferior gluteal i noticed in the lower limb, small sciatic I perforating cutaneous topyriforniis to obturator interiius and superior i „„i;„„j gemellus | 5,*^ to quadratus foiiioris and inferior [ i,,,ff„pi- gemoUns ) visceral to levator .mi to coccygeua . to external .sphincter. ' The other sacral nerves are described at p. 402.NERVES OF THE ABDOMEN. 435 TABLE OF THE STMPATQETIC NERVES IN THE ABDOMEN. Diaphragiimtic ca-liiic Soi.AK Plexus* fur- nishes the following/ superior mesenteric plexHses ' snprurenal renal . aortic . spermatic .inferior mesenteric /Coronary plexus hepatic . I Pyloric J right gastro-epiiiloi'c I pancreatico-iluodenal I cystic. \ splenic Offsets to small and large intestine. / Left gastro-epijiloi'c 1 pancreatic. Spermatic plexns, filaments to the. Hypogastric. . ! Oflaets to the large intestine I superior hiemorrhoidal. . C Great splanchnic nerves This receives A small splanchnic nerves I. offsets of right pneumo-gastric. HVPOOASTRIC PlEXPSI ends in the pelvic plexus on each side,, which gives the fol- lowing plexuses . 'Inferior hicmoiThoidal vesicjil . nteriiiB .vaginal. Ganoliatkd corb of the f'^''"""" sympathetic in theab-J domen supplies . . ] I internal Prostatic cavernous deferential to vesicuhe seminales. . To the lumbar and sacral spinal nerves, i To aortic plexus I to hypogastric plexus - . ■< to .join round middle sacral artery • between the cords on the coccyx, in the ( ganglion impar. niis is joined above by iaoi'tic plexus ■ (filaments fioni the lumbar gaiiglii PNEUMO-GASTRIC NEKVE IN THE ABDOMEN. I Right . . f Coronary branches to the back of the stomach I (filaments to join the cadiac and splenic plexuse • I hS!",?",'"'*'?'''!?'''',^'' '° f™"' of stomach. ( branches to the li(!patic plexus. Pneumo-gastric . . ' ' manients to join the cadiac and splenic plexuses. I left . F P 2CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Section I. THE WALLS OF THE THORAX. Clean walls of muscles. Preserve nerves, Termination of the costal cartilages. Form in general; on a cross section. Bissection. The dissection of the thorax will he commenced on the fourteenth day of the dissection of the body, after the removal of the upper limbs. In the first place the sternum, ribs and costal cartilages with the intervening structures, will be carefully cleaned, so that the walls of the chest may be examined, but the lateral and anterior branches of the intercostal nerves issuing between the ribs and cartilages should be carefully preserved. The portions of the pectoralis major and minor, serratus magnus, rectus abdominus, and the ex- ternal and internal oblique muscles of the abdomen, will be taken away, at the same time noting again the extent of their attachments ; the insertion of the scalenus posticus will also be cleaned off the second rib. The origin of the sub-clavicus from the first costal cartilage need not be removed. Finally, by arrangement with the dissectors of the abdomen and head and neck, the body will be turned on to either side for a few minutes to complete the cleaning of the ribs and intercostal muscles as far back as the transverse processes of the vertebrtB. The chest wall. The costal cartilages will now be clearly seen ; the upper seven ribs join the sternum, the sixth and seventh being close together at the lower end of the gladiolus, and the eighth, ninth and tenth cartilages terminate by articulation with the lower border of the cartilage above. Some distance from their anterior ends, the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth cartilages will be observed to send up a short process to articulate with a similar one passing downwards from the cartilage above. The extremity of the eleventh rib cartilage is free, and commonly forms the lowest point of the chest wall. The twelfth rib is often not more than two inches or so in length. Form. The form of the chest is irregularly conical, with the apex above and the base below; and it may appear afterwards, shoidd the student find the lungs collapsed, that it is only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the space is occupied by the expanded lungs. It is flattened on the sides, and onBOUNDARIES AND SIZE. 437 section, the cavity is seen to be diminished in tlie middle line by the prominent spinal column, on each side of which it projects backwards Boundaries. On the sides are the ribs wit), the intercostal muscles ; Boundaries in tront is the sternum ; and behind is the spine. The base is constructed at the circumference by the last dorsal Th. vertebra behmd, by the end of the sternum in front, and by the ribs '""I'l'mgin. with their cartilages on each side; while the space included by the bones is closed by the diaphragm. The base is wider transversely than from before backwards, and form of tlie diaphragm is convex upwards towards the chest; though at certain spots it projects more than at others. Thus in the centre It is slightly lower than on each side, and is on a level with the base of the ensifonn process. On the right side, forming a dome over the liver, it rises to a level with the upper bonier of the fifth and height: rib near its junction with the cartilage ; and on the left it arches over the stomach to the corresponding part of the upper border of the si.xth rib. From the lateral projections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but more behind than before, so as to leave an angular interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of the attachment of the diaphragm will be it. side niarked by an oblique line, over the side of the chest, from the base ot the ens.form process to the eleventh dorsal spine ; but it differs slightly on the two side.s, being rather lower on the left The ape.x of the thoracic cavity is continued higher than the Ape:c osseous boundary, and reaches into the root of the neck Its liicrhest ^'=^'=''«' point is not in the middle line, for there the windpipe, "a3so- phagus blood-vessels and other structures lie, luit it is prolonged on each side for one or two inches above the anterior end of the first nb 80 that the apex may be .said to be bifid. Each point projects is bind- between the scaleni muscles, and under the subclavian blood-vessels ; hot ' and in the interval between them lie the several objects passin<^ between the neck and the thorax ' ^^^'"^ Mth the apparent size externally ; for a part of the space included ""^"">^°f by the ribs below is occupied by the abdominal viscera; and S^'"''^'' cavity reaches upwards, as just stated, into the neck delT2T"" °^ """^"^ °^ the diaphragm, the Do.th depth 0 the space varies greatly at different parts. At the centre ^-"''-^ where the depth is least, it measures generally from six to seven ^^^^re; mches but at the back about half as much again; and the oZ •^^"'"0 = as to tt TTTT "^'""•'^'"^ °f tl"^ '^-ta given the thox^x '''' ^"'"'""^'"^ '"^^ ^^''-^Pl'-g'" the wdl of JJterations in capacity. The size of the thoracic cavity is con- .Si.o is SjiMlir ''''' '''' S'"* thJrnltf""''! '''T'""'^ '"'"''''"''^ '-^ inspiration, when tn,„.sver.,c,y the libs aie raised and separated from one another, and are diminished m expiration as the ribs approach and the sternum sinks Z^T" An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the dia,,hracrm i" .lo|.ih by ° diapliragm,DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 438 but un- equally. Thorax lessened, how. Intercostal muscles. Outer layer is deficient in front. Dissection of deeper muscle. Inner layer deficient behind. Use of outer muscles; in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is taken into the lungs, thus increasing the cavity ; and it ascends when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or to diminish it in violent efforts. But the movement of the diaphragm is not eipal throughout, and some parts of the cavity will be increased more than others. For instance, the central ten- dinous piece, which is joined to the heart-case, moves but slightly ; but the lateral, liulging ]mrts descend freely, and increase greatly the capacity of each half of the che.st below by their separation from the thoracic parietes. The thoracic cavity may be diminished by the diaphragm Ijeing pushed upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the abdomen ; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. Dissection. The external intercostal muscle should now be carefully cleaned, care being taken to pre.serve the nerves and a thin aponeurosis {anterior intercostal membrane) which passes forwards from the muscle to the sternum at the front of the chest. The INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES fomi two layers in each .si^ace, but neither occupies the whole length of the interval. The direction of the fibres is different in the two, those of the external muscle running very obliquely downwards and forwards, while those of the internal pass, although less obliquely, downwards and Ijackwards. ^ The external muscle consists of fleshy and tendinous fibres, and is attached to the margins of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. It extends from the tubercle of the upper rib behind to the end of the bone in front, except in the last two spaces, where the muscle is continued forwards between the cartilages. The thin anterix)r intercostal membrane takes the place of the muscle between the rib-cartilages. Dissection. The internal intercostal muscle will be seen by cutting through and removing the external intercostal and the mem- brane in one of the widest spaces, say the third. The i7iternal intercostal muscle passes from the inner surface of the rib above to the upper border of the one below internal to the attachment of the external intercostal muscle. It begins near the ancles of the ribs behind, the upper muscles approaching more closely" to the spine than the lower ones, and reaches to the extremity of the intercostal space at the sternum in front. The fibres of the lowest two muscles arc continuous anteriorly with those of the internal oblique of the abdomen. One surface is in contact with the external muscle, and the intercostal vessels and nerves ; and the other is lined by the pleura. The hinder part of the muscles will be seen again in the dissection of the V)ack and thorax. Action. By the action of the intercostal muscles the ribs are moved in res]iiration. Tln^ertcrnal T»(crco.s-««/s elevate the ribs and evert the lower edges, so as to enlarge the thorax in the antero-posterior and transverse directions : they come into play during inspiration.INTERCOSTAL NERVES AND A'ESSELS. 489 The internal intercoMals act in a different way at the side and fore of inner part of the chest. Between the osseous jiart of the ribs the^- depress and turn in intc^rosscons those bones, diniinishinif tlie size of the thorax ; and they are ' brought into use in expiration. Between tlie rib cartihages they raise the ribs, and are muscles intorcaiti- of inspiration, like the outer layer. paT™"'' Dissection. The intercostal ves.sels and nerves at the sides and front of the chest are now to be examined. The intercostal arteries which run from behind forwards are small and are not easily dissected out except in a well-injected subject. The best guide to Expose the intercostal nerve is the lateral cutaneous branch, and this should J," rv™nml be gently pulled on and traced back to the parent trunk. The third vessels, and fourth s[)aces may be devoted to the ])articular examination of the nerves, and the fourth ril) should be cut through at its junction with its cartilage in front and as far back at the side as possible, and the severed portion of rib shelled out from its internal peri- Remove a osteum, great care being taken not to injure the subjacent pleura. 0°rib°" The nerve and its accompanying vessel sliould first be sought for far back between the intercostal muscles close to the rib above. The INTERCOSTAL NERVES now Seen only in the anterior half of interccstni their extent, are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, "<""^'''^ = and supply the wall of tlie thorax. Placed at first between the course, layers of the intercostal muscles below the corresponding artery, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax about nnd- way between the spine and the sternum. Then, much diminished termination, in size, the nerve is continued onwards, at first in the sulistance of the internal intercostal muscle, and afterwards between that muscle and the pleura as far as the side of the sternum, where it ends as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Branches supply the branches, intercostal muscles, and the triangularis sterni. The INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES which run from behind forwards intercostal between the ribs are derived from the thoracic aorta in the case of bifurcate: the nine lower intercostal spaces (these being known as the aoiiic intercostal arteries), and from the superior intercostal branch of the sub- clavian in the case of the upper two spaces. They lie with the nerves between the strata of intercostal muscles, and close to the upper rib Ijounding the space. Near the angle of the rib the artery gives off a collateral l)ranch which is continued forwards along the edge of the rib Itelow ; and both it and the parent vessel anastomose in front with the anterior intercostal oft'sets of the internal mammary artery whicli run outwards. A small cutaneous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous oirsets. nerve of the thorax, and other branches are furnished to the thoracic wall. Dissection. Make three saw cuts through the sternum, two Division of transversely across, one opposite the middle of the first intercostal "'^s'"™"™- space, and tlie other between the junction of the sixth costal cartilages, and with a third cut divide the piece of sternum between the first two cuts longitudinally into two, taking care not to open■140 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Dissection of inlerunl mamjniiry vessels. Triangularis sterni; insertion relations; Internal mammary artery courses through thorax to abdomen. the pleural sacs. To bring into view the triangularis sterni muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the left half of the sternum with the cartilages of the true ribs, except the first and seventh, are to be taken away with the intervening muscles ; but the two ribs mentioned are to be left untouched for the benefit of the dissectors of the abdomen and of the head and neck. Small arteries to each intercostal space and the surface of the thorax, and the intercostal nerves are to be preserved. If the piece of sternum and the costal cartilages aie divided and removed carefullj' these can be shelled off the subjacent structures without injury to them. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be apparent when the loose tissue and fat are removed. The TRIANGULARIS STERNI (fig. 160) is a thin muscle beneath the costal cartilages. It arises internally from the side of the ensiform process, from the back of the sternum as high as the third costal cartilage, and, usually, from the inner ends of the cartilages of the lower two or three trae ribs. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper ones also ascending consider- ably, and are inserted by fl^eshy slips into the true ribs except the first and last, at the junction of the bone and cartilage: some of the fibres frequently end in an aponeurosis in the in- tercostal spaces. In front of the muscle are the rib- cartilages and the internal intercostals, with the internal mammary vessels and intercostal nerves. Behind, it lies on the pleura. Its lower part is continuous with the transversalis muscle of the abdomen (fig. 160, b). The size of this muscle varies greatly, and one or more of the upper slips are frequently wanting. Action. The triangularis sterni assists in depressing the anterior ends of the ribs, and acts with the interosseous part of the internal intercostals in.expiration. The INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY is a branch of the subclavian, and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rili. It is continued through the thorax, lying behind the costal cartilages and aljout half an inch from the sternum, as far as the sixth intercostal space; here it gives externally a large muscular branch (viusculo- phrenic), and then passing beneath the seventh cartilage, enters the sheath of the rectus muscle in the wall of the abdomen. In Fig. 160.—View from Behind of, a, Trianoularis Sterni Muscle.THE PLEURAL CAVITY. 441 the chest the artery lies on the pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the chain of sternal lymphatic glands. Its Branches: thoracic branches are numerous but small:— a. A long, slender branch (coines nervi phrenici) arises as the .superior artery enters the chest, and descends to the diaphragm with the ^' ' phrenic nerve: this branch is seen in the dissection of the thorax. b. Small sternal branches supply the triangularis sterni, and smrai^p^s- raraify over the back of the sternum. From these, mediastinal g^ts, twigs pass backwards to be distributed to the remains of the thymus gland and the pericardium. c. Two anterior intercostal branches run outwards in each space, intercostal, lying along the borders of the costal cartilages, and terminate by anastomosing with the aortic and superior intercostal branches. d. Perforating branches, one or two opposite each space, pierce perforating, the internal intercostal and large pectoral muscles, and are dis- tribttted on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves : the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrcnic branch courses outwards beneath the musculo- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the diaphragm : it supplies anterior branches to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination has been seen in the dissection of the abdomen. Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk. Veins, which opens into the innominate vein. Section IT. THE CAVITY OF THE THORAX. The cavity of the thorax is the space included hy the spinal Deflnition. column, the sternum, and ribs, and by certain muscles in the intervals of the bony framework. In it the organs of respiration. Contents of and the heart with its great vessels are lodged ; and through it the '^''^''y- gullet, and some vessels and nerves are transmitted. Dissection. The soft parts should now be cleared away from Dissection between the ribs and cartilages on both sides, and the parietal thorax" layer of the pleura will then be seen adherent to their inner surfaces. Care should be taken, however, below the ninth rib not to remove portions of the diaphragm, as it lies here close to the chest wall, and the cavity of the thorax is there very narrow. The Remove second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth ribs on the left side shouhl si'de°°'°'^ then be divided as far lack as possible, and taken away without opening the pleura beneath. A longitudinal incision will then be made down the whole length of the exposed pleura, about midway between the vertebrte Open and the sternum, and small cross cuts will be made above and•142 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Open right side, Sac of the pleura: form ; outer surface ; inner surface; disposition. Difference in sac of right, and of left side. The con- tinuity is here traced from wall of chest to lung below, Ro as to freely adniit the hand into the pleural ca\'ity. When the general cavity has been examined, the anterior mediastiimm, or the space between the two pleural sacs behind the sternum and in front of the pericardium, will be cleared. AVith one hand in the pleural sac as a guide to its anterior limit, it will be found easy to mark the limits of the mediastinum, and the pleuras can be readily separated in the middle line, and from the pericardium, which they overlap. The portion of sternum with the ribs and cartilages of the right side have been left on for the preservation of the anterior mediastinum, but after it has been examined the ribs should be removed on the right side as on the left, and the pleural sac opened and its limits defined. Finally the right half of the sternum with the attached costal cartilages will be removed and kept aside with the left portion for future examination. It, unfortunately, often happens in subjects for dissection, that the pleura is thickened and adherent to the lung. Should the dissector find it is so on the left side, he should at once open the right in case the membrane may be healthy on that side. Thk PLEURiE are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, which are reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the thorax. One occu- pies the right, and the other the left half of the ca\aty ; they apiproach each other along the middle of the chest, forming a thoracic ^sartition or mediastinum. Each pleura is conical in shape ; its apex projects into the neck above the first rib (fig. 162, p. 447) ; and its base is in contact with the diaphragm. The outer surface is rough, and is connected to the lung and the wall of the thorax liy areolar tissue ; luit the inner surface is smooth and free. Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of the chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part, which is variously called— 1. Costal pleura, where it lines the chest-wall; 2. Phrenic pleura, where it covers the diaphragm ; 3. Pericardial pleura, where it covers the pericardium ; and 4. Cervical pleura, where it passes into the neck. The visceral ptleura is the pulmonary pileura. There are some differences in the shape and extent of the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than on the left; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to that side. The continuity of the liag of the pleura may be traced horizontally from any given point, over the lung and chest wall, back to the same spot in the following manner :—Supposing the memlirane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it lines the wall of the chest as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is then reflected over the viscus, as the visceral or pulmonary pleura, covering its surface, and extending into the fi.ssurea between the lobes. From the front of the root of the lung the pleura may be followed over the side of the pericardium back again to the sternum.I'r.KL'UAI- UKKr.KCTION. Biilow the root of tlu; liiii;,' it foriii.s a tliiii fold, the Ivjavierdum lalum pulmmiix, wliich iinit«-.s the iiiUL-i- .siii'face of the Uwif U) the Hide of tlie i)(>riiar<liiiiii, ami may be seen \>y eiilartiilig the liol.- ill the ])].-tiia and drawiiifr the lower jiart of the lilii},' rnil. The ligament then aitpitars ;i.s a fold jiassing from the innt-r i»art of the luuf,'to the perif^ardium and pre.senting a free ju™/' loW(!r border. At tin? upper pari of the ehest the ])leura forms a dome over the a])ex of the lung, which may he revealed hy drawing lhati;artof the lung downwards. At this ])art the memlirane is slrengtheni!d by the strong fascia of tlx; neck (Silmu'H fascia), which is attaclK^d to the inner border of the first rib and closely invests the ve.swls at the up])er opening of the thorax. f.lNK OK I'l.KiJIlAL HHKLUCTION. Hurfuce. markiinj. The jileural J^J'Jjf^ce cavity extends ujiwards on each side in tlie neck, two inches above tli<i anterior jtart of the first ril), or an indi above the middle of the clavicle, where the shoulder is depressed. From this point tlie anterior limit of the sac extends downwards and outwar<ls, re^iching the niid<lh- line at tlie lower jiart of the manubrium sterni, and continues down in that line, or a little to the left thereof. On the kft ojiposiU; the fourth costal cartilage, it passes''^f "'J--', outwards until clear ol' the sternum, and then passes downwards along its left side to the ba(;k of the sixth costal cartilage, thas ]uesenting a notch, in wliich the pericardium conies into contjict with the lower jiart of the sternum ; but the n itch is much less pni-cordial than that formed by th<! corresponding part of the lung (lig. 1C2). The ])leura is connecUid by fa.scial bunds to the upper surface of the diaidiragm, and the line of it.s reflection ])ii.sses in succession behind the six 111 and seventh costal cartihige.s, reaching the junction of the eighth rib, with its cartilage in the lateral line. From this ))oiiit it ext,eiids round the body, crossing the lower Iwrder of the tenth rib in a line midway behind the vertebrae behind and the middle line in front. This is usually the lowest jiart of thejdeural cavit.y, and from here it extends backwanls to the inner surface, of the twelfth ril), and, fjuite commonly, it jirojects below the twelfth imjjwtioii rib under the external arched ligament of the diaidiiagm. It is twelftli rib most important to bear this fact in mind in operations on the jioslcrior abdominal wall, so as to avoid opening the jdeural sac. On the; ri(jhl siili; the line of the jileural reflection is the same as "'JjJ'k''^ on lh(! left, except that it does not jjie.sent a notcdi behind the, ' sternum, where it overla])8 t,he jiericardiuni, but continues directly flownwards (Jii the middle line until it reaches the seventh cosUil cartilagcr, behind which its line of reflection passes outwards and downwards as on the left side. TiiK MioiHAHTiNU.vi. The median thoracic partition, or 'incdias- Alonx , . . /.I .111 micldlit till! huum, is tormed i)y the inner ])ortion ol the iiarietai pleura on suck r<ivi» « c;ach side, and the structures interjwsed between the two mem- "ej'i''""- branes. It extends the whole de])th of the thorax, and reac lies mesially from the sjiine U) the sternuiii, thus separating tln^ right and left pleural cavities. In the centre the two lay(;rs of .serous membrane are widely s(tparated liy the heart; Itiit in front andDISSECTION OF TFIE THORAX. 444 behind they come nearer together. The partition is artificially, divided into four parts, which are di.stinguished as the superior, anterior, middle, and posterior mediastina. >, u aj ite art a art( vein. rve. ugula B omi SI m .2 "E a> Im m Ver Vaf An1 ffi to s ° E 5 Q O fL| B3 CO ro cs — — fc- o o ~ - 3 Groove formed by subclavian artery. Superior inter- costal vein. .Left innominate vein. Groove formed by loft innomi- nate vein. Right coronary artery. Fia. 16].—The Contents op thk Thorax skkn from the Fkont. Thb Longs were Filled with Melted Wax and were held Apart in Front until the Wax had set. (From a Specimen in Charing Cross Hospital Museum.) meStas"'^ The superior mediastinum, is the part of the thoracic chamber tinum: above the pericardium, and may be defined aa bounded below boundaries,445 THE MEDIASTINA. by a plane extending from the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra to the junction of the nianubriuin with the body of the sternum. It is limited in front by the manubrium with the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and behind l)y the ujDper four dorsal vertebrte and the lower ends of the longi colli muscles. Between the pleuraj in this part there are found, proceeding from before backwards, the following objects : |;j;,<J^^jj^^ —the remains of the thymus gland, several IjTiiphatic glands, the innominate veins (fig. 162), and the upper half of the superior cava, the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, the arch of the aorta ■with its three large branches, innominate, left carotid and left subclavian, the trachea, oesophagus and thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The anterior mediastinum is the space in front of the pericardium between the pleurtB, and is very narrow in its upper half, since the num is the two pleurse meet behind the sternum from the level of the second • to the fourth costal cartilages. Below the latter spot the left pleura inclines away from the middle line, and is separated from its fellow by an interval in which the pericardium comes into contact with the sternum and the left triangularis sterni muscle. This contents, mediastinum contains only some areolar tissue, with a few small lymphatic glands. In some bodies the left pleura is continued behind the sternum nearly as far as the diaphragm. The middle mediastimim is the largest part of the central space, and includes the pericardium with the contained heart and great vessels, contents, viz., the ascending aorta, the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and the lower half of the superior vena cava ; also the phrenic nerves, the roots of the limgs with the bronchial lymphatic glands, and, on the right side, the arch of the azygos vein. The posterior mediastinum is the portion between the pericardium Posterior and the spnie ; and the interpleural space is here larger than in tinum: front of the heart. Its extent and contents will be shown later, but it may be here said that enclosed between the serous layers boundaries, of the posterior mediastinimi (fig. 174, p. 481) are the descending and con- thoracic aort<a, the azygos veins, the oesophagus with the pneumo- gastric nerves, and the thoracic duct, as well as a set of lymphatic glands. Dissection. The pleurae and the fat are now to be cleaned from clean pon- ,, . , 0 ., . J • cardium and the sides oi the pericardium. The root of the lung is to be dissected oat by taking away the the root of pleura and the areolar tissue from the front and back without' " injuring its component vessels. To clean the back of the root, the lung should be thrown forwards to the ojjposite side of the chest. In this dissection the phrenic nerve and artery will be found in Trace the front of the root, together with a few small anterior pulmonary nerves ; the last are best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the vagus nerve, dividing into branches ; and arching above the right one is the large azygos vein. and azygos For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched.416 DISSECTION OF THE THOKAX. Thymus The THYMUS GLAND is an organ which is most developed in the totL':" infant, and the use of which is not understood. It is placed mainly in the upper part of the thorax ; and it may be best exanuned in "a fulLgrown fojtus. At birth it is about two inches in length, and of a greyish colour. It consists of two lobes of a conical form, which touch each and extent, other. Its upper end is pointed, and extends on the trachea as high as the thyroid body ; and the lower, wider, part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and its large branches, on the left innominate vein and on the pericardium. In the young adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather firm material in the interpleural space behind the upper end of the sternum ; and after middle Life it has generally disappeared altogether. Remains in adult. RELATIONS OF THE LUNGS. Number and use. Form and parts. Base touches diaphragm: sliape and level. Apex is in the neck. Anterior edge is thin po.sition on right, and left side. The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavity of the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. Each lung is of a somewhat conical form, and takes its shape from the space in which it is lodged. It is unattached, except at the inner side where the vessels enter forming the root; and it is covered by the bag of the pleura. It has a base and apex, two borders and two surfaces. Two fissures on the right and one on the left divide it into lobes. The base of the lung is hollowed in the centre and thin at the circumference, fitting the convexity of the diaphragm. Following the shape of that muscle, it is sloped obliquely from before back- wards, and reaches in consequence much lower behind than in front. Surface marking (fig. 162). The position of the lower border with respect to the wall of the thorax may be roughly indicated by a line drawn from the sixth chondro-sternal articulation with a slight convexity downwards to the tenth dorsal spine ; but it will be slightly lower in front on the left, than on the right side. The apex is rounded, and projects from one to two inches above the anterior end of the first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery. The anterior border is thin, and overlies in part the pericardium. 0?i the right side it lies along the middle of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage. On the left side, however, it reaches, like the pleura, along the middle line only as low as the fourth costal cartilage. Below that spot it presents a V-shaped notch the apex of which is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib. Below the notch the lung extends inwnrds behind the outer part of the sixth costal cartilage, and the lower border passes round the chest, on the left as well as on the right sides, crossing the seventh rib in the lateral line and the ninth rib when it is half way round the body, and it is rouglily at that part a rib and an intercostal space above the line of isleur.al reflection.RELATIONS OF LUNGS. 447 The posterior border is half as long a"ain as the anterior, and Posterior . . . eil^fi is projects inferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm ; it is thfck. thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column. The outer surface of the lune is conve.x, and is in contact with External the wall of the thorax : a large cleft, known as the great fissure, divides it into two parts, and on the right side there is an additional smaller fissure. The inner surface is Hat when compared with the internal outer : at the fore part is a large hollow which lodges the heart and great vessels, and is most marked on the left lung ; and behind '^'^''^'J^""^'^" this ia a depression about three inches long, Mhm pulmonis, which root. Fio. 162.—Diagram to suow the Difference in the Anterior Border OF THE Right and Left Lung, the Edge being indicated by the Dark Line ; and to mark the different Level op the Base on THE two sides. receives the vessels of the root of the lung. In the hardened specimen well-marked grooves are seen upon the lung for the reception of the great vessels with which it is in contact, and on the left lung is a specially deep groove in its inner surface formed by the arch of the aorta, and by the descending thoracic aorta (fig. 163, p. 448). Each lung (fig. 161) is divided into twolobes by great fisswre, Division which, running obliquely downwards and forwards, begins at the posterior border near the apex, and ends at the fore part of the base, and the lower lobe of the lung is larger than the upper. In the a.rK\\,\\ii right lung a second horizonlal fissure is directed forwards from the ""'ght middle of the oblique one to the anterior border, and cuts off a small into lobes. Left ha.'i two,U8 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. triangular piece from the upper lobe, which is called the middle lobe. Occasionally there may be a trace of the third lobe in the left lung. Surfaco^^ of '^^"^ surface marking for the great fissure of the lung is a line th^iissmes. taken downwards and forwards round the chest from the middle line of the back behind opposite the root of the spine of the scapula, to the junction of the si.\th rib with its cartQage in front and below. The horizontal fissure of the right lung is marked by a line FiQ. 163.—The Roots op the Lungs prom the Front. The Lungs were SEPARATED FROM ONE ANOTHER, THE OBBATER PART OP THE AbOH OP thb Aorta cut away, and the Heart drawn down. drawn outwards from the middle of the sternum opposite the fourth costal cartilage until it meets the line of the great fissure. Difference Besides the difference in the number of the lobes, the right lung a"ze°on,he'^ is larger and heavier, and is wider and more hollowed out at the lungs. base, as well as being somewhat shorter tlian the left. The increased length and the narrowness of the left lung are due to the absence of a large projecting body like the liver below it, and to the direction of the heart to the left side. Boot of the The ROOT OF THE LUNG (fig. 163) consists of the ve.ssels entering the '""^ • fissure on the inner surface ; and as these are bound together by the pleura and some areolar tissue they form a stidk, which situation; attaches the lung to the heart and windpipe. The root is situateTHE ROOT OF THE LUNG. at the inner surface, about midway between the base and apex, and about a third of the way from the posterior to the anterior border of the lung. In front of the root on both sides are the phrenic and the relations, anterior puhnonary ple.xiis of nerves, the phremc nerve being some little distance from it upon the side of the pericardium. Anterior to the root of the right lung also is the superior vena cava. Behind on both sides is the posterior jjulmonary plexus ; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above, on the right side, is the great azygos vein ; and on the left side, the arch of the aorta. Below each root is the fold of pleura called the ligamentum latum pulmonis. In the root of the lung are collected a branch of the pulmonary consti- artery, two iiulmonary veins, and a division of the air tube tJJg'J.o^ot'^. (bronchus), as well as small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. The large vessels and the air tube have the following positions to one another :— On both sides the bronchus is on a posterior jjlane, and the their rela- pulmonary veins are lowest down on the most anterior plane, and tSong^P^'" the pulmonary artery is intermediate. On the right side the uppermost branch of the bronchus occupies the highest place, and the remainder of the bronchus is directed downwards and outwards behind the blood vessels, the pulmonary artery is next highest and the veins are lowest down. On the left side the differences pulmonary artery occupies the highest place with the veins below ^^J'^^ it, within its concavity, and being anterior to the artery at their emergence from the lung ; the bronchus is directed downwai'ds and outwards behind the vessels, and is intermediate in level. This difference in the two sides is accounted for by the fact that the bronchus of the right side gives off its branch to the upper lobe of the lung before it is crossed by the artery ; while on the left side there is no corresponding branch of the airtube, and the artery crosses the undivided bronchial stem. THE PERICARDIUM. The bag containing the heart is named the pericardium. It is Pericar. situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval between the two pleura;. Dissection, The surface of the pericardium should now be clean ve.s- cleaned, and the student should dissect out the large vessels above ''"^'^ ofl'^art- the heart, and trace the nerves (fig. 161, p. 444). In cleaning the fibrous pericardium it will be noticed that bands connect it with the back of the upper and lower portions of the sternum still remaining—the superior and inferior sterno-pericardial ligaments. The large artery curving to the left above the pericardium is the First aorta, aorta, which furnishes three trunks to the head and the upper limbs, viz., from right to left, the innominate, the left commonDISSECTION OF TIIK THORAX. 450 then iuiio- mimite veins uirI tributaries, and upper cava. Nerves. Dis.sect superficial plexus in arch of aorta. Pericar- dium : size and form ; position ; relations. Composi- tion. Fibrous part gives sheatlis to vessels. carotid, and left subclavian. On its left side of the aoi-ta, and witliiu the concavity of its arch, is the imlmonary artery. Above tlie arch of the aorta a large venous trunk, left ■iiinomiiiate, crosses over the three arteries mentioned above, and ends by uniting on the right side with the riglit innominate vein in the upper cava. Several small veins, which may be mistaken for nerves, ascend over the aorta, and enter the left innominate. Define the tributaries of this vein, and especially one crossing the aortic arch towards the left side, which is the left superior intercostal vein. The inferior thyroid vein,, which descends in front of the trachea to open into the left innominate vein or into the junction of the two innominate veins, should aLso be dissected out. The large vein by the side of the aorta is the superior vena cava; and the azygos major vein will be found opening into it behind, abo\'e the aorta of the right lung. The phrenic nerves sliould be cleared on both sides from their entry into tlie thorax behind the subclavian veins above, along the side of the pericardirtm to the diaphragm below, as well as the left vagus nerve, wliich lies deeply upon the aortic arch, and will be found coming downwards in front of that vessel from between the origin of the left common carotid and subclavian arteries. Between the left phrenic and vagus nerves and close to the aorta are the left superficial cardie nerve of the sympathetic, and the lower cervical cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smaller, and in front of the other. The cardiac nerves from the left vagus and sympathetic are to be followed to a small plexus (superficial cardiac) in the concavity of the aorta. An ofltset of the plexus is to be traced downwards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta towards the right coronary artery of the heart; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards from the deep cardiac to the superficial plexus ; this dissection is difficult, and requires care. When the pericardium is afterwards opened the nerves will l)e followed on the heart. The PERICARDIUM is somewhat conical in form, the wider part being turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part extending upwards beyond the heart on the large vessels. It is placed behind the stei'num, and projects on each side of tliat Iwne, but much more towards the left than the right side. Laterally the pericardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie between the two. It^ anterior surface is separated fi'om the chest-wall by the pleuiffi and lungs, except over the small area on the left side corresponding to the lower part of the anterior mediastinum ; and behind, in the interval between the pleuraa, it is in contact with the oesophagus and aortfl. The heart-case consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined internally by a serous ineml>rane. The.A6ro!M2;art surrounds the he.irt, and is pierced by the large vessels joining that organ ; and, with the exception of the inferiorTHE PERICARDIUM. ir.i cava, it gives prolongations along the vessels, the strongest of whieli is on the aorta. Below the pericardium is united to the central tendon of tlie AttjicOi. diaphragm, and e.xtends a little over the muscular tissue, especially diaijiiragin ; on the left side. For the most part it can be readilj' separated from the diaphragm, but in the median part of the central tendon it is Krndy adherent, and the intimate association of the diaphragm, the back part of the periavrdium and the roots of the lungs through the ligamentum latum pulmonis .should be noticed." The inferior vena cava pierces the pericardial attachment below, and, imme- diately entering tlie lower part of the right auricle, does not receive a sheath from the pericardium. In front, tlie pericardium is loo.sely connected to the back of the .sternum in the superior to sternum; mediastinum through tlie sterno-pericardial ligaments already noticed. The extent of its investments of the ve.s.sels entering or leaving the heart will be better seen when it is ojiened. It can now be seen that it is thickest at the ujiper part, and is formed of fibres cro.>^sii)g in diflerent directions, many being longitudinal, lo fascin of and it can be traced up on to the large vessels at the opening of tlie thorax, and by pulling upon it, it will be seen that it is connected with the fascia at the root of the neck. Dissection. The pericardium should now be ojieiied by a longitudinal incision running its whole length from tlie front of the aorta, and liy a cross cut passing from the front of the mot of one Inng to that of the other. Tlie seroics sac consists of parietal and visceral parts, which are Shiqu.s continuous with one another along the great vessels. The parietal 'fbroii''" ''* part lines the filjrous iiieinbraue, with which it is inseparably united, and the included portion of the diaphragm ; while the visceral part covers the heart. It is reflected around tlie and covers pulmonary artery and aorta, enclosing them in one sheath, but''™''' not passing between them. The passcige, through which the finger disiicsiUon should be pa.ssed from side to side behind the aorta and pulmonary vessels; artery within the sac, is called the transverse sinus of the 'pericardium. tr.n).sver.~-e The superior vena cava and the four pulmonary veins are only covered ' by the seroas membrane on the front and sides, and are in contact with the fibrous layer behind. If the apex of the heart be lifted upwards to the right, at the back of the left auricle the serous membrane will be seen to form a blind pouch between the pulmonary vein.s of the two sides. This pouch is known as the oblique sinus of the 'pericardium, oijiiqno In front of the root of the left lung the serous layer forms a '*'"'"'' small triangular fold, the vestujial fold of tlw pericardiuni (Mar.shall), vestigial between the pulmonary artery and the ujiper pulmonary vein. This includes the remains of a left superior cava which existed in the f(etu.s, and, like the oblique sinus, can be seen by lifting the heart over to the right side. Thet'es-se/sof the pericardium are derived from the aorta, the internal Vessels, mammary, the bronchial, the (esophageal and the phrenic arteries. * See a paper by Keith on " Tlie Nature of tlio Mammalian Diaphiagm and Pleural Cavilics."—Journal of Anal, and Phys., vol. x.\.\i.\., l!)Or>.462 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Nerves. Nerves. Accoi'diiig to Lusclika the pericardium receives nerves fi'om tlie phrenic, syiiipathetic, and right vagus. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular organ Ijy which the Wood is propelled through the body. Into it, as the centre of the vascular system, veins enter; and from it the arteries is.sue. Form (figs. 164 and 165). The heart is conical in form, but somewhat comjiressed from before backwards. The anterior surface, formed by the right ventricle and portions of "the right auricle and Tlie heart is hollow. Foim: anterior surface; JhccCuA arteriosus (cut) 3uf). Vena Cava ill ferior surface; posterior surface; left bonier; right border. Size nnd weighi. Fig. 164.—The Heart sken fkom the Fkunt and the Lkft Side. The Ductus Artekiosus is cut Aoro.ss and the Aorta Lifted up to SHOW the Right Branch op the Pulmonarv Aktehy. (From a specimen in Charing,Cross Hospital Museum). the left ventricle, is convex ; the inferior surface, where it rests on the diaphrag m, is formed by a great part of the left and a portion of the right ventricle, and is nearly flat ; the posterior surface, formed hy the left auricle and portions of the left ventricle and right auricle, is nearly flat and .somewhat quadrilateral in outline. The left border, formed by the left ventricle, i.s thick and rounded ; while the right, formed by the right auricle and a portion of the ventricle, is thin and less firm. .Sfe. The size of the heart varies greatly ; and it is usually smaller in Ihe woman than in the man. Us average measunMuents may le said to be about live inches in length, three inches andPOSITION OF HRART. •I5S ;i hiilf in width, and two iiiul a half in tliickiu'ss. Its weight is generally from ten to twelve ouni'es in the male, and from eight to ten in the female. Position and direction. The heart lies behind the lioily of the Situation in sternum, and projects on each side of that bone, but more to the left than the right. Its a.xis is directed very obli<iuely, from behind forwards and to the left, as well as somewhat downwards. The base, or posterior surface, is towards the spine, being opposite Base; the si.xth, seventh and eighth dorsal vertebrae, and looks backwards and upwards. The apex strikes the wall of the chest during life in apox ; the fifth intercostal space of the left side, opposite the junction of the ribs with their cartilages. The anterior surface looks forwards and surfaces; Ductus arteriosus. Brandies of Pulmonary Pulmonary vei Coronary sinus. Left subclavian. Left common carotid. Innominate artery. Aorta. Superior vena cava. Pulmonary vein. Pulmonary vein. Inferior vena caval entrance to right auricle. Ritjlit auriculo- ventricular groove. / Posterior inter-ventncular groove. Fig. 165.—The Heart skkn from Bkhinu and Below. (Prom a specimen in Charing Cross Hospital Museum). somewhat upwards ; while the inferior surface is nearly horizontal, resting on the diaphragm. The right margin is turned to the borders; front; and the left is placed fartlier back. In consequence of the oblique position of the heart, the right riiiht and half and the ape.x are directed towards the thoracic wall, though mostly with lung intervening ; while the left half is undermost and deep in the cavity. Surface marking (fig. IGG). The extent of the heart in relation Extent of to the front of the chest may be indicated as follows :—The upper "[nyZ^^ limit is marked by a line across the sternum from the lower edge of the second costal cartilage of the left side to the upper edge of the third cartilage of the right side; and the lower limit by a line,DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 464 (lowiiwnnls, slightly coiivex downwaixls, from the seventh choiidro-stenial articulation of the right side to the apex in the tifth left intei'spai/e just below the costo-chondral junction, the latter point being usually about one inch and a half below, and three-c^narters of an incli to the sternal side of the uipple in the male and, before child-bearing, to right in the female. On the right side the heart projects about one inch and a half from the middle line of the sternum ; and on the left, and left. the apex, is distant from three to three and a half inches from the centre of the breast-bone. Superdciai The portion of the heart which is uncovered by lung {tlie area of ])ortiou of lieai't. FiQ. 166.—Diagram showing the Position op the Heart to the Ribs AND Steknum, the Soft Parts being removed from the Exterior OF THE Thorax. The Edge of each Lung is shown by a Dotted Line. The Left Auricle extends somewhat higher than the Area indicated in the Figure, Projecting into the Second Intercostal Space. siqierficial cardiac dulness) is included between the middle line of the sternum, in its lower third, and a line drawn from the centre of the breast-bone between the fourth costal cartilages to the apex of the heart (fig. 166). Chambers of Component parts. The heart is a double organ ; and in each halt there are two chambers, an auricle and a ventricle, which com- municate together, and are provided with vessels for the entrance Groov..s: and exit of the blood. The surface is marked by grooves indicating auriouio- tliis divi.sioii. Thus, passing circularly round the heart, nearer Uie ventricular, ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ g^oo^e ^liich cuts off the thin auricularPOSITION OF THE HEART. 455 from the fleshy ventricuhir part ; and on each surface there is a nnd intci-- loiigitudinal sulcus, usually occupied hy whitish fat along the line ^ of tlie coronary blood vessels, over the partition between the ventricles. The interventricular groove is nearer the left border of the heart in front, and nearer the right border behind. The auricles are two, right and left, and their wall is much Auricles: thinner than that of the ventricles. They are placed deeply at the position, base of the heart ; and each is jjrolonged forwards into a small tiipering part known as the auricular appendix or auricle proper, and append- so called from its resemblance to a dog's eai-. The ventricles reach unequal distances on the two aspects of the Vontricles: heart:—thus the right one forms the lower part of the thin right right, border, most of the anterior and a part of the inferior surfaces ; but and left the left enters alone into the apex, and constructs the left border, and the greater part of the inferior surface of the heart. Dissection. Before opening the heart, the coronary arteries Dissect {riyht and left) are to be dissected on the surface, with the veins vessels^and and small nerves that accompany them. The two arteries will be nerves, found surrounded by fat on the sides of the pulmonary artery, and run in the grooves on the surface of the heart, the right one being directed between the pulmonary artery and the right auricular append i.\ into the right auriculo-ventricular groove, and the left one between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix into the left auriculo-ventricular groove. With each artery is a plexus of nerves, and that of the right side is to be followed upwards to the superficial cardiac ple.xus. In the groove between the left auricle and ventricle the student and eoro- will find the large coronary vein, which passes to the back of the heart to empty into the dilated coronary sinus ; and the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle (fig. 167). The CORONARY ARTERIES are the first branches of the aorta, and Two arteries supply the heart, one being distributed mainly on the right side, ",[^""'' and the other on the left. The riijht artery appears on the right side of the pulmonary right coro- trunk, and is directed backwards in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, giving branches upwards and downwards to the walls of those chandjers. Two of these are larger than the rest; one {riyht marginal) runs on the anterior surface of the right ventricle near the free margin ; and the other (posterim- inter- ventricular) descends in the posterior interventricular furrow to the apex of the heart. A small branch is continued to the left side of the heart, lying in the hinder part of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. The left artery passes outwards behind the pulmonary trunk to and left the left side of that vessel, where it divides into two branches. Of = these, the anterior is the larger (the anterior interventricular), and de.scends on the front of the heart in the groove between the two ventricles to the apex ; while the posterior turns backwards between the left auricle and ventricle, giving left marginal and posterior ventricular branches. The branches of the two coronary arteries '"'asto-DISSECTION OF THE THORAX, 456 the surface of the heart, hut tlieir aiia.stoinoseR Cnrdiac veins. Coronary sinus: extent: venis join- ing it; valves. Large coro- nary vein. Smnll coro- nary vein. Posterior cnrdiac voin.s. Anterior cnrdiac veins. (fig. 1G7) differ in tlicir arraiigemc-iit the most jjart collected into one large connnunicate on are very fine. The VEINS OF THE HEART from the arteries, and are for trunk—the coronary sinus. The coronary simm (') will he seen on raising the heart to he placed in the sulcus hetween the left auricle and ventricle. Ahout an inch in length, it is joined at the left end by the (jreat cardiac vein (^); and at the right end it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed hy the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Inferiorly and at its right end it receives posterior cardiac branches from the hack of the ven- tricles (I), and at its left extremity another small vein {"), the oblique vein (Marshall), which descends to it along the back of the left auricle. On slitting up the sinus with the scissors the openings of its different veins will be seen to be guarded by valves, with the exception of the oblique vein ; and at its right end is the Thebesian valve of the right auricle which will be seen later when the auricle is opened. The left coronary or great cardiac vein (■*) begins in front near the apex of the heart, ascends in the inter- ventricular groove, and then turns to the back in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, to open into the coronary sinu.s ('). It receives branche.«, mainly from the left side of the hcnvt, in its course ; and its ending in the sinus i.s marked by a double valve. The right coronary rein (^) is of small size, and runs in the hinder part of the right auriculo-ventricular groove to the right end of the coronary sinus. The posterior cardiac veins (fl) ascend on the back of the left ventricle to the coronary sinus ; and one larger vessel, the middle cardiac vein, lies in the posterior interventricular furrow. The anterior cardiac veins are three or four in niunber, and rum Fig. 167.—Back Veins and (Marshall). OF THE Heart with its THE Coronary Sinus. Right auricle. Left auricle, with the appendi.x, Coronary .sinus. Oblique vein. Right coronary vein. Left or great coronary vein. Postei'ior cardiac veins ; the larger one on the right is the miildle cardiac vein.THK IIKAKT. upwards on tlu' front of tlie ri^^lil ventricle to o|i(')i se|iaratcly into the lower jiart of the right auricle. Smallest rai-(li(ic rn'ns. Other small \cmus lie in the substance of SMiallcst Uie heart, and are noticed in the description of the right- auricle. Cardiac nkrvics. The lu'rve.s for tlie suj)ply of t.he heart, are N'i'i vcs or derived from a large ple.xus (cardiac) heneath the arch of tlie aorta, from whicli oll'set.s ]iroceed to acconqiany the coronary arteries. The greater part of this ple.xus is deejily placed, and will be dis.sected at a later stage, hut a superficial ])rolongation may now be seen. The superficial curdiiic plcrus is ]ilacod below the arch of the aoi-ta, .Siiii.^iiiuiui to the right of the ductus arterio.sus (tig. 164). The nerves joining it are the left .superficial cardiac of the symjiathetic, the lower cervical cardiac of the left vagus, and a con.siderable bundle from the deep cardiac ple.xus. A small ganglion is sometimes .seen in the jde.vus. Interiorly it sends off nerves along the right coronary c-mls in artery to the heart. A lew filaments also run on the left division I'.fry.™™' of the pulmonary artery to the left lung. The right coronary nerres jiass from the sni.erticial ple.xus to the Cmmmy right coronary artery, and receive near the heart a communicating |.'',""^™' ollset from the deep cardiac jile.xus. The left coronari/ ncms are derived, as will be subsequently seen, .m.] Mi; I'rom tlie deep cardiac ])lexus, and follow the left coronary artery. At first the nerves surround the arteries, but they .soon leave the ciKiiii}; in vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked l)y small ganglia. The CAVITIE.S OF THE HEART may be examined in the order in Four cavi- which the current of the blood pa.s,ses through them, viz., right I,',!];',."''''''" auric'le and \ entricle, and left auricle and ventricle. ""' ' Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to Dissucaion be removed Irom the body. To open the ricjht auricle, an incision f,",,?/^™ should be made in it near the right or free border, extending from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; and from tlie"centre of this cut the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the appendix. By this means an opening w^ill be made of sutHcieiit size ; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the cavity may be examined. The CAVITY OP THE RIGHT AURICLE ('fig. 168) is of ail irregular Form or form,- though when .seen from the right side, with the flaps held ,',;f,''', up, it has .somewhat the appearance of a cone, witli the base to the right and the apex to the left. _ The widened part or base of the cavity is turned towards the right its bnso side, and at its extremities are the openings of the snjierior and inferior cava). Between those vessels the wall projects a little, and in some bodies presents a slight elevation (tubercle of Lower). The • The term cavity of the auricle is sometimes confined to the part in the apiiemlix and the name atrium or nims vawsus is then given to the rest of the space liere named auricle.DISSECTION OF THIC THOKAX. 458 1111(1 apex. Interior of appendix. Crista terminalis. apex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Near the top is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix, which will admit the tip of the little finger. Near, and in the interior of the appendix, are prominent (ieshy bands, named viusculi 2)eclinati, which run mostly in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The musculi j)ectinati, end upon a common ridge, the crista terminalis. The.posterior (and itiner) wall corresponds mostly with the septum between the auricles. On it, opposite the opening of the inferior Fossa vena cava below, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis, which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the foetus. A thin semitransparent structure forms the bottom of the fo.ssa; and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture into the left auricle at its upper part. Around the upper three-fourths of the Anniil.iH fossa is an elevated band of muscular fibres, called anmibts ovalts, which is most iirominent above and on the left side, and gradually subsides below. • f • 'Apertures of At the lower end of the posterior wall, between the interior caval and the auriculo-ventricular orifices, is the aperture of the459 THE RIGHT AURICLE. coronary sinus. Other small aperture.s, named foramina of Thebesius, are scattered o^'er this surface ; some lead only into depressions ; but others are the mouths of veins of the substance of the lieart (smallest cai'diac veinis). """""est ^ . '. . veins. The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cavoe, situation of coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava ''''™' is at the upper end of the auricle, and looks slightly forwards. The inferior cava enters the lowest part of the cavity at the back, close to the septum, and is directed inwards to the fossa ovalis. The auriculo-ventricular opening is the largest of all, and is situate of auricuio- at the lower and fore part of the cavity. Between this and the opef,™,"''" se^jtum is placed the opening of the coronary sinus. of coronary All the large vessels, except the superior cava, have some kind of sinus. valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin fold of the lining "f clit6i fljjcr* membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian valve, which is only a tures: remnant of a much larger structure in the foetus. This fold is inferior semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior Ei™tachian wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. ™ive; The valve is wider than the vein opening ; and its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards : it is often cribriform. The aperture of the coronary sinus is covered by a thin fold of the one to coro- lining membrane, which is prolonged internally on to the Eustachian """^^ fold, and is known as the valve of Thebesius. The auriculo-ventri- cular opening will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be and one to pro\ ided with a tri-cu.spid valve, which prevents the blood flowing ventrtai'iar back into the auricle. opening. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle Course of towards the ventricle. But in the fuetu* there are two streams in aSi,.'"„ < the cavity ; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which adult, cro.s.s one another in early life. The placental or pure blood, anti'» t''« entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, through the foramen ovale in the septum ; while tlie current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of ths right ventricle, tlie student To open should raise outwards a V-shaped Hap of the anterior wall of the virll'trid,. ventricle, as in fig. 169, the blunted apex of the V being below the ' ' root of the pulmonary artery, its upper border being parallel with, but about half an inch below, the auriculo-\'entriciilar groove and the lower border being well to tlie right of the inter-ventricular furrow, so as to avoid injuiy of the inter-ventricular septum. In the examination of the cavity of tlie right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hoolcs or string, so that the space may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 169) is triangular in Cavity of form, with the base turned towards the auricle of the same side. ^'^tjJt'icie On a cross section it would appear semilunar in .shape, the .septum between the ventricles being convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at Apex.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 400 Base and its a short distance from the tip. The base of the ventricle is sloped, (>|iciiiii(,'s. .^ji,^ |g perforated by two apertures ; one of these, to the riglit and 1>elovv, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening ; the other, on the left and much higher, Ls the mouth of the pulmonary artery. The part of tlie cavity leading up to the jjulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named the infundibulum or the cotius artcrioms. Anterioraiul The anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is comx)ara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular posterior portion of the heart. The fosterior wall corresponds with the septum between the ventricles, and is much thicker. Probe in the infundibu- lum passing out of the pulmonary artery. Septal cusp. Fig. 169.—The Intbuior of the Right Ventricle (from the Fkokt ; THE Heart being held so that the Apbx is Lowest Down). Interior of Over the greater part of the ca\dty the surface is marked by pro- I'J'Iln.'.v'^,^- iectins muscular bands, the columnm camem ; but near the aperture on it tiier(! of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. 1 he llesliy sets'of fiosi. • f^olumns are of various sizes, and of tliree difl'erent kinds. Some coinmn.s!*'form merely a iiromineiice in the ventricle, especially ou the .«e])tum. Others are attaclied at each end, but free in the middle {trabcculcc carnece). And a third set, which are fewer in number and much the largest project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles.TITR RIGHT VENTIUCLE. iiair.i'cl 'mn.tciili 'pfpillf^rcs, wliich give alXacliiiU'iil' In t.lir lilllc teiulinous cords of tliu valve of tlie auriculo-veiitrifular o])eiiiiiy;. The auricnh-reiUricular orifice is situate in the base of tlu^ Oijimmm;; ventricle, and liehind the riglit half of the sternum, on a level la||'i".io':" with the fourtli iiitercosbil space. It is oval in shape, and jiosiiion, measures about four inches in circumference, being slightly larger li^^"'-"'"" than the corresponding ajierture of the left side. Fi.xed around the opening is a large mendjranous valve, wliich is ;,'naniiMi projects into the cavity of the ventricle. At its attached margin the I'.'usp'id valve is undivided : but its lower part is notched, so as to form ^'"'™' three pendent cusps or tongues, whence the name tricuspid is gi\'en to it. Into the cusps are inserted small fibrous bands—the chordao Cusps: tendina), which unite them to the muscular wall of the ventricle. The three cusps are thus placed ; one {manjinal) is against the nmi-fjiiml; anterior wall of the ventricle ; posteriorly, another (septal) touches .scpUii; the septum ; and the third {infundibular), the largest and most iiifuinii- niovealjle, is placed to tlie left, l)etween the auriculo-ventricular opening and the infundilHilum. The tricuspid valve consists of a duplicature of the lining mem- stnictmo of brane of the heart, enclosing fibrous tissue. The central part of each tongue is strong, while the edges are thin and notched ; and between the main pieces there are often thinner intermediate points. The chorda: tendinw, which keej) the valve in place, ascend from ullaclimnit the musculi papillares in the intervals between the cusps, and are Jl^^onis; connected in eacli .space with the two pieces of the valve bounding it. They end on the surface of the cusps turned away* from the opening, a few reaching the attached U])i)er niaigin ; but the greatei' numljer join the central thickened part, and the thin edge and point of the cusp. The papillary muscles are collected into two principal group.s, iiiviiiiinry an anterior sending its tendons to the marginal and infundiljular cusjjs, and a posterior, to the marginal and septal cu.s])s. In the interval lietween the infundibular and sei)tiil segments of the valve the tendinous cords are small, and spring from the septum. As the blood enters the cavity the valve is raised so as to close the opening into the auricle ; and its protrusion into the latter cavity during the contraction of the ventricle is arrested l)y the small tendinous cords. The closure of this valve assists in producing the first sound of the heart. The mouth of the pulmonary artery will be seen when the Pnimonnry incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged into it. The opening is circular, with a diameter of about an inch. It sizi^-ui.i occupies the summit of the funnel-shaiied portion of the ventricle, I'""''''"" = and is placed opposite the up])er edge of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to its junction with the sternum. Pulmonary valve. Guarding the orifice of the pulmonary artery its vahc „r IS a valve consisting of three; semilunar or sigmoid flaps a riyht and left anterior, and a posterior. Each flap is attaclied to the side of the vessel l)y its convex border, and is free at the oi)posite edge, in the centre of which there is a slightly thickened nodule—theDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. (liiatatioii of corpus ^?'a»fM. In tlie wall of the artery ojjposite each Hap is a •I'teiy. slight hollow—the sinus of Valsalva. Structure of The ^'alve.s are formed of fibrous tissue with a covering of the lining nienihrane. In each flap the fibres have the following arrangement: there is one band along the margin of attacliment; a second runs along the free edge and is connected with the projecting nodule ; and a third set of fibres is directed from the nodule across the flap, so as to leave a semilunar interval named lunula on each side near the free edge. and use. The iise of the valve is obvious, viz., to give free passage to fluid in one direction, and to prevent its return. While the blood is entering the artery the flaps are separated ; Ijut when the elasticity of the vessel acts on the contained blood they are thrown together in the centre of the vessel, and arrest the flow of the fluid into the ventricle. They are concerned in giving rise to the second sound of the heart. To o\icn left Dissectioil. To open the cavity of the left auricle, the apex of auricle. j-j^g i,eart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made across the posterior surface of the auricle from the right to the left pulmonary veins (see fig. 165, p. 453). Another short incision .should be made downwards at right angles to the first. The heart must necessarily be held up during the examination of the cavity. Form of The CAVITY OF THE LEFT AURICLE is Smaller than that of the le^ft'aL^cie ^''S^* ^"^^^^ '^"'^ rather quadrilateral in shape, with its longest diameter directed transversely. It is joined at each side by the two pulmonary veins of that side : and at the lower and fore part it opens into the left ventricle. Appendix In the front wall, at the left extremity, is the opening of the pecti^atr"" appendix, which is longer and narrower than the corresponding part on the right side. Musculi pectinati are also present, but on this side they are usually confined to the appendix. On septum To the right of the opening into the appendix, on the part of the forame°n °^ ^all formed by the septum, is a superficial fossa, the remains of the ovale. oval aperture through that partition ; this is liounded below liy a projecting margin, concave upwards, which is the edge of the valve that closed the opening in the foetus. This impression in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis of the right cavity, because the apertui e between the two in the foetus was an oblique canal through the septum. Opening.s: The a-pertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmonary four pulino- velus, and the opening into the left ventricle. The mouths of each nary veins, ^j^'^, pulmonary veins are dose together ; those from the right and to lung open into the extreme right of the auricle against the septum, ventricle, ^^^t^ ^^^^^ j^c^ j^^„g ^j^t^, the opposite side of the cavity, near the appendix. Valves. The pulmonary veins have no valves. The aperture into the ventricle will be'subsetiueiitly seen to have a large and complicated valve to guard it, as on the right side. Current of In the adult the blood enters this cavity from the lungs by the mluTt-''' pulmonary veins, and Hows into the left ventricle by the largeTHK LEFT VENTRICLE. 463 opening between the two. In tlie frt'tusonly a very small quantity i" lu tus. of blood pas.se.s through the lungs ; and the left auricle receives its pure blood from the inferior vena cava through the right auricle by the a]iertun' in the septum (foramen ovale). Dissection. The left ventricle may be opened by an incision iiow to along both the anterior and the posterior surfaces, near the .septum ; ventricle the.se are to be joined at the ape.x, but are not to be extended upwards so a.s to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flaii the interior of the cavity will be visible. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE is longer and more conical Form or left in shape than that of the opposite ventricle ; and it is oval, or almost circular, on a transverse section. The rtjjcc of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The base Ai>cx. is turned towards the auricle ; and in it are the openings into the Huso with aorta and the left auricle. openings. The tcall of this ventricle is much thicker than that of the right, Wall, and the anterior boundary is formed lor the most jjart by the inter- ventricular septum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- innersnr- sequence of tlie pirojection of the columnse carneas; but near the jj"™ aorta the surface is smoother. There are three kinds of fleshy columns eoUimns, in this as in the right ventricle. The large musculi papilUuvs give and some attachment to the tendinous cords of the auriculo-ventricular valve, ™'y and are more strongly marked than on the right .side : they are arranged in two great bundles, which spring from the riyht and left .sides of the cavity. The left aiiricnlo-ventricular openimj is placed beneath the orifice i.eft anri- of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrou.s band intervening ^J.'j'y between the two. It is rather smaller than the corresponding tmo': aperture of the right side, being about three inches and a half in fo,™ circumference, and it is longest in the transver.se direction. It is size; furnished with a membranous valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- Mitral cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords ; it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring round the aperture, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its segments lie one before the other, with their edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior, or aortic cusp, of the aortic ensp; valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic opening.s, and is larger and looser than the imslmoi- or marginal The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and stmciure- office. Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two piinuiry segments. The chords tendinas ascend to be attacl.ment attached to the valve in the notches between the tongues; and = they end on the segments in the .same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papillary muscles acts on both portions of the valve.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Po.sition of apertures of arteri(!S, pulmonary, aortic ; sounds lieard best; auriculo- ventricular openings: left; right. Vessels .ioining the heart. The pulmo- nary artery divides into two for the lungs. night branch. While the blood is entering the cavity, the cusps of the valve are separated; and when the ventricle contracts, they meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in ]iroducing the first sound of the heart. The examination of the aortic opening will be deferred until the large vessels at the base of the heart have been studied ; it is described on page 473. Surface marking op the valvular apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle,—one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta and pulmonary) are nearest the interventricular septum ; and as the tM'o vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together; but of the two, the pulmonary artery is anterior and more to the left, as well as some- what higher. As regards the surface the pulmonary valve is behind the junction of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum near the upper liorder of the cartilage and the aortic is just under cover of tlie .sternum opposite the lower part of the .same cartilage. The sound produced at the pulmonary orifice is heard best in the second left intercostal space, and that produced at the aortic orifice in the second right intercostal space. The auriculo-ventricular openings are nearer the circumference of the heart, and each is posterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of its ventricle. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is nearest of all to the back of the heart, and is marked on the surface by a line extending inwards and a little downwards to the middle of the sternttm from the upper part of the fourth left costal cartilage at its junction with the sternum. The right auriculo-ventricular opening is situated behind the right half of the sternum ojDposite the fourth intercostal space in a line passing downwards and a little to the right. Bissection. The large vessels between the base of the heart and the upper opening of the thorax will now be made ready for examination and the parts upon Avhich they lie carefully cleaned. Great Vessels. The arteries which take origin from the heart are the aorta and the pulmonary trunk. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coronary sinus, are the superior and inferior cava?, and the pulmonary. The PULMONARY ARTERY (fig. 163, p. 448, and fig. 164, p. 452), is a short thick trunk, w^hich conveys the dark Ijlood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. From its commencement m the right ventricle the vessel is directed upwards and backwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches, it divides into two branches for the lungs. The trunk of the pulmonary arterv is contained in the pericardium ; and beneath its lower end is tlie beginning of the aorta. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricular a])iiendix. The right branch is longer and somewhat larger than the lett. In it.s course to the lung it passes outwai-ds above the right auricle of the heart, and behind the aorta and superior vena cava.THK fULMONAItV ARTEllY AND THK AOltTA. IL'S Behiiul it i.s tlie right bronchus. At the king the artery (livi(K into three lu-imary brandies, one for each lobe. Tlie left branch is directed in front of tlie de.scendiiig aortji and Left branch, the left bronchus to the fissure of the lung, where it end-s in two branches for the two lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery pass .Spnci at tho outwards, they cross the two Ijronchi diverging from the end of the 'J''''"'™"'"'- trachea, and eiiclo.se with them a lozenge-shaped sjiace which contains some bronchial glands (fig. 1G3). Dudu, arteriosus (fig. 164). Near the bifurcation of the Ligament of pulmonary artery a fibrous cord, about the size of a crow-quill, "■''^'•i"' passes from the left brunch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta. ' ' This is the remnant of the ductus arteriosus of the ftetus, and is named the ligament of the arterial duct. In the foetus the right and left branches of the pubuonary artery AiiCTial are small, and the trunk is continued by the ductus arteriosus,'.''"^''" which opens into the aorta beyond the origin of the last great' branch (left subclavian) of the arch. The impure blood from the cour.so of superior vena; cavfe passes into tTie^Hght ventricle and thence '^'°''''- proceeds by the pulmonary artery, whereby most of it reaches the aorta through the arterial duct, below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified. After birth, when the function of the lungs IS established, the great current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary artery to the lungs, instead of through the arterial duct; and this tube, becoming gradually smaller °is occluded by the eighth or tenth day, and forms finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The AORTA (fig. 170, p. 466 ; and fig. 171, p. 467) is the great The aorta systemic vessel which conveys the arterial l)lood from the heart to the different parts of the body. It first ascends for a short distance and then arches backwards to reach the spinal column, along which ti.ron.o, It IS continued downwards through the chest and abdomen In the ^■'"'^^"■"1 thorax the ve.ssel is divided into three jmrts^the ascending aorta, tlie arch of the aorta,, and the descending thoracic aorla. The ASCENDING AORTA .springs from the left ventricle of the Aseendin-^ heart behind the left half of the sternum, on a level with the • ° lower border of the third costal cartilage. About two inches, or h.n„i„ a iftle more, in Iragth, it is directe.l upwards, with a sli-ht ^ ' inclmation to the right and forwards, and reaches to the inner end extent of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side. It is contained an,l ' nearly altogether in the pericardium, being surrounded by the same sheath of the serous membrane as the pulmonary trunk winch is at first superficial to it, but afterwards lies on its left side. Between the ascending aorta and the sternum are the anterior edge of the right lung, with the pleura, and some fatty tissue Behind it are the left auricle of the heart and the right branch of the pulmonary artery. On the right side is the descending cava Near the heart the vessel bulges opposite the llaps of the valve (sinuses of Valsalva; fig. 170). There is D.A. U HDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 466 Arch of aorta forms two curves j relations. sometimes another dilatation along the right side, wliich ia named the great sinus of the aorta. Branches. From the lower end of the ascending aorta arise the two coronary arteries of the heart (fig. 170, o), which have already been noticed (p. 465). Tlie ARCH OF THE AORTA extends from the second right costal cartilage to the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, on the left side. The convexity of the arch is upwards, and from it the three large arteries for the supply of the upi)er l^art of the body aiise. The vessel recedes from the sternum, being at first inclined to the left across the front of the trachea, and then directed backwards to the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra, where it turns down- wards to join the de- scending aorta. It thus forms a second curve with the convexity to the left side. The arch rests upon the trachea, the reso- phagus, the thoracic duct, and the fourth dorsal vertebra. In front of it are the remains of the thymus gland, and some fat. On the left side are the left pleura and lung, and the left phrenic, superficial cardiac, and vagus nerves, the last sending inwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper liorder, in front of the great branches, is the left innominate vein (fig. 171), to which the left upper intercostal vein is directed over the hinder part of the arch ; and to the lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arterial duct is attached. Objects con- Below the concavity of the arch of the aorta are the root of the ^^ei'f"""'" left lung, the branching of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Three The three large branches of the arch supply the neck, the head, branches of upper limbs. First on the right is the trunk of the the arc i. jm^Q^i^ate artery ; close to it is the left common carotid ; and last of all comes the left subclavian. FlQ. 170.—Arch of the Aorta and Great Branches. IIS a. h. c. d. e. /• g- Aortic arch. Innominate artery. Left common caro- tid. Left subclavian. Ligament of arterial duct. Vena cava superior. Left innominate innominate vein. h. Right vein. i. Left upper inter- costal vein. k. Large azygos vein. I. Leftsubclavian vein. II. Theraoic duct. 0. Coronary artery.H H 2 THE INNOMINATE ARTKllY. K;7 The INNOMINATE AUTERY (brachio-cepliiilic), Llu' first and largest imioininiiio of tlie three branclies, measures from one incli and a half to two ''"'i'* ' Ml ciirotKl Groove funned by subclavian artery. Superior inter- costal vein. -Left innominate vein. Groove fonned by loft innomi- nate vein. Rigbt coronary artery. Fig. 171.—The Contents of the Thorax seen prom the Fuont The Lungs were Filled with Melted Wax and were held Apart in Front until the Wax had set. (From a Specimen in Charing Oross Hospital Mdseum.) inches in length. Ascending to the right beneath the sternum, and sub- It divides opposite the stenio-clavicular articulation into the ri<^ht = common carotid and subclavian arteries. °DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 468 relfttioiis Left coni- 111011 Clll'O- tid: relations in the thorax. Left sub- clavian artery: course and relations in the chest. The gi eat reins are :- Vena cava superior: formed by innominate veins; course; relations; branches. The artery is cro8.sed by the left innominate vein, and lies lieliind the upper ])iece of the sternum, and the origins of the sterno-hyoid and steruo-thyroid inuscles. At first it rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the air- tube. To its right is the innominate vein of the same side. Usually no lateral branch arises from this artery. Left common carotid artery. The common carotid artery of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance between the arch and the top of the sternum. In the thorax the artery ascends obliq^uely to the left st-jmo- clavicular articulation, but not so close as the innominate to the first piece of the sternum and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but afterwards inclines to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the cesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY ascends to the neck through the upper aperture of the thorax, and then curves outwards between the scaleni, where it has the same relations as the vessel of the right side. The trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the level of the first rib. In the thorax it is deeply placed, near the spine. To its inner side is at first the trachea, and after- wards the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. On its outer side it is invested by the left pleura, and in the hardened specimen its position is represented by a shallow groove in the lung, in which it rests. The left innominate vein crosses in front of the vessel as it enters the neck. Somewhat anterior to the artery, though running in the same direction, are some of the cardiac nerves. Veins. In addition to the cardiac vehis, there are the superior and inferior cavae, and the pulmonary veins;—the former are the great systemic vessels which return impure blood to the right auricle of the heart; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs to the left auricle. The SUPERIOR or descending vena cava (fig. 170, /, and fig. 171) results from the union of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the heart the blood of the head and neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is placed behind the junction of the first costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum. From that spot the large vein descends to the pericardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer surface the vein is covered by the pleura, and the i.hrenic nerve is in contact with it. To the inner side are the innominate artery and the ascending aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. ■ • ■ ■ a When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is jomect posteriori V by the large azygos vein ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinum.469 THE INNOMINATE VEINS. The INNOMINATE VEINS are t.wo in nunibpr, riglit. iiiul left ; and iimoniinuto each is formed near tlie inner end of the clavicle by the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Below, they are united in the superior cava. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their relations tr. surrounding i)arts (fig. 171). The right vein is about one inch long, and descends almost riyht, vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, to its junction with the opposite vein. On the outer surface the plenra covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left iwm is nearly three inches in length, and is directed left; obliquely to the right, along the upper border of the arch of the aorta. It crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the nerves descending over the arch. The tributaries of the veins are nearly alike on the two sides, their Each receives the vertebral and the internal mammary of its o\vii side, and occasionally the inferior thyroid, though these veins more often blend into one trunk Ijelow, which opens into the junction of the two innominate veins or into the left. Tiie left vein also is joined in addition by the superior intercostal, and some small thymic and pericardial veins. Occasionally tlie innominate veins are not united in tlie vena cav.a, but .Sometimes descend separately to tlie heart, wliere each has a distinct opening in the Hiey ojien right auricle. When such a condition exists, the riglit vein takes the course :""'I«™''''ly of the upper cava in front of Die root of tlie riglit lung ; but the left vein h'eart ' descends in front of the root of the left hing, and turning to tlie hack of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch generally connects the two above the arch of the aorta. This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one at a very early period of the growth of the fcetns ; and the two vessels are also persistent in some mammalia. Cliaiir/e of the two veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two during fa>tal growth, to produce the usual arrangement in the adult, concern are dianged the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. First a "ne, cross branch is formed between the two trunks, and this enlarging gives rise to the left innominate vein. Then the left trunk below the cross branch dis- appears at its middle, and undergoes transformation at each end :—At the upper end it becomes converted into a part of the superior intercostal vein, and eoro- At the lower end it remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary .sinus • """"y sinus and the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult i.s a remnant of the trunk as it lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a trace of the occluded vessel in the form of a small fibrous band in the vestigial fold of the pericardium (p. 451). The INFERIOR OR ASCENDING VENA CAVA enters the right Vena cava auricle as soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No Ijranches join the vein in the thora.x. Tiie PULMONARY VEiN.s are two on each side, upper and lower. Fom imi- They i.ssue from the liilum of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their po.sition in regard to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 449. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath the Rixlit veins right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots from470 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the upper and middle lobes of the lung; and the inferior vein is formed by branches from the lower lobe. Left veins. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. NERVES OF THE THORAX. Nerves of The pneiuno-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera the thorax. ^-^^^ thorax ; and the phrenic nerve courses through the ca-vdty to the diaphragm. To trace Dissection. The phrenic nerves have already been fully vagus. displayed ; but the pneumo-gastric nerves are now to be prepared. The vagus is to be followed, on each side, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out, the lung being thrown well over to the opposite side : some fine branches from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic coming for- wards over the spinal column to the plexus, must also be looked for. The vagus also supplies a few filaments to the front of the root. Beyond the root, the nerve is to be pursued along the oesophagus by raising the lung and removing the pleura. Phrenic The PHRENIC NERVE is derived from the anterior division of the nerve from cer\dcal plexus ; from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, mainly piexu?,"'"^ from the fourth. In its course through the thorax it lies along the passes to side of the pericardium, and at a little distance in front of the root diaphragm, ]^^^,-,g^ .^^j^jj ^ gmall companion artery. When near the dia- phragm it divides into branches, which perforate the muscle, and are distributed on the under service. The nerves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their relations above the root of the lung. Right nerve The right nerve is shorter and straighter than the left. _ On enter- above root ■ j^i^g gj^ggi- crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of ° the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vein and superior cava till it reaches the pericardium. Left nerve The left nerve crosses the subclavian artery, and has the same above root, position as the right to the mammary vessels when entering the cavity In the thorax it is directed over the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung, and makes a curve lower down around the projecting heart. Before reaching the aorta the nerve is placed external to the left common carotid artery; and it. inclmes gradually from without inwards, so as to be in front of the lett vafius over the aortic arch. . , , SomeoiT- Branches. Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the nerve to the pleura and pericardium. Interna. INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. A small part of thlS artery, mammary ^^.,,5^1, y^f^ beneath the first ril), and winds round the phrenic nerve and the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum, is now to be seen. It gives the following offset:— Kivos The superior -phrenic branch (conies nervi phrenici) is a Aeiy l*'"",'" slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to tlie aia- Iliim, and is distributed to that muscle, anastomismg therein471 THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. with the phrenic artery from tlie aorta, and with the musculo- phrenic branch of tlie internal mammary. The PNEUiio-GASTRic or VAGUS NERVE passes through the thorax Vagus to the abdomen. In the lower part of the thorax the right and left nerves have a similar position, for they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the two nerves have different rela- tions. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz., to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and the gullet. The right vagm enters the thorax between the subclavian artery Right vngiia and the innominate vein, and is directed obliquely backwards, of°j,°™°'' by the side of the trachea, to the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the posterior pulmonary plexus. From ami on the plexus two large offsets are continued to the back of the Rullet, ^ . ■. o > cesophagus. and unite below into one trunk, which readies the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side of the left Left nerva common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and onung'""*^ Tieneath the root of the lung, forming there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the i)ulnionary plexus one or two branches and on pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with offsets of the [™op^4us right nerve in a ple.xus ; but the pieces are collected ffnally into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the gullet to the anterior part of the stomach. The hranchcs of the pneumo-gastric nerve seen in the thorax are Branches the following :— are:— a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arising on the right Recurrent side below the subclavian artery, and on the left at the lower border of the arch of the aorta immediately external to the ductus artenosus, bends inwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On eacli side this branch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. h. Cardiac branchen (thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches far- Cardinc ni.shed by the vagus in the neck, otlier offsets pa.ss in front of= the trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come from the trunk of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are supplied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the loiver cervical cardiac branch of each lower cervi- vagus nerve may now l)e seen. The branch of the right nerve bniS.""" lies l)y the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac offset of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial cardiac plexus (p. 457). c. Pulmonary branches. There are two sets of nerves for the Pulmonnry lung, one on the anterior and the other on the posterior aspect ^''""'^'"^ • of the root. The anterior branches, two or three in number, are small, and snmU communicate with filaments of the .sympathetic on the pulmonary artery : these nerves are best seen on the left side.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 472 large pos- terior form a plexiia. CEsopliageal branches form II plexus. Sympathetic in thorax consists of a gangliated cord, and a cen- tral cardiac plexus. Dissection of the plexus: to expose the right part, and the left. Deep cardiac plexus. night part, how formed; The posterioi- hranches are larger and much more numerous. Forming a plexiforin arrangement (posterior pulmonary plexus) behind the root of the lung by the flattening and splitting of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the lung on the divisions of the airtube. d. CEsophageal hranches are furnished to the gullet, but in greatest abundance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the l)ranches of the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the ajsophagus with a network [plexus gulce). Sympathetic Nerve. In the thorax the sympathetic nerve con- .sists of a knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, which communicates with the spinal nerves; and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and the lungs. The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed. The CARDIAC PLEXUS lies over the lower end of the trachea, and above the Ijifurcation of the pulmonary artery. A part of this network, the superficial cardiac plexus, has been already described on page 457. The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, is placed beneath the arch of the aorta. Directions. The cardiac plexus has been injured by the previous examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in which the heart and the large vessels are entire, but the student should make them out in his part as well as he can. Dissection. The ascending aorta is to be cut across near the heart, and is to be drawn over to the left side, after the manner of fig. 163, p. 448 : next, the upper cava is to be divided above the entrance of the azygos vein, and its lower part is to be thrown down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lymphatic glands, the right part of the plexus will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pulmonary artery. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery ; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the left side enter, the aorta is to be cut through a second time, between the subclavian artery and the attachment of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus ; and the arch is to be turned upwards with the great vessels attached. The lymphatic glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away from tlie plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the left coronary plexus of the heart will be visible. The deep cardiac plexus is situate between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, and consists of right and left halves, which are joined by cross branches. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic and vagus, with the exception of two branches of the left side ; and from it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs. The right part of the plcms is placed above the right branch of the pulmonary artery, and receives the nerves of the right side.473 THE CARDIAC NERVES. viz., tlie cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the nock, tlic cardiac brandies of the trunk of the vagus in both the neck and cliost, and the cardiac offsets of the recurrent branch. The branches of tliis lialf of the ple.xus are distributed mostly to bmnclies to tlie riglit side of tlie heart, and pass downwards l)efore and behind !,'f,'y pi"™;.;. the right branch of the puhnonary artery ; tliose in front run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to end in the right coi'onary plexus (p. 457) ; and the nerves behind supply the right auricle of the lieart. Offsets are sent laterally on the brancli of the artery to the root of the lung. ' " «? " I'oot (tt lung. The left half of the ])lexits lies close to the ligament of the arterial Left part: duct, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the "T'^'* ■,. uic nerves of the symimthetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest, and numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it to the heart around the left branch and offsets end the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and after sup])lying branches to i|li,'.j/pfi,°™s the left auricle, terminate in the left coronary plexus ([). 4.")"). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the ligament to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some nerves reach the left .nui in root anterior i)ulmonary ple.xus by coursing along the branch of the pulmonary artery. Termination of the three cardiac branches of thr siimixdhetic nerve otlier car- of the neck (upper, middle, and lower). '''"c mirves. On the right side there may be only two cardiac nerves entering Tho right the thora.x, for the highest nerve is often blended with one of'""'"j,*'"'' the others. These nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus ; and they communicate with the liranches of the recun-ent laryngeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the One left aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a ™pertieiai • branch beneath the arch to the deej) plexus. Only one other nerve, "tiiers the middle cardiac, is usually seen entering the left side of the deep pie'xn^'' ])lexus, as the lower one generally blends with it. OPENING OF THE AORT.V AND STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. Dissection. The aorta having been cut across, the student will examine its interior as it .springs from the heart. The opening of the aoHa i.s anterior to that of the auricle, and A..Mi,. „p close to the seiitum. This aperture is round, and rather smaller'"'^- than that of the pulmonary artery, measuring slightly less than an sizean,! inch in diameter. ' pnsiiion; In its interior is a valve of three .semilunar or sigmoid flaps, valve, wdiich are thicker and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like .structure and attachment 401). The projection in the centre of each valve, the corims Arantii, is better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is l>ulged as m the jiulmonary artery, though in a greater degree, and formsDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 474 Sinuses ot Vulsiilva. Use. Structure of the heart. Fibrous b.m(Is form rings around auri- culo-ventri- ciilar and arterial openings. a hollow oil the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The cusps of the valve are an anterior and a right and left posterior in relative position, and the right coronary artery arises in the anterior sinus of Valsalva, and the left in the left posterior sinus. Like the valves in the pulmonary artery, these meet in the middle to prevent the blood passing hack into the ventricle, and combine with them in causing the second sound of the heart. Structure. The heart is composed chiefly of muscular fibres, together with certain fibrous rings and a fibro-cartilage. Dissection. The auricles should now be snipped round at their junction with the ventricles, and the pulmonary artery and aorta similarly cut roimd close to the attachments of the cusps of the valves. The ventricular portion of the heart can then be cut away and a view of the four valvular orifices obtained, and sections should be made through them to demonstrate the fibrous rings around the orifices. The fibrous structure forms rings around the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected with these openings. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral valves ; and the band surrounding the left auriculo-ventricular opening is blended in front with the aortic ring. The arterial rings surround the aortic and pulmonary orifices ; and the margin of each towards the artery forms three notches with intervening projections. The notches are occupied by thinner parts of the arterial wall bounding the sinuses of Valsalva ; and to the concave edges the sigmoid flaps of the valve are attached. Behind the aortic opening, ventricular apertures, is a piece fibrous rings are united. Dissection. The inter-ventricular septum should now be through from below upwards. The interventricular sept^im appears as a stout pyramidal muscular mass, between the two ventricles, but it will be seen that the muscular tissue ceases close to the aortic orifice, and that, for a short distance at the upper part, the ventricles are only separated by a fibrous septum {pars numhramacea seini). Sometimes a communi- cation between the two ^'entric]es occurs at this place, occasioning one of the forms of congenital malformation of the heart. The STRUCTURE OF THE HEART beyond the stage already described needed"''""'' cannot be followed in the ordinary dissecting-room preparation ' the further details can only be followed in a heart that specially prepared. For this purpose a fresh heart (commonly of a sheep or an ox), which, havijig been washed out, is filled with a mixture of flour and water, and boiled for a quarter of an hour, so as to destroy the connective tissue, and to allow the stretched and hardened muscular fasciculi to be separated from one aimthcr. Fibro-carti- between it and the auriculo- of fibro-cartilage, with which the cut Tlie inter- ventricular septum. Special and has been is obtained475 THE MUSCULAR FIRIIES OF HKAIIT. Jfuscnlar substiiiiei! of lit'iirt. Fibres of the auricles are trans- verse, niimilar, and loopeil. Until sucli a spucimen is obtained, the student may omit the following description. The muscular fibres of the heart, altliough involuntary, are striped ; but they (lifter in their oharaeter from those of tlie vohmtary muscles. The fibres of the auricles are distinct from those of tlie ventricles. In the wall of the auricles tlie lil)res are mostly transverse (fig. 172. a, h), and are best marked near the ventricles, tliongh they form there but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities, llesides this set, there are annular fibres surrounding tlie appen- dai;es of the auricles and the endings of the different veins ; and lastly, a few looped fibres (c, d) pass obliquely over the auricle from front to back. Dissection. The auricles having been learnt, sejjarate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-vcntricniar rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by removing all the fat from the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pul- monary), and from the anterior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart, let the stuilent note that the anterior surface is to be recog- nised by the fibres turning in at the .septum, with the exception of a small band at the ba.so and another at the apex ; while on the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. To show the direction of the muscular bundles in the left ven- I''"- 1'2.- tricle, divide the superficial fibres in front longitudinally near the septum, and transversely about half an inch below the left auri- culo-vcntricniar ojiening ; and re- flect a thin layer of the fibres carefully towards the left side. In the same way a second layer is to be reflected ; then a third, and so on, each layer that is raised being about as thick as the thin end of the scalpel. It will not be difficult to demonstrate thus six or seven layers in the wall ; and as each is raised, the fleshy fibres will be seen to change their direction (fig. 173). On the right side a similar dissection may be made, and a like number of and of layers may be displayed, but greater care will be necessary owing to the '''fc'ht- thinness of the wall. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle ; and reflect the several layers inwards and outwards. As the superficial ones are raised, their fibres may be followed into the septum in front, and across the middle line into the wall of the left ventricle at the back. Thickness of the ventricular v:iill,s. The wall of the left ventricle is in •I'ldckncss general nearly three times as thick as that of the right. Its thickest part is about of left ven- one-fourth of its length from the base ; and at the apex it is very thin. The free wall of the right ventricle is of more uniform tliickne.ss than the left, of right, The septum is about as thick as the wall of the left ventricle, except at the and of septum: -MuSODLAn FiDRES Auricles. Dissection of left ven- tricle, a. Transverse fibres of the right, and of the left auricle. c. Looped fibres of the left, and d, of the right auricle. c. Superior cava. /. Inferior cava. r/. Right, and /(, left pulmonary veins. Annular fibres surround the veins.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 476 niein bra- nous part pf seiitum. Fibres can be separated into layers by dissec- tion. Direction of fibres : external, middle, and internal. Course of fibres is obscure. Chief sets: external oblique and internal longitudinal are one; annular; looped of left. upper end, in a small area close below the aortic orifice, where there is a very thin part from which muscular fibres are absent {pars memhranacea septi. Arvnngcmcnt of fibres. It has been shown by the foregoing dissection that tlie direction of tlie muscular fasciculi composing the ventricular wall varies at difi'erent depths from the surface, and that at a given spot a number of layers may be separated, which are characterised by the diflference in direction of their fil)res. Such a division into distinct layers is, however, in great measure artificial, for the change in direction is gradual, and many fibres pass across from one layer to another, and have to be cut to effect the separation. Over both ventricles the most superficial fibres are directed very obliquely from base to apex, and from right to left on the anterior surface, from left to right on the posterior sur- face. Proceeding inwards, the obliquity gradually diminishes ; and in the centre of the wall the fibres are transverse. Within the last, as the cavity of the ventricle is approached, the fibres become oblique again, but in the opposite direction to the extenial ones ; and the innermcst fibres of all are nearly longitudinal. The attempt to trace the whole course of the bundles is, except in the case of the superficial fibres, attended with great diffi- culty, owing to the interlacement, branching, and joining of the fasciculi. The principal groups of fibres that have been dis- tinguished may be arranged as follows ; but it must be under- stood that the}' are to a great extent intermixed, and that bundles frequently pass from one set into another. a. The external oblique fibres (fig. 173) begin at the base of the ventricles, where most of them spring from the auriculo-ventri- cular and arterial fibrous rings, and descend with the spiral course above described to the apex of the heart. On the pos- terior surface tliey pass witbout interruption from the left to the right ventricle ; but in front the fibres crossing the right ventricle in part dip in at the interventricular groove to the septum, while those continued to the left ventricle are joined by others which issue from the septum along the furrow. At the apex of the heart they form a sharp twist, known as the vortex or xohorl, and sink in it to become deep and ascend towards the base as the innermost layer of the left ventricle. Some of thorn are continued to the liasc ami join the auriculo- ventricular and aortic rings ; but others enter the papillary mu.scles, which are thus formed. b. The transver.se or annular fibres (fig. 173) are partly special to the left ventricle, and partly common to the two ventricles. Some of them appear to form simple rings round the cavities, but a great many pass from this into the oblique system of fibres. c. The looped fibres of the left ventricle spring from the fibrous rings Fia. 173.—A Diagram op the Arranue- MENT OP THE FlEllES IN LAYERS IN THE Lept Ventricle. The Dissection is carried throagh about two-thirds of the thickness or the wall. 1, 2, 3. Outer layers, the fibres of which gradually become less oblique. 4. Middle layer of transverse fibres. 5. Inner set of oblique fibres. The deepest fibres, con-esponding to 1 and 2 of the exterior, are not shown.477 THE TUAOHKA AND liRONCIH. at the base, and passing downwards in the venti-icular wall, enter the lower liart of the septum, in which they ascend to the central tihro-cartilage. d. Similar looped fibres pass from the outer wall of the right ventricle anil of riglit throuyli the septum to the fibro-cartilage. vontriele; c. The figure-of-8 fibres pass from the front of the right ventricle through ijaure-of-S the septum to the back of the left, and from the front of the left to the back of the right, the two sels decussating in the septum. Endocardium. Lining the interior of the cavities of the heart is a thin Liiiini,' membrane, which is named endocardium. Id is continuous on the one hand "{■"'t"''™','.!',.^ with the lining of the veins, and on the other wiih that of the arteries. ° "'" ' Where the membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or from a ventricle to an artery, it forms duplicatures in which fibrous tissue is enclosed, thus giving rise to the valves ; and in the ventricles it covers the tendinous cords, and the projecting muscular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is greater in the auricles than in the ventricles, and in the left than in the right half of the heart. THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS. Dissection. To see fully the pieces of the air-tube iu the root of the lung, it will be necess;iry to divide the bninches of the pulmonary artery and the pulmonary veiii.s. And when the upper part of the arch of the aorta is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the connective tissue from the part of the tracliea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. The TRACHEA, or windpipe, reaches from the larynx to the Ti-aeb™ lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins opi)osite the sixth cervical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the ends iu lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra by di\'iding into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung. In the thorax (fig. 163, p. 448) the trachea is situate with the its relations gi'eat vessels in the superior mediastinum ; and its lower end is thorax usually inclined somewhat to the right side. Here it is covered by the left innominate vein, by the arch of the aortii, with the origins of the innominate and left common airotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the airtube is the cusophagus, wliich projects to the left above the arch of the aortal. On the right side are the pleura, the vagus, and the innominate artery for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left subclavian artery, and the recurrent branch of the vagus. The BRONCHI, or the branches of the airtube, are contained in the lironclii lie roots of the lungs, and are surrounded by vessels, glands and nerves, orthehmgs; Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble the are like the windpipe, for tliey are round and cartilaginous in front, but flat, '" and muscular and membranous beliind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been described at p. 449. The right bronchus is about an inch in length, and is larger than Tiio right the left; it also forms a more direct continuation of the trachea, 'y"''" from which circumst^rnce a foreign body in the airtube is more likely to enter this bronchus. It passes oblicjuely outwards, on aDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. •178 level with Ihe fifth dorsal vertebra, behind the upper cava and the right pulmonary artery ; and the azygos vein arches above it. .and r"> ^^^^ '"^^ bronchus is about two inches long, and reaches to the ti'ous."" level of the sixth dorsal vertebra. It is directed obliquely down- wards below the arch of the aorta, and crosses behind the corre- sponding pulmonary artery. It lies in front of the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. Remove tlie Dissection. The lungs are now to be removed from the bodv by cutting through the bronchi and the small vessels of the root, heart anf/ "^^^ remains of the heart and pericardium are then to be taken peiTciirdhim. away; the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium is to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm : in remo^oag the pericardium, the dissector should be careful not to injure the structures contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Surface of PHYSICAL CHARACTEHS OP THE LUNG. The surface of the lung smooth; suiooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the bV^obuies covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be divided and small into small irregularly shaped pieces or lobules. On looking closely at it, when a piece of ijuhnonary pleura is pulled away from its substance, minute cells will be perceived in it. Colour The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a age^^ "^'^^ pale red ; but in the adult the texture becomes greyish, and presents here and there dark grey spots* or lines of pigment, the shade of which deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old Accidental people. After death, the colour of the jjosterior border may be bluish-black from the accumulation of blood. Consistence. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the pulmonary substance appears like a sponge; but the lung which is deprived of air by j)ressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight Crepitation, pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from the con- taining spaces through the piilmonary structure, and produces the noise known as crepitation. If the lung contains serum or mucus, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. and elasti- The texture of the lung is very elastic, this elasticity causing the organ to contract when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown into it. Specific The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. "When the pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier and weight than Water, and therefore sinks. The weight of the lung is of the lung, j^^j^g^gg^^ gj,g(^t|y |^,y j-j^e quantity of foreign material contained in its texture ; ordinarily it ranges from sixteen to twenty-four ounces, the right lung being about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and, together, they are about twelve ounces heavier than in the female. Lung con- Ohvious STRUCTURE OF THE LUNG, The substance of the lung lobules, and is composed of small polyhedral masses or lobules, which are hollow, t^eseof"'''- and again subdivided into minute vesicles called the air-cells. The ^' lobules are visible as little polygonal areas, marked by the lines ofANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. 479 pigment, upon the surface of the lung; and by inflating a portion of the organ, the cellular structure may be seen. The se\'eral lobules are united together by connective tissue without fat; and each is attached to a terminal branch of the airtube, and receives offsets of the pulmonary' vessels. Tlie lung is invested by the pulmonary pleura, except at the Serous hiluni, where the vessels enter. The serous membrane is thin and ti-ansparent, and is closely attached to the lung-substance by means of a fine layer of subserous areolar tissue, which is continuous with the interlobular tissue. Both the pleura and the suljserous tissue and sub- are very elastic, so that in the collapsed state the surface of the lung is still smooth. Arrangement of the airtube and pulmonary artenj entering the lung. Relation of It has already been seen that in the root of the lung the pulmonary bronchus artery lies at first in front of the bronchus ; but before entering the organ the artery crosses over, and gains the posterior surface of the airtube. On the left side the artery passes backwards above the on left side, undivided bronchus ; but on the right side the bronchus gives off and on right, the branch {epiarterial bronchus) to the upper lobe of the lung before it is crossed by the arterial trunk, which therefore runs between the upper and middle divisions of the airtube. From this arrangement it would appear that the lower half of the left bronchus and the two lobes of tlie left lung are represented on the right side by the continuation of the bronchus below the artery and by the middle and lower lobes of the lung ; and that the upper lobe of the right lung with its division of the airtube liave no representiitives on the left side. Bronchial branches in the lung. If the primary divisions of the Airtubes in bronchi be followed into the lung, they will be found to give off '""^' secondary branches ; and these, together with the smaller offsets of the air-passages, divide for the most part dichotomously, that is mode of evenly into two. The branches of the airtube within the lung are ^'■"'"^'^'ne; known as the bronchia or bronchial tubes, and difler from the bronchi in being circular in section. Tlieir structure resembles that of the structure; bronchi; but the pieces of cartilage are irregular in shape and occur on all sides of the tube, and the nuiscular tissue is proportionately greater in amount and completely surrounds the canal. The ultimate bronchial tubes are al)out half a line in diameter ; and and ending, each leads to a group of somewhat funnel-shaped dilatations {infundibula), which are beset with air-cells and form the lobules of the lung. Vessels of the lung. Two sets of ve.ssels are furnished to the Vessels are lung, viz., the pulmonary, wliich bring blood to the lung to be''™ aerated, and then return it to the heart and the smaller bronchial, which convey the blood destined for the nutrition of the lung. The pulmonary artery divides like the bronchus, and within the Pulmonary lung Its branches run usually on the i)osterior surface of the "'''"y' bronchial tubes, which they accompany to the lobules. The arterial branches do not anastomose together ; and they end in the capillary network of the air-cells.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 4S0 and veins. Bronchial arteries, and veins. Lympha- tics, Pulmonary nerves. Tlie pulinonarij veins are not so regular in their arrangement a.s the arteries. They arise from the network of the air-cells ; and the branches from adjoining lobules communicate freely together. The larger branches for tlie most part lie in front of tlie airtubes which they accompany. The pulmonary veins have no valves. The bronchial arteries are derived directly or indirectly from the aorta, two for the left lung and one for the right (p. 481), and enter the lung on the airtube, which they also follow in its ramifi- cations. They distribute branches to the bronchial lymphatic glands, to the walls of the larger blood-vessels and bronchial tubes, and to the interlobular connective tissue. Other small offsets ramify on the surface of the lung beneath the pleura. On the .smallest bronchial tubes minute branches anastomose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. The bronchial veins begin by twigs corresponding vfith the super- ficial anil deep branches of the artery, and leave the root of the lung to end in the azygos veins. Many of these veins, however, open into the pulmonary veins, both within the lung and in the root. The lyni2)hatics of the lung are superficial and deep ; the latter accompany both the bronchia and the branches of the pulmonary vessels. All pass to the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. The nerves of the lung are derived through the pulmonary jilexuses from the vagus and sympathetic, and follow the branches of the airtube. They have minute ganglia connected with their filaments. PARTS OF THE SPINE AND THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. Dissection of thoracic duct, of other objects, and of sym- pathetic. Dosconding thoracic aorta; In front of the spinal coltimn are the objects in the interpleural space of the posterior mediastinum, viz., the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic , duct, and cesophagus ; and beneath the pleura on each side of the spine is the symjjathetic nerve. Dissection (fig. 174). The thoracic duct should be found first near the diajihragm liy removing the pleura ; there it is about as large as a crow-quill, and rests against the right side of the aorta. The areolar tissue and the pleura are to be cleared away from the different structures before mentioned ; and the azygos veins, one on the right and two on the left of the aorta, shotild be di.^sected. Ne.xt follow the thoracic duct upiwards lieneatli the arch of the aorta, and along the cesojjhagus beneath the pletira, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. After raising the jjleura from the inner surface of the vertebra; and ribs, the gangliated cord of tlie sipnpathctic nen-e will be seen lying over the heads of the ribs. Branches are to be followed out- wards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves ; and others inward.s over the bodies of the vertebra),—the lowest and largest of these forming the three trunks of ^/w splanchnic nerves. The DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA is the part of the great systemic vessel between the termination of the arch and the diaphragm. Its481 DESCENDING TllOKAOl(' AOHTA. extent is from the lower bonier of the fourlli dorsal vertebra, on i-xUmiI; the left side to the front of the last dorsal vertebra. Contained in the posterior mediastinnm, the vessel is ratlier curved, lying at its njiper end on tlie left, and below on the front of the spinal column. Heiieath it are the vertebra) and the smaller "'"1 n^lii- azygos veins. In IVont of the vessel are the root of the left lung and the pericardium. On ils left side it is covered throufdiout bv Syiniiatliotic ^'aiiglioii (ii piirt of thi! uli.'iiii). SiiI)orior iiitorcostul Vfiii. Aortic iiiti'rcosUil .■u tcry. Vena iizy^os major. Rijjlit vaKiis i>ii tlii; ii'so])Iiagiis. Li;lt lowornzygos vein. Left vagii.s. Tlioriicic duct. Great s|jIaMcliiiic nerve, Hanii to till' lesser splaneluiic nerve. Fig. 17-1.—DiAditAM of 8tkuctuiihs in the Pusteiuok Mediastinum. the pleura ; and on its right side are the ujsophagus, tlie thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein, though near the diaidira.'m Ihe gullet IS placed over the aorta (fig. 174). The BUANCHE8 of the vessels are di.strila.ted to the surrounding BranchoB parts and are named from their destination bronchial, pericardial o'.sophageal, mediastinal, and intercostal. a. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, an^l Arteries of aclliere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, on which they = ramify ; they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the S"'"'"- (esophagus. D.A. I IDISSECTION OK THK THOKAX. 482 two lel't one right. Pericardial branches. Esophageal branches. Mediastinal branches. Intercostal arteries: number; course to intercostal sjjaces; right longer. The anterior branch occupies intercostal space witli vein and nerve. Offsets. Anasto- moses. I'ostcrior branch turns to the back. There are t.\vo arteries for the left lung (superior and inferior), whicli arise from the front of the aorta at a short distance from each other. The artery of the right lung arises in common with one ctf tlic left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first intercostal artery of tlie right side. b. Tlie 2^er{cardial branches are some irregular twigs, which are furnished to the posterior part of the pericardial hag. c. The esophageal branches are four or five in number, and ramify in the gullet, forming anastomoses with one another; above, they communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery ; and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. d. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the areolar tissue and the glands in the interpleural space. e. The intercostal arteries are nine on each side, and pass to the same number of lower intercostal spaces. Branches are supplied to the upper two spaces from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These vessels arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the bodies of the vertebras, beneath the cord of the sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique direction ; and as the aorta lies on the left of the spine, the right vessels are the longer, and run also beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. Many twigs are supplied to the bodies of the vertebraj. In the intercostal space, the anterior branch, the larger of the two, continues onwards between the muscular strata to the front of the chest, wdiere it ends by anastomosing with an intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery (p. 441). At tirst the artery lies in the middle of the space, beneath the pleura, and resting on the external intercostal muscle ; but near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper boundary. Accompanying the artery are the intercostal vein and nerve,—the vein being commonly above, and the nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is, at first, higher than the artery. Branches are furnis-hed to the intercostal muscles, and to the ribs. Near the angle of the rib a larger {collateral) branch is given off, which runs forwards along the lower border of the space, and joins in front a branch of the internal mammary ; and about the middle (from front to back) of the intercostal space a superficial twig arises, to accompany the lateral cutaneous nerve. The highest artery of the aortic set of intercostals anastomoses with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. The lowest two are continued in front into the abdominal wall, where they lie between the internal oblique and transversiilis muscles, and anastomose with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. Thi^ posterior branch turns liackwards between tlie vertebra and the superior costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in the back. As it passes the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a smallAZVGOS VEINS. .spinal braiieli to tlii' vertebra and Hie s]iiiial cord. See viis.sKLs OF THK SI'I.N.M, CANAL (p. 549). The intercoMal vein closelj' resembles tlie artery in its cour.se and inturcostal branching. Near the head of the rili it receives a contributing dor.sal branch, and then join.s an azygos vein. Bronchial veins. A vein i.s.sues from the root of each lun.t;, and v,.in oftho ends on the right side in the large azygos \-ein, and on the lel't in the superior azygo.s vein of its own side. The surERioR intercostal artery of the stdiclavian trunk Si.|"'nc.i- descends over the neck of the first riii, e.vternal to the cord „f the sympathetic, and supplie.s a branch to the first intercostal sui,],ik,.s two space : continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like "l"'"'" manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper aortic intercostal. Its intercostal offsets divide into anterior and posterior branches, which are distributed like the intercostal branches of the aorta. The AZYGOS VEINS are two in number on the left side and one on Tiin.oaz.v-o.s the right, and receive branches corresponding to the ofisels furnished by the descending thoracic aorta. The right ov large azyyos (tig. 174, p. 481, and fig. 175, •', p. 486) Lnr«o begins in the right ascending lumbar vein on the right side of the rMft'si.'ie"" spine in the abdomen. It enters the thorax through the aortic"'''' opening of the diajihragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta and tlioracic duct, o\'er the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebrcc. Opposite the fifth rib the vein arches forwards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava as and joins this vessel pierces the ijericardium. Its valves are lew and very ""P'^^'™'' incomi)lete, and the intra.spiual and intercostal veins may be™™' injected through it. Branches. In this vein are received :— brandies 1. Eight lower intercostal veins of the right side. .ioiningit. 2. Eight superior intercostal vein bringing blood from the second and third spaces. 3. Left lower azygos vein, bringing blood from the lower three or four spaces of the left side. _ 4. Left upper azygos vein bringing blood iVoni the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh spaces of the left side. 5. Eight bronchial vein. 6. Small tcsophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins. By means of the right azygos vein the inferior vena cava communicates with the superior, .so that lilood can reach the heart from the lower half of the body if the inferior cava were obstructed The left lower az>jgos rein (fig. 175, ') begins in the abdomen in L.a low.n- tlie ascending lumbar vein of the left side of the vertebral column Enter.ng the thorax along the aorta, or through the eras of the wi„s in diaphragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as hi-rJi as the "''domon, ninth or eighth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses beneath that ve.s.sel onds in and the thoracic duct to end in the right azvgos. It receives the three or four lower intercostal veins of thj left side, and .some oesophageal and mediastinal branches. inanoi.Ps. The left npper azygos vein (fig. 175, is formed by oflsds from i„.a „„„.., 1 I 2DISSECTION OF THE THOBAX. 484 Sujierior intercostal ending of right, and of left. Vein from lirst space. (Esophagns in the thorax, passes through diaphragm. Parts covering it, beneath it, and on sides Tliree coats are in it. A mnscular coat of external longitndinn the spaces between the superior intercostal ahove, and the left lower azygos below. It usually receives branches from the fourth to seventh spaces inclusive, and the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The superior intercostal vein is a short trunk which is formed liy the union of the veins from the second, third, and, occasionally, from the fourth spaces. On the right side it descends to join the beginning of the arch of the large azygos vein ; but on the left side (tig. 170, i, p. 466) it is directed forwards across the arch of tlie aorta, and then turns upwards to enter the left innominate vein. The highest intercostal vein ascends from the iirst intercostal space, in company with the superior intercostal artery, and joins the lower end of the vertebral vein. The (ESOPHAGUS or gullet (figs. 174 and 175) is a hollow muscular tube, which extends from the pharynx to the stomach, and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Appearing in the thorax to tbe left of the middle line, it is directed beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta, till near the diapliragm, where it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the uesopliageal opening. As far as the aortic arch the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it projects to the left of the airtube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is thence in contact with the pericardiiun as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax it rests on the longi colli muscles and the vertebroe; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the large azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the right intercostal arteries, as well as by tbe aorta near the diaphragm. Laterally it touches . the left pleura above the arch, and both pleurae below, but the right much more extensively than the left. Below the bronchus the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with their branches ; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact with it on the left. Structure. If a piece of the oesophagus be removed and distended with tow, it will be easy to show a muscular, an areolar, and a mucous coat from without inwards. The mnscular coat is thick and strong, and consists of two layers of filires, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the a-sophagus the muscular coat is red, and composed of striped fibres ; but below this it becomes gradually paler, and the striped fibres give way to involuntarv muscular tissue. The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal fibres, which form a continuous covering, and end below on the stomach. The fibres begin in the neck opposite to the cricoid cartilage ; and at intervals varying from half an inch to an inch and a half, they are485 LVMI'irATIdS AXD THORACin DUCTS. iiitcvrupteil Ijy small tendons (^';y to of an inch lont;) like llic fibres of the rectus abdominis nuiscle. TliQ internal layer of circular fibres is continuous ub( with tlu! iiiu! iiitijnial fibres of the pharynx ; they are more oblii|Ui', at the midclie than nim'.s"' at either end of the oesophagus. The areolar or submucous layer is situate between the muscular Fibrous and mucous coats, and attaches the one to the other loosely. '"J'"''- The mucous coat will be seen on cutting open the tube : it is Mucous reddish in colour above but pale below, and is very loosely con- jiected with the muscular coat, so that it is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is contracted. The surface is studded PiipiHie niui with minute papilla;, which are, however, concealed by the thick, "I'"''"''"""- laminated, scaly epithelium. Some compound cjlanils (cesoj)hageal) are scattered along the tube, Som'. and are most numerous at the lower end of the gullet. ginmis. Lymphatics of the thorax. In the thora.x are lymphatic Lympimtics vessels of the wall and the viscera, which enter collections of 1',' glaiuLs, and end in one or other of the lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct tra\X'r.ses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. Lymphatic glands. Along the course of the internal mammary sternal artery lies a chain of sternal (jlands, which receive lymphatics from the upper part of the abdominal wall, the front of the chest, the mamma, and the fore part of the diaphragm. On each side of the spine, near the heads of the ribs, as well as inturcostal. between the intercostal muscles, is placed a group of mtercostal (jlands for the reception of the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. Till 'ee or four anterior mediastinal (jliinds lie in the fore part of Antorior the interpleural .space, and receive lymphatics from the upper sur- face of the liver and the diaphragm. Numerous bronchial glands are situate at the division of tlie Jirom-liiiil. trachea, and along the bronchi ; through them the lymphatics of the lung pa.ss. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of posterior PosUrior mediastinal (jlands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the ccso- phagus, and hinder parts of the pericardium and diaphragm. Along the front and lower border of the arch of the aorta are tlie Superior superioi mediastinal or cardiac (jlands, which receive the lymphatics ""•'''"'^i'""'- of the heart, the pericardium, and the thymu.s. The THORACIC DUCT (fig. 174 and fig. 175,') is the ninin channel by Thoracic which the lymph of the lower half of the body, and of the left side of the u])per half of the body, as well as the chyle from the intestines, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in an begins in enlargement (receptaculum chyli ; p. 371), and ends in the veins of the lelt side of the neck. It is from fifteen to eighteen inches in '■"'1^ in length, and is contained in the thorax, except at its origin and termination. It has the following course and relations : Entering the cavity through the same opening as the aorta, the iteinUons duct ascends on the right side of that vessel as high as the arch.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. which it is conducted It may be divided: is furnished witli valves; receives most lym- phatics. Right duct is in the neck : receives lymphatics of one- fourth of body. Tlioracic cord of sympathetic has twelve , ganglia. Opposite the fourth dor.-al vevtabra it pusses beneath the aortic arch, and is then applied to the left side of the oesophagus, on "to the neck under the left subclavian artery. At the lower part of the neck it arches outwards, external to the common carotid artery and above or over the subclavian artery, to open into the left subclavian vein at its junction with the internal jugular. In this course the tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite again; or its divisions may even form a plexus. Near its termination it is frequently branched. It is provided with valves at intervals, like a vein : and these are in greatest number at the upper part. Branches. In the thorax the duct re- ceives the lymphatics of the left half of the cavity, viz., from the sternal and inter- costal glands ; also the lymphatics of the left lung, the left side of the heart, and the trachea and ojsophagus. The RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT receives large branches from the viscera of the thorax, and is a short trunk in the neck, about half an inch in length, wliich ojiens into the augle of union of the sub- clavian and jugular veins of the same side : its opening is guarded by valves. Brandies. Into this trunk the lym- phatics of the right upper limb and right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, right lung and right half of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their respective glands, unite into a few large trunks, which ascend beneath the in- nominate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Cord of the sympathetic nerve (fig. 174, p. 481). The thoracic part of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura, and is placed over the heads of the ribs and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but this number 'is frequently reduced by the fusion of two adjoining one.s. The first ganglion is the largest; and the ln.st two are rather anterior to the line of the others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the corresponding vertebra. Fio. 175.—The Teioracio Ddot, and the Azvgos Yeins. 1. Thoracic duct. 2. Ending of tlie duct in the left subcliivian vein. 3. Large azygos vein. 4. Left lower azygos vein. 5. Left upper azygos vein. 6. Vena cava superior. 7. Left internal jugular vein, cut tliiougli.SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 487 to join spjiinl riervds : Each ganglion I'lirnislies external branches to communicate with liianuiic^ the spinal nerves, and internal for tlic supply of the viscera. E.dcrnal or conncdincj hvnches {fig. 170). Two offsets pa.ss out- wards from each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (intercostsil). In the * brunches of communica- tion both sjjinal and sym- pathetic nerve-fibres are combined ; but one {while ramus commimicans) (A) consists: almost entirely of spinal, and the other {grey rawMA- commimicans) {i) mainly of sympathetic fibres. The internal or visceral branches differ in size and distribution, according as they are derived from the ujiper or lower ganglia. The oflsets of the tipper five (janglia are very small, and are distributed to the aorta, and to the verteljrte with the ligaments. From the third and fourth ganglia also, oflsets are sent to the posterior pulmonary ple.\us. The branches of the lov;er seven ganglia are larger and much whiter than the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of the abdomen : these are three in number (large, small, and smallest) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white to supply viscera. Oflsets of ujjper Hve gangli.i are small: Fig. ]7C.—Scheme to Illustiiate the con- nection BETWEEN THE SPINAL AND SyM- I'ATHETIO NeHVES (ToDB AND BoWMAn). a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, witli a gaiiglicjii, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch. c. Anterior primary biancli of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of tlie syinpatlietic. g. Ganglia on tlie cord. h. Wliile offset from the spinal to the sympathetic nerve. i. Grey offset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve. of lower seven, large, and form great splanclmic cord, which receives roots apparently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), hut its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high a.s the third ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebra}, it pierces the filjres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the semilunar ganglion of the abdomen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may present a ganglion. The small splanchnic nerve begins in the tenth and eleventh ganglia, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted infeiiorly to semilunar ganglion ; small splanchnic to co-'liac plexus ;4S8 DlSSKCTiON OF THE THDRAX. through the crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus Ly the side of the cocliac artery, smallest The smallest splanchnic nerve spiiiigs froiii the last ganglion, and to'remi'"'' accompanies tlie other nerves through the diaphragm ; in the ipiexus. libdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This ner\'e may be absent, and its place is then taken by an ofl'set of the preceding. PABIETES OP THE THORAX. Soft parts bounding the tliora.x. Subcosta s: position; attach- ments J Irregulari- ties : ttnd use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of the rib: relations. Outer layer extends back to tuberosity of the rib. Trace nerves. Eleven intercostal nerves. Upper and lower ones dilfer. Last dorsal nerve. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles, with the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside the ribs is a thin fleshy layer at the back,—the subcostal muscles. The hase of the thorax is formed by the diaphragm. The SUBCOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of ileshy fibres, which are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- costals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostal s, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to the like surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. The subcostals draw together, and depress the ribs, thus acting as exjjiratory muscles. Intercostal muscles. The anterior part of these muscles has been described (p. 438) ; and the posterior part may now be examined from the inner side. The inner muscle begins at the sternum, and reaches back to the angles of the ribs, or somewhat farther in the ujjper spaces. Where the fibres cease, a thin fascia (posterior intercostal aponeurosis) is continued inwards over the ou.ter muscle. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve and vessels. External muscle. When the fascia and the subcostal muscles have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen lietween the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres cross those of the inner intercostal layer. While this muscle extends backwards to the tuberosity of the rib, it is geiierally absent, as already described, in front, between the rib-cartilages. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercosttil muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and artery traced outwards. The intercostal nerves, eleven in nmnber, are anterior primary branches of dor.sal nerves; and they pass from the intervertebral foramina into the intercostiil spaces without forming a plexus. Near the head of the rib each nerve is joined to the sympathetic by the two communicating lilaiiu'uts just mentioned. The njiper six are confined to tlie wall of the thorax ; but the lower five are prolonged into the abdominal wall, where the ribs cease in front. The anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve lies below the last rib, and is seen in the dissection of the abdomen.489 INTERCOSTAL NERVES. Up])er six nerves. At first the nerves lie between the pleura and Cour.s(,. cic the external intercostal nuisule with an artery and vein ; but they "I'l'm "'". soon enter ]>etween the intercostal muscles, and extend forwards to the side of the sternum (p. 439). In their course they supjily branches to the nniacles of the thoracic wall, as well as to the levatores costarum and serrati muscles of the back, and cutiineous '^™"'''''^-'- offsets to the surface, which are described in the dissection of the upper limb (p. 13). There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the Exceptions arrangement above specified. The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the first rib. First nerve and enters the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest it S",',''bmchkl*' supplies to the first intercostal space a branch, which furnishes P'exiis. muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous ofi'set from thi,s branch, except when the second nerve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles ; and it Irequently sends upwards a branch to join the first nerve. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch, which we have seen described in tlie uj^per limb as the intercosto-humeral nerve. In front it ends like the others. The lower Jive nerves reseudjle the foregoing in their course and Lower Ave branches in the intercostal .spaces: their termination in the abdominal wall is described on p. 274. Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre of the mtiscle Uppersur- is tendinous, and the circumference is fleshy. In contact with the diaphragm, upper surface are the lung with the pleura on each side, and the heart and pericardium in the middle : the phrenic vessels and Parts touch- nerves pierce this surface, external to the pericardium. In the diaphragm are the following apertures ;—one for the oesophagus Apertures and the pneumo-gastric nerves, a second for the vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the large azygos vein, and a cleft on each side for the splanchnic nerves. Beneath it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. Section III. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The ligaments of the vertebrae, ribs, and sterniun are now to be Ariicuia- examined. lion.softhe ARTICULATION.S OF THE RIBS. Each rib is united to the spinal column at the one end, and to the costal cartilage at the other. Between it and the spine there are two synovial joints, and two sets of ligaments, viz., one between the head of the rib and the bodies of the vertebrte, and a second passing from the neck and tuberosity to the transverse processes of the vertebra;.490 DISSEOriON OF THE TIFOIiAX. and costal cai'tilages. To see tlie costo-verlo- liial liga- munts, and choiidio- sternal. Ligaments of liead of rib are anterior or stellate and interar- ticular, with syno- vial sacs. Cos to- transverse ligaments : The cosliil cartilagos are connected to the steriiiini and to one anotlier by .synovial joints and ligaments. Dissection. For the purpose of examining tlie liganient.s between the ribs and tlie vertebrte, take the piece of the spinal column with the third, fourth, filth, and sixth ribs attached to it. After removing the intercostal and other muscles, and the loose ti.ssue from the surface of the bones, the student will be able to define, a.s below, the ligaments passing from the head and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebriB. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilages to the sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in ojiening the cavit}'. Ligaments of the head of the RIB. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebrse, there are two ligaments to the articula- tion — anterior costo-central, and interarticular, with two sjaiovial sacs. The anterior costo-ccntral or stellate ligament (fig. 177, is composed of radiating fibres, which pass from the head of the rib to the two vertebral bodies forming the arti- cular cavity, and to the disc between them. Where the rib is in contact onlj' with one A'ertebra, i.e., in the first, eleventh and twelfth, it few fibres ascend to the vertebra immediately above. The inter articular ligament will be seen when the stellate is diWded. It is a very short thin band, which is atUiched on one side to the ridge Fig. 177.—Ligaments of thkRibs AND VKKTEBK.E (tSoURGBKY). 1. Anterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrte. 2. Short lateral fibres uniting the bodies. 3. Stellate ligament. 4. Superior costo - tran.sverse ligament. 5. Interspinous ligament. separating the two articular .surfaces on tlie head of the ril>, and oa the other to the intervertebral disc. In the joints of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, where the head is not in contact with the intervertebral substance, it is absent. Synovial sacs. There are usually two synovial cavities in the cosfo-central articulation, one on each side of the interarticular liga- ment; but in the three joints before mentioned (l.st, 11th, 12th) there is but one. The special features of these joints shoidd be verified at this time. Ligaments of the neck and tuberosity. Three ligament-s ])ass from the neck and tuberosity of the rib to the transverse processes of the two verlebrte with which the head is connected ;onor ur ARTI('Lir,ATIONS OK TlIK Kir.S. uiul the tuljerosity iorins a synox'ial joint witli tlic traii.sveisu 2)roecss of tlie lowur vertebra. The superior costo-trannvcrne lujameni (tig. 177, ') i.s larger and suijor kniger than tlie others. It ascends from the iipjjer edge of the neck "^'-''•''"''"o of the rib to the tran.s\'er.se proce.ss of the vertebra above : it is wanting to tlie first rib. Between this ligament and the verteljra the posterior brandies of the intercostal vessels and nerves pass ; and externally it is continued into the posterior intercostal aponeurosis. The posterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 184, p. 497) is a short posteiior, band of fibres between the rougli part of the tuberosity of the rib and the tip of the transverse process with which the latter articulates. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse ligament is placed mi'l miildie; between the neck of the rib and tlie transverse process which the tuberosity touches. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the I'ib and the transverse process. Its fil)res are collected into separate bundles, with fatty tissue between them. The sijtiorial cavity of tlie costo-transverse articulation will be synovial opened by dividing the posterior ligament. There is no joint between the last two lilis and their transverse Difforence-s processes ; and the posterior and middle costo-transverse liMiuents j" ^'['^''".'i'; are united in one band. ribs. Movements of the ribs. The ribs undergo a movement of rotation Tiic ribs around an a.xis which passes through the costo-central articulation ... * -. ° around uii 111 a direction corresponding very nearly to that of the neck of the axis, bone. By tliis rotation the fore part of the rib is carried upwards and outwards in inspiration, and downwards and inwards iu expiration. The degree of outward movement is necessarily pro- whieli i.s portioiiate to the oblitiuity of the axis, and is therefore greater in "jj"™,"!' the case of the lower ribs than the upper, since the backward inclination of the transverse process of the dorsal vertebnu, and of the necks of the rib.s, increases from above downwards. The lower tIic lowur ribs, while Ijeing elevated, also move somewhat backwards, tlieir tuberosities gliding over the sloped facets of the transverse processes ; wimls and' and in the eleventh and twelfth ribs the upward and downward movements are but slight, while the forward and backward move- ments are relatively free, owing to the absence of the costo-transverse articulation. Costal cartilage with the rib. The end of tlie rib is hollowed Rii, and to receive the costal cartilage, and the two are directly united. The periosteum of the rib is continued into the pericliondrium of the cartilage. Cho.n'Dro-sterxal articulatio.ns will now be examined iu the costui car- portion of sternum that had previously been put aside, and in what tiiaKcs with remains on the body. The cartilages of tlie true ribs, except the ""^ first, are articulated to the sternum by synovial joints. The extremity of each cartilage is received into a dejiression on the siile of the sternum, and is fixed by a surrounding capsule. In front and behind the capsule is thickened by radiating fibres, \\ liich are described as anterior and posterior ligaments. In the joint of the second cartilage there is an interarticidar i^mmH, 1 c.ir- tilage hii.s u ak'c I double joint.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 4i)2 Costo- xlplioiil ligatneut. First carti- lage. Cartilages with one another. Motion of cartilages. Two sets of ligaments unite the vertebra.'. How to HCIS the several ligaments. ligament like that to the head of the rih which joins the cartilage between the pieces of the steinuiu ; and the synovial sac is double. Similar bands are sometimes present in one or two of the succeeding joints. A special band of fibres passes from the cartilage of the seventh rib to the eusiform process, and is named costo-xiphoid ligament. The cartilage of the first rib adheres directly to the .sternum, without forming any joint. liJTERCHONDR.vL ARTICULATIONS. The cartilages of the ribs I'rom the sixth to the ninth articulate together by means of broad processes on their adjacent edges, which are connected by synovial joints. Each joint is surrounded by a short capsule, and is sup- ported in front by strong fibres of the anterior intercostal aponeurosis. The ends of the eighth, ninth; and tenth cartilages are united each to the cartilage above by bands of fibrous tissue. Movements. There is only a limited degree of movement in the chondro - sternal and inter- chondral articulations, the carti- lages being elevated with the ribs in inspiration, and sinking in expiration. Articulation of the ster- num. The manubrium and body of the sternum are united by a piece of cartilage, with anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres. In some cases there is a cavity resulting i'rom the absorption of the central portion of the carti- lage. There is no appreciable movement between the pieces of the sternum, but the articulation aids in giving elasticity to the front of the chest. Articulations of the vertebr/E. The vertebra3 are united together by two sets of ligaments,—one lor the bodies, and the other for the arches and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will sutiice, except for those between the first two vertebrte and the head and those of the pelvis, which are described in the head and neck and abdomen resspectively. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined, the same piece of the .spinal colmnn will serve for the preparation of the ligaments of the bodies of the vertebraj. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be delined with very little trouble, by removing the areolar tissue. The spinal canal is assumed to have been opened in the examina- tion of the .S2)inal cord, and the posterior ligauicnt of the bodies of a. Anterior comiuon ligament of the bodies of the vertebrte. b. Lateral short fibres.LIOAMKXTS OF VEKTEBi;,!'; 493 till' vcrteljiw is l;>i(l liare ; but if \\n- L'iuial sliniild not 1h' upon, for ;my reason, the neural arches of the vertebrie are lo be reniox'ed by sawing thriuigh the pedicles. The remaining ligaments between the neural arches, spines, and articular processes of the bones may be dissected un the piece taken away in opening the spinal canal. Ligaments of the bodies. The bodies of the verlebrre are united by an anterior and a postei-ior common ligament with an intervening piece of fibro-cartilage. The anterior ronunnjL ligament (lig. 178, a) reaches from the axis to the sacrum. It is narrow above and wide below ; and it also increa.ses iu thickness from above downwards. Its tilires are longitudinal ; and by detaching parts of the ligament, the super- ficial ones will be seeu to extend over three or four vertebras, while TliR boditw nvK imituil liy :— COIIUIlOll li^'juiH'iit : form niiil thickiiL'.ss ; extent of fibres; Fkj. 179 A Fio. 179 II. Two Views ok the Posterior Common Lioament, r, to show the DIFFERENCE IN SHAPE, A, IN THE NeCE, AND J), IN THE LolNS. the deepest pa.ss from one bone to the next. More of the fibres are .m.l mode ot attached to the interverteljral discs than to the bones ; and few or none are lixed to the centre of the liodies. The ligament bridges over the tran.sver.se hollows on the vertebral bodies, and renders tlie front of the column smooth and even. On each side, over the part uncovered by the anterior common .sikmI iiUi'i-.-ii ligament, the bodies of the vertebra; are united by a thin laver of ■short tiljres (fig. 178, 6). The posterior common licjament (fig. 179) is contained in the Po.sierioi' spinal canal, lying on the back of the vertebral bodies from \"^IZZ[: the axis to the sacrum. It is much thinner than the anterior, and, unlike that, is broad above and narrow below. It is ronn; wider ojiposite tliu intervertebral disc than on the bodies, so that the margins are dentate. In tlie neck (a) it covers nearly the whole breadth of the bodies ; Init iu l,he dorsal and lumbar regions (n) it is a narrow band, which sends oil" a pointed ]iroce.ss on each side to be attached to the intervertebral disc and the up[ier margin of theDISSECTION OF THE THORAX. ■194 relations. To see the inter- vertebral substance. Inter- vertebral discs: form and connec- tions : structure; Fig. 180.—Intkrvbrtebral Sub- stance IN THE Lumbar Region WITH ITS LaMIN.* DiSPLAIED. a. Superficial, and b, deeper layer, the fibres in the two talking different directions. outer part of fibrous lamiiue; pedicle. The hinder surface of the ligament is in contuct with the dura mater ; and between the Ijand and the centre of the bodies are intervals where large veins issue from the bones. The fibres are arranged as in the anterior liga- ment ; and they are more closely united with the interverteln-al sub- stance than with the bone. Dissection. To see the inter- vertebral discs, the anterior and posterior common ligaments must be taken away ; and to show their structure, one disc should be cut through horizontally (fig. 182), while another is to be divided vertically by sawing through the bodies of two vertebrae (fig. 181). The intervertebral substances or discs (fig. 180) are placed between the bodies of the vertebrae, with the exception of the atlas and axis. Each disc is a flattened or slightlj- biconvex jilate (fig. 181), which is firmly united to the adjacent surfaces of two bodies ; and its form and size are determined by the bones between which it lies. It is connected in front and behind with the an- terior and posterior common ligaments; and on the sides, in the dorsal region, with the stellate and interarticu- lar ligaments of the ribs. In the sections that have been made the intervertebral substance is seen to consist of two dilTereut jjarts,— an external, firm and laminar, and an in- ternal, soft and pulpy (fig. 181). The outer laminar part (fig. 182, a) forms more than half of the disc. The laminae are di.sposed concentrically, but do not form complete rings ; and they are atUiched by their edges to the bodies of the vertebraj (fig. 181, a). They are composed for the most part of white fibro-cartilage ; but the superficial ones consist of fibrous tissue. The fibres are parallel Fig. 181.—Vertical Skction of the Intkr- vkrtkbkal substanck. n. Peripheral laminar part. b. Cential pulpy jiart.THK INTERVERTEBRAL DISCS. 49o ill eacli lamina, and run obli([uely between two vertebra) ; but tlie direction is reversed in alternate layers (fig. 180). This ari'ange- ment is best seen in the thicker discs between the lumbar vertebriB ; and it may be demonstrated by dissecting layer after layer. The central luilpy jwrtion of the di.sc (fit;. 182, b) is verj' soft, and, being tightly confined by the surrounding laminie, it projects when two vertebrae and the interposed mass are sawn through. Placed nearer the back than the front of the disc, it is more marked in the loins and neck than in the dorsal region. It has a yellowish colour, and is deficient in the stratiform arrangement so consjjicuous in the circumferential part. Tlie surfaces of the vertebrce in contact with the disc have a cartilaginous covering, whicli may be seen by cutting the inter- vertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it Ibrms a continuous layer, but it is wanting towards the circumference. The discs are thicker between the lumbar and cervical, tlian between the upper and middle dorsal vertebrte ; and in the loins and neck, where the spinal column is conve.x forwards, they are deepest at the anterior edge, being wedge-shaped. The thickest piece of all, and the most wedge-shaped, is between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The total thickness of the discs amounts to about a fourth of the length of the moveable part of the spinal column. Use. The intervertebral discs form the chief bond of union between the several bones of the column ; and mainly by reason of their strength, displacement of the vertelu'se is a rare occurrence. In the movements of the spine the vertebrae revolve around the central pulpy portion of the disc ; and the extent of the move- ment between two segments of the column is limited by the circumferential laminar jiortion of the discs. Through their wedge-shaped form the discs are chiefly instru- mental in gi\ang rise to the convexity of the spine in the loins and neck ; and by their elasticity they moderate the efl'ect of jars or shocks transmitted through the column. Ligaments of the neural arches and procesbes. The articular processes of the vertebra) are connected by synovial joints with surrounding cajisules; the neural arches are united by yellow ligaments ; the .spinous processes have one band along their tips and others in the intervals between them ; and some of the transverse processes are joined by fibrous bands. innci' part of pulpy substiiiicc, situation wliere liirgest. Curtilage covering bones. Tliicliiiess Fio. 182.—Horizontal Section of AN Iniervertebral Diso. a. Laminar external part. b. Pulpy central substance. Tliey bind bones firmly together, but permit movemer.t; render column convex. Several liyamenls of the arch and processes.DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 496 Arliciiliu' liavo capsulo niirt synovial sac. jrotion ill the joints. Yellow ligaments of tlie lamiuie : extent; attach- ments ; tliickiiess. Ligaments of spines: supraspi- nous : anrl inter- spiiious. Inli^r- transverso ligaments. Joint:i of ai-Hcular processes. Between the articulating proces-ses there is a moveable joint, in which the bones are covered with cartilage, and are snrronnded by a capsular Ktjamaii, enclosing a synovial mcmbrcme. Tlie capsules are loosest in the cervical, and strongest in the lumbar region. Moi-emeiit. In these gliding joints the articular proces.ses of the vertebra move to a limited extent over one another, tlie direction of the motion being determined by the form and inclination of their surfaces. The kinds of movement permitted in any portion of the column are thus dependent upon the characters of the joints between the articular processes. The movements are freest in the cervical region, and least exten.sive between the upper dorsal vertebra3. By their overlajipiug, the articular processes also help in giving security to the spine ; and in dislocation of the vertebras they are generallv broken off. Ligaments of the arches. The liga- menta subflava (fig. 183) are small rhomljoidal sheets of yellow elastic tissue, which close the intervals between the neural arches at the back of the spinal canal from the axis to the sacrimi. In each interval there are two ligaments, a right and a left, which meet in the middle line, and extend from the root of the spine to the articular processes. They are attached above to the anterior or deep surface of the laminas of one vertel)ra, and below to the upper border and posterior surface of the laminae of the next. They are thin in the neck, and strongest in the loins. Ligaments of the spines. Along the tips of the spinous proces.ses of the doLsal and lumbar vertebroe is a longitudinal l)and of fibres (fig. 184, 1)—the supraspinous ligament. It is thickast in the lumbar region and consists of superficial fibres which pass over three or more spine.s, and deep fibres which unite adjoining bone.s. Many of the back muscles arise from it on each side. In the same regions, there are also membranous interspinous ligaments (fig. 177, '"') reaching from the root to the tip of the spinous i>rocesses. They arc Ihicker and broader in the lundiar than ill the dorsal part of the column. In the, neck the place of the supraspinou.s and inter.spinous ligaments is taken by the ligamentum nuchfc ()). 6). Ligaments of the transverse processes. In the loins the inta-- transverse ligaments are thin moinbranous bands in the intervals between the processes. In the dorsal region there are rounded Fia. 183.—An Inner View op THE Neukal Arches op the Vertedrjb, with their Inter- posed LiGAJlIENTS (BOURGERV). 1 and 2. Ligamenta subflava.497 MOVEMENTS OK TIIK SPINE. I'll irons buuilk's (fig. 184, '') pius-siiig ln'twcen the extrcuiilk's o( tlie transverse processes of tlie middle veitelira3, luul re^jreseiiting the iiitertninsver.se iiiu.scles of the low er sjiaees. In the neck they are ali.seiit. LuiAiiENTS OF Special Vertebr.e. The de.scription of the ligaments of the first two cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal vertehnc, will lie found with the dissection of the neck and of the pelvi.s. Movements of Si'inal Column. The spinal culumn can lie bent forwards, backwards, and to each side ; and it can be rotated. In Jlccion, the \'er- tebra) between the a.\is and sacrum are inclined forwards. The greatest niove- nient takes place be- tween the lower lum- bar vertebrae and the sacrum ; there is an interniedirtte degree in the neck ; and the least is in the upper half of the dorsal region, where the ribs are united to the sternum. The bodies of the bones are brought nearer together in front, wliile they are sejuxrated behind. The inferior jjair of articular jirocesses of the second vertebra glide upwards on the np]ier ones of the third ; the inferior jirocesses of the third bone move in like manner on the ujiper ones of the foui on throughout the moveable column. The ligament in front of the bodies is rela.xed, but the jiosterior and those uniting the neural arches and processes are tightened. The fore part of each intervertebral disc is compressed, and the back is .stretched. In c.t<fi/mo)), the column is arched backwards. The motion is most in the neck, and lea.st in the dorsal vertebra), which are fi.xed by the true ribs and the sternum, and are impeded in their move- ment by the overlapping ,s]iinous proces,ses. The posterior parts of the vertebra} are apjiroximated, while the anterior are .separated ; and the inferior articular processes of Ligiinioiits of .spoeial \crtebni.'. Kinds of motion. Flexion: leLTPt!; moveniont of bones: Fig. 184.—Lioamk.nts of the Processks of the Veutebr^e, and of the Rius (lioUKGEUy). 1. Supr.ispinou.s ligament. 2. Ligamentiiin .subllaviini. 3. Posterior costo-ti-ansver.se ligament : on llie opposite side the band has been removed and tlie joint opened. 4. Intertransverse ligament. and so stiite of ligiiinents. Extension : wlioie most and least; iiKivcmont of bonos ;DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. state of ligaments. Bending to side : extent; movement ot bones ; state of ligaments. Rotation movement of bones; where present. eacli glide downwards on the upper ones of the next succeeding bone. The condition of the ligaments is the opposite to that in flexion. Thus, the intervertebi-al discs are conipre.ssed behind, and stretched in front ; the spinous and subtiaval ligaments are relaxed ; the anterior common ligament of the bodies is tightened, and the hinder band is slackened. Lateral inclination. The spine can be curved to the right or the left side. Like the last movement, this bend is least in the more fixed upper dorsal vertebrse, and is greatest in the neck. On the concave side of the curve, say the right, the Iwdies are l)rought nearer together ; and they are carried away from each other on the opposite aspect. The right inferior articular surface glides down, and the left up, in the joints with the vertebra beneath. On the right side the ligaments will be relaxed and the iuter- verteljral substance compressed ; and on the left those structures will be tightened so as to check the movement. Eolation is the twisting of the bodies of the vertebrae around a vertical axis through their centres, the fore part being turned to the right or left, while the lower articular jjrocesses glide in the opposite direction over the upper ones of the next bone below. The movement will obviously be checked by the tightening of one set of oblique fi.bres in the intervertebral disc. A pure rotation of this kind, however, takes place only to" a small extent in the upper dorsal region ; but in the neck a greater degree of turning movement is permitted in combination with lateral flexion, owing to the conformation of the articular surfaces. In the loins the articular surfaces are so disposed that rotation is impossible.K K 2 CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Section T. extkiinal i'arts of 'i'he head. iJircdiom. In tlii; dissucLioii of tlie hesid jind neck, the student PaitHtol«! should learn the ])arts described in tliis and the followinu Section, whilst whilst the l)0(ly is m the litliotoniy jiosition during tiie first three in the days of dissection. jj^''^ The seal]) is j)ro])erIy limited inferiorly, from behind forwards, by Li,„iiK„f tlie external occii)it;il ])rotuberance, the sujierior curved line of the il'««call'- occipitjil bone and its jiroloiigation along the temporal bone down • to the tip of the mastoid process, by the temporal riilge.s on the parietal and fronUil bones and by the supra-orbital margin ; but the dissection in this section extends downwards to the upper border of the zygoma. C'liaracleristics of the part. The skin of the scalp is firmly con-Tongli sub- nected to the subjacent muscular and ajjoiieurotic structures, and ti"mi"!*'""' instead of the intermediate tissues consisting, as they do in most parts of the body, of a relatively loose, subcutaneoas fascia, they are composed of dense tissue uniting the parts together. In this dense tissue the su])erficial nerves and vessels run ; the roots of the hairs project into it, and contained in its interstices is a certain amount of yellowish fat. It is an easy thing to reflect the skin, the super- Hcial vessels and nerves and the aponeurotic tissues in a single layer, especially towards the upper part of the head. In order to Caution, avoid this the student should be veiy careful to keep the knife well directed to the skin, cutting through the hair roots, and a.s much as po.ssible he should dissect from below upward.s, for the blood ves.sels and nerves are larger below and smaller above. Position. The body having been placed on its back inthe lithotomy position, the head should be raised to a suitable height by blocks nnder the neck, and the fiice turned towards the op])Osite side— Position, this latter l)eiiig done by mutual arrangements between the dissectors of the two sides. Dissection. An incision .should be made upwards behind the auricle along the line of its attachment, from the tip of the mastoid process below to the upper border of the auricle above, and it should then pa.ss down the anterior atUichment as far as the upper border of the zygoma. From this it should be prolonged forwards500 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Incisions. Muscles of the ear. Dissection of upper muscles, of posterior muscle. Attrahens aureni muscle. Attollens ain-em muscle. Retraheus aurem con- sists of two or three bundles. Use of ear muscles. along the upper Lorder of the zygomatic arch and along tlie upper margin of the orbit as far as the root of the nose. A second incision should pa.ss from the root of the no.se, over the skull in the middle line to the external occipital protuberance behind. Tlie flap of .skin .should be reflected up\vard.s from below in front of the pinna and then be turned downward.s behind that part as far as the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Extrinsic Muscles of the Ear. Three muscles pa.¥s to the auricle from the side of the head. Two are aljove it,—one elevat- ing, the other drawing it forwards ; and the third, a retrahent muscle, is behind the ear. There are other special or intrinsic miiscle,s of the cartilage of the ear, which Avill be afterwards noticed. Dissection. If the auricle be drawn downwards by hooks, the position of the upper muscle will be indicated by a slight prominence between it and the head. By cleaning the slight ridge thereby produced, and removing a little areolar tissue, a thin fan-shaped layer of pale muscular fibres will come into view, the anterior portion of wdiich is the attrahens, while the posterior is the attollens aurem muscle (fig. 185). On drawing forwards the ear, a ridge marks the situation of the posterior muscle, and the retrahens miiscle must be sought beneath the subcutaneous tissue. It consists of rounded bundles of fibres, and is stronger and deeper than the others. The ATTRAHENS ADREM (fig. 185, is a small fan-shaped muscle which arises from the fore part of the aponeurosis of the occipito- frontalis. Its fibres are directed downwards and backwards, and are inserted into a projection on the front of the rim of the ear. Beneath it are the superficial tempoml vessels and nerves. The ATTOLLENS AUREM (fig. 185, has the same form as the preceding, though its fibres are longer and better marked. Arising also from the tendon of the occipito-froutalis, the fibres converge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear—into an eminence corresponding with a fossa (that of the antihelix) on the opposite aspect. The RETRAHENS AUREM (fig. 185, 1') consists of two or three roundish but separate bundles of fibres, which are stronger than those of the other muscles. The bundles arise from the root of the mastoid process, and pass almost horizontally forwards to be inserted by tendinous fibres into the lower part of the ear (concha) on its cranial aspect. The auricular branches of the posterior auricular artery and nerve are in contact with this muscle. Aclimi. The three preceding muscles will move the outer ear slightly in the directions indicated by their names ; the anterior drawing it upwards and forwards, the nnddle one upwards, and the posterior backwards. Dissection. The mn.scular fibres of the occipitalis behind and of the frontalis in front are now to be cleaned according to their direction (fig. 185) and then the superficial vessels and nerves dis- played in the following manner (fig. 186, p. 505).501 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND NERVES. Along the eyebrow seek the branches of vessels and ner\'es nmk mn-va^ which come from the orbit, viz., the .supraorbital ves.sels and nerve ol"'ti,™*"''' about the middle, and the supratrochlear nerve and frontal vesseLs foroheiul, near the inner angle of the orbit; they lie at first beneath the FlO. 185.—MCSCLES OF 1. Frontalis, and 4, occipitalis (the aponeurosis passing over tlie head between them). 2. Orbicularis palpebrarum. 3. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi. 5. Compressor naris. 6. Levator labii supoiioris. 7. Z>'gomaticus minor (too large). 8. Zygomaticus major. 9. Risorius. THE Scalp and Ear. 10. Masseter. 11. Orbicularis oris. 12. Depressor labii inferioris. 13. Depressor aiiguli oris. 14. Buccinator. 15. Attollens aureni. 16. Attrahens aureni. 17. Retrahens aurem (only partly seen). t Levator anguli oris. mascular fibres of the frontalis, which must be cut through to find them. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, the superficial tem- on thcisirto poral vessels and nerve are to be traced U]iwards ; and, above the zygomatic arch, the liranches of the facial nerve which join an ofl'set of the superior ma.xillary are to be sought. Behind the ear the po.sterior auricular ve.ssels and nerve, and behind ear, below it branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the pinna are to be found ; one or more ofisets of the last should be followed to its junction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital ve.ssels, at tiio back and the large and small occipital nerves should be denuded; the""'""'™'"-502 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Occipito- froiitalis. Occipital part: origin and ending. Frontal part: how at- tached. Aponeu- rosi.s: its attach- ment, and rela- tions. Prolonga- tion to ear. Use of an- terior and posterior belly. Vessels of tlic scalp. former nerve lies by the side of the arterj', and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. The occiPiTO-FRONTALis MUSCLE (fig. 185, ', *) covers the greater part of the vault of the skull, and consists of anterior and posterior fleshy parts with an intervening aponeurotic tendon. The posterior part, or the occipitalis arms from the outer half or more of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, and from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The fibres are about one inch and a half in length, and ascend to the aponeurosis. The anterior 2)art, or the frontalis Q), forms a thin layer which covers about the lower two-thirds of the frontal bone. Its fibres are paler than those of the occipital part, and spring from the aponeurosis some distance below the line of the coronal suture. They descend to the eyebrow and root of the nose, where they interlace with the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii and pyramidalis nasi muscles (tig. 203, p. 553), and terminate in the subcutaneous tissue. Some fasciculi are frequently attached to the nasal bone internally, and to the external angular j)rocess of the frontal bone on the outer side. The light and left muscular portions meet at the lower part of the forehead. The tendon of the occipito-frontalis, or the epicranial aponeurosis, covers the upper part of the cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the like structure of the opposite half of the head. In front, it sends a pointed process downwards for some distance between the two muscular portions ; and behind, it is prolonged between the posterior bellies, to be attached to the occipital bone along the highest curved line. From its lateral margin the upper auricular muscles arise. Superficial to the aponeurosis are the vessels and nerves of the scalp and a small quantity of fat, which is traversed by numerous short fibrous bands uniting it closely to the skin. Its deep surface is connected to the pericranium only by a loose areolar tissue devoid of fat, so that the scalp moves freelj' over the skull. By making a transverse incision through the aponeurosis above the ear and separating it from the pericranium towards the side of tlie head, it will be seen to be joined l)y a thin membrane, which springs from the skull along the superior temporal line, and descends, closely united to the deep surface of the attollens aurem muscle, over the temporal fascia to be attached to the pinna of the ear. Action. When the anterior belly contracts it raises the eyebrow, smoothing the skin at the root of the nose, and wrinkling trans- versely that of the forehead ; and continuing to contract, it draws forward the scalp. The posterior belly will move the scalp back- wards ; and the bellies acting in succession can CJirry the hairy scalp forwards and liackwards. COTANEOUS ARTERiEfj. The arteries of the scalp (fig. 186) are furnished hy the internal and external carotid trunks, and anastomose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supraorbital and frontal, come from the internal503 CDTANEOUS ARTERIES. carotid; while three, viz., the superficial temporal, the occipital, and the posterior auricular, are derived from the external. The SUPEAORBITAL AKTERV leaves the orbit through the notch Supraorbi. in the margin of tlie orlsit, and is distributed on the forehead. ^^'*-<"'y' Some of its Ijranches are superficial to the frontalis and supply the skin ; while others lie beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The FRONTAL ARTERY is close to the inner angle of the orbit, Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It ends in branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY (c?) is one of the terminal Superficial branches of the external carotid. After crossing the zygoma 5;^'"^°''''' immediately in front of the ear, the ves.sel divides on the temporal I'ascia into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branch runs forward with a serpentine course to anterior aiui the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supraorbital artery ; this is the branch that is opened when blood is taken from tlie temporal artery. The iMsterior branch is larger than the other, and ascends to the posterior top of the head, over which it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. Its offsets are similar to those of the anterior division, and communicate behind with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Occipital artery. The terminal part of this artery, Occipital appearing between the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, "'■'''"y- divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head. Communications take place with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior branch of the temporal, and with the posterior auricular artery. Some offsets pass deeply to sup])ly the occipitalis muscle, the pericranium, and the bono. The POSTERIOR auricular artery (/) appears in front of the Posterior mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mastoid) is artery.''"' directed backwards to supply the occipitalis, and anastomoses with the occipital artery. The other (auricular) supplies the retrahent muscle, the back of the pinna, and the superficial structures above the ear : offsets from it also pierce the pinna to be distributed on the o]iposite surface. The Veins of the exterior of the head generally correspond to the Veins of the arteries in their course, and communicate freely together, as well as with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with the veins of the diploij of the cranial bones. The frontal vein is of large size, and descends to the inner end of the eyebrow, beneath which it is joined by the smaller supraorbital vein: the resulting vessel is known as the angular vein, and it forms the commencement of the facial trunk. The temporal vein descends to the temporo-maxillary trunk ; the posterior auricular vein to the external jugular ; and the occipital veins join the deep veins at the back of the neck. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 186). The nerves of the scalp are Nerves of furnished from cutaneous offsets of both cranial and spinal nerves.504 DISSECTION^ OF THE HEAD. Supraorbital nerve : its two cuta- neous and palpebral branches. Snpratrocli- lear nerve: palpebral branch. Temporal nerves: of superior maxillary ; inner angle of the orbit is the snaall supratrochlear of inferior maxillary, its auricular branch; and of facial nerve. Po.sterior auricular,' nerve liaa The half of the head in front of the ear receives branches from the three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and twig.s to tlie muscles from the facial nerve. The skin of the hinder part of the head is supplied by spinal nerves (anterior and posterior primary branches); and close behind the ear, there is a muscular offset of the facial or seventh cranial nerve. The SUPRAORBITAL NERVE (fi-g. 186), comes from the first trunk of the fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its companion artery. It is placed at first beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles, and here gives offsets to these as well as to the pericranium. In the orbicularis a communication is established between this and the facial nerve. Finally the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches. The inner of these soon pierces the frontalis, and reaches upwards as high as the parietal bone. The outer branch is of larger size, and perforating the muscle higher up, extends over the head as far as the ear. As the nerves escapes from the supraorbital notch it furnishes some paljMbral filaments to the ujsper eyelid At the NERVE (fig. 186), from the same trunk. It ascends to the forehead close to the bone and, piercing the muscular fibres, ends in the integument. Branches are given from it to the orlncularis and corrugator supercilii, and some palpeln-al twigs enter the upper eyelid. The SUPERFICAL TEMPORAL NERVES are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. The TEMPORAL BRANCH OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (second trunk of the fifth) is a slender twig (fig. 186), from the temporo^alar nerve, which j)erforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch. When cuta- neous, the nerve is distributed on the fore part of the temple, and communicates with the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next. The AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE (fig. 186, accompanying d), a branch of the inferior maxillary (third trunk of the fifth), makes its appearance with the temjjoral artery in front of the ear. As soon as it emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches. The posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the integument above the ear. The anterior branch ascends verti- cally to sujjply the skin as far as the upper limit of the temporal fossa. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the fore ])avt of the ear above the auditoiy meatus. The TEMPORAL BRANCHES OF THE FACIAL NERVE are directed upwards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aiioneurosis to the orbicularis palpel)raruni, corrugator supercilii and frontalis muscles : they will be described with the di.sscction of the facial nerve. The POSTERIOR AURICULAR NERVE (lig. 186) Hes behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid i)rocess. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial itCUTANEODS NERA'ES. 50.". coiiiiminicatc's with the great auricular nerve, and divides into occi])ital and auricular branches. The occipital 6ra)!c7i is long and .slender, and ends in the posterior occi]iiiiil branch, Occipital artery. ,. , Posterior auricular V, iiervc>{brai]cli of facial) Great occipital nerve. Facial uerve. .Small occipital nervi\ Great auricular nerve. Frontal artery. Suimiorbital artery. Suiiratriiclilear 7ierve. Supraorbital nerve. Infrati'ochlear nerve Malar 'jrancli of teni- poro-uialar. Temporal branch of temporo-nialar. Na.sal nerve. Infraorbital nerve. Long buccal uerve. .Mental nerve. Fig. 186.—Nkrves and Arteiuks of the Scalp. d. Superficial temporal artery. a. Platysma muscle. /. Posterior auricular artery. b. Trapezius muscle. h. Orbital branch of superficial o. Sterno-mastoid muscle, temporal artei-y. D. Masseter muscle, 14. The superficial cervical nerve. The auriculo-temporal nerve is shown running up with tlio superficial temporal artery [d). helly of the occipito-fronfalis nui.scle. It lie.s close to the lione, enveloped in dense fibrous structure. The a!fm-?(/((,- hranch ascend.s to tlie liack of the ear, supplying an.i ami. the retraheiit nui.scle and tlie small nui.scles on the posterior surface of the pinna.50G DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Great luiri- ciiliir uen e. Great occipi- tal nerve: junctious. Small occi- pital nerve has an anricular branch. How to see temporal fascia. Temporal fascia: attach- ments, relations, and layers. To see tem- poral muscle. Temporal mascle: origin. The GREAT AuniCDLAR NERVE, fi'om the anterior divisions of the second and tliird cervical nerves in the cervical plexus (fig. 186), is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The GREAT OCCIPITAL (fig. 186) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and lies close to the occipital artery. It is the internal branch of the 'posterior primary Ijranch of the second cervical nerve ; it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large offsets; these spread over the posterior part of the head, and terminate in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the traj)ezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nerve; and on th§ back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The SMALL OCCIPITAL NERVE, from the anterior divi.sions of the second and third cervical nerves in the cervical plexus (fig. 186), lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is con- tinued upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side, .viz., the posterior auricular and the great occipital. Usually this nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the pinna on its cranial aspect. Dissection. The upper auricular muscles and the temporal vessels, together with the epicranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, will now be removed in order that the attachment of the temporal fascia on the side of the head may be seen. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, which is stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa on the side of the skull ; and inferioiiy, where it is narrower and thicker, it is fixed to the zygomatic arch. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already examined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. An incision in the fascia, a little above the zygoma, will show it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the edges of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. Between the layers is some fatty tissue, with a small branch of the superficial temporal artery, and a slender twig of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve with an accompanying artery. Dissection. The temporal fascia is now to be detached from the .skull, and to be thrown down to the zygomatic arch, in order that the origin of the underlying temporal muscle may be examined. The soft areolar tissue which lies beneath it neiir the zygoma is to be taken away. The difi'erence in thickness of the parts of the fascia will be evident. The TEMPORAL MUSCLE is laid bare only in part. Wide and thin above, it becomes narrower and thicker below. It arises fiom the temporal fascia, and from the surface of the impres- sion on the side of the skull, which is named the temporal fos.sa. From this origin the fibres descend and converge to a tendon.507 INTEBNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. wlucli IS w.terted mto Uie margins fuul uuht surface! of llie coroiioul msprtmii, jiiofess 01 the iowei'jaw. On tbe ciitaiieous .surface is the temporal fa.scia, witli the parts n'lations. snperticial to that membrane ; and concealed by tlie muscle are the deep temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle will be seen, and its action explained, in the dissection of the ]itery^'oid region. Section II. rNTEllNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Dissection. The skull is now to be opened liy the workers on Dis.sectioii both sides of the head acting jointly, but before .sawing through sJ^jj/J''"'''^^ the bone the dissector should detacli the temporal muscle nearly down to the zygoma ; all the remaining soft parts are to be divided by an incision carried round the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orl)it at the forehead, and about the same di.stance above the protuberance of the occipital bone behind. The cranium is to be sawn in the same line as the incision Precautions through the soft parts, Imt the saw is to cut only through the ti',rou^ii'the outer table of the bone. The student will know when he has reached the diploe by the material on the saw becoming red. The inner table is then to l>e In-oken through with a chisel, in order that the subjacent membrane of the brain (dura mater) may not be injured. The skullcap is next to be forcibly detached by inserting the hooked part of the handle of the chisel between the cut surfaces of bone in front and pulling the shell of bone off backwards. The dura mater will then come into view. The DURA MATER is the mo.st external of the membranes investing Bum mator; the brain. It is a strong, fibroius structure, which serves as an internal periosteum to the bones, and supports the cerebral mass. Its outer surface is rough, and presents, now the bone is separated aprenrnnco from it, numerous small fibrous and vascular processes ; but those sv'irface!^ are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the atl^ich- ment of the dura mater to the bone is more intimate. Ramifying on the exposed part of the membrane are branches of the large meningeal vessels. Small granular masses, Pacchionian bodies, are also seen close to paci-iiicmiaii the middle line. The nund)er of these bodies is very variable ; 'JO'l''-"'^- they are seldom found before the third year, but generally after the seventh, and they increase with age. The .surface of the .skull is frequently indented by those bodies, especially on the back l>art of the jiarietal bone. Dissection. For the purjiose of seeing the interior of the Cut l1irou^!li dura muter, divide this mcmljrane with .scissors clo.se to the margin of the skull, except in the middle line before and behind, where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut mendiraneDISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 508 Inner siu-face and struc- ture. Processes. Falx cerebri: form and attach- ments ; borders; sinuses in it. Superior longitudinal sinus: situation and endin&r; its interior ; veins open- ing into it. is then to be rai.sed on tlio right .side towards the top of the head ; and the veins connecting it with the brain may be broken through. The inner surface of the dura mater is free and sinooth, being sejjarated from the arachnoid (the second of the coverings of the brain) by the cavity known as the subdural space, although tlie two membranes are in the natural condition closely applied to one another. The fibrous tissue of wliich the dura mater is composed is so arranged as to give rise to two strata, an external (or periosteal) which adheres to the bones, and an internal (or meningeal) which is lined by an epithelium similar to that on serous memljrane^. At certain spots these layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri (fig. 187, p. 512) is the median sickle-shaped process of the dura mater, which dips in between the hemispheres of the large brain. Its form and extent will be evident if the right half of the brain is gently separated from it. Narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, it widens beliind, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater named the tentorium cerebelli. Its upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the internal occipital protuberance ; and the lower or free border is concave and turned towards the central portion of the brain (corpus callosum), with which it is in contact interiorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses :—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in the hinder j)art of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium (fig- 187). The SUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS (fig. 187, b) extends from the ethmoid bone in front to the internal occipital protuberance behind. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood through numerous small veins, when i^ressure is made from before backwards with the finger along the median part of the dura inater. Bissection. The sinus is now to be opened by cutting into it from above along the middle line and by detaching the dura from the bone down to the internal occipital protuberance behind. When the sinus is opened it is seen to be narrow in front, and to widen behind, wliere it ends in a dilatation termed the torcular Herophili on one side (more frequently the right) of the internal occipital protul)erance. Its cavity is triangular in form, with the apex of the space turned to the falx ; and across it are stretched .small tendinous cords—chorda; U'illisii—near the openings of some of the cerebral veins. Frequently small Pacchionian bodies project into the sinus. The sinus receives small veins from the substance of the skull and dura mater, and larger ones from the brain ; and tlie bloodllEMdVAL OF TIIK iiUAIN. Hows Ijiirkwards in it. The cerebral veins oiieu cliicliy at tliu posterior part of the ciuial, and they lie I'or some distanee against tlie wall of the sinus hel'ore they perforate the dura mater ; tlieir course is directed i'rom l)ehin<l forwards, so that the current of tlie Idood in them is opposed to that in the sinus : this disposition of the veins may he seen on the left side of tlie brain, wliere the parts are undisturbed. DiRECTIONa. Before the rest of the dura mater can be examined, liireclidiis the brain must be taken from the head. To facilitate its removal, oi bniiii. let tbe head incline backwards, while the shoulders are raised on a block, so that the brain may be separated somewhat from the base of the skull. For the division of the cranial nerves a sharp scalpel will be necessary; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than the other. Removal of the Brain. As a first .step cut acro.ss the anterior Mode of part of the l'al.\ cerel)ri, and the ditferent cerebral veins entering the a,'i°i''paVts"' longitudinal sinus ; raise and throw backwards the fal.x, but leave''"t i" CtiSHlOIl. it uncut behind. Gently lift u]) the frontal lobes and the olfactory bulbs of tlie large brain. Ne,\t cut through the intenial carotid Anterior artery (fig. 189) and (he second and third verves, ■which then n'„n'(«, appear, together with some veins descending from the brain ; the large second nerve is placed on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of tbe artery. The brain is now to be supported in the left band, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife from the hollow in the centre of the .sphenoid lione. A strong horizontal process of the ncNt tliu dura mater (tentorium cerebeUi) then comes into view at the back '' ' of the cranium. Along its free margin lies the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Make an incision through the tentorium on each side, clo.se to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the i)arts underneath : the following nerves, which will be then visible, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth j nerve, consisting of a large and snudl root ; while nearer the median ]ilane is the slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth and somewhat e.xternal to it, are the seventh and eicjhth nerves entering the internal auditory meatus, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly lielow the foregoing are the ninth, tenth and eleventh nerves in one line :—of the.se the ujjper small piece is the ninth or the glo.sso-pharyngeal ; the flat band next below, the tenth or pneumo-gastric ; and the long I'ound nerve ascending from the spinal canal, the eleventh or spinal accessory. The remaining nerve near the median plane is the tvxlfth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as vessels, and they wind round the medulla oblongata. Lastly, cut acro.ss the spinal cord as low as possiide, as well as the roots of the s])inal l.i.stiy, tim nerves that are attached on each side. Then on placing the first two fingers of the right hand in the sjiinal canal, the short upper portion of the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may be510 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. How to lire- serve the briiiii. Examiiia- tiou of it. Directions. Dura mater in base of skuU : it.s prolonga- tions, and connec- tions to bone. Tentorium corebelli: taken readily from the skull in tlie two hand.s. In doing thi.s eonie large veins, passing from the hinder part of the cerebral hemisiihore to the attached margin of the tentorium, will be broken through, as well as small ones from the portions of the brain in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. Preservation of the brain. After removing some of the mem- branes from the upper part, and making a few apertures through them on the under surface so that the liquid may have free access, the brain may be hardened by immersion in a 5 per cent, solution of formalin in water. Wrap the brain up in a piece of calico, and then place it upside down in a suitable vessel, on the bottom of which some cotton-wool or tow has been spread, and let it be quite covered with the liquid, and insert a little tow or cotton wool between the cerebellum and the occipital lobes. Examination of the brain. At the end of two or three days the dissectors should e.xamine the other membranes of the brain and the vessels as described in Section 1 of The Brain. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefuUj' removed Irom the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves at the under surface. The brain may then remain in the preservative liquid till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed, but it should be turned over occasionallj' to allow the fluid to penetrate its substance, and a little extra formalin added from time to time as fully directed in the Section referred to. Directions. After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. For this purpose raise the head to a convenient height, and fasten the tentorium in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be fni-nished with the base of a dried skull wliile studying the following parts. Dura mater. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Here it follows the different inequalities of the osseous surfaces and sends processes through the several foramma, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination in front, the membrane will be found to send a prolongation into the foramen crecum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure it joins the peri- osteum of the orbit; and through the optic foramen a sheath is continued on the optic nerve to the eyeball. Tn the sella turcica the dura mater forms n recess which lodges the pituitary body, and behind the dorsum sellte it adheres closely to the basilar process of the occipital bone. From the latter part it may be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very firmly united. The tentm-ium cercbdli is the process of the dura mater which is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the smallVENOUS SINUSES OF CRANIUM. hraiu (cereliulhim) and the posterior part of the large liraiii (cere- bniiu). Its upper .surface i.s rai.?ed along the middle, whore it is joined smmce.s, liy the falx cerebri, and is sloped laterally for the support of the back jiart of the cerebral henusplieres. Its under .surface rests on the small brain, and is joined by the falx cerebelli. The anterior concave margin is free, except at the ends where it clse-s, is fixed by a narrow slip to e;ich anterior clinoid proce.ss. The posterior or convex e{lge is connected to the following bones:— the occijtital (transverse groove), the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the petrous portion of the tempoi-al (upper border), and the posterior clinoid proce.s.s of the sjihenoid. Along the centre of the tentorium is the straiglit sinu.s ; and in and tlie ° , 1 , T • 1 • Sinuses in it. the attixched eilge are the lateral and supermr petrosal sinuses on each side. The falx cerebelli has a corresponding position Ixdow the ten- Fuix torium to the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller *' than the falx of the cerebrum, and will appear on detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is adherent to the internal occipital crest, and projects between the hemi,si)heres of the small brain. Its base is directed to the tentorium ; and the contains apex reaches the foramen magnum, on each side of which it gives si'iuis.''^"' a small slip. In it is contained the occipital sinus. The SINDSES are channels for venous blood between the layers of Sinuses of the dura mater. They are arranged in two groups, the one com- prising the sinu.ses that converge towards the internal occipital protuberance, while the other is formed by the cavernous sinu.ses on the sides of the body of the sphenoid boue and the canals opening into these. A. The superior longitudinal sinus has been described at p. 508. Superior The INFERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS (Hg. 187, c) resembles a small vein, and is contained in the lower border of the I'alx cereljri at g'^,',],"!.,'""' the posterior i)art. It recei\^es blood from the falx and the large brain, and ends in the straight sinus (rf) at the edge of the tentorium. The STRAIGHT SINUS (fig. 187, d) lies along the junction of the stmiylit falx with the tentorium, extending from the ternunation of the preceding sinus to the internal occipital protuberance, where it is continued into one of the lateral sinuses, generally the left. Its form is triangular, like the superior longitudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinits, the veins of Galen (which will be seen to be cut or torn oH'short) from the interior of the cerebral hemispheres, and .some small veins from the uj)per surface of tlie cerebellum. The OCCIPITAL SINUS (fig. 187, y) is a small canal in the falx Occipitni cerebelli, which reaches from the torcular Herophili to the foramen magnum and collects the blood from the lower occipital fossEC. This sinus may be double. The LATERAL SINUSES, right and left, are the channels liy which Lateral most of the blood passes from the skull. Each extends from the = internal occipital protuljerance, along the winding groove on the512 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. occipital, parietal and temporal Loues, to the jugular foramen, oift'v""™ it ends in the internal jugular vein. The siuiLS of the right sU\aH° siilti is generally larger than the left, and Legins at the torcular Herophili behind, forming, usually, the continuation of the superior longitudinal sinns. The left lateral sinus is mainly prolonged from the ending of the straight sinus, but it is also joined by a branch from the lower end of the superior longitudinal sinus, which crosses obliquely in front of the occipital protuberance. In .some cases this arrangement is reversed, so that the torcular Herophili and the larger lateral sinus are placed on the left side; and occasionally the torcular Herophili forms a common place of the meeting (confluence) of the superior longitudinal, the straight and the two lateral sinuses. and tribii- The lateral sinus is joined by some cerebral and cerebellar ^•einf=. tanes. ' a. Torcular Herophili. b. Superior, c. Inferior longi- tudinal sinus. d. Straight sinus. e. Lateral sinus. g. Occipital sinus. /. Superior, and h. Inferior petrosal sinus. and, opposite the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, by the superior petrosal sinus. It communicates with the occipital veins through the mastoid foramen, and often with the deep veins of the neck through the posterior condylar foramen. Subdivision The jugular foramen is divided into three compartments by j'nt'iiar fibrous bands. Through the posterior opening the lateral sinus foramen. passes; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus: and through the central one the ninth, tenth, and ele\'enth nerves. Dissection. Lissection. The dissectors should first examine the cavernous sinus on the left side. Cut through the dura mater by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone from the anterior to the posterior clinoid proce.ss, and internal to the position of the third nerve ; behind the clinoid proces.s, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By513 CAVERNOUS SINUS. tV NERVE OPHTH. NEHVE eup. MAX. NERVE placing the liantlle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe or a l)low-}iipe will be required, in order that it may be passed into the different sinuses joining the cavernous centre, and these should then l)u opened up. B. The CAVERNOUS sinus, which has been so named from the CavemouH reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of tiie body of the sphenoid lione. This space, resulting from the separation of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The layer of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of Ims nerves some thickness, and contains in its suljstauce the third and fourth w„ii""^' nerves, with the ophthalmic and superior maxillary trunks of the fil'th nerve : these lie in the order given from above downwards. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and is contnina traversed by a network of slender fibrous cords. Through the ™™^y and space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by "ei've ; the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve running forwards on the outer side of the vessel; but all " ' ^""^ these are bound to the outer wall of the sinus, and sej^arated from int. car. art.' the blood in the space by a thin nerve' lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic veins from the 188.—Transveksio Section op tnbntaries 1 .. 1 , . 1 , THE Caveunous Sinus (aftek orbit through the sphenoidal Langer). muiiica- fissure, and some inferior cerebral veins. It communicates with its fellow of the opposite side by the intercavernous sinuses, and with the pterygoid plexus outside the skull through the foramen ovale and the foramen lacerum. The blood leaves the chamber by the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. The INTERCAVERNOUS SINUSES are two vessels wdlich pass trans- Intercavem- versely in the sella turcica between the right and left cavernous "ireuTar sinuses, being placed one in front of, and the other behind the ■'>inus. pituitary body. To the venous ring thus formed around the pituitary body the name of Circidai- sinus has been given. The SUPERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 187,/) lies in a groove in the Superior upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends i"^''™'*'''- between the cavernous and lateral sinuses. Small veins from the cerebellum are received into it. The INFERIOR PETROSAL siNu.s (fig. 187, h) is larger than the i„renor superior, and lies in a gi'oove along the line of junction of the i"'''"™"'- l)etrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by small veins from the cerebellum, and one from the internal ear. This sinus passes through the anterior cumpartinent of the jugular foramen, and ends in the interna] jugular vein.DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 514 Basilar plexus. Arteries of dura mater are:— Anterior meningeal. Middle meningeal. Large from internal maxillary gives brniiches to dura mater and bone. Small meningeal. One from ascending pharyngeal. Posterior meningeal. Nerves of dura inator. Cranial nerve.9 in the base of the skull: The BASILAR BINDS Or PLEXUS i.9 a venous network in the sul)- stance of the dura mater over the hasilar process of tlie occipital bone, uniting the inferior petrosal sinu.ses. Meningeal Arteries. These arteries supplying the cranium and the dura mater come through the base of the skull ; they are named from their situation in the three fossae, anterior, middle, and posterior. The ANTERIOR MENINGEAL are small branches of the anterior ethmoidal artery, which enters the skull bj' the anterior internal orbital canal. Its meningeal branches are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The MIDDLE MENINGEAL ARTERIES are three in number : two of them, named large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary trunk ; and the third is an ofl'set of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal artery (often simply called the middle meningeal artery) from the internal maxillary appears through the foramen sjjinosum of the sphenoid bone, and divides into two princijjal briinches. The larger of these passes to the deep groove on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and ends in ramifications wliich extend upwards to the top of the head and forwards over the frontal bone. The posterior branch is dis- tributed over the hinder part of the parietal and the upper part of the occipital bones. Two veins acconipanj' this artery. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, it furnishes branches to the dura mater and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One small oSs^i,'petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the surrounding bone. One or two branches pass through the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit, and anastomose with the oishthalmic artery. 6. The small meningeal branch is an oft'set of the large one outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meniiigeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery comes througli the foramen laceruni (liasis ci-anii). This is seldom injected, and is not often visible. The POSTERIOR MENINGEAL ARTERIES are Small twigs of the ascending pharyngeal which enter the skull by the anterior condylar and jugular foramina, and supply the dura mater in that neighbour- hood ; also a branch of the vertebral artery is distributed over the lower part of the occipital bone. The branch coming through the jugular foramen is .sometimes derived from the occipital artery. Meningeal Nerves. Offsets to the dura mater are derived from the fifth, tenth and twelfth cranial nerves, and from the sympathetic. Cranial Nerves (fig. 189, p. 515). As the cranial nerves pa.ss through their apertures in the base of the .skull they are invested by proce.sses of the membranes of the brain, which are thus dispo.sed : —those of the dura mater and pia mater are continued into the sheath of the nerve ; while that of the arachnoid, except iu the fr 1^ <t TiTNERVES IK 3ASE OF SKULL. 616 case of the second nerve, terniincates as the nerve enters the dura mater. Some of the nerves in the middle fossa of tlie skull pierce the dura mater before tliey reach the foramina of e.xit. The nerves are arranged in twelve pairs, whicli are enumerated fi'om before backwards in the order in which they perforate the dura mater. Only part of the intracranial course of each nerve will be .seen at this only partly stage ; the rest will be learnt in the dis.section of the liase of the brain. Fio. 189.—Cranial Nerves in the Base of the Skull. On the left SIDE THE Dora Mater has been ke.moved prom the Middle Fossa TO SHOW THE NerVES IN THE WaLL OF THE CAVERNOUS SlNUS, THE bASSERiAN Ganglion, and the three Trunks of the Fifth Nerve. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Secoiul to si.Kth nerves. 7. Facial ami auditory. 8. (Jlosso-pharyngeal, vagus and spinal accessory. 9. Hypoglossal. On tlie riglit siile tlie dura ujater i.s untouched. t Offset to the tcutoriuni from the oplithalmic nerve. small Olfiictory nc'r\'i!s did in the noae. The FIRST or OLFACTORY NERVii.s are about twenty filaments which arise from the olfactory bulb of the brain It lies m the groove at the side of the crista galli, and descend to the nose through the foramina in the cribriform i.late of the ethmoid Ijone. The SECOND or OPTIC NERVE (fig. 189, 2), diverging to the eyeball ««<-on,l from Its commLssure, enters the orbit through the optic foramen, "o the'Jvr'" It IS accompanied by the ophthalmic artery ^616 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. llia.snctlon of tliiril iiiiU fuiifDi uorvcs ; of fifth nerve. Third nerve passes to orbit. Fourtli nerve in tlie wall of sinus. Fifth nerve has two roots. Large root, Cavum Meclcelii, and Gasse- rian gang- lion on it; gives three brandies. Dissection. The third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve, lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; and to see them, it will he necessary to trace them through the dura mater towards the orhit. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, as in fig. 189, taking away the dura mater from them, and from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which lies on the fore part of the petrons portion of the temporal bone. From the front of the ganglion arise two other large trunks beside the ophthalmic, viz., superior and inferior maxillary, and these should also be traced to their apertures of exit from the skull. If the dura mater is removed entirely from the bone near the nerves a better view will be obtained. Some of the nerves may have been injured by the previous opening of the left cavernous sinus, and if that be so, the dissectors should jointly examine the right side. The THIRD or oculomotor nerve (fig. 189, ^) is destined for the muscles of the orbit. It enters the wall of the cavernous sinus near the anterior clinoid process, and is placed at first above the other nerves ; but when it is about to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, it sinks below the fourth and part of the fifth, and divides into two branches. Near the orbit the nerve is joined by one or two delicate filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. The FOURTH or trochlear nerve (fig. 189,") courses forwards to one muscle in the orbit. It is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and pierces the dura mater at the free edge of the tentorium, close behind the posterior clinoid process. In the wall of the sinus it lies below the third; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it rises higher than all the other nerves. While in the wall of the sinus the fourth nerve is joined by twdgs of the sympathetic. Fifth or trifacial nerve (fig. 189, Tlds nerve is distributed to the face and head, and consists of two parts or roots—a large or sensory, and a small or motor. The large root of the nerve passes through an apertvu'e in the dura mater into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, where it immediately enters the Gasserian ganglion. The hollow wherein the ganglion is lodged is known as the Cavum Meckelii. The Gasserian ganglion, placed in a depression close to the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone, is flattened, and about half an inch wide. The upper suriace of the ganglion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semilunar elevation, the convexity of which looks forward. Some lilaments from the plexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the three following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and highest, is destined for the orbit and foreliead. Next in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the fornnien rotundum,517 CRANIAL NERVES. and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary nerve, passes through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. The small root of the fifth nerve, lying in the same tube of the smnii root, duni mater as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion without communicating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion: if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion which are unconnected with the Difference in small or motor root, viz., the ophthalmic and superior ma.villary, yle roots'^ are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior nuixillary, which is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. It will moreover be subsequently seen that the fibres of the motor root are almost entirely confined to that part of the inferior maxillary nerve which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw, and that the larger branches of the nerve are wholly sensory in function. The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks which Ophthalinic needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is OTbit";"" continued through the sj)henoidal fissure and the orbit to the fore- head. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Near the orbit it divides into three branches, frontal, naxal, and lachrijmal. In this situation it is joined Ijy filaments of the cavernous plexus supplies of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (fig. 189, t) inits course, to the tentorium cerebelli. The SIXTH or abducent nerve (fig. 189, ") enters the orbit Sixth nerve through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone in the wall of the inferior petrosal sinus, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, to gain the outer wall with the other nerves. In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of joins sym- the carotid artery ; and it is joined Ijy one or two large branches ■'"'■hetio. of the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. The SEVENTH or facial and the eighth or auditory nerves Seventh and (fig. 189,7) pass togetlier into the internal auditory meatus, the J;!*;.'^^',' facial being the smaller and higher of the two. At the bottom of skull to- the meatus they separate ; the facial nerve courses through the S'*"""'- aqueduct of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. The ninth or glosso-pharyngeal, the tenth, pneumo-gastric Ninth, or VAGUS, and the eleventh or spinal accessory nerves (fig. 189,8) p;i.ss through the middle compartment of the jugular Ibramen. nerves pass The glosso-pharyngeal is external to the other two, aiul has a distinct opening in the dura mater. The spinal accessory nerve foramen, ascends through the foramen magnum and, together with the vagus, enters an aperture in the dura mater close to the occipital bone. The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve (fig. 189, ") is the motor Twelfth ner\'e of the tongue, and consists of two small pieces, which pierce IS in cavern- ous sinus;DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 518 Dissection of carotid ; of sym- pHtlietic plexuses, cavernous and carotid. Internal carotid artery winds through cavernous Branches. Sjnipathetic forms carotid plexus, cavernous plexus. union with cranial nerves. Distribu- tion. Two .super- ficial petro- sal nor\'es. the dura mater separately opposite tlie anterior condylar foramen ; tlie.se unite at tlie enter part of that aperture. Dissection. The di.ssector should now turn to the examina- tion of the trunk of the carotid artery a.s it winds through the cavernous sinus. An attempt .should be made to find two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery, though in a well-injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. One of tiiese (cavernous) is near the root of the anterior clinoid process ; and to bring it into view it will be necessary to cut off that piece of bone, and to dissect out with cai'e the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between them and the plexus. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth nerves, surrounds the artery as it enters the .sinus. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY appears in the cranium at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In tliis part of its course the vessel lies between the layers of the dura mater boimd- ing the cavernous sinus along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two bends so as to have the form of the letter S reclined. It first ascends in the inner part of the foramen lacerum, and then runs forward to the root of the anterior clinoid process ; finally it turns upwards in the groove on the inner side of this pro- cess, perforates the dura mater forming the roof of the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympa- thetic in the neck. The branches of the artery here are some small twigs (arteriae receptaculi) for the supply of the dura mater and tlie bone, the nerves and the pituitary body, and, opposite the anterior clinoid process, the ophthalmic artery. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dis- section of the base of the brain. Sympathetic Nerve. Accompanying the carotid artery is a prolongation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which forms the following plexuses :— The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is mainly derived from that ofl"set of the upper cervical ganglion which courses along tlie inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourtli, and ophtlialmic nerves. One filament is also furni.shed to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either separately from, or in conjunction with the nasid nerve. After forming lhe.se plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are continued on the cerebral and ophthalmic branches' of that vessel. Petrosal nerves. Beneath the Ga.sserian ganglion is the large superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 240, p. 678) entering the hiatusDEEP DISSECTION OF THE liAf'K. .-•,19 Fiillopii to join the fiicial nevve. Exli'nial to this is sometimes seen the small siiperjicial petrosal nerve (lig. 240, ■'), but this is I'requently coucealed in the subslance of the temporal lione. The souiTi' ami destination of these small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will sutKce now for the student to notice their position, and t(i see tliat they are ke])t moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. When tlie study of the base of the skull has been Dlrcciiuns com])leted a preservative fluid sliould be applied, and the flaps j°g'partsr of skin should be stitched together over all. Section III. DEE I' DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Directions. During the first two days that the liody is placed on Directions, its face the di.s.sector of the head and neck should be careful not to let his work interfere with that of the worker on the upper limb, whose duty it is in this time to dis.sect the superficial structures Iielow the level of the seventh cervical spine, and to study and refiect the first two layers of the muscles of the back, and to examine the related structures as described in pages I to 10. The dissector of the abdomen also should have the opportunity of examining the arrangement of the fascia hunborum wlien it is disi)layed on the third day. Position. Tlie body lies with the face downwards; and the Position of trunk is to l)e raised by blocks beneath the chest and the pelvis, .so that the limbs may hang over the end and sides of the di.s.secting table. To make tense the ni^ck, the head is to l)e depressed and fastened with hooks. In this region there are six successive layers of muscles, amongst sti-at«in which ves.sels and nerves are inters]>ersed. The student should go over again the surface anatomy of the liack, as described on l)age 2. Dissection. Make an incision along the middle line of the To raise tho neck from the external occipital protuberance to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, and reflect the skin outwards as far as the mastoid process above and as far as the outer border of the acromion below. On tlieyir.s-t day the cutaneous branches of the posterior divisions Clean of the cervical nerves should be di.splayed, the trapezius muscle ,*;™J'",'j!rves cleaned in the neck, and the small occipital nerve traced down from the scalp in its tube of fascia along the posterior liorder of tlie stenio-mastoid muscle. To find tlie nerves in the cervical region, look near the middle line, from tlie 3rd t(^ the Gth vertebra, trace an offset from the third nerve upwards to the head, and follow the great occiiiital nerve down from the scalp tu its emergence from the miuscles.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 520 Cutaneous nerves liow derived. In the nouk Second and tliii'd nerves. The trape- zius. Dissection. Divide trapezius. Clean spinal accessory nerve and parts in poslerior triangle. Lignmentum nuchiE. Cutaneous Nerves. The tegumentary nerves of the back are derived from the posterior primary hraiiches of the spinal iierve.s, whiuli divide amongst the deep muscles into two pieces, inner and outer. Arteries accompany the greater nuniljer of the nerves, bifurcate like them, and furnish cutaneous offsets. Cervical nerves (fig. 2, p. 4). In the neck the nerves are derived from the ijiner of the two branches into which the posterior trunks divide: they perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the head. They are four in number, and come from the second, third, fourth, and fifth nerves. The hranch of the second nerve is named great occipital, and accompanies the occipital artery to the back of the head, where it has already been seen (p. 506). The hranch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transveree offset to the neck, and then ascends to the lower jjart of the head, where it is distiibuted near the middle line, internal to the great occipital nerve, with which it usually communicates. The position and attachments of the trapezius in the neck should be carefully made out and the student may read the description of the muscles on pages 4 to 6. Bissectioil. On the second day the trajjezius and latissimus dorsi muscles are divided longitudinally and the parts thrown outwards and inwards. The trapezius is divided about two inches from the middle line, but before dividing it the student should make out the spinal accessory nerve in the posterior triangle of the neck as it passes downwards and outwards to the imder surface of the muscle ; the nerve being looked for at the posterior border of the steruo-nia.stoid about the junction of the ttjjper with its middle third. Parallel with, but below, the spinal accessory, and comnjunicating with it beneath the trapezius, will be found branches of the third and fotirth cervical nerves. The branches of the siqierficial cervical artery to the under surface of the trapezius will also be cleaned and after the reflection of the inner part of the muscle the dissector should clean the splcnixts, and the upper part of the levator anguli scapulas, and define the things beneath the clavicle, viz., the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid mu!3cle (fig. 210, p. 576) with the suprascapular nerve and vessels, as well as the transverse cervical vessels, and the small nerves to the levator anguli scapulas and rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached along the middle line, the ligamentum nuchas, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. The ligamentum nuch.e is a narrow fibrous band which extends from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipit^il protuberance. From its deep surface a thin layer of fibres, which forms a median partition l>etweeii the muscles of the two sides of the neck, is sent forwards to be attached to the external occipital crest and to the other cervical spines. Dissection. On Ihe third day after the latissimus dorsi has been divided, the dissector of the head and neck is to examine the521 THE FASCIA LUMBORUM. luiiihar fascia between the last rib and tlie liip lionc, in i oni]inny witii the workei' on tlie alKh)ineii. In the region referred to ai'e portions of tlie extcn-iial and internal iii'IIiki oblique muscles in the wall of the abdomen. Define the ])osterior oL,ijiJii'„' border of the external oblique (fig. 98, p. 265). Internal to this the aponeurosis of the transver.salis muscle (iascia hunboruni, p. 272) apjieans, and perforating it are two nerves : one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib ; and the other, the iliodiypogastric, with its vessels close to the iliac crest. Three layers of the fascia lumborum are to be demonstrated, to siiow jiassing from the aponeurosis of the transversalis to tlie s])iiial column. The superficial layer is already exjiosed, being fornu^d postiTior, maiidy by the aponeurosis of the lati.ssinnis dorsi. To .see the middle layer, which pa.sses beneath the erector spinre to tlie trans- verse proces.se.s, the first layer is to l>e divided, with the attached portion of the latissimus dorsi, by a horizontal incision carried outwards from the third lumbar spine. On raising the outer middle, border of the erector spinoo muscle, which comes into view, the .strong middle process of the fa.scia will be apparent. After cutting in the same way through this prolongation, another .mil nnterior. muscle, the quadratus lumborum, will be seen ; and, on raising its outer border, the thin deepest layer of the fjiscia will be evident on the al)doniinal aspect of that muscle. The FASCIA LUMBORUM or LUMBAR APONEUROSIS OCCUpieS the Lumlwr interval lietween the last rib and the iliac crest, and extends inwards to the spine. It is formed mainly by the posterior tendon u'-msvLsaTis of the transver.sjilis mu.scle of the abdominal wall (fig. 101, c, ti'"'loii, ]i. 271), but its superficial part receives im]]ortaiit accessions from two of the muscles of the back. If the tendon of the transversalis be followed inwards, it will lie found to divide at the outer edge of the (piadratus lumborum into two layers, which enca.se that muscle ; and the ])osterior of these again splits, oi' gives off a superficial proces.s, at the outer margin of the erector sjiinte. There are thus in the lumbar aponeurosis three layers of membrane, consist.s of forming with the vertebrae two sheiiths, the one of which encloses = the quadratus lumborum, and the other the multifidus and erector spinaj muscles. The anterior layer is thin, and passes on the abdominal surface anterior, of the quadratus lumborum to be fixed to the front of the tran.s- verse proce.s.ses of the lumbar vertebr83 near their tips. The middle layer is the direct continuation of tlie transver.salis and middia tendon, and lies between the quadivitus lumborum and the erector spinas muscles; it is fixed to the extremities of the transverse Ijrocesse.s ; processes. The posterior or superficial layer is the thickest, and is al-taclied posterior to internally to the spines of the lumbar vertebroe. In this layer are processes, united the ajiououroses of the lati.ssinnis dorsi and .serratns posticus inferior muscles, with only a small offset of the tendon of the transversalis. Directions. The structures in the floor of the posterior triungle322 DISSECTION OF THE BACK and the contents of the .spinal canal as set forth in Section IV. Levator aiiguli scai'ulic. Posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. Supra- scapular artery: course to shouldei'. Supra- scapular nerve. Transverse cervical artery divides into superficial cervical and posterior scapular. Accompany- ing veins. Nerve of rhomboid muscles. will be only incompletely displayed at present, liut the following points are to lie made out (fig. 210, p. 576). 1. The levator anguli scapulm arises hy four separate .slips from the pcsterior tubercles of the tran.sverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebrae, and in the case of the upper three .slip.s, they will be found to be attached immediately in front of tho.se of the splenius colli muscle. 2. The 'posterior belly of the omo-hyoid pa.sses from the upper border of the scapula behind the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a foramen, and forms a thin, riband like muscle, which is directed forwards from benetith the trapezius across the lower part of the neck, over the brachial plexus and the suprascapular nerve, to the under surface of the sterno-mastoid, where it ends in the intermediate tendon. The SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY, a branch of the subclavian, is directed outwards through the lower part of the neck to the upper border of the scapula. It nms behind the clavicle, and crosses the suprascapular ligament in front of the omo-hyoid muscle, to enter the supraspinous fossa. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE is an offset of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves in the brachial plexus and inclines downwards beneath the omo-hyoid muscle to the notch in the upper border of the scapula, through which it passes into the supraspinous fossa. The TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY, also a branch of the sub- clavian, has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards the upper angle of the scapula, but it is higher than the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the sub-clavian artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and di\ades into superficial cervical and posterior scapular branches. a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes oflfsets to the levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. h. The posterior scap^ilar branch crosses under the levator anguli scapuloe, and descends along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles (p. 9). This bi-anch arises very frequently from the third part of the subclavian trunk. The suprascapular and transverse cervical veins have the same course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender oftset of the fifth cervical nerve in the brachial plexus courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhom- boidei on their deep surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. Dissection. On the third day the rhomboid muscles will have been relhicled and the part will be free to the dis.sector of the head and neck for two days, during which time he will examine the rest of the parts described in this Section, as well as the spinal cord523 SERBATI POSTTCI MUSCLES. SeiTati are two in number. nio upper the smaller; After removing the loose areolar tissue beneath the rhomboids the thin serralus posticus superior muscle will be laid bare. The seiratus posticus inferior has Ijeen already displayed by the reflection of the latissinius dorsi. The muscles of the third layer are the two serrati muscles. They are very thin, and receive their name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. Their origin from the spines of the vertebrae is aponeurotic. The SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR (fig. 190, a) arises from the ligamen- tum nuchse, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical, and upper two or three dorsal vertebrcB, with the .supra- spinous ligament. The fleshy fibres are inclined downwards and outwards, and are inserted by slij^s into four ribs, from the second to the fifth, e.xter- nal to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is covered by the rhom- boidei, except at its upper border. The SERRATUS POSTI- CUS INFERIOR (fig. 3, G, p. 5) is wider than the preceding muscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and with the fascia luniborum, and is con- nected to the spinous processes of the last tw.o dorsal and upper two or three lumbar vertebrse. The fleshy fibres ascend somewhat to be inserted into the last four ribs outside their insertion; angles, each succe-ssive piece extending further forwards than the one below. This muscle lies on the ma.ss of the erector spinsB; and with relations, the upper border of its tendon the vertebral aponeurosis is united. Action. Both serrati are ins])iratory muscles. The upper one raises the ribs into which it is inserted ; while the lower one draws attach- ments ; relations. FiQ. 190.—Part of the Third and Fourth Layers of the Muscles of the Back. origni; A. Serratus posticus superior. B. Splenitis capitis, c. Splenius colli. D. Continuation of the ilio-costalis. E. Longissimus dorsi. F. Spinalis ilorsi. Use of serrati.52i DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Vertebral aponeu- rosis : nttacli- ments; continua- tion below, and above. Muscles of fourth layer. Dissection. Splenius has two parts : one to the neck; the other to the head ; relations. Use of splenius capitis, splenius colli. Divide splenius, nnil souk nerves. backwards the lower rihs, and prevents their being carried upwards by the contraction of the diiij)hra}^ni. The VERTEBRAL APONEDRosis i.s a thin fascia which covers the fourth layer of muscles in the thoracic region. Internally it is attached to the spinous processes of the vertebrse. Externally it is fi.xed to the angles of the ribs ; and in tlie inter\'als between the bones it joins the layer of connective tissue covering the interco.stal muscles. It is continuous below with the tendon of the serratus posticus inferior, and through this with the superficial layer of the fascia luniborum ; but above, it passes beneath the upper serratUs, and blends with the deep intermuscular fascia of the neck. The strongest fibres of the membrane are directed transversely. Fourth Layer op Mdscles. This comprises the splenius muscle and the erector spiiiaj, with its divisions and accessory muscles to the neck. Dissection. The upper serratus is to be cut through, the vertebral aponeurosis taken away, and the part of the splenius muscle imder the serratus cleaned. In turning outwards the fleshy part of the serratus, slender twigs of the intercostal nerves, which j)erforate the external intercostal muscle accompanied by small arteries, may be found entering its sUps. The splenius muscle (fig. 190) is flat and elongated. Single at its origin, it is divided into two parts, one passing to the head—splenius capitis, and the other to the neck—splenius colli. It arises from the upper six dorsal and the seventh cervical spines, and from the ligamentum nucha3 as high as the third cervical vertebra. The fibres are directed upwards and outwards to their insertion. The splenius colli (c marked low down on the left side of the figure) is inserted by tendinous slips into the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the ujiper two or three cervical vertebrae with, but behind, the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula. The siJlenius capitis (b), much the larger, is inserted into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, and into the outer thii-d of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the skull is beneath the sterno-mastoid. The complexus muscle appears above the upper border of the splenius capitis. The splenius represents the pro- longation to the upper cervical vertebrae and head of the outer j)ortion of the erector spinte. Action. The cranial parts of tlie muscles of the two sides will carry the head directly back ; and one will incline and rotate the head to the same side. The splenius colli of Ijoth sides will bend back the upper cervical vertebra ; but one mu.scle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. Dissection (fig. 191, p. 527). The splenius is to be detached from the spinous processes, and thrown outwards. In doing this,525 PARTS OF THE ERECTOR SPIN^E. small branches from the external divisions of the posterior cervical nerves to the pieces of the muscle are to be looked for. As the ERECTOR SPiNiE is displayed in the dorsal and lumbar J)ef\un off- . . . 1 -1 i i 1 sota from regions, two prolongations from it to tlie cervical vertebra) ana mo erector the head are to be defined :—One, a thin narrow muscle, tlie cervi- calis ascendms, is continued beyond tlie ribs from tlie outer piece of the erector (ilio-costalis), ami is to be separated from the muscles around. The other is a larger ofiset of the inner piece {longissimus dorsi) of the erector muscle ; single at first where it is united with the fibres of the longissimus, it is divided afterwards, like the splenius, into a cranial part (traclielo-mastoid) and a cervical part (traiisversalis colli). The serratus inferior is to be detached from the spines and thrown outwards, when fine nerves will be found entering it like spinie those to the upper muscle. The superficial layer of the fascia lumborum is also to be removed, and the areolar tissue is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spinffi which now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is an inter- muscular interval, which divides the erector spinre into an outer piece (ilio-costalis), and an inner (longissimus dorsi). By sinking lUo- the knife into this interval the ilio-costalis may be turned out- wards, and the longitudinal column of muscle forming the outer j)art of the erector spinm will be defined. Its parts are named, from below upwards— 1. The Ilio-costalis. 2. The Musculus aecessorius. 3. The Cervicalis ascendens. The ilio-costalis is a thick mass below, passing on to the lower ribs, and as it is turned outwards the fleshy slips of the aecessorius will be uncovered, as tliey are attached to the angles of the ribs, and from this part its prolongation into the neck as the cervicalis ascendens can be readily made out. In preparing the ilio-costalis Vessel.s and muscle, the e.xternal branches of the dorsal nerves with their accomjianying arteries will appear. The attacliments of the longissimus dorsi and its prolongation f,ongissimus upwards as the inner longitudinal column of the erector spinm are • then to be traced out. The parts of this column are named, from below upwards— 1. The Longissimus dorsi. 2. The Transveraalis colli. 3. The Trachelo-mastoid. Externally the longissimus has thin muscular slips of insertion outer into about the lower nine ribs, and thicker processes passing to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras; the latter may be shown by raising the outer border of the muscle, and clearing away the fat between it and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum. Internally the longissimus is inserted into the transverse ])rocesses of the dorsal, and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebras by and inner rounded tendons ; and to see these it will be necessary to detach a '"""'''■'''ns; thiu tendinous and muscular portion of the erector mass (spinalis spinalis ^ dorsi;526 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. offsets to tlio neck. Vessels and nerves. Erector spinie is single below, divided above; superficial tendon; origin. Ilio- costalis: insertion. Acces- sorius: origin; insertion. Cervicalis ascendens: origin; insertion. Longissimus dorsi: double insertion ; is continued to neck by trnnsver- salis colli, dorsi) from the inner side of the longissimus, and to divide longi- tudinally the part of the tliick aponeuro.si.s springing from the lumbar spines, so as to separate the erector from tlie suhjacent nailtitidu.s spinsD. From the longi.ssimus, a.s from the ilio-costalis, a fleshy piece (transversalis colli and trachelo-mastoid) is continued into tlie neck. Between the longissimus and the multifidus spintB are the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal and lumbar nerves, with oflsets of the intercostal and lumbar vessels. Erector Spin^e. This is the muscular mass on tlie side of the spine, extending from the lower part of the sacrum to the head. It is single and pointed below, attains its greatest size in the loins, and over the thorax becomes divided into secondarj- portions to which the special names are given. Its prolongations to the neck and head are very slender. On its posterior surface, in the lumbar and sacral regions, is a strong flat tendon of origin, from which most of the flesliy filn-es spring. The muscle arises internally Irom the lower two or three dorsal, and all the lumbar and sacral spines ; externally from the posterior fifth of the iliac crest at the inner aspect ; and inferioily from the lower part of the back of the sacrum. Below the last rib it divides into the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi; and in the thoracic region the spinalis dorsi is given ofi' from the inner side of the latter part. The ILIO-COSTALIS or sacro-lumbalis is derived from the outer and superficial part of the common mass of the erector in the loins. Its fibres end in six or seven tendons, which are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ril)s. It is continued to the upper ribs and the neck by the two following muscles— The ACCESSORIDS (musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem ; fig. 190, d) arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy slips from the angles of the lower six ribs internal to the insertion of the ilio- costalis ; and it ends in tendons which are inserted into the remain ing ribs in a line with the ilio-costalis, and into the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The CERVICALIS ASCENDENS is a muscular slip prolonging the accessorius into the neck ; it arises from fom- ribs, viz., the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the sixth, fifth, and fourth cervical vertebrlB. The LONGISSIMUS DORSI is the largest of the pieces resulting from the division of the erector spinee, and has two sets of insertions into the vertebrje and riljs. Internally it gives off a series of fleshy and tendinous bundles to the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrse, and the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae : externally it is attached by thick fleshy slips to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrte, and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum, and by thin flattened processes t« the ribs, except the fir.sttwo or three, between tlie tuberosity and angle. Its muscular ]jrolongation to the neck is united with the uijper fleshy fibre.s, and splits into the two following pieces :— The TRANSVERSALIS COLLI (fig. 191, b) arises from the transverseTRACHBLO-MASTOID MUSCLE. 627 processes of the xipper dorsal vertebrce (from four to six), and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse jprocesses of the cervical vertebrDe except the first and the last. The TRACHELO-MASTOiD MUSCLE (transversalis capitis ; fig. 191, and to head c) arises in common with the preceding, and receives additional mastoid!"'"' slips from the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical Fia. 191.—Dissection of the Mdsoles beneath the Splenius. A. Loiigissimus clonsi. B. Traiisversalis colli, c. Trachelo-mastoid. D. Complexiis. F. Splenius capitis, cut. a. Splenius colli, cut. H. Semispinalis dorsi. a. Occi|jital artery. I. Great occipital nerve. 2. External branch of the second nerve. 3. Outer branch of the third nerve. vertebrae. It is inserted beneath the .splenius capitis into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, where it is about three quarters of <iii inch wide. The SPINALIS Dousi is a special innermost part of the erector Spinaii. spiuce ; it is very narrow, and springs from the tendinous slips of• the erector which arise from the lower dorsal and upper two or three lumbar spines. Its fibres are inserted into a variable number in.swtic (from four to nine) of the upper dorsal spines.528 DISSECTION OF THE BAQK. Helatioiis of erector in lumliar and dorsal regions; and in neck. Use of both erectors, of one muscle, and of portions in neck. Muscles of fifth layer. Dissection of complexes, Complexus: origin; insertion ; tendinous inter- sections ; Relations of tlus erector spince. The erector spinas is concealed Ity tlie nuLscles of llie layers already examined. It lies over the semispiiialLs and nmltilidus spinas muscles, portions of the ribs and external intercostal muscles, and the levatores costarum. In the loins it is contained in the aponeurotic sheath of the fascia lum- borum, and in the thoracic region a similar sheath is formed for the muscle by the vertebral aponeurosis with the ribs and dorsal vertebrae. The tendon of origin is united over the sacrum with the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum; and from its outer border in this part some fibres of the gluteus maximus arise. The prolongations of the muscle in the neck lie between the splenius and levator anguli scapulae on the outer side and the com- plexus on the inner side, the trachelo-mastoid being next to the complexus. The cervicalis ascendens is attached to the transverse processes in a line with the splenius colli, and immediately behind the middle and posterior scalene muscles. Action of erector spince. These powerful muscles draw backwards or extend the spine, and come into play in bringing the column into, and in maintaining the erect position. The parts inserted into the dorsal vertebrae will be to some extent inspiratory muscles, since the dilatation of the thorax is aided by extension of the verte- bral column ; but the slips inserted into the ribs will draw down- wards these bones, and may thus act in forced expiration. The muscle of one side acting alone will incline the .si3ine laterally'. The cervical prolongations have a similar action upon the neck and head. Fifth Layer of Muscles. In this layer are included the comj)lexus, the seniispinalis, and the multifidus spinae ; and most of the vessels and nerves of the back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection. To display the complexus (fig. 191) it will only be necessary to turn outwards the cervical prolongations of the erector spinae muscle, and follow down the slips of origin to the dorsal transverse processes. The semisjsinalis and multifidus are now partly seen below the complexus, lying between the erector spinse and the spines of the vertebrae. The COMPLEXUS (fig. 191, d) is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal and seventh cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the succeeding cervical vertebrae as liigh as the third : it is also joined in most cases by one or two slips from the lowest cervical or upper dorsal spines. The fleshy fibres pass upwards to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the external occipital crest. The inner part of the complexus, having two He.shy bellies with an intervening tendon, is often described separately as the bivctiter cervicis. Another tendinous intersection crosses the cutaneous surface of the muscle near the upper end.PARTS BENEATH THE COMPLBXUS. 529 The coniplexus is concealed by the splenius and trapezius, relations; Along the inner side is the seniispinalis muscle, with the liga- meiitum iiucIieb. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispiiialis, and the posterior cervical nerves and vessels; and the cutaneous offsets of two or three of the nerves perforate it. The comple.xus may be regarded as the cranial prolongation of use. (he seniispinalis muscle. Action. Both muscles will move the head directly backwards. Dissection One will draw the occiput down and backwards towards its own side, nen'esof Dissection, of vessels and nerves (fig. 192, p. 531). In the neck the neck; the nerves and vessels will be brought into view by detaching the complexus from the occipital bone and the spines of the vertebrae, and carefully raising it from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle are the ramifications of the cer\'ical nerves, and the deep cervicid and other vessels, surrounded by dense connective tissue. Each nerve, excejjt the first, divides into an inner and an outer inner and branch. Dissect out first the inner branches, which lie partly over and partly bene;ith the fibres of the semispinalis muscle (fig. 192, g). The external branches are very small, and are given off between the outer transverse processes close to where the trunks appear ; they are to t^™'"=''es; be looked for outside the comple.xus, entering the muscles prolonged from the erector spinse and the .splenius. The small first nerve is the most diiiicidt of the set to find : it is first nerve a short trunk, contained in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and ^vill be best found by looking for the small twigs furnished by it to the muscles around. The deep cervical artery is met with on the seniispinalis muscle; and the a part of the vertebral artery will be found in contact with the first vessels: nerve ; and the occipital artery will lie visible crossing the occipital bone. Opposite the thorax the dorsal 7i6i'V6S wjid vessels will b6 rsadily nerves and displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the the dorsal removal of a little fatty tissue from between the transverse pro- region; cesses. External and internal branches are to be traced from each nerve and vessel into the muscles : some of the former have been seen in the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi. The two branches of the lumbar nerves and vessels are in the in tiie ium_- sarae line as the dorsal ; but the inner set are diflficult to find. bar region.' The sacral nerves are placed beneath the niultifidus spina), and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle. Posterior Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The Posterior spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cervical and sacral spina/''' groups, divide in the interverteliral foramina into their anterior and "erves. posterior primary branches. The posterior supply the integuments and the muscles of the back, and are now to be learnt. In the neck. The posterior primary divisions of the cervical in the neck nerves are eight in number, and issue between the transveise pro- cesses ; but those of the first and second, which begin on the neural M MDISSECTION OF THE BACK. 530 thoy divide into two except llrst. External branches are small. Internal branches: some give cutaneous oflsets. Second ascends to head. Third supplies neck and head, First ae.rve ends in muscles. Dorsal nerves. Outer branches to erector spiuoi: lower ones become cutaneous. Inner branche.' to transverso- spinales: upper ones reach surface. arches of the atlas and axis, ajipear above those arches. AH, except the first, divide into internal and external branches. The external branches are vei-y small, and end in the splenitis, and iu the muscles prolonged from the erector spinae. The internal branches (fig. 192) are larger than the external ; they are directed towards the spinous processes, the lower three jiassing beneath the semispinalis, and the upper four over that muscle. By the side of the spines cutaneous branches are furnished to the neck and the head from the nerves that are superficial to the semispinalis : these cutaneous offsets ascend to the surface through the splenius, the complexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are distributed as already seen (p. 520). In their course the nerves supply the surrounding muscles, viz., complexus, semispinalis, multiiidus spinse, and interspinales. The cutaneous branches of the second and third nerves reach the head, and require a separate notice. That of the second nerve (fig. 192,2) named greai occipital, appears beneath the inferior oblique muscle, to which it gives offsets, and is directed upwards through the complexus and trapezius to end over the occipiut (p. 506). The branch of the third nerve (fig. 192,^), becoming superficial near the middle line, gives an ofl'set upwards to the lower part of the occiput, internal to the preceding. This nerve usually joins the great occipital twice, viz., beneath the complexus and superficial to the trapezius. The posterior primary division of the suboccijntal or first spinal nerve (fig. 192,i) is very short, and appears in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles. In passing from the spinal canal it is placed between the posterior arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery. From its extremity branches radiate to the surrounding muscles, viz., one to the upper part of the complexus, another to the rectus posticus major and minor, and two short branches to the obliquus superior and inferior: the offset to the last muscle joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally the first nerve gives a cutaneous branch to the occiput. In the dorsal begion. The posterior primary divisions of the dorsal nerves, twelve iu number, appear between the transverse processes, and bifurcate into internal and external branches. The external branches increase in size from above doA\nwards, and pass beneath the longissimus dorsi to the interval between that muscle and the ilio-costalis, distributing ofl'sets to the several divisions of the erector spinae. The branches of the npjyer si,v or seven nerves end in these muscles ; but the lower five or sir, after reaching the interval between the longissimus and ilio-costalis, are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissiuius muscles, nearly in a line with the angles of the ribs. The internal branches are larger above than below, and sui)ply the tiansverso-.spinales muscles. The upper six or seven are directed inwards between the semispinalis and multifidus spinse, and become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes, after perforating the531 NERVES OF THE BACK. S])leiniis, serratus superior, rhomboideiis, and trapezius muscles. The lower Jive or six are much smaller, and end in the niultitidus spinas. Fig. 192.—Dkep Dissection of the Back of the Neck (Illustrations OF Dissections). Muscles : A. Rectus posticH.s major. B. Rectus posticus miuur. c. Obliquus inferior. 1). Oliliquus .superior. E. Sterno-inasloid. p. Coinplexus, cut across. G. Semispiualis colli. Arteries: a. Occipital, and b, its princeps cevicis branch. c. Vertebral artery, and d, its cervical branch. c. Dei'p cervical. Nerves : 1. Posterior branch of the sub- occipital. 2 to 7. Inner branches of the posterior primary divisions of the respective cervical nerves. In the loins. The posterior primary brandies of the lumliar Lumbar nerves, five in number, appear between the eivctor and multifidus .spinee. In their mode of dividing and general arrangement they'"to two. resemble the lower dorsiil nerves, cutaneous oflsets being furnished by the external set of branches. M M 2DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 532 Extern 111 branches: first thrco become cutaneous. Internal branches, Vessels. Part of the occipital artery, which gives a cervical branch. Part of the vertebral artery. Deep cervi- cal artery. Dorsal arteries are split into inner and outer branches. and give a spinal branch. difficult to find, Leing contained in spmse grooves on Tlie external branches pa.ss to the erector spiniB, and .supply it and the intertransverse muscles. The fir.st three pierce the erector spiiiae, and become cutaneous after perforating the posterior layer of the fascia luniljorum. The liianch of the last nerve is connected with the corresponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset near the Ijone. The internal branches are furnished to tlie multifidus muscle. They are the upper articular proce.sses. Vessels in the back. The vessels, now dissected are the occipital and the dee}} cervical arteries, a smull part of the vertebral and the jjosterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries. The OCCIPITAL ARTERY (fig. 192, a) courses along the occipital l)one. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, the vessel is directed backwards under the sterno-mastoid, the splenitis, and, usually, the trachelo-mastoid, but over the obliquus superior and complexus mu-oles. Behind the insertion of the sterno-mastoid it becomes superficial, and ascends to the occiput, where it is dis- tributed (p. 503). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and gives the following Ijranch to the neck :— The princeps cervicis (fig. 192, b) artery from the occipital distributes twigs to the splenitis and trapezius, and passing beneath the coinj)lexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The VERTEBRAL ARTERY (fig. 192, c) lies ou the neural arch of the atlas, behind the articulating process, and appears in the interval between the straight and oblique muscles. Beneath it is the suboccipital nerve. Small branches are given to the surround- ing muscles, and to anastomose witli the contiguous arteries. The DEEP CERVICAL ARTERY (fig. 192, e) arises in common with the superior intercostal artery from the subclavian. Passing backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it ascends between the complexus and senii- spinalis muscles, as high as the upper border of the lattei-, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES paSS back between the vertebrte and the superior costo-transverse ligament, and divide like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. The internal branches end in the fleshy mass of the multifidus spinas and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets with the nerves. The external branches cross beneath the longissinius dor.si, and supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branclies of this set are the largest, and extend to the surface. As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intraspinal artery to the spinal canal.THE TRANSVEKSO-SFINALES AND THE SEMISPINALIS. The POSTERIOR URANCHES OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES divide, like Lumbar the fovegoiiiir, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the erector and nudlilidns spine. Each divide also gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. The internal branches are small, and end in the nmltifidus spins: inner and The external branches supply the erector sjjinaj; and offsets are outur continued to the integuments with the superficial nerves. brancii«s. Veins. The occiintal veins communicate usually with the lateral Occipital sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen, and pas.s l)eneatli the complexus to enter the deep cervical vein. The deei) cervical vein is of large size, and liesides receiving the l^eep cervi- occipital veins, cominunicates with the other deep veins of this anll\)i"xn.s region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck. It passes for-"!.'''"^'^ wards with its artery between the transverse processes, and joins the vertebral vei:i. The vertebixd vein begins above the neural arch of the atlas by BoKinning the union of an ofiset leaving the si)inal canal with the artery and brai'veir'"" branches from the above-mentioned plexus. The dorsal and lumbar veins agree in their liranching and Dorsal and distribution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the corresjionding trunks of the thoracic and abdominal wall. In contact with the spinous processes and lamina3 of the vertebra) and deep is a deeper set of veins (dorsal spinal), which anastomose freely together, and comnuinicute through the ligamentji subflava with the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. Transverso-Spinales. Occupying the vertebral groove by the Tran.sverso- side of the spinous proce.s.=ses is a long muscular mass, which extends ''l"""'<'^ = from the lower part of the sacrum to the axis. This is composed of slijjs which are directed obliquely from transverse or articular arrange- processes to spinous processes, and are therefore designated collec- lively transverso-spinales. The .slips differ in length, and form three layers, which are described as separate muscles, vi^., a su])erficial stratum of long slij^s, confined to the cervical and dorsal and sub- regions—the semispinalis; a middle portion, with slips of inter- mediate length—the multijidus spince ; and a deep set of very short fasciculi, present only in the thoracic region—the rotatores dorsi. The semispinalis and multifidus are only to be sejiarated with difficulty ; but the rotatores are more distinct, and are included in the next layer. The semispinalis consists of .slips which jmss over four or five Semispinaii.s vertebra;, and it is subdivided into the following two parts, but the uito ''^'"^ separation between them is not always distinct. The semispinalis dorsi is thinner than the upjier part; it arises semispinalis from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertel>ra) from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of the last two cervical and the upper four dorsal vertebr£e. The semispinalis colli (fig. 192, «) arises from the transverse and semi.spi- processes of the upper six dorsal vertebroe, and is i7iserted into the spines of the cervical vertebr£B above the last, except into the atlas. The insertion into the massive spine of the axis is much the largest.'•DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 534 Jr^t'ir Dissection. The multilidus spiiiM is now to be i)rei.ared. The iius .si.imu. upper purt of it will be exposed by cutting throiigli Uie insertion of the semispinalis, and turning aside that muscle. Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosis of the erector spinse must be removed. In the dorsal region the rnultifidus spinaj will appear on detaching and reflecting the semispinalis from the spines. The slips by which the )nuscle is atUiched to the proces.ses of the vertebriB should Ije defined and separated. Origin of The MULTiFiDDs sPiNiE reaches from the sacrum to the axis : spii'iiB"^'"'* it is larger below than above, aud is smallest in the upper doi'sal fiom pelvis, I'egion. It takes origin at the pelvis from the back of the sacrum between the spines and the external row of processes as low as the fourth aperture, from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, from the inner- side of the postei ior superior spine of the ilium, aud from the fr om lumbar, overlying tendon of the erector spiuse ; in the loins it arises by large doisul, and fj-om the mamillary processes of the vertebra3 ; in tlw dorsal region by thinnec slips from the transverse processes ; aud cervical in the necJc from the articular processes of the lower four cervical vertebne; yertebi'se. From these attachments the fibres are directed obliquely upwards and inwards, passing over from one to three vertebrte, to insertion he inserted into the sfiiuous processes from the axis to the last lumbar into spines, yerteblfl. Relations of The transverso-spiuales are entirely concealed by the erector .si)inaies^° Spinas and complexus muscles ; and beneath them are the laniinaj of the vertebrae, with the dorsal .spinal plexus of veins. Internally they rest against the spinous proce.sses and the interspinal muscles, and use. Action. The transverso-spiuales of the two sides acting together will extend the spine : aud the muscles of one side can rotate the column in the cervical and dorsal regions, turning the face in the opi^osite direction. Muscles of Sixth Layer of Muscles. This layer includes a number of layer'.'''^'' short muscles which pass between adjacent vertebras, or I'rom the first two vertebrse to the head. They are :— 1. The rectus capitis posticus major. 2. The rectus capitis posticus minor. 3. The obliquus capitis superior. 4. The obliquus capitis inferior. 5. The rotatores dorsi. 6. The iuterspinales. 7. The intertransversalis. Dissection Dissection. Between the first two cervical vertebras and the tel'musdes>«cipital bone are the recti and oblique muscles, which are to be fully cleaned. and other The slips of the multilidus spina) are to be detached from the laariayef opines of the vertebras aud turned downwards in order to show the rotatores dorsi in the thoracic region, and the interspinal muscles in the neck and loins. The intertran.sver.se muscles of the lumbar region will be expo.sed by removing the erector siiina;. Rectus 'phe RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR (lig. 192, a) ariscfi from m^ovT the side of the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the535 SUBOCCIPITAL TRIANGLE. outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about attncii- an inch, as well as into the surface below it. ' Tlie muscle is covered by the coniplexus, and, at its insertion, by relations; the obli(iuus superior. It lies over the posterior arch of the atlas and the ligaments attached to that part of the bone, Action. By the action of both muscles the head will be drawn and "so. backwards. One rectus acting alone will rotate, as well as extend the head, turning the face to the same side. The RECTOS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR (fig. 192, B) is a small fan- Rectus po.s- shaped muscle, lying to the inner side of the preceding. Arising close to the middle line from a slight roughness on the posterior arch of the atlas, it is inserted into the inner third of the inferior attach- curved line of the occipital bone and an impression below this. ' ' This muscle is deeper than the rectus major, and lies over the pos- relations ; terior occipito-atlantal ligament. The two small recti correspond to the interspinal muscles between the other vertebroe. Action. The rectus posticus minor extends the head. and use. The OBLIQDUS CAPITIS INFERIOR (fig. 192, c) is the strongest of obiiauus the suboccipital muscles. It ari.tes from the spinous process of the axis below the rectus posticus major, and is inserted into the lower attach- and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. ments; The inferior oblique is concealed by the coinplexus and trachelo- relations; mastoid muscles, and is crossed by the great occipital nerve. Action. This muscle turns the face to the same side, by rotating and use. the atlas on the axis. The OBLIQDUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR (fig. 192, d) arises from the obiiquus transverse process of the atlas above the insertion of the pre- *"'P'"''°'' • ceding muscle, and is directed upwards and inwards to be inserted attacli- into the outer part of the space between the curved lines of the • occipital bone. The origin of the muscle is beneath the trachelo-mastoid, and its relations insertion beneath the coniplexus. In the interval between these it is covered by the splenius. It lies over the vertebral artery and the insertion of the rectus posticus major. Action. With its fellow the upper oblique will assist in carrying and use. backwards the head. By the action of one muscle the head will be inclined backwards, and to the same side. Suboccipital triangle. This name is given to the small space which is bounded below by the obiiquus inferior muscle, by the iween the rectus posticus major on the inner side and above, and by the niuscies: obiiquus superior on the outer side. It is covered by the corn- plexus ; and its floor is formed by the neural arch of the atlas, with the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. In it are seen a small contents, part of the vertebral artery, and the posterior branch of the sub- occipital nerve issuing Ijelow the artery and lying upon the posterior arch of the atlas. The contents of the sub-occipital traingle should be fully displayed . before the following parts are studied. The HOTATOREs DORSi are eleven short muscular slips in the Rotatores dorsal region beneath the multifidus spina;, from which they ' "536 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. attnch- meiils. Interspinal muscles: in neck; in dorsal region : in loins: their use. Inter- transverse muscles: in neck: in dorsal region ; in loins : their use. Dissection of sacral nerves. Five sacral nerves. are separated Ly fine areolar tissue. Each arises from the upper and back part oF a tran.sverse process, and is inserted into the lower border of the neural aicb of tlie vertebra next above. The first S[)rings from the transverse process of the second vertel)ra. The INTERSPINALES are arranged in pairs in the intervals betM'een the spinous processes. They are most developed in the neck and loins. In the cervical region they are small rounded bundles attached to the Ijifurcated e.xtremities of the spines fj-om the axis downwards. In the dorsal region interspinal muscles are only present in one or two of the hif^hest and lowest spaces. In the lumbar region they are thin flat muscles, reaching the whole length of the spine, one on each side of the interspinous ligament. Action. The muscles helj) to extend the spine. The INTERTRANSVERSALES lie between the transver.«e processes of the vertebrte ; Init only those in the loins and the back are now dissected. In the neck they are double, and resemble the interspinal muscles of the cervical vertebroe. In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles of small size, and are found only between the lour or five lower vertebra. They are represented in the middle sjjaces by thin fibrous bands, which constitute the so-called intertransverse ligaments. In the lumbar region there are two muscles in each space. The outer set are thin flat muscles between the transverse processes. The inner muscles are rounded bundles in a line with those of the dorsal region ; they are attached to the accessory processes above, and the mamillary processes below ; and the highest is between the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae. Action. The intertransverse muscles assist in bending the spine laterally. Dissection (fig. 193, p. 537). To see the posterior divisions of the sacral curves, it Avill be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus sjainse covering the sacrum. The upper three nerve.? are each split into two ; their external branches will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and dilticult to find. The lower two nerves are very small, and do not divide like the others. They are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinas. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower, by the side of the coccyx. Sacral nerves (fig. 193). The posterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number. Four issue from the spinal canal by the a]ieitures in the back of the sivcrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first thi-ee have theSACRAL NERVES. 537 common branching into inner and outer pieces, like the other spinal nerves ; bnt the last two are nndivifled. Tlie fint three nerves (1 s, 2 s and 3 s) are covered by tiie mnltifidiis spinse, and divide regidarly. The inner pieces (') are distri- buted to the niultihdu.s ; the last of this set is very fine. Tne outer pieces (■^) are larger, and have communicating olfsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum ; the l)raiich of the first is also connected with tliecor- responditig part of the last lum- bar nerve ; and the branch of the third joins in a similar way the sacral nerve next below. After this looping they pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they join a .second lime, and become cutaneous. Last two nerves (4 3 and 5 8). These nerves, which are below the muUifidu.s, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regular branching of the others: they are connected with each other and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the .sacrum. A few filaments are di.stributed over the back of the coccyx. Coccygeal nerve (1 c). Its posterior 7)rimary branch i.ssues through the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appe;xr3 by the side of the coccyx. It is joined in a loop with the last sacral nerve, and ends on the j)osterior surface of the coccyx. Sacral arteries. Small branches of the lateral .sacral arteries leave the spinal canal with the sacral nerves ; they supply the nmltifidus spina, and anastomose on the back of the sacnim with offsets from the and sciatic arteries First three have inix^r and outer branches: latter give cutaneous offsets. Pro. 193.—Dis.sBCTro5 of thb Pos- terior DiVI.SIONS OF THE SaCRAL Nrrvrs. Mtiseles : A. Miiltifidu.'? spin*, and b. Erector .spinae : both cut. c. Gluteus m^ximas detached from it.s oriKin, and thrown down. i>. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Nerves: :>l. Last him bar. 1 s to 5 3. The five .sacral nerves issuing from the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve esciiping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. Internal offsets of the last lumbar and first three sacral (these are represented too large). 2. External offsets of nerves. 3. Anterior, and 4, primary branch of the nerve. ."). The nerve derived from the an- terior divisions of the last two .sacral and the coccygeal nerve.s, piercing the great .sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus raaximus mu.scle. uteal I.ast two are undivided. Coccygeal nerve. the same posterior coccygeal Small sacral arteries.DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 638 Dissection of costiil muscles. Leva tores costarum: attach- ments. The lirst. Longer elevator muscles. Use. Outer intercostal muscle. Dissection. Dor.sal nerve has posterior and anterior branches. Intercostal artery. Dissection. The posterior part of the wall of the thorax may be exanimed before the body is again turned. By removing, opposite the nbs, the ilio-costalis and longissinius dorsi, the small levatores costarum will l,e uncovered. The hinder part of the external intercostal niuseles will be denuded at the same time. The LEVATORES cosTAHDM are twelve small fan-shaped nuLscles, which are connected with the hinder parts of the ribs. Each' except the first, arises fiom the tip of the transverse process of I dorsal vertebra, and is inserted, the fibres spreading out, into the upper border of the rib beneath, from the tuberosity to the angle. The muscles increase in size from above down, and their fibres have the same direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and Ijelow to the outer border of the first rib. Some of the fibres of the lower muscles are continued beyond one rib to that next .succeeding: these longer slijjs have been named Uvatores longiores costarum. _ Action. These muscles have but little influence in elevating the ribs ; and their principal use appears to be in extending and bending laterally the spiue. The EXTERNAL INTERCOSTAL MUSCLE is Continued backwards along the ribs as far as the tuberosity, where it joins the elevator muscle. Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid bare by this proceeding. The DORSAL NERVES Split in the intervertebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches. The posterior branches are directed backwards, internal to the superior costo-trausverse ligament ; aud their distribution has been seen in the foregoing dissection. The anterior named intercostal, are continued between the ribs to the front of the chest : their anatomy has been learnt in the dissection of the thorax and upper limb. The INTERCOSTAL ARTERY has ail almost exact correspondence with the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution. Section IV. THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. Cord is con-: The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) gives origin to the spinal spiimi'canal, "ei'ves, and is lodged in the canal bounded by the bodies and invested by nciiral arches of the vertebrae. It is invested by prolongations membranes. Qf membranes of the brain, which form sheaths around and sujjport it.539 MEMBKANES OF THE CORD. Dissection. At'tLT uU the imisck's Imvf hm'u taken from the i)iss..ctioii arches and .spines of the vertebrre, tlie .spnial canal is to bo openeri ^^^^ by sawing tliruugh the huninre on each side, close to the articular processes ; and the cuts of the saw should extend to the lower end of the Scicruni, but not hi,i,'her in the neck tlian the fonrth cervical vertebra. As it is dillicult to use the saw in the hollow of the lumbar region, a chisel and a mallet will be fcnind nseful to complete the division of the neural arches. The tube of the dura mater is covered by some veins and fat, and tim . . „ . , .■ • 11 membranes, and by a loose areolar tissue containing fluid .somotime.s, especially at the lower part. The fat may be scraped away with the handle of the scalpel ; and the lateral ])rolo]igatioiis of the niemVu-ane through the invertebral foramina are to be defined. Membr,\nes of the Cord (figs. 190 and 195, p. .540). Three ^^^^^^^ membrane.'!, like those on the brain, surround the cord, viz., an throe external tube of dura mater, an internal covering of pia mater, and an intermediate sheath of arachnoid. The DURA MATER (tt) is the strongest tube, and is contiiinons Dma mater with the membrane lining the interior of the skull. It forms a surrounds loose sheath (theca) along tlie spinal canal as far as the last lumliar """"^ ^oose\y; vertebra ; and then tapering gradually it ends opposite the second lower or third piece of the sacrum in a slender impervious cord which is continued to the back of the coccyx (fig. 194 h). The capacity of the sheath greatly exceeds the dimensions of the cord ; and it is size of larger in the neck and loins than in the dorsal region. ' ' ' On the outer aspect the ,si)inal dura mater is .smooth, in com- connec- parison with that in the skull, for it does not act as a periosteum to the bones. Between it and the wall of the canal are some vessels and fat ; and it is connected to the posterior common ligament of the vertebrte by a few fibrous bands. On each side the dui'Q^mat^-j^eiids offsets along the spinal nerves oivseis on in the intervertebral foramina ; and these oflsets become gradually longer below (fig. 194), where they form tubes which enclo.^e the sacral nerves, and lie for some distance with the spinal canal. In !jjp''^|i>j], the centre between the lowest offsets on the nerves, is the slender juocess. fibrous cord (h), which blends with the periosteum covering the back of tlie coccyx. Dissection. To remove the spinal cord witli the .sheath of the Dissection dura mater from the body, the lateral processes in the intervertebral cor^d,'""^ foramina, with the contained nerves, are to be cut ; and one or two of them in the dorsal region should be followed outwards beyond the apertures by cutting away the surrounding bone. The central prolongation may be now detached from the coccyx ; and the membranes are to be divided opposite the fourth cervical vertebra, and to be removed with the contained cord, which has already been severed in the removal of tlie lirain, by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the posterior common ligament. When the cord is taken out, place the anterior surface uppermost, anil see next with the lateral offsets widely .separated. To show the arachnoid '^"^'^'''"B- coveriii'', the dura mater is to be slit alont; the middle as fur as the640 THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. small terminal fibrous cord before referred to ; but the membrane is to be raised while it is being cut through, so that the loose arach- noid on the cord may not be injured. After its division, fa.sten back the dura mater to a long cork strip with pins. Deop.s,L,faco The inner surface of the dura mater is n„w seen to be smooth mater. Fig. 194. —Lower end op THE Dura Mater with ITS Central and Lateral Processes. a. Sheatli of dura mater. b. Central tibroiis baml fi.\- ing it to the coccyx. The lateral offsets encasing the Jast two lumhar, the five sacral, and the coccygeal nerves are also shown. Each nerve is marked by the numeral, and the first letter of its name. FiQ. 195.—Membranes of the Spinal Cord. a. Dura mater cut open and reflected. h. Small part of the translucent arachnoid. h. Pia mater, closely investing the spinal cord. c. Ligamentura denticulatum on the side of the cord, shown by cutting through the anterior roots of the ner\'es. d. Processes joining it to the dura mater. c. Anterior roots of (he nerves, cut; and /, posterior roots, each entering a separate hole in the dura mater. g. Linea splendens. Subdural space. Arachnoid niemhranf! is loos(\ and shining, and everywhere free except at the sijols along each side where it is perforated by the nerves, and where it gives att^achnient to the processes of the ligamenlum denticulatum. The cavity between the dura mater and the arachnoid is named the subdtiral space. The ARACHNOID (fig. 105, b) is the tiiiu translucent covering of the cord immediately beneath the dura mater. It surrounds the541 SPINAL PIA MATER. cord loosely, so as to kcave a considerable interval between the two the subarachnoid space. The loose sheatli is largest at its lower i,e„euih. part, where it envelops the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina. Around the roots of each nerve the arachnoid forms a short tube, which is lost as they perforate the dura nuiter. Dissection. The subarachnoid space may be made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel lientvath the membrane, or by 1^^^^ putting a piece of the cord in water and blowing uir between the arachnoid and pia mater. The subarachnoid space separates the arachnoid membrane from Suimrach- , , , . Ti • 1 1 1 i.1 iioid space the spinal cord invested I)y the pui mater. It is larger below than above, and is occupied by the cerebrospinal fluid. Superiorly it is cmitains^a continuous with ihe cranial subaraclmoid space ; and it com- municates with the cavity in the interior of the brain by means opens mto of an aperture in the lower part of the roof of the fourth of brain"-^ ventricle (the foramen of Majendie). Along the back of the cord the space is imperfectly divided by a median [lartition (septum posticum) an imperfect composed of bundles of tibroiis tissue, which is most developed in J^'eij'!™ the neck. Similar fine trabeculse pass between the posterior nerve- roots and the arachnoid. The subarachnoid space also contains the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. In order to see the next covering of the cord, with Dissection the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid membrane is to be covering, taken away ; and two or three of the anterior roots of the upper dorsal nerves may be cut through and reHected, as in fig. 195. The PIA MATER (fig 195,/i) is much less vascular on the spinal Pia mater cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord with a sheath, and sends a supports thin fold into the anterior median fissure ; it furnishes coverings to the roots of the spinal nerves. gives offsets. The outer surface of the ]iia mater is rough. Along the front is Fibrous a median fibrnus band (linea splendens ; fig. 195, g) ; and on each side another fibrous band, the ligameiitunr denticulatum, is attached to it. In the cervical region the membrane has usually a rather dark colour, due to the presence of pigment cells in it. Where the spinal cord ceases, vi/.., about the lower edge of the it ends body of the first lumbar vertebra, the sheath of the pia mater con- ^maUfi'brous tracts, and gives rise to a slender thread-like prolongation, the cord, the fdum terminale ov central litjament of the cord (fig. 197 d p. 546). terminale. This contiiins a little nervous substance in its upi)er part; and be'ow, it blends with the central impervious process of the dura mater. A vein and artery accompany the filum terminale, and distinguish it from the surrounding nerves. The ligamentum denticulatum, (fig. 195, c) is a white, filirous band Tlie dentate on eacli side of the spinal cord, and has receivetl its name from its ''b'"'"""' serrated appearance. It serves to supiwu't the cord, which is fi.xed by it to the .sheath of the dura mater. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the is iixed on band reaches upwards to the beginning of the medulla ol)longata, to^nni"642 THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. to (luni miitm'; mimliDi' and . attaolimeiit of points. Vessels and nerves of dura mater: ■ of arach- noid ; of pia mater. Dissection of roots of nerves, and the ganglion. and ends below on the jjointed e.xtremity of the cord, Internally it is united to the pia mater. E.vternally it ends in a series of tri- to dnm°""' tooth-like projections {d), whicli are fixed at intervals into the dura mater, each being about midway between the aper- tures of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty- one denticuhitioihs, of which the first is attached to the dura mater opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite the twelfth dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. Vessels and nerves of the viembrane. The spinal dnra mater ha-s but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, as it has not the same periosteal office. Filaments of the sympathetic and spinal nerves are furnished to the membrane. The arachnoid has no vessels ; and proof of its containing nerves in man is yet wanting. The mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though this is less marked here than on the l)rain ; and from them offsets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves derived from the sympathetic and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken away on one side ; and the nerve roots are to be traced outwards to their transmission through apertures in the dura mater. One of the offsets of the dura mater, which has been cut off some length, is to be laid open to expose the contained ganglion. The student should define the ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 196, &), and should trace a bundle of threads of the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting also of two bundles of threads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior root beyond the ganglion. SPIN4.L Nerves. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves; and each nerve is constructed l.)y the blending of two roots (anterior and posterior) in the intervetebral foramen. They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional subdivisions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in number as the vertebrae, except in the cervical region, where they are eight, and in the coccygeal region where there is only one. The cervical nerves from the first to-the seventh pass out above the several vertebrae; and the eighth is below the last cervical vertebra; the succeeding nerves are placed each below its corresponding vertebra. Each nerve divides into two primary branches, anterior and posterior ; the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs ; and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Roots, RooT.s OF THE NERVES (fig. 196). Two I'oots (anterior and posterior!"' posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord ; and these unite together to form a common trunk in the intervertebral foramen. The posterior root is marked by a ganglion, but tlie anterior root is aganglionic. Trunks of spinal nerves. Number and groups Relation of nerves to vertebriE. Primary divisions.543 ROOTS OF THE NERVES. fonns two bundles that enter thoganglion. The posterior or ganglionic roots (fig. 196, a, b) are larger than tlie anterior, and are formed by thicker and more numerous fibrils. a'Ht^i.Horl"" They are attaclied to the side of the cord between tlie posterior and lateral columns in a straight line, which they preserve even to the last nerve. In their course to the trunk of the nerve the fibrils converge to an aperture in the dura mater, opposite the intervertebral foia- men ; as they approach that aper- ture they are collected into two bundles '(fig. 196, b, 6) which, lying side b}' side, receive a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the two points of the intervertebral ganglion. The intervertebral ganglion (fig. 196 A, c) is reddish in colour and oval in shape ; and its size is pro- portioned to that of the root. By means of the previous dissection, the ganglion may be seen to be bifid at the inner end (fig. 196 b), where it is joined by the bundles of filaments of the root (6) ; or the root might be said to possess two small ganglia, one for each bundle of filaments, which are blended at their outer ends. Sometimes the first or subocci- pital nerve is without a ganglion. The anterior or aganglionic roots (fig. 196 A, a) arise from the side of the spinal cord by filaments which are attached irregularly— not in a straight line, and approach near the middle fissure at the lower end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the inter- vertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct opening in, and have a separate sheath of, the dura mater. In their fai'ther course to the trunk of the nerve they are gathered into two bundles (fig. 196 B, a), and pass over the ganglion without joining it. Finally, the anterior root blends with the posterior beyond the ganglion, to form the trunk of the nerve. Ganglia: form, and size; each is bitid. Fig. 196. A. Plan of the Okioin of a Spinal Nehve fkom the Spinal Cord. a. Anterior root. b. Posterior root. c. Ganglion on the posterior root. d. Anterior primary branch. e. Posterior primary branch of the nerve-trunk. Anterior root IS withnut B. A Drawing to show the ganglion, Aruanqeiiknt of the Nervk-roots, and the form of the Ganglion in a Lum- bar Nerve. h, b. Posterior root gathered into pig^ces two bundles of threads. dura mater c. The ganglion, bifid at the and joins inner end. posterior a, a. J,., , c ±\ 1 ■ root beyond Filaments of the anterior ,,n„g]ioii. root, also gathered into two bundles.544 Characters of roots. Some sets of fibrils join ; posterior root larger, pi'oportion- ally largest in iiecli. Roots are largest for ner\'es of limbs. Oblique in their course mo.st so inferiorly, where they form Cauda equina. Length in- creases from above downwards. Union of the roots in inter- vertebral foramen. except in first two cervical, the sacral. and coc- cygeal nerves. Situation of ganglia. Exceptions in cervical, THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. Characters of t}ie roots. Besides variations in the relative size of the two roots, the following cliaracters are t.) be noted Unmu of the fibrils. Tlie librils of contiguous anterior roots may be intermingled, and the fibrils of the neighbouring posterior roots may be connected in a like manner ; but the anterior is never mixed with the posterior root. Size of the roots to each other. The posterior root is larger than the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the number of the filaments is also greater. Farther, the posterior is propor- tionally larger m the cervical than in any other group ; in the dorsal nerves there is but a very slight difi'erence in favour of the hinder root. Size of both roots along the cord. Both roots are larger where the nerves for the limljs arise than at any other part of the cord ; and they are largest in the nerves to the lower limbs. They are smallest at the lower extremity of the cord. Direction and length of the roots. As the apertures of transmission from the spinal canal are not generally opposite the place of origin of the nerves, the roots are for the most part directed obliquely. This obliquity increases from above downwards ; for in the U2)per cervical nerves the roots are horizontal; but in the lumbar and sacral nerves they have a vertical direction around the filum terminale (fig. 197) ; and the bundle of long nerve-roots descending from the end of the spinal cord, from its resemblance to a horse's tail, is named the Cauda Equina. The length of the roots increases in proportion to their obliqmty. Thus, the distance between the origin and the place of exit of the roots of the lowest cervical nerve equals the depth of one vertebra ; in the lowest dorsal nerve it amounts to the depth of two vertebrte ; and in the lum'uar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes nearly a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of tlie roots. Commonly the roots unite as before stated in the iiiterveitebral foramina ; and the trunk of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot into anterior and posterior primary branches (fig. 196, d and e). But deviations from this arrangement are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column in the following nerves. The roots of the first two cervical nerves join on the neural arches of the corresponding vertebras; and the anterior and posterior primary branches diverge from the trunks in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of tlie roots tjikes place within the spinal canal ; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures on the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in the spinal canal ; and the ainerior and posterior branches of its trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Situation of the ganglia. The ganglia are placed commonly in the intervertebral foraniimi, but where the iro.sition of these apertures is irregular, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal545 EXTERNAI- CHARACTERS OF CORD. column, tlieyliave tlie following situation :—In tlie first two nerves the}' lie on the netiml arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral snenii, aiid nerves tliey are containeil in the si)inal canal ; and in the coccygeal coccygeal, nerve the ganglion is usually within the sac of the dura mater. Vessels of the spinal cord. The arteries on the surface of Arteries of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord Anterior beneath the lihrous Viand before alhuled to in tliat position. It a''s'ingie begins l)y the union of two small branches of the verteliral artery artery; within the skull, and it is continued to the lower end of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the neck, and from the intercostal arteries in tlie dor.sal region. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolongation of the cord. The lu'anches of this ofi'scta. artery ramify in the pia nuiter, some entering the median fissure. The posterior spinal arteries, one on each side, are continued from Posterior tlie u]iper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the two';""* ""^^ nerves. These ve.ssels are furnished from the vertebral artery ■within the skull, and their continuity is maintained by a series of anastomotic offsets, which enter the canal along the spinal nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a Ho on sides " . ^ ^ . or cord. free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some twigs enter the posterior septa of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous and form a plexus Vein.s: on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany temiina- the spinal nerves to the intervertehral foramina, and end in the ■ veins outside the spinal canal. Near the to]i of the cord the veins at top of are united into two or more small branches, which, communicating ' with the intraspinal veins, join in the skull the inferior cerebellar veins, or the inferior petrosal sinuses. The SPINAL CORD (medulla spinalis) is the elongated cylindrical Situation of part of the cerebro-si)inal centre, which is enclosed within the .spinal oanal. Invested by the membranes before examined, the cord occujdes about two-thirds of the length of the canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it. The extent of the siiinal cord is from the lower margin of the Extent foramen magnum of the occipital bone to the lower border of the beiJw first lumbar vertebra, Lut its termination inferiorly may Ite a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third and in the month the cord reaches the whole length of the spinal canal ; Init it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the position it has in the adult. Its length Length, is usually from sixteen to eighteen inches. Above, the cord joins the medulla oblongata ; and below it ends inferior in a small tapering part (conns meduUaris), from which the filuni i'^ti'ie adui't. terniinale (fig. 197, d) is continued downwards. The lower end of the conus medullaris is sometimes marked by one or two irregular swellings. The size of the .spinal cord is much increased wliere the nerves Two swell- ings on it. D.A. N NTHE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. 616 Anterior surface, liow known. Dissection to see con- stituents of cord. Furrows of tlie cord are anterior median, posterior median, Fia. 197. —Membkanes of the Spinal Cord laid open, to show the lower end of THE Cord with the Fildji Terminale. IX. Dura mater, and b, the fiWrous band fixing it to the coccy.v. c. Pointed lower end of Hie cord (conu.s nieduUaris). d. Filum terminale of Ibo cord. of tlie limbs are attaclied. There are, therefore, two enlarf^ements on it, viz., cervical or brachial, and lumbar or crural ; the one in the neck reaches from the first cervical to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other is smaller, and is on a level with the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebra;. In the upper enlargement the greatest thick- ness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelling the measurement from before backwards nearly eq^uals the transverse. While the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distin- guished from the posterior by the cen- tral fibrous band and by the anterior spinal artery ; as well as by the irregular line of the anterior nerve- roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the structure the student will re- quire a piece of fresh cord which has been hardened in spirit and formalin, since the cord which is obtained from the body at this period is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater with the roots of the nerves removed on one side, the student will be able to observe the following divisions of the cord. Sulci of the cord (fig. 198). The anterior median fissure occupies the middle line of the front of the cord in its whole length, and pene- trates about one-third of the thickness of it. It is lined by a fold of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medullary substance bounds the fis- sure ; and at the bottom of it the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood- vessels. Along tlie back of the cord, also in the middle line, there is a narrow groo\e, from whicli a process of the pia mater called the posteriorDIVISIONS OF THE COUD. 547 . I'orwavils iii'arly to tlic icntri' nf the ' iicvvous sulistaiicr til' llu' li.^lil imil U:lt. posterior surface of tlie curd enter iii the tlic latcml, grooves another .nnl i>"«- ^, ti'tior iiitr seen in the upper '(liate. hair of the conl lietwi'eu the riu! cord is Jivided into mfdutn septum extenil nieilnlla, se[iaratin.<,' ih halves. Vessels ol' the septum. The laltritl furmw (ti^'. 198, (/) is a shallow groove alon line of attachment of the fasciculi of the posterior roots. Between the posterior median and the lateral slight furrow, the posterior intermediali', may f)e part of tlie cord (fig. 108, c). Divisions of this C'ohu. Each median sulci is divided into tw(j hy tlie lateral furrow (fig. 198, (?) ; the part in front of that groove and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero-lateral column («) ; and the part hehind, the posterior column (')). The antero - lalerdl riihniiu (lig. 198. «) includes rather more than two-thirds of the half of the ord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerves, and gives attach- ment to the anterior nerve roots (/j). This part of the cord is sometimes de- scribed as consisting of anterior and lateral columns, the two being sejia- rated by the anterior roots of the nerves. The posterior colmnn (tig. 198, //) is situate between the lateral farrow (</), with the posterior roots of the nerves, and the posterior median septum. In the cervical region, the posterior intermediate sulcus(t') marks oil a small inner portion, which is named the posterior iiiedian colmnn (c); and the remainder is then distin- guished as the posterior e.dernal column (b). A narrow central i>iece, the i-om- viissure of the cord, unites the halves between the anterior median fissure and the posterior median septum. Composition of the cohd (lig. 198). Horizontal sections of Coid con- the cord in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions, show more (lis-,l,^,'l^vhitT^' tinctly its division into halves, with the commissural or connecting i"""''"'- piece between them, and the varying ]iroportion of its grey ami white matter in the ditferent parts. Tlie cuts demonstrate the existence of a mass of grey matter in the interior, which isarrnnged in the form of two crescents (one in eacli half), united by a cross jiiece, and surrounded by white substance. N" N 2 Fio. 198.—A Section ok the Si'iNAL Cord in thk Ckkvical Kkoion to show its composi- tion AND divisions. In tub MIliDLK link BKLOW IS TUB Anteiuor Median Fissure, AND ABOVE AllE THE POSTERIOR Median (jKoove and Sei'TCm. tl. Tlie lateral sulcus. e. Tlie posteilor inl.oniicdiiitc sulcus. Colli in ns : a. Antero-lateral. b. Po.sterior extpnial. e. Posterior median. jiostfirior coliiinn, with nu'dian and e.\lorn.'d parts, Oompositiun,: y. Grey cre.sconl, surrounded liy wliite (ibres. h. Grey transver.se comini.ssure, and t, canal of tlio cord in it. Posterior, and k. anterior and coin- root of a nerve entering the grey niissnre. crescent.THE Si'INAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. 548 The com. iiiissure: the grey piiit, witli its central canal lined by epithelium the white part. The half of cord. The grey crescent. Posterior coniu: its parts. Anterior corim. [ntcr- metliale process. White substance. Fig. 199.—Outlinis op the G-rey Substance in the Spinal Cord, near this Mimdle op THE Dorsal Region (Lock- hart Clarke). The commissure consists of two ]iarts, viz., a transverse band of grey matter (fig. 198, h), with a white stratuni in front. The grey transverse band (■posterior or yrey commissure) connects the oppcsite crescents, and is placed ratlier nearer the front than tlie back of the cord. In its centre is tlie shrunken canal of the spinal cord (tig. 198, i), which is best seen in the fu3tu.s. It reaches the whole length of the cord, and a cross section shows it as a round spot. Above, the ciinal opens on the Hoor of the fourth ventricle ; and below, it is continued into the filiini terniinale. It is lined by a columbar ciliated epithelium, and is obstructed by a granular material near the upper end. The anterior or white commissure is best marked opposite the cerwcal and lumbar enlargements on the cord, and is least developed in the dorsal region. Lateral half. In the half of the cord, as in the commissure, grey and white portions exist; the former is elongated from before backwards, being crescentic in shape, and is quite surrounded by white matter. The grey matter (fig. 198 y), has its extremities or comua directed towards the roots of the nerves, and the convexity to the middle line. The crescentic masses in the opposite halves of the cord are united by the grey commissure. Taking a cross section of the dorsal region as an example : the posterior cornu is long and slender (fig. 199), and reaches nearly to the surface along the lateral fissure. It is rather narrow at its base {cervix,'), and enlarged towards its extremity {caput, '), where it is surmounted by a semi-transparent layer which has lieen named the substantia gelatinosa (3). Thei'e is also on the inner side of the cervix of the posterior cornu a special portion of grey matter containing nerve-cells, the posterior vesicular column of Clarke (**), which is most developed in the lower dorsal region. The anterior cornu (fig. 199) is shorter and thicker than the posterior, and projects towaids the anterior root« witliout reaching the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outline. A third smaller projection of the grey matter is seen in the upper part of tlie dorsal region of the cord, on the outer side of the crescent, between the anterior and posterior horns : this is known as the intermediate process (Gowers) or the lateral cornu (fig. 199.) The white substance of tlie cord is composed chiefly of niedullat«d nerve-fibres disposed in longitudinal bundles, which are enclosed by irregular septa of connective tissue prolonged from the pia mater on 1. Caput cornu posterioris. 2. Anterior cornu. 3. Substantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5. Posterior commissure. 6. Intermediate process. 7. Cervix cornu posterioris. 8. Posterior vesicular column.649 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. the surface. Three larger processes of tlie pia mater extend into the back of the cord ; these are the posterior median septum alreadj' referred to, and the posterior intermediate sqjtn.m on each side, seen Old}' in the cervical region, which passes forwards fiom the furrow of the same name, and separates the posterior median and postero- external coUinms. Modifications in the grey and vihite substance. The white substance much exceeds the grey in quantity in the cervical and dorsal stimce vary, regions ; but it is less abundant in proportion to the grey matter in the lumbar enlargement. The grey substance is least in amount c Fig. 200.—Intraspinal Arteries IN TuK Loins. a. Hranch of a lumbal' artery. b. Ascending, and c, descending offset. d. Offset to the body of the vertebra on each side. e. Central artery formed by offsets from the lateral loops. Flo. 201.—Intraspinal Veins IN THK Loins. a. Branch to join a lumbar vein. i. Anlcriorlongitudiual vein, one on each .side. c. Veins from the bodies of the vertebrse. in the dorsal region ; the anterior horn is specially large in the cervical region, and in the luniliar enlargement both horn.s are large and the grey matter forms a considerable ])roportion of the substance of the cord. The posterior horn is massive, though not quite so large as the anterior. The coinua of the grey crescents decrease in length from above crescents down, esjiecially the jiosterior, and towards the end of the cord they "J'^^'J''"''"" blend in one indented or cruciform mass. Intraspinal Vessels. Arteries supply the cord and its mem- vessels of branes, and the liodies of the vertebra). The veins form a remark- eanM.'""' alile plexus within the canal, but this will not be seen unless they have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (fig. 200, a) are derived from the vessels Source of along the sides and front of the .spinal column, viz., from the sp^„"f™' vertebral and ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in .trieries.660 DISSECTION OF THE PACE. the liack, and f'loiii the luiiiliar and lateral gacral below. They are distributed after tlie following plan :— ?o'the''ve"t"e" ^'^ '^'^'^^^ artery enters tlie spinal canal Ijy the intervertehi'al fora- bnu men, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the point of division the branches are directed, one (6) upwards and the other (c) downwards, behind the bodies of tlie two contiguous vertebra), and join in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- by loops: spinal artery abo\'e and below. From the loops ofl'sets [d) are furnished to tlie periosteum and to the bodies of the vertebrae. Anastomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebrae, iiiifiacen- The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal " ■ artery (c), like that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on the bodies of tlie vertebras, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loo]is. lutraspinai The intraspinal veins (fig. 201) consist of two anterior longitn- Urge.'^'*' dinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal ; of veins inside the bodies of the vertebrae ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. Aiiterior The anterior longitudinal veins (b) are close to the bodies of the aiemi"Iod'ies Vertebrae, one on each side of the posterior common ligament ; and of vertebiw. they are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive, opposite the body of -each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the interverte- bral foramina they have branches of communication (o) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, the loin i and the pelvis. Veins of the Veins of the bodies of the vertebne. Within the channels in the bodies of the vertebrae are large veins, which join on the front of the bone with veins in that situation. Towards the back of the vertebra they are united in an arch, ffoni which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, the trunks diverge to the right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. Posterior ^^1,3 posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater spinal veins , , , « , 1 ,1 ■ ^ -j ^ t are in con- and the arches of the vertebrae. A large vein may be said to lie on archesi"' each side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and witli the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Offsets from these vessels are directed through the intervertebral foramina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse processes. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Directions. After the dissections of the perineum and of the back have been completed, the body will be turned on to the back and will remain in that position. First dissect The worker on the liead and neck will first dissect the face, face.MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. 651 because it is most desirable to bave it as fresh as possible._ This will usually take Uvo days, and he will then proceed with the triaixdes of the lu-cd.-, and it is important that he shall have examined the brachial plexus, and worked up to page 599 at least, in order that the dissector of the upi.er limb may be free to remove his part at the end of the sixth day after turning the body. Position. The head is to be placed so that the side of the lace bein<T dissected is upwards, as far as the times of the students on the two sides will allow, and it is to be fixed in this position with hooks. . r IT Dissection. It is not easy to make a good dissection of the Dissection, muscles nerves and vessels of the face on one side, and the students are advised to arrange together to make out the muscles and nerves on the one side and the muscles and vessels on the other. ,1,1^. ' At the same time a good dissector can di.splay them all on the same side. As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres ot the other, apertures mav be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantity of tow or cotton wool between the eyelids and the eyeball, and between the lips and the teeth, and within the cheek. First lav bare the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle by making a How to^ skin-deep incision round the margin of the orbit, and raising the skin fiom skin of the lids towards the aperture of the eye (fig. 203, p. 553). eyeuas Much ciire must be taken in detaching the skin from the thin and jiale fibres of the orbicular muscle in the lids, as there is but little areolar tissue between the two. Next the integument is to be removed from the side of the face f™;;;"'^ by one incision in front of the ear from above the zygomatic arch ' prolonging down the incision already made in the scalp to the angle of the jaw, and another along the lower border of the jaw to the diin : a cut should also be made along the free margin of each lip from the centre to the angle of the mouth, and another round the edge of the nostril. The flap of skin is to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. On the side of the nose the skin is closely unitc.l to the subjacent parts, and must be detached with caution. Around the mouth are ' the orbicular muscular fibres of the lips, and from this many lleshy slips extend both upwards and downwards, but they are all marked to cie^ji distinctly enough to escape injury, with the exception of the small around risorius muscle which goes from the corner of the mouth towards the ramus of the lower jaw. While removing the fat from the muscles, each fleshy slip may be tightened with hooks. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view as the Kacwl^ muscles are cleaned (fig. 204, p. 558); the branches of the facial ^^^''^ nerve will be seen passing forwards from the parotid gland (fig. 205, p. 562). Over the lower part of the parotid gland, near the angle of the jaw, the facial branches of the great auricular nerve will lie found. In front of the ear is the parotid gland, and its duct (which is on and parotid a level with the meatus auditorius, and pierces the middle of the ""^ • cheek) will be traced forwards.DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 662 In tlifi fnco the iniLseli's form Uiren groups. Muscles of uose. Pyraniidalis nasi: Compre.ssor naris : Common elevator of wing of nose and upper lip: Dilator of nostril: Mdsci,es of the Face (fig. 203). The .superficiiil muscles oi the lace are disposed in three groups : one ol' tlie nose, another of the eyelids and eyebrow, and a third of the aperture of tlie mouth. One of the muscles of mastication, viz., the masseter, is partly displayed at the hinder ])art of the face covering tlie ramus of the lower jaw. Muscles of the Nose (Hg. 202). These muscles are the following; iDyramidalis nasi, compre.ssor nari.s, levator labii superioris alteque nasi, dilator naris, and depressor aloe nasi. The PYRAiiiDALis NASI (fig. 202 1), is a small Hcsliy slip that covers the nasal hone, and appears to be a continuation of the innermost part of the frontalis muscle. Its fibres are attached above to the skin of the forehead ; below, they end in the aponeurosis of the compressor muscles over the cartilaginous part of the nose. Its inner border meets the muscle of the opposite side. Action. This muscle draws down the skin of the centre of the forehead, and produces transverse wrinkles at the root of the nose. Compressor naris. This muscle (fig. 202-'') is not well seen till after the exami- nation of the following one, by which it is partly concealed. Triangular in shape, it arises by its apex from the upper maxillary bone near the anterior nasal aperture. The fib res are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeu- rosis, which covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and is continued into the opposite muscle. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous part of the nose, and depresses the tij") of the organ. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL.(EQUE nasi (tig. 202 "-, and fig. 20B) is placed by the side of the nose, and arises from the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, in front of the attachment of the orbicularis. The fibres jia.-^ down- wards, and the most internal are attiiched l)y a narrow slij) to the ala of the nose, while the rest are inserted into the adjoining part of the skin of the upper lip. Near its origin the muscle is jiartly concealed by the orbicularis jialpebrariim, but in the I'est of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Action. This muscle raises the upper lip and wing of the nose, forming wrinkles in the overlying skin. Dilatator naris. In the den.«e tissue on the outer aide of the nostril are a few muscular fibre's, both at the fore and Iwck part of Fio. 202.—Muscles op THE NosB 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Comi^ressor naris. 4 and 5. The two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Deijressor aire nasi. 7. Naso-labial .slip of orbicularis oris.MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS. 653 that ciperture (fig. 202), to which the above name ha.s hceii given : they are seldom visible without a lens. The (udcnur slip "ni''r.or a>Hi ("') pa.sso.s fi-om the cartilage of the aperture t(i the integuuieut of (he margin of the nostril ; and the podcrior (») arising from the ujiper jawbone and the small quadrate cnrtilages, ends ahso in the integuments of the nostril. Actimi. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by rai.sing and us.-, everting the outer edge. The DEPRESSOR AZM NASI (fig. 202") wiU be Seen if the nj.per "''i^- lip is everted, and the mucous membrane is removed by the side of the frEcnum of the lip. It arises below the nose from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and ascends to he inserted into the .septum narium and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Orbicularis iialpebrarutii (palpebral portion). Orl)icnlaria palpebrarum (orbital portion). Comigator .siipercilii. Internal tar-sal ligament. I'yramidalis nasi. J,evator labii snperioris altcqiie nasi. Levator labii .supcrioris Levator angiili oris. Depres.sor labii inferioris. Depressor an^nli oris. Attoleii.'i aiirein. Attraliens aurem. Masseter (deep part). ZygoniaticMi.s minor (too large). Zygomaticiis major. Masseter (su]terncial ]>art.s; some cutaway). Huccinator. Fig. 203.—Diagram of the Muscles op the Face. Action. By drawing down and turning in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the aperture to its usual size. Mdscles of the Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- brow are four in number, viz., orbicularis iialpelirarum, comigator supcrcilii, levator palpebrje superioris. and ten.sor tarsi * : the two latter are di.s.sected in the orbit, and will be then described. The oRBiCDLARis PALPEBRARUM (fig. 203) is the sphincter muscle closing the opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and thin layer, which e.xtends from the margin of the lids beyond the circumference of the orl)it. From a dill'erence in the characters of the fibres, a division has been made of them into two parts—outer, two parts, or orbital, and inner, or palpebral. Kour mu.scles of eyelids and brow. Orbiculari.s palpebra- * Tlie tensor tarsi muscle is sometimes desorilicd us jjiirt of llie orbicularis.664 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Orbital oi- exteniiil, nttiicliej intiu'imlly; forms cou- ceutric bundles. Internal or palpebral part. attached at botli ends. Ciliary bundle. Belations. Use of inner and outer fibres. Corrupator supercilli inserted into skin: Muscles of the men tit. The orbital fibres are tlie be.st marked, and are fixed only at the inner side of the orbit. Above the internal tarsal ligament (which is the .short fibrou-s band at the junction between the two eyelid.s, stretching iVom the ixdjjebral fissure to the inner marj^du of tlie orbit) the fibres are attached to tlie nasal process of the superior inaxillaiy and to the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; and, Ijelow the ligament, to the orbital margin of the superior maxillary bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size towards the outer edge of the muscle, where they project beyond the margin of the orbit. Some of the peripheral fibres spread upwards to the skin of the forehead, and others downwards to that of the cheek. The palpebral fibres, paler and finer than the orbital, occupy the eyelids, and are fixed at both the outer and inner sides of the orbit. Internally they arise from the upper and lower margins of the internal tarsal ligament: externally they end in the much smaller external tar.sal ligament, by means of which they are attached to the malar bone, and a few may blend -with the orbital part of the muscle. Close to the cilia, or eyelashes, the fibres form a small pale bundle, which is sometimes called the ciliary bundle. The muscle is subcutaneous : and its circumference is blended above with the frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the orbicularis, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supraorbital vessels and nerve; and beneath, the lower half is a portion of tlie elevator of the upper lip. The outer fibres are joined occasionally by slips to other contiguous muscles below the orbit. Action. The palpebral fibres cause the lids to approach each other, shutting the eye ; and in forced contraction the outer com- missure is drawn inwards. In closing tbe eye the lids move unequally—the upper being much depressed, and the lower slightly elevated and moved horizontally inwards. When the orbital fibres contract, the eyebrow is depressed, and the skin over the edge of the orbit is raised around and brought inwards in front of the eye, so as to protect the ball. Elevation of the upper lip accompanies contraction of the outer part of the orbicularis, owing to the associated action of the levator labii superioris and zygomatic muscles. The CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII (fig. 203) is beneath the orbicularis, near the inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres arise from the inner part of the superciliary ridge of the frontid bone, and are directed outwards between the bundles of the orbicularis to be inserted into the skin above the inner half of the eyebrow. It is a short muscle, and is distinguished by the clo.sene.ss of its fibres. Action. It draws inwards and downwards the mid-part of the eyebrow, wrinkling vertically the skin near the nose, and stretching that outside its place of insertion. Muscles op the Mouth (fig. 203). Tiie muscles of the mouth and lips include the elevators of the upper lip and of the angle of theMUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 555 mouth, the depressors of the lower Up and of the angle of the mouth, the zygoniiitic and risorius muscles, and a wide muscle of the cheek closing tlie space lietween the jaws (the buccinator). Lastly, an orbicular muscle surrounds the opening, but it is largely composed of fibres of the preceding muscles. The LEVATOR LABii suPERioRis extends vertically from the Eie™tj>^^^of lowei' margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises from the upi>er ma.xilla above the infraorbital foramen and from the innermost part of the malar bone, and is inserted into the skin of the upper lip, its fibres interlacing with those of the orbicularis. Near the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpe- brarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its inner side relations: it joins the comuion elevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infraorbital vessels and nerve. Actio7i. By the action of this muscle the np'lJer lip is raised, use. and the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII iNFERiORis is opposite the elevator of the upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its fibres. The nuiscle has a wide origin from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching from near the symphysis to a little beyond the mental foramen ; ascending thence it is inserted into the skin of the lower lip. Its inner border joins in the lip the muscle of the oppo- site side ; and its outer is overlajiped by the depressor anguli oris. Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same use side is depressed and everted ; but by the use of both nmscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwards, and rendered tense at the centre. The LEVATOR ANGDLI ORIS has well-marked fibres, and is partly Elevator of , , .. . . . . . p , 1 . the angle concealed by the levator labii superioris. Arising horn the canine fossa of the upper jaw below the inffaorbital foramen, its fibres descend towards the angle of the mouth, where they are superficial to the buccinator and are partly inserted into the skin, but the greater ^J',!^^;?^^'''' number are continued into the orbicularis of the lower lip, and sweep round below the mouth to the opposite side of the middle line. Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts "se. as an antagonist to the depressor. The DEPRESSOR ANGULI ORIS is triangular in shape. It arises from ^f''P^g"g°'' the obli(pie line on the outer surface of the lower jaw ; and ascending to the angle of the mouth, a few of its fibres are there inserted into the skin, but the greater number decussate with those of the ^^^i^l^'^j"^;^ elevator muscle and pass into the upper part of the orbicularis, and sweep round above the mouth to the opposite side of the middle line. The depressor conceals the mental branches of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. It is united at its origin with the platysma niyoides, and near its insertion with the risorius muscle. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards by it, as use. is exemplified in a sorrowful countenance. The ZYGOMATIC HDSCLES are directed obliquely from the malar zygomatic hone towards the angle of the mouth and the upper lip. One is '"^DISSECTION OF TFTE FACE. 556 Ill'}- are therefore iiaiiied iiiiiji,r lai't;!' and small: Risorius mnscle: .T!uccinat,or muscle: insertion at corner of the mouth ; parts in con tact with it use on aperture, on cheek, in expelling air. Orbicular muscle of lips includes (Hires of liuccinator. longer and larfjer Mian Uie oilier ; tli and niinor. Til.; zyi/omaticUK major arises hum tlie ouler part of tlie malar bone, and is inserted into the skin and mucous menil.raiie at the angle ol the mouth. The zyfjomuticus minor arises from the malar bone in front of the major, and blends with the elevator of the upper lip. Tlii.s muscle is often absent. Action. The large muscle draws up\\'ards and backwards the corner of the mouth, as in laughing ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upjier lip. The RisoRios MDSCLE (fig. 185, 501) is a thin bundle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more part>, wliich arises externally from the fa.sciaover the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depre.ssor anguli oris. Action. It I'etraets the corner of the mouth in smiling. The BUCCINATOR (fig. 203) is the flat and thin muscle of the cheek, and occupies the interval between the jaws. It arises from the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxillae, as far forwards in each as the first molar tooth ; and in the interval between the jaws behind it is attached to a tendinous band known as the pterj'go-maxillary ligament. From this origi.i the fibres are directed forwards to the lij^s, where they pass into the orbicularis ; most of the upper fibres descend to the lower lip while many lower ones ascend to the upper lip, a decus-sation taking place at the corner of the mouth. The highest and lowest fibres enter the corresponding lip. ■ On the cutaneous surface of the buccinator are the diflerent ' muscles converging to the angle of the mouth ; and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle ojjposite the second upper molar tooth. Intern;illy the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and ex- ternally it is covered by a fascia (bucco-pharyngeal) that is con- tinued over the pharynx behind. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Action. By one muscle the corner of the mouth is retracted, and by the action of both the aperture of the mouth is widened trans- versely. In mastication the cheek is pressed against the arches of the teeth and food cannot accumulate in the interval, while the comer of the mouth is fixed by the orbicularis. In the expulsion of air lioni the mouth, as in whistling, the muscle is contracted so as to jirevent Imlging of the cheek ; but in the use of a blow-jiipe it is stretched over the volume of air contained in the mouth, and maintains a continuous stream by its contraction during expiration. The ORBICULARIS ORIS is mainly formed by the prolongation of the filires of the levator and depressor aiigulis oris and buccinator muscles. The buccinator fibres lie next to the mucous membrane.THE OKBICUI.AIUS ORIS. B57 and are conliniicd across from side to side. Those <if the elevator and depressor muscles, havinf,' crossed at the corner of the luoulh, HUBuli oris, turn inwards in the opijosite lip, in front of the biu.'cinator fibres, and are inserted into the skin, for the most jiart crossing the middle line and decussating with the filjres entering on tlie other side. A compact superficial I'ascicnUis at the red margin of the lip is formed solely liy buccinator fibres. In the upper lip there are also two slips" arising, the one (naso-lahiul, fig. 202) from the hinder part of imso-iabiiii the septum narium, the other (incisive) from the outer part of the and incisive incisor fossa of the superior nia.\illa, and directed outwards to the corner of the mouth ; while in the lower lip there is a similar incisive slip attached to the incisor fossa of the inferior maxilla. To see these attachments, the lip must be everted and the mucous membrane carefully raised. Towards the free mai'giu in each lip there are fibre.s directed ob- special liquely from the skin to the mucous membrane, between the fasciculi li,,™"'^ of the orbicularis : they constitute the muse, labii proprins. The inner margin of the orbicularis is free, and bounds the aperture of the mouth ; the outer edge bl^atds with the dillerent muscles that elevate or depress the lips ai^el the angle of the mouth. Between the orbicularis and the mucou.? inembrane in each lip are the coronary artery and the labial glajids. Action. The buccal portion of'the muscle flattens the lips »">l against the teeth, turns inwards the red margin, and gives a linear form to the aperture. The superficial ])ortion, derived from the muscles of the angle of thejnouth, brings the lips together both vertically and horizontally, 'so as to diminish the size of the opening, and causes the free edges (jf the lips toi>rotrude. , The LEVATOR .MENTI (levator labii inferioris) i.s a small muscle Elevator of on the side of the frajnum of the lower lip, which is opjiosite the ' dejiressor of the ala of the no.se in the upper lip. When the lip has been everted and the mucous mendii-ane removed, the muscle will be .seen to arise from the incissor fossa of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its position is internal to the depressor of the lip and the attachment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the chin opjiiisite its insertion, use. and a.ssists in raising the lower lip. The principal Vessels of the Face (fig. 204) are the facial and tran.sverse facial arteries with their accompanying vein.s. The arteries are branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The FACIAL AKTERY (fig. 204, (j), a branch of the carotid, i^'aeial emerges from the neck, and crosses the base of the lower jaw immediately in front of the masseter mu.scle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner margin of the orl)it, where it aniustomoses with the terminal branches of the ophthalmic artery, course The cour.se of the vessel is comparatively superficial in the mass of fat of the inner part of the cheek. At fir.st it is concealed by theDISSECTION OF THE PACE. 568 nnd rela- tions; platysina while crossingthe jaw, but this thin muscle does not prevent pulsation being recognised during life ; near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, the bnccinator muscle, the elevator of the angle Fio. 204.—External Carotid and its Superficial Branches ("Anatomy of the Arteries," Quain). a. Com men carotid. h. Internal jugular vein. c. Internal carotid. d. External carotid. e. Superior thyroid. /. Lingual. (J. Facial. h. Internal maxillary. i. Superficial temporal. 7)1. Supraorbital. 11. o. P- r. s. I. u. External nasal. Angular branch of facial Lateral nasal. Superior coronary. Inferior coronary. Inferior labial. Submental artery. Elan of the ninches. of the mouth, and the elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the artery is the facial vein, which takes nearly a straight course, and lies to its outer side. Branches. From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches are furnished to the muscles and integumenl-s, some of which669 VESSELS OP THE FACE •inasloniosewitli the transverse facial branch of the superficial temporal ■irterv From the inner side are given the following branches :— Tl'.e inferior labial branch (t) runs inwards beneath the depressor I,.^.•ior an-uli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower hp and chhi ; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches (r and s). These are one for each lip {superior Two form an and i>iferior), which arise togetber or separately from the tac.al, ^ and are directed inwards between the orbicuhir muscle and the ;;;;;;; mucous memlirane of the lip to inosculate with the corresponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed offsets are supplied to the structures of the lip. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to each side of the septum brand, to narium,—artei-y of the scjjtnm. , , ■ i The lateral nasal branch 0') arises opposite the ala nasi, and Lateral passes beneath the levator lubii superioris alseque nasi to the side brancii. of the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the oiihthalmic artery. , , , The angular branch (a) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at a_; Jjar the inner angle of the orbit, and joins the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The FACIAL VEix commences at the root of the nose in a vein Facial vem named the anyular. It then cro.sses over the elevator of the upper lip, and, separating from the artery, courses beneath the large ;j;™y^f™'" zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short ' course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Tributaries. At the inner side of the orbit the angular vein -^^^^^^^l receives veins from the upper eyelid {superior palpebral) and from the side of the nose. Below the orbit it is joined by veins from the lower eyelid (inferior palpebral), as well as by a large branch, anterior internal maxillary or deep facial vein, that comes from a ple-xus in the pterygoid region, and thence on to its termination by veins corresponding with the branches of the artery in the face and neck. The TRANSVERSE FACIAL ARTERY (fig. 204) is a branch of the Transverse superficial temporal, and appears on the face at the anterior border facial artery, of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in front of the ear may be next Jj^I',rotid displayed. A .strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected g|'a„'i'.'° " above to the zygomatic arch and behind to the cartilage of the parotid ear, but is continued in front over the masseter muscle. The fascia is fascia, to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auricular nerve will be seen ascending to the lobule of the ear ; and three or four small lymphatic glands Parotid ^, r c j-i 1 1 lymphatic rest on the surlace oi the gland. glands. The Parotid fig. 213, p. 589) is the largest of the salivary p,,roti.i glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, B'""'!:DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 560 irregular in shape; relations accessory part. The duct reaches mouth : surface niarkinp its length and size. Surface of gland. Dissection to see deep parts. Deep part sinks behind jaw. Vessels and and is luimed from its pcsition. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. Tlie shape of tlie gland i.s irregular, and is determined In- the surrounding parts. Thus below, where there i.s not any resisting structure, the parotid projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the submaxUlary gland, though separated from it by a process of the cervical fascia ; a horizontal line from the angle of the jaw to the sterno-mastoid muscle usually marks the extent of the gland in this direction. Superiorly, the parotid is limited by the zygomatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly, the gland projects somewhat into the face over the niasseter nuLScle, and has connected with it in this situation a small acce.ssory part, known as the socia parol idis. Issuing from the anterior border is the excretory dmt~duct of Stenson (fig. 204), which crosses the niasseter below the socia pnrotidis, and perforates the buccinator and the mucous mem- brane of the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter beinf^ below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct on the face ; and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and a half; and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and three or four lymphatic glands are seated on it: but from the deep part processe.s are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaM' and the mastoid process. Bissection. By removing the parotid gland, cautiou.sly and piece- meal, from behind and below, the hollows that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dissector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the dangers attending any opera- tion on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the position and the diminished size of the aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the neck. One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, where it reaches the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Coursing through the middle of the gland is the external carotid artery, wliich ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furuishas the posterior auricular, superficial temjioral, and internal maxillary branches. Superficially to the artery lies the trunk formed by the561 THE FACIAL NERVE. junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins; and this common trunk, receiving some veins from tlie parotid, divides near the angle of the jaw into two branches, the anterior of which passes downwards to join the facial vein, while the posterior inclines back- wards over the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and is continued into the external jugular vein (fig. 211, p. 582). Crossing the vessels in the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, which divides here into its primary branches. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior ma.'cilhirv nerve lies above the npper part of the glandular mass ; and oH'sets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. In dissecting out the gland it has been seen to consist of a number of lobules sej)arated by connective tissue septa. From the giand. lobules small ducts arise, and these join together so as to give rise to two large tubes, which are placed superficially to the branches of the facial nerve in the gland, and by their union opposite the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw form the beginning of Stonson's duct. As it crosses the masseter the main duct receives one or more small branches from the socia parotidis. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and Vessels and its nerves from the sympathetic, auiiculo-temporal of the fifth, and facial. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands lie on the surface of the buccina- Molar tor, and open into the mouth near the last molar teeth by separate ^'""V^"" ducts. The FA.CIAL NEEVE (fig. 205, p. 562), or the seventh cranial Outline of nerve, is the motor nerve of the superficial muscles of the head and face. Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve ; the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over the side of the lower jaw. Dissection. The trunk of the nerve is concealed by the parotid Dissection gland, but its ramifications are mostly in front of the glandular °^ "^"^^^ mass, and will be displayed in the removal of the gland. The different branches are to be traced forwards as they escape beyond from beneath the anterior border of the gland and followed to i'"™'"^' their termination. The highest branches to the temple have already been partly on temple, dissected above the zygomatic arch ; and their junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supra- orbital nerve has been seen. Some still smaller branches are to be in eyelids, traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and coninumicate with the other palpebral nerves; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar Vjranch of the fifth nerve. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, in the face, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infraorbital, nasal, and infratrochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are on lower smaller. One runs with the buccal nerve over the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced u.A. o o662 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. The norve in the parotid, forwards to the lower lip, and to tlie meiitiil branch of the inferior dental nerve. The trunk of the nerve shonld be followed Ijackwards through Occipital artery Posterior anriciihir nerve(branch of facial) Great occipital nerve. Facial uerve. Small occipital nerFe. Great auricular nerve. Frontal artery. Supraorbital artery. Supratrochlear nerve. Supraorbital nerve. Tnfralrochlear nerve Malar brancli of teni- poro-nialar. Temporal brancb of temporo-inalar. Nasal ner\'e. Infraorbital nerve. Long buccal nerve. Mental nerve. FiQ. 205.—Nerves and Arteries op the Scalp. d. Superficial temporal artery. /. Posterior auricular artery. h. Orbital branch of superficial temporal artery. 14. The superficial cervical nerve. A. Platysraa muscle. B. Trapezius muscle. 0. Stcrno-mastoid muscle. D. Masseter muscle. The auriculo-temporal nerve is shown running up with the superficial temporal artery (d). the gland, and in this i)roceeding its small branches of communica- tion with the great auricular nerve, and, deeply, with the auriculo- temporal nerve (of the liflh) are to be sought for.THE FACIAL NERVK. 0 0 2 Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the back of the and ear and to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles are to be looked 'i^',!^';,™'^"', for close to the base of the skull just after the nerve emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The Facial Nerve outside the Skdll (fig. 205). The Branches nerve issues from the stylo-mastoid loramen, alter traversing the sknll. aqueduct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three following small branches :— The posterior auricular branch (fig. 205) turns upwards in Posterior front of the mastoid process, where it communicates with an ott'set of the great auricular, and is also joined by a branch to the ear from the pneuiiio-gastric nerve. It ends in an occipital branch to the occipitalis and an auricular branch to the retrahens muscle and to the small muscles on the back of the pinna. The branch to the dignstric muscle arises generally in common Branch to with the next. It is distriliuted by several ofl'sets to the posterior <iij-'!'s''i''f- belly of the muscle near the skull. The branch to the stylo-hyoid is a long slender nerve, which is Branch to directed inwards, and enters the muscle about its middle. This styio-''yo"'- branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off these branches, it is Division directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks—temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The TEMPORO-FACIAL TRUNK furnishes offsets to the side of the The upper head and face which extend downwards to the level of the mouth. 1','^'^'°"°'^ As this trunk crosses over tiie external carotid artery it receives one or two large branches from the auriculo-temporal portion of the inferior maxillary nerve, and then divides into three sets of terminal has three branches—temporal, malar, and infraorbital, which have fre(iuent communications with one another as they pass forwards in the face. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch Temporal to enter the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii and l^kie'onle^ui the frontalis muscles ; they are united with ofl'sets of the supra- orbital nerve. The attrahens and attollens aurem muscles are supplied from this set; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The malar branches are directed to the outer side of the orbit, Malar and are distriljuted to the orbicularis muscle. Communications io"'yei'i'ds. take place in the eyelids with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve and over the malar bone with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Tiie infraorbital branches are larger than the rest, and are infraorbital furnished to the muscles between the eye and mouth. Close to between^eye the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a free com- mouth, munication—infraorbital plexus, is formed between these nerves and the infraorbital branches of the superior maxillary. After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of these branches pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others564 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Ijowor 'livision of the nerve lias nlsn branclios. Buccal to corner of moutli. Supra- maxillary between month anrl chin. Infra- maxillarj' to n(!cl<. upwards to the inner angle of the orbit to supply the muscle-s, and to join the uash] and infrantroclilear brunches of the ophthalmic nerve. The CERVico-FACiAL is smaller than the upjier trunk, and distri- butes nerves to the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo- facial division, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, while in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united three sets of with the great auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed from it are buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards towards the angle of the mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator muscle, and terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The suframaxillary branches course forwards over the lower jaw to the middle line, and supply the muscles of the lower lip and chin. Beneath the depressor anguli oris these branches of the facial join the offsets of the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The inframaxillary branch lies below the jaw, and is distributed to the platysma muscle, and forms communication with sensory branches from the second and third cervical nerves. Dissection. The levater labii superioris muscle is now to be cut through, and the upper part removed so as bo expose the terminal branches of the infraorbital nerve. The Infraorbital Nerve (fig. 205) is the continuation of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. It emerges on the face through the infraorbital foramen under cover of the levator labii superioris, and at once divides into terminal branches which radiate to the eyelid, the nose, and the upper lip. The palpebral branches are usually two small twigs which pass to the lower eyelid. The lateral nasal branches are directed inwards, and supplj- the skin of the side of the nose. The labial branches are three or four larger nerves, which, descending to the upper lip, supplying the skin of the face between the orbit and the mouth, as well as the mucous membrane of the upper lip, and their ramifications, take part in the infraorbital plexus, just describe<l. Dissection. The depressor labii inferioris and anguli oris muscles will next be removed so as to expose the mental nerve as it issues from the foi-amen in the lower jaw. The Mental Nerve (fig. 205) is derived from the inferior dental nerve within the lower jaw, and issues through the mental foramen beneath the depressor anguli oris muscle. It gives an offset down- wards to the skin of the chin, but the greater part of the nerve ascends beneath the depressor labii inferioris muscle, to be dis- tributed to the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. Its branches communicate with the supramaxillary branches of the facial nerve. Infra- orbital nerve. Palpebral, lateral nasal and labial branches Mental nerve.THE CAKTILAGKS OK THE NOSE EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE NOSE. nose: its Nasal cartilages. Directions. The external parts of the nose, the cappendage.s of the eye, and the pinna will now be cleaiied and examined. The Nose has the form of a three-sided pyramid, wliicli is External attached to the face by one of its surfaces, while the base i.s free The lateral surfaces meet anteriorly in a rounded edge termed the dorsum, the upper part of which is known also as tlie brithje. The lower and posterior part of each lateral surface is convex and marked off by a curved groove, constituting the ala. The base pre- sents the oval a])ertures -of the nostrils or anterior nares, separated by a short thick partition, the septum narium or columna nasi. The shape of the nose is maintained by a framework con.sisting and frame of the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones above, and of the cartilages of the nose below, in the part corresponding to the anterior nasal aperture of the skull. Cartilages op the Nose (fig. 206). These are five in number, one in the centre, the cartikuje of the septum, and two on each side, the lateral cartilacje and the cartilage of the aperture. They are all hyaline cartilage, but do not show any tendency to become ossified. Only the lateral cartilages are learnt in this stage of the dissection. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen when the muscular and fibrous struc- tures of the left side of the nose have been taken away. By turning aside the lateral cartilages the septal one will appear in the middle line. The lateral cartihuje (upper lat. cart, fig. 206,-) is flattened, and triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal and upper maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it joins the cartiliige of the .sejjtum above, but is separated from it by a narrow cleft below. Inferiorly, the lateral wirtiiage is contiguous to the cartilage of tlie aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. The c«?-ii7a(/e of the aperture (lower lat. cart.; fig. 200) forms a ring xiie lower around the opening of the nose except behind. It has not any ^p^Xrls attachment directly to lione ; but it is united above to the lateral ciirtilage by fibrous tissue, and Ijelow with the dense teguments ,""tV'bone'.'''' forming the ala of the nose and the margin of the nostril. The part of the cartilage (') wliich bounds the opening externally ou« part is narrow and pointed behind, wliere it forms two or tliree vertical outsnic; folds, and sometimes becomes divided into as many small pieces— carlilagines quadratce ; but it swells out in front where it touches its aceessory fellow, and forms the apex of the nose. cartilages; Tlie inner part(') is sliorterand narrower. It- jirojeLts backwards another in- side nostril. Take away tissne from Fio. 206.-CARTn.AQES OP THK Nose. 1. Septal cartilage. 2. Lateral cartilage. 3. Oaitilages of the „„ . .. . llu; upper aperature, its outer (.;i,t,ii:i<'e part, and 4, its inner joins the part. septal. 5. Nas:il bone.DISSECTION OF THK FACE. 506 in tlie columiia nasi below the level of the anterior end of the septal cartilage, being attached totliis and to its fellow of tlie opposite side by librous tissue, and reaches nearly to the superior maxillary bone. Aiiiieiuingc's of tlie eye. Eyebrow. THE APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. The Appendages op the Eye include tlie eyebrow, the eye lid. Eyelids. Upper larger. Shape of margin. Papilla. Punctum. Hairs and apertures. Eyelashes. Apparatus for the tears. Dissection. Apertures in eyelids. and the lachrymal apparatus. The eyehmv (.siipercilium) is a curved eminence just above the eye which is placed over the orbital arch of the frontal bone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the subjacent orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii muscles. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The e^jelids (palpebras) are two movable semilunar folds in front of the eye, which can be approached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the larger and more moveable, and descends below the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also pro\ided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named the iMlpchral fissure. E.xternally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free border of each lid is somewhat thickened, and pre.-ents a narrow surface which meets the opposite lid when the aperture is closed, and is bounded towards the eyeliall by a sharjj smooth edge ; but at the inner end, for about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it is somewhat thinner and more rounded. At the .spot where the two parts join is a .small white eminence (fig. 207), the jmpilla lachrymalis ; and in this is the punctum lachrymule, or the opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near the posterior edge with a row of small openings of the Meibomian glands ; but both the cilia and the glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of the punctum lachrymale. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of curved hairs, which are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre to the sides. The cilia of the two lids are convex to one another, and cross when the lids are shut. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 207). The lachrymal gland, puncta, canals, and sac, with the nasal duct, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. Dissection. A bristle or blunted pin should be introduced into each lachrymal canal through the ijunctum. The lachrymal sac will appear on the removal of the internal tarsal ligament and of the areolar tissue from its surface as it lies on the lachrymal bone. The prolongation from the internal tarsal ligament over the sac should be defined and understood before its removal (^J. 568). The pimcta larhnimnlia ('), one on each lid, are the openings of the lachrymal canals. Each is situate on the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and at the summit of the jjapilia lachrymalis.567 THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The lachrymal canals (canaliculi ; fig. 207, ' and lead from the punc.a, a.Kl convey the tears to the Lu.hrynuil sac. From tlie nuu-in of the lid, each canal is directed vertically lor ahout one- sixteenth of an inch, and then henda inwards following the course of the internal tar.sal ligament. Internally the two canals converge, and they open into the lachrymal .sac, rather above its nudclle, either separately or by a common orifice. The lachnimal sac and nasal duct extends from the inner side ot the orbit to 'the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated end is the sac, and the lower part the duct. The sac is placed in the hollow formed by the nasal process ol the superior maxillary and the lachrymal bones. In front, it is crossed by the internal tarsal ligament of the eyelids ; and behind, it is covered by an expansion derived from that band, which is tixed to the lachrymal crest. If the aponeurotic covering be re- moved, the mucous lining will appear. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct is the narrower part of the tube, and is about half an inch long. It is entirely surrounded by bone, and inclines slightly outwards and backwards as it descends. In the nasjil cavity it opens into the fore part of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a small fold of the mucous membrane. Within the bone, the duct has a fibrous coat lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the nose below, and, through the canals, with the conjunctiva above. Structurk of the Eyelids. Each lid consists fundamentally of a filirous plate attached to the lione by ligaments. Superficial to this framework are the integuments with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it the mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid includes also the tendon of the levator paljiebrfe. Vessels and nerves are contiiined in the lids. Dissection. The student should now examine the structure of the lids. The bit of tow or wool may remain beneath the lids ; and the palpel)ial part of the orbicularis muscle is to be thrown inwards by an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle care must be taken of the thin membranous palpebral fascia beneath, and of the vessels and nerves of the lid. Orbicularis paliMhrarmn. The palpebral fibres of this muscle form a pale layer which reaches the free edge of the eyelids, and a thin stratum of areolar tissue jvitbout fat unites the muscle with the skin. Cimiils for the tears. Ri'ceiitacle of the tears. Situation of the sac, or dilated part. Canal leading to the nose: Fio. 207.—TnK Eyklids anu Lachrymal ArPARATUS. L Puncta lacbrynialia. 2. Upper, anil 3, lower laclirymal canal. 4. Caruncula laclirymalis. 5. Lachrymal sac. (i. Na.sal (Inct. its opening. Stnu'tiire of the duct. Different parts in eyelids. Dissect lids. Layer of orbiculari!^.568 DISSECTION OP THE FACE. A^iibrous The palpebral fascia is a thin fibrous layer, which is continued troni the margin of the orbit to join the anterior surface of the fibrous tarsal jjlate. At the inner part of the orl^it it is tliiu and loose, but at the outer part it is somewhat thicker and stronger pia"e7onn. , ^^'^ ^^7''' (*^^''')' '^'^'^^ eyelid, are elongated part of the transversely, and give strength to the lids. Each is fi.xed internall/ I'd: and e.Kternally by fibrous bands—the tarsal or palpebral ligaments to the margin of the orbit. The border corresponding with tlie edge of the lid is free, and thicker tlian the rest of the plate. On the deep surface each tarsus is lined by the conjunctiva ttftwoiid" ^""^^^ '^re alike in the two lids. In the upper eyelid, where the filirous plate is larger, it is crescentic in sliape, and Ls nearly half an inch wide in the centre; and to its fore part the tendon of the levator palpebrae is attached. In the lower lid the tarsus is a narrow band, about one-si.xth of an inch broad, with nearly straight borders. Liganients The internal tarsal ligament (tendo palpebrarum) is a small attach tarsal 'i'^^^^ band at the inner side of the orbit, which serves to fix the plates. lids, and is attached to the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove in the upper jaw. It is about a quarter of an inch long, and divides into two processes, which are united with the tarsal plates, one to each. This ligament crosses the lachrymal sac, behind which it sends a fibrous expansion ; and the fleshy fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise from it. The external tarsal ligament is a much weaker band uniting the tarsi to the malar bone. tiibeslnM • '^^^ Meibomian or tarsal glands are embedded in the substance of ^ ' • the tarsal plates, and can be readily seen through the conjunctiva on the posterior surface of the lids. They extend, parallel to one another, from the free towards the opposite margin of the tarsus ; and their number is about thirty in the upper, and twenty in the lower lid. The apertures of the glands open in a line at the free border of the lid near the posterior edge, structure ^^'^^ g^&ndi is a small yellowish tube, closed at one end, and having minute lateral csecal appendages connected with it. The secretion is similar to that of the sebaceous glands of the skin. Tendon of If the palpebral fascia be cut through in the upper lid, the tendon paYpebra. °^ levator palpebne will be seen to be inserted into the fore part of the tarsus by a wide aponeurotic expansion. Mucous The conjunctiva, or mucous membrane, lines (he interior of the lining of liii. 2yg^ froH^ it is reflected to the front of the eyeball. The line of reflection is known as the fornix conjunctivae, and is placed, above and below, some distance beyond the convex margin of the tarsus. Inside the lids the conjunctiva is inseparably united to tlie tarsi, and has numerous fine papillas. At the free margin of the lids it joins the skin, and through the lachrymal canals and na.sal duct it is continuous with the pituitary membrane of the nose. Caruncle Between the eyeball and the inner commissure of the lids is seen a prominent and fleshy-looking body—caruncula laclirymalis (fig. 207, ■'■), which contains a group of glands, and has a few minute hairs on il.s surface. External to .the caruncle is a small569 APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. vertical fold of the mucous memhvane-plica semUunaris, resting ^l^^^ on the inner part of the eyeball. Blood- vessels of the eyelids. The arteries of the eyelids are Arteries of furnished by the palpebral and lachrymal branches ol the oph- thalmic artery :— i r , , The palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from palpebral tlie inner canthus, lying l^tween the tarsal plate and the orl)iciilar muscle, and aniistomose e.xternally with the lachrymal artery. From each arch branches are distributed to the structures of the lid. The terminal portion of the lachrymal artery perforates the «nd lach.y- palpebral fascia at the outer part of the orbit, and, after having • given small oftsets to the upper eyelid, divides into two branches which comi)lete the palpebral arches. The veinsof thelids open into the angular, facial and temporal veins. Veins. The nerves of the eyelids are supplied Iroin the ophthalmic and Nerves of superior maxillarv divisions of the fifth and the facial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nerve which give offsets to the from iiftb, upper lid are the following : lachrymal, at the outer part; siijJra- orbital, about the middle ; and supratrochlear and infratrochlear at the inner side. In the lower eyelid there are usually two palpebral branches, inner and outer, of the infra-orbital branch of the superior maxillanj nerve. Branches of the facial nerve enter both lids at the outer side, and seveutli and supply the orbicularis muscle they communicate with the offsets of the fifth nerve. THE EXTERNAL EAE. External Ear. The outer ear consists of a broad, projecting i'a^'j^t»^o[ part, named the pinna or auricle, and of a tube—meatus auditorius externus, leading inwards to the middle ear, from which it is separ- ated by the tympanic membrane. The pinna may be now examined, but the meatus will be de.scribed with the anatomy of the ear. The PINNA or auricle (fig. 208) is an uneven piece of yellow fibro- Texture and cartilage, which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin pin„„ of the meatus auditorius externus. It is of a somewhat oval form, with the margin folded and the upper end larger than the lower. The surface next the head is generally convex ; and the opposite Sjirfacc excavated, but presenting the following elevations and depressions, fo'ssne and In the centre is a deep hollow named the co?ic7iffl, which is wide above eminences, but narrow below ; it conducts to the meatus auditorius. In front of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the tragus, which has some hairs on the inner surface ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection—the antitrcujus. The prominent rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into the Mar concha, is called the helio:; and tlie depression internal to it is the (jroove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, forming the hinder and upper boundary of the concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper and fore-part a triangular depression, the fossa of the antilielix. "in.DISSECTION OP THE FACE. 570 Lobule. Intrinsic Tniisules of iiui'icle. Inferiorly tlie auricle ends in a soft pendulous part, the lobule. The sjjecial muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of the cartilage to another, are very thin and pale. Five small muscles are to be recognised ; and these receive their names for the most part from the several eminence.? of the e.xternal ear. Dissection. In seeking the small auricular mu.scle.s, let the e musclo.s. gj^j^ removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary for the display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector will not find one or more of the number described below. The muscle of the tragus (fig. 208, is always found on the external aspect of the process from which it takes its name. The How to Unci One muscle on tragus. Fig. 208. Muscles of the GniER Sukface OP THE EaR-CABTILAGE. 1. Muscle of the tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle of the helix. 4. Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the Inner Surface of the Ear- cartilage. 6. Transverse muscle. 7. Oblique muscle some- times seen. One on antitragus. One on root of lieli.ic. Another on helix. And one at back of concha. fibres are short, oblique, and e.xtend from the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (fig. 208, ^) is the best marked of all. It arises from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres are directed upwards to be inserted into the jiointed extremity of the antihelix. Tlie small muscle of the helix (fig. 208, ^) is often indistinct or absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends into the concha. The large viuscle of the heliv {fig. 208,''') arises above the small muscle of the same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse mmcle of the auricle (fig. 208, ") forms a wide layer which is situate at the back of the ear in the depmssiou between the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage forming the concha, and is inserted into theAORICLK OV THE EAR. o71 back of the lielix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when that tissue is removed. Dissection. The remaining skin should now be ren^oved from Ciean_^ihe the pinna, and the muscles cleaned off to expose the cartilage : m doing tbis the lobule of the ear, which consists only of .skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 208. w, .^m „ The cartilage of the pinna (fig. 208) resembles much the external Urt.w^e ^ ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. The rim ot the of external helix subsides posteriorly about the middle of the pinna: while "'i'^- anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The part of the cartilage forming the fossa o' the helix ends on a level with the lowest part of the concha m a c^eitaent pointed process which is separated from the antitragus by a deep notch. The antihelix is continued below into the antitragus. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical ridge of '''■'inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external ^,^;\»tupper auditory aperture in the temporal bone, and forms a portion o( the meatus; meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and hinder part that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of ciirtilnge forming the outer end of the meatus >ts fissures, are two fissures (of Santorini): one is directed vertically beneath the base of the tragus ; the other passes from before backwards in the floor of the meatus. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, and otherspa.ss Ligaments; from one point to another of the cartilage. xtrinsic The external ligaments are two bands of fibrous tissue, anterior and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior passe.s from the back of the concha to the ma.stoid process. The chief special ligament crosses intrinsic, the interval between the tragus and the helix, and completes the opening of the auditory meatus. Vessels and nerves of the auricle. The arteries of the auricle are derived from the superficial temporal {ant. auricular branches) and the posterior auricular branches of the external carotid. The veins have a corresponding termination. The skin of the pinna is supplied on the outer surface mainly by the auricular-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, on the inner surface in the upper part by the small occipital, and in the lower part, together with the outer aspect of the lobule, by the great auricular nerve. The auricular branch of the vagus also reaches the back of the concha. The muscles are supplied by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve.572 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Section VI. Boundaries of the side of tlie neclc. Division into two triangles by sterno- mastoid. Hollows. Objects in middle line of neck: hyoid bone. thyroid cartilage, thyro-hyoid interval, cricoid cartilage, crico- thyroid interval, and supra- sternal depression. Dissection of the platysnia. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Positio7i. For the dissection of this part, the neck is supported on a block ot a moderate lieight, the chin drawn up so as to put the parts on the stretch and the shoukler depressed as much as the work that is being done on the axilla will allow, and the face should be turned to the opposite side. Siirface Marldng. The side of the neck has a somewhat irregularly quadrilateral outline, and is limited in the following way :—Below is the prominence of the clavicle ; and above is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front, the boundary is the middle line of the neck between the chin and sternum ; and behind, a line from the occiput to the acromial end of the clavicle. The part thus included is divided into two triangular spaces (atiterior and foslerior) by the diagonal prominence of the stenio-mastoid muscle (fig. 209). And in consequence of the position of that muscle the base of the anterior triangle is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum; while the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno-mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels; and behind the muscle, just above the clavicle, is another hollow,' the supraclavicular fossa, which indicates the position of the subclavian artery. Along the front of the neck the following parts can be recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the chin, in the retiring angle formed by the outline of the front of the neck, the body of the hyoid bone may be felt, with its large cornu extending backwards on each side. Below this is the prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami, which is more marked in the male sex ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding with the thyro-hyoid membrane. Below the thyroid is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico-thyroid membrane. Immediately above the sternum, and bounded on each side by the prominent sterno-mastoid muscle, is a narrow depression—supra- sternal fossa, the depth of which is much increased in emaciated persons, and in it the tube of the trachea can be recognised. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be felt by the side of the air-tube. Direction. As it is necessary for the liberation of the u]iper limb to have an early dissection of the posterior part of the neck, the student should lay l)are now only the part behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin from the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the sterno-mastoid muscle from tlie tip of the mastoid process to the clavicle one inch external to itsTHE PLATYSMA MYOIDKS. articulation with the stenuuu ; fioin the lower end of this make another cut outwards along the clavicle as far as the acro.niou and rellect the piece of skin backwards towards the trapezius muscle, i he superficial fascia, which will then be brought into view, contains the platysnia ; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous layer from the surface of the fibres. Anterior belly of digastric. Posterior belly of digastric. Anterior bnlly of omo-liyoid. Supraclavicular triangle Posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. Fig. 209.—Diaqraji of the Tihanqles of the Neck. The ANTERIOR TRIANGLE is made up of— 1. The sub-maxillary triangle. 2. The carotid triangle. 3. The muscular triangle. The POSTERIOR TRIANGLE is made up of— 1. The occipital triangle. 2. The supraclavicular triangle. The PLATTSMA siYoiDES is a thin subcutaneous muscular Layer, which is now seen only in its posterior half. It is placed across the side of the neck, and extends from the shoulder to the face. Its fleshy fibres take origin from the skin and subcutaneous tissue, over the clavicle and acromion, as wirll as from that covering tlie highest parts of the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; ascending through the neck, the fibres are inserted into the jaw and the angle of the mouth. Platysnia miiselo arises at shoulder; inserted into jawDISSECTION OF THE NECK. covers triangle ; Dissection. External jugular vein cresses side of neck to subclavian. Cervical fascia. Part behind sterno- mastoid muscle sends a process around omo-hyoid. The lower part of the muscle is more c]o.sely united to the skin than tlie u]iper, and coveivi the e.xlernal jugular vein as well a.s the lower part of the posterior triangle. At fir.st the fibres of the muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength a.s they ascend. The oblique ilirection of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the incision is to be so made as to divide them transver.sely. Tlie action will be found with the de.scription of the remainder of the mu.scle (p. 579). Dissection. The platysma is to be cut across near the clavicle, and to lie reflected forwards as far as the incision over the sterno- mastoid muscle, but it is to be left attached at that spot. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck, and of the external jugular vein, with the superficial descend- ing branches of the cervical plexus, wliich are close beneath the platysma, and which he should dissect out. The EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN (fig. 210,«p. 576) begins just beliind the angle of the jaw by the union of the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary with the posterior articular vein (fig. 211, p. 582). Descending beneath the jilatysraa to the lower part of the neck, it there pierces the deep cervical fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will be marked by a line from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. Beyond the sterno-mastoid muscle the vein is dilated, and the swollen part {sinus) is limited by two pairs of valves,—one being situate below at the mouth of the vein, and the other near the muscle. Small superficial branches join the vein, and an ofltset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size and the height at which it crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are ^'ery uncertain. The DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA, like the aponeuroses in other regions of the body, consists of a superficial layer which surrounds the neck continuously, and of processes that are prolonged inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane encases the sterno- mastoid, and has a difl'erent disposition before and behind that muscle. As now seen passing backwards from the muscle, the fascia continues over the po.sterior triangular space, and encloses the trapezius in its progress to the spines of the vertebra. At the lower part of the neck it is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein and the cutaneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed near the cla^'icle, a deep jirocess may be observed surrounding the omo-hyoid muscle, and passing downwards behind the clavicle, to be fixed at the back of that bone, and the anterior end of the first rib. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. ti-?angu?ar This space (fig. 210), having the form and j)osition before noted space of 13 about eight inches in length. It contains the cervical and brachial the neck. ° °THE I'OSTKllIOK TIUANCIULAU SPACE, with the portion of the suhehivi.n artery and some 57t) plexuses, ■""BL^ctiir'lv Uie '1:^- the cerv.a, faseia and .he fat between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius museles, the posterun- trian.de of the neck will be displayed. In the execut.on o tins somewhat dilHcult task the .student should proceed cautiously, to avoid iniurincr the numerous nerves and vessels m the space. Seek tirst the small on,o-hyoid muscle (tig 210^, winch crosses Vu,a^^^^^^_ the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, '""l; into two smaller triangles, occipital and supra clavuular (lig. 20J). Close to or beneath the upper border of the muscle lie the slender nerve and vessels to it : the nerve is derived from the ansa hypoglossi, and the artery from the suprascapular Above Uie omo-hyoid muscle will be found the branches of the Nerves cervical plexus, together with the spinal accessory nerve ; the lattei „,no-i.yoid; will be recognised bv its piercing the .sterno-iiux.stoid muscle 1 he .M-eater number of the branches of the cervh.'al plexus descend to the shonhler ; but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoi.l find the large subclavian artery and the vessels brachial i>lexus, which have a deep position, and run downwards and outwards. Al.so the following vessels and nerve are to be further cleaned, viz., the suprascapular ve.s.sels behind the clavicle ; the transverse cervical vessel, which is higher m the neck, taking an outward direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle ; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoid. i • i ,^ .. Underneath the trapezius, where it is att^iched to the clavicle ^^..^^^ define the uppermost digitation of the serratus magniLS muscle ; and behind the brachial idexus, towards the lower part of the space, the mid.lle scalenus muscle appears. Through the scalenus isstte two .ml nen.es muscular nerves ; one, the long thoracic, formed by two or three seulenus. roots, for the .serratus magnus ; the other smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the spare. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- Bou.ulunes. mastoid mu.scle ('), and behind by the trapezius (-i). Its ba.sc corre- .sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its floor are several muscles, which are placed in the following order from above downwards, viz., splenius capitis, levator, anguli scapulce ("), and middle scalenus {') ; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, lies the ujiper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already examined, viz., the skin and siiperlicial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or two-thirds, and the deep fascia. The small oinodiyoid muscle (") cros.ses the space near the clavicle, is divide,! so as to divide it into two, a lower or supraclavicular triangle, and Jj^y-™"" an upper or occipital (tig. 209). The supraclavicular triangle is the smaller, and contains the sub-576 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. claviun artery. It is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid, above by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and below by the clavicle. Fig. 210.—Part op the Posterior ptaied, but thu student shod THE Head, so as to lay bare 1. Sterno-mastoid. 2. Trapezius. 3. Posterior belly of omo-Lyoid. 4. Anterior scalenus, with the ffhrenic nerve on it, exposed by the shrinliiMg of the sterno-ujastoid. 5. Middle scalenus. 6. Levator aoguli scapulee. Tkianqle of the Neck is here dis- ld carry the dissection as high as the whole of that space. 7. Third part of subclavian artery. 8. External jugular vein joining the subclavian below. 9. Brachial plexus. 10. Spinal accessory nerve. (Blaudin's Surgical Anatomy.) Extent or the space. Tlii.s space measures commonly about two inches from before backwards, and about one inch from above downwards at its base. Trunks of Crossing the area of this space, rather above the level of the clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery (fig. 210, ') which vessels and nerves.POSITION OF THK SUBCLAVIAN VESSELS. issues from beneath tlie anterior scalenus muscle, and is direclol over the first rib to the axilla. In the ordinary condition of the vessel the companion subclavian vein is seldom seen, owing to its being placed lower down behind the clavicle. Above the artcrj' imd their are the large cords of the brachial jilexus (°), which accompany the position, ve.ssel, and become closely applied to it beneath the clavicle. Behind tlio artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle ("). And below the vessel is the first rib. Along the lower boundarj'' of the space, and rather beneath the Blanches clavicle, lie the suprascapular vessels ; and crossing the upper angle, ^ at the meeting of the onio-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the transverse cervical ve.ssels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein ('), which descends over (seldom under) the omo-hyoid, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this region the vein receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm-. The length of this .space depends mainly upon the extent of the Variations attachment of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles to the ofthespace, clavicle : in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of that lione, leaving but a small interval between them ; and occa.sioiially they meet, -so as to cover the suliclavian artery altogether. The .space also varies in height according to the ])o.sition of the omo-hyoid, for this muscle sometimes lies close to, or even arises from the clavicle, while'on-ilJe other hand, it maybe distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies naturally ; and in a short thick neck aisointlie with a [irominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface natural''"* than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth may be altered much more by change in the position of the clavicle, as the shoulder is carried forwards or backwards. And lastly, the artery and may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards "'t''"-''"'- the arm and .shouhler, as the collar-bone can be raised aliove the level of the omo-hyoid muscle. The position of the subclavian artery itself is also subject to Departnre variation, for the vessel may be one inch and a half above the oniTnary clavicle, or at any jjoint intermediate between this and the bone; state of the therefore the drawing down of the shoulder, so ;is to expose the "l^^^j^^ ve.ssel as much as jjossible, is an important iJreliminary in opera- branches, tions to reach the subclavian artery in this space. In the typical condition there is not any branch arising from the trunk in this part of its course ; but the po.sterior scapular artery (fig. 210) is frequently gi\'en off beyond the scalenus anticus, and sometimes there is more than one branch. The subclavian vein occasionally rises upwards as high as the Position of artery; or in some rare instance.s, it even lies with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain ; and the branches connected with its lower end often form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. D.A, p pDISSECTION OF TRK NEOK. 578 Occipit 111 triangle contains nerves and lympliaties also spinal ac(;essoi'y nerve. Nerves of the eervicnl plexus that ascend, viz.— Small occipital. Great auricnlar .supplies facial, anricular, and mastoid branches. Superlicial cervical nerve. Nerves that descend are nsnally three b.'iinclics. The occipital triangle is harger than the supraclavicular. Its boundaries in front and behind are the stemo-nnustoid and the trapezius, and below the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cervical plexus ; and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along the stemo- mastoid nuiscle. The spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across this interval from the sterno-mastoid muscle, which it pierces, to the under surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place between it and the .spinal nerves in the .space. Superficial Branchei? of the Cervical Plexu.s. These nerves emerge from beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle of its hinder border, and are thence directed both upwards and downwards. The ASCENDING SET (fig. 210) are three in number. Viz., small occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. The small occipital nerve (fig. 20.5, p. 562) comes from the second, and in most cases also from the third cervical nerves, and is directed upwards to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It perforates the fascia near the skull, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve, as already seen. Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the back of the head. The great auricular nerve (fig. 205) is derived from the second and third cervical nerves. Perforating the deep fa.scia at the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is directed upwards between the platysma towards the lobule of the ear, and ends in the following branches :— The facial branches are sent forwards to the integuments over the jiarotid, and a few slender filaments pass into the gland to join the facial nerve. The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly distributed on its cranial aspect, but one or more reach the lower part of the outer surface. On the pinna they communicate with branches furnished from the facial and pneumo-gastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the skin over the mastoid j)rocess, where it joins the posterior aivricular In-anch of the facial nerve. The superficial cervical nerve (fig. 205, '■*) arises from the cervical plexus in common with the preceding, and turns forward round the sterno-mastoid muscle aliout the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangle. There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. The descending set of branches (fig. 210) are derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the triangular sjiace. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three near the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its inner end; the middle branch {clavicular) lies about the middle of579 FRONT OF THE NKOK. that bone ; and tlie external {arromial) turns nwv tlu^ claviculiir attachment of the trapezius to the acroniinn. All are disti'ilmteil tn |-,he skin of the chest and shoulder. Derived from the descending set are one or two pusterior cutaneous Posterior nerres of the ned; which ramify in the integunieni covering the el,tii',"'o,|s. trapezius above the scapula. The lyniphatic glands lying along the sterno-mastoid (glanduUu Lymiiiiaiiu concateiiatfc) are some of the deep cervical c/lands, and are continuous 7'!,"."^''^"' through the lower part of the posterior triangular space with the glands of the axilla. A chain of superficial cervical filands accom- panies the external jugular vein ; and close to the skull, over the apex of the jjosterior triangular space, are one or two small sub- occipital glands ; while farther forwards, resting on the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, there are two or three small mastoid glands. FRONT OP THE NECK. Directions. Having displayed tlie chief structuies in the posterior triangle, the student will expose those in the anterior. Dissection. The skin over the front of the neck is to be turned forwards to the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial to r.ii.si; fat, containing very fine offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. To define the platysma muscle, remove the fat which covers it, to siiow carrying the knife downwards and liackwards in the direction of '''"'J'"'""- the fleshy fibres. Platysma myoides. The anterior part of the platysma, viz.. Anterior from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower iaw, covers the greater i';"} °^ ... 11 platy.sniji; portion ot the anterior triangular space. At the base of the jaw it i„.sertion is iHS«r/erf between the symphysis and the inasseter muscle; while into,jiiw. other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joining the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or even to the cheek-bone. The fil)res have the same aj^pearance in this as in the posterior Crossing of half of the muscle, but they are rather stronger. Below the chin the inner fibres of op]iosite muscles frequently cross for a short distance, but those of them which are superficial do not always belong to the same side in different bodies. Action. The hinder part of this muscle draws tlie corner of t he Uso on mouth downwards and outwards ; the fore ])art is used in swallow- ing, and carries forwards the skin of the u]iper part of the neck, '[J f™"""- thus facilitating the upward movement of the larynx. AVhen the muscle contracts forcibly, the skin of the upper jiavt of the chest and shoulder is also raised. Dissection. Raise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and uis.section. di.ssect out beneath it the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cervical branch of the facial nerve. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck, and tlie anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL NERVE has just been traced from its Snperiinni origin in the cervical plexus to its position on the deep fascia of tlie P P 2580 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ii.sceiKliiig, descouiliiif; branch. Brancli of facial iiei've to the iiecl;. Dissection. Cervical fascia in front of stemo- mastoid. Intermus- cular .strata. neclc. Beneath the platysma it divide.? into an njDper and a lower hranc'h :—■ The upjicr branch ijerl'orate.s the platsyma, and ends in the skin over the anterior triangle, extending about half way down the neck. While heneath the platysma this liranch joins the facial nerve. The loiver branch likewise passes through the platysma, and is distributed to the integuments below the preceding, reaching as low a.s the sternum. The INFEAMAXILLARY BRANCH OP THE FACIAL NERVE (p. .564) pierces the deep cervical fascia, and divides into slender offsets which pass forwards beneath the platysma, and form arches across the .side of the neck (fig. 205), reaching as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platj^sma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the muscle there is a communication between this branch of the facial and the upper division of the superficial cervical nerve. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the middle, and throw the ends up and down. Afterwards the super- ficial nerves of the front of the neck may be divided in a line with the angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may be cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cervical fascia iu front of the sterno- inastoid is stronger than that over the posterior triangle, and has the following arrangements. Above, it is fixed to the base of the lower jaw, and is continued over the parotid gland to the zygoma. A thickened baud passes backwards from the angle of the jaw to the sheath of the sterno-mastoid, and holds forwards the anterior border of that muscle. Above this, a deep process is .sent inwards from the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw, between the parotid and submaxillary glands, to the styloid pi-oce.5s, giving rise to the stylo^axillary ligament. In front, the fascia is attached to the body of the hyoid bone ; and below, to the sternum. Its lower part forms a dense white membrane, which near the manubrium becomes divided into two layers, one passing in front and the other behind that bone, so as to enclose a small space above it containing a little fat and the transverse branch of communication between the anterior jugular veins. Layers of the membrane are prolonged l.ietween the muscles ; and that beneath the sterno-mastoid is continuous with the .sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these, beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. anterior triangular space. Anterior This space (fig. 211, p. 582) contains the carotid vessel.^ and their triangular ij,.a,iehes, with many nerves ; and it corresponds with the hollow on the surface of the neck in frnni of the sterno-mastoid muscle.CONTENTS OF THE ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACK. S81 Dissection. To .lefiue the anterior triangular space an.l it« Oij-c^^^^^^^^ contents, take away the deep fascia of the neck and the suhjacent t,i„„gie. fat, but withont injuring or displacing tlie several parts. First clean the surface of the muscles below the hyoid bone, leaving untouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into which the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superticial one (external carotid), the branches of which are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. lu removing the sheath from the vessels, as they appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the «;;;*J;j"!5i- di.ssector should be careful of tlie small descending branch ot the hypoglo.ssal nerve on the surface of the artery. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and internal jugular vein) will be found the pneiimogastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the svmpathetic nerve. ' Clean the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the '^;>;;,^^.^,.^^ space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the nerves, hyoid bone (fig. 209, p. 573), and. beneath them look for several nerves. Thus, crossing the carotid arteries just below the digastric is the hypoglossal nerve, which gives off its descending branch in front of the artery, and further forwards a smaller offset to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Under coyer of the muscles, and taking a similar direction between tifff two carotid arteries, are the glosso- pharyngeal nerve and the'. stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Directed HpimU^^^ downwards and backwards front beneath the same muscles to the ' sterno-nuustoid is the spinal accessory nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and J^'^l^;!*!™' the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the laryn.x, with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the )ja.se of the jaw ; CMran^^Uiml, and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid t,';'',„yio. muscle, the student will e.xpose the small branch of nerve to that ''yoW. muscle with the submental branch of the facial artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process has been already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space (fig. 211). Behind, is the sterno-mastoid lioun.lui-ies. muscle ; and in front, the boundary is formed by a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, are the lower jaw, the skull, and the ear; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin, the superficial fascia with the platysnia, the deep fascia, and the ramifications of the facial and superficial cervical nerves, together with the anterior jugular vein. Muscles in the svace. In the area of the triangular interval, as Conients c.f it is above defined, are seen the larynx and pharynx in part, ami many mascles converging towards the hyoid bone, some being above and .some below il. Below are the depressors of that bone, viz., onio-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyro-hyoid (~ to ') ; and alioveDISSECTION OF THE NKCK. 682 Ciirutid iirtery in siJiice: courso : are the elevator muscles, viz., niylo-liyoici, digastric, and stylo-l.yoid Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are two of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Vessels in the space. Tlie carotid 'blood ve.^sd.s and the internal jugular vein («an<17) occupy the hinder and deeper part of the space along the sideof the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and tJmr course would be Fig. 211.—Anterior Triangular Space of tub Neck (Quain's " Arteries "). 1. Steruo-mastoid. 6. Common carotid artery tlivid- 2. Sterno-liyoid. ing. 3. Anterior belly of omo-Iiyoid. 7. Internal jugular vein. 4. Tliyro-hyoi<l. 8. External jugular vein. In the original drawing the sterno-mastoid is i)ai-tly cut through. marked on the ji)(?/fta'hyn line from the sterno-claviciilar arlicuhition to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the ma.^toid coverings; process. As high as the level of the cricoid cartilage they are buried beneath the depressor rau.scles of the hyoid bone ; but beyond that spot they are covered l)y the su])erricial layers over the space, and by the stenio-n.astoid muscle which, before it is displaced, conceals ♦,he \ essels as far as the parotid gland.CONTEKTS OF THF ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR Sl'AC'K. :,S3 For a .short distance after its exit from beneath the depressor b.m.xut.on. muscles of the hyoid bone, the common carotid artery vema.ns a single tnmk ; but opposite, or a little above, the upper border of the thw-oid cartilaye it divides into two large vesse s, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these ar enes are continued onwards beneath the digastric and stylo-bj'oul muscles to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid proce.^s. At first the trunks lie side by side, the ves.sel destim-a toi uic two trunks internal parts of the head (internal carotid) being the posterior ol to o„o the two ; but above the digastric muscle it becomes deeper than the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the neck and the outer part of the head, viz B.,u>chc». some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear ; and others upwards to the head. But the common carotid does not always divide as here said. t-'-'^R-J^f For the point of branching of the ve.ssel may be moved from™ opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or downwards, to that the trunk may remain undivided till it 18 beyond the hyoid bone, or it may end opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trunk (though very rarely) furnishing oflsets to the neck and head. i„,rni „- 111 close coiit^ict with the outer side of both the common ami the internal carotid arterv, and encased in a sheath of fa.scia with them, is the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches m the neck corresponding to some (jf the branches of the superHcial artery. In some bodies the vein covers the artery ; and the branches i;-t,on joining it above may form a kind of plexus over the upper end of the common Ciirotid. n,.,v,.< with Nerves in the space. In connection with the large vessels are tiie the artorius following nerves with a longitudinal direction ;—On the surface of , , , the common carotid artery, and most frefiuenlly within the sheath, lies /.^-J the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve (descendens cervicis) : posteriorly between the artery and jugular vein is the piieumo-i> gastric nerve ; and behind the .sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer side of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a°short distance, until it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. Several nerves are placed across the vesselsthus, directed '^'j;;',,;;™^'^'"^ iransverselv over the two carotids, so as to form an arch below the ^ -, digastric nuuscle, is the hypoglossal nerve giving ofl' its descending / W branch. Appearing on the inner side of the carotid arteries, clase 1- to the base of tlie space, is the glo.sso-pharyngeal nerve, which courses forwards between them. To the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight ; while a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the i-xternal laryngeal branch of that nerve. Glands in the space. Two large glandular bodies, the submaxil- "iji^J'ts^:^ lary (tig. 213,", p. 589) and thyroid ('-), have their seats in this J",.^"'''^'"IJISSKCTION OF THK NECK. o84 triangular space of tl,e neck. Tl>. «„Lnmxilkry gland i.s placed altogc her m front of the vessels, and is partly concealed hy Ite jaw; beneath it, on the surface of the mylo-livoid is the LuuU a..u.,... nerve to that n.uscle, .vith the .ub.ental iil tht s^^;t!- lie thyroid cartilage, between it and the common caroti.l artery, les lie thyroid body beneath the sterno-fhyroid muscle; in the tLinale this body is more largely developed than in the male w I'l r T"' f ^'■"'■'^ ^^'"-^ disturbed, ^ ould be the parotid gland, wedged into the hollow between the jaw and the mastoid process, and projecting somewhat below the level of the jaw. iaf"'' r ^^"•'^l lyi"Pl'^'tic glands, belonging to the deep cervical group ^ he along the internal jugular vein, under cover of the sterno- mastoid muscle ; and another set of smaller glands {sabmllary lymphatic glands) is placed below the base of the jaw. Directions. The student has now to proceed with the exaiiiina- tion of the individual parts that ha\-e been referred to in the triangular spaces. iu"uiar''vPin P t,'-'™^^^^ JUGULAR VEIN. This Vein lies near the middle line of the neck, and its size is dependent upon the degree of develop- ment of the external jugular. Beginning in some small branche.s l)eIow the chm, the vein descends to the sternum, and then bends outwards beneath the sterno-niastoid muscle, to open into the external jugular, or into the subclavian vein.' In the neck the joins anterior and external jugular veins communicate. There are two Jugular. anterior jugular vein.s, one for each side, though one is u.sually larger than the other ; and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch (tig. 171, p. 467). In many sulijects the lower jjart of the anterior jugular ^'ein is joined Ly a considerable branch which runs downwards, along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the facial vein. masTokl a ^^^^ STERNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID MUSCLE (tig. 211,') forms the SUpei- muscie fi'-'ial prominence of the side of the neck. It is narrower in the centre than at the ends, and arises below by two heads of origin oriai.''ai ''^'^"^^ '■'^''^ separated by an elongated inten-al. The inner,°or stenuiijianri eternal, head is fixed by a narrow tendon to the anterior surface of cia;icie, the first^ piece of the sternum ; and the outer, or clavicular, has a wide fleshy attachment to the inner third of the clavicle. From this origin the heads are directed upwards, the sternal 2)ass- ing backwards, and the clavicular almost \-ertically, and join about tionar"'^' "'iddle of the neck in a flattened belly. Near the skull the skull: muscle ends in a broad tendon, which is inserted into the mastoid process at its outer aapect from tip to base, and by a thin aponeu- rosis into a rough surface behind that jnocess, and into the outer part of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, position to The muscle divides the lateral surface of the neck into the other i«rts; two main triangular spaces. On its cutaiK-ous a.spect it is covered by the integuments, the platysma, and the dee]) fascia, and is crossed by the external jugular vein, and by the greatTltK 1NK1;.\-[IV(M I) Ml'SCIJOS. .185 aiiric/ular and suiieilicial cervical iicrvcs. IT the luiisclc lie cut tlirousb below and raised, it will lie seen lo lie ou the luUowiiig Ytann :—The clavicular origin is superlicial to the anterior scalenus and onio-hyoid muscles, the transverse cervical and siiprascaiiular arteries, and the phrenic nerve. The sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and tlie conininn carotid artery witli its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the niu.scle is |)laced over the cervical plexu.s, the middle scalenus, and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skidl on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital artery, and part of the jiarotid gland. The spinal accessory ner\ e jierforates the muscular fibres about the junction of the ujiper and noddle thirds. Action. Both muscles acting bend the cervical part of the spine, usu. carrying the head forwards ; Viut one muscle will turn the face to the opposite side. In conjunction with other muscles attached to the mastoid process, one slerno-mastoid will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two niu.scles will assist in elevating the sternum. The OMO-HVOll) muscIjK crosses beneath the sterno-mastoid, and ULnu-liyoi'l consists of two Hesliy bellies unitAnl by a small intermediate tendon. The ori(iin of the muscle from the scapula, and the relations of i'"-' srapula, the ])osterior belly have been studied in the dissection of tlie back (p. 522), From the intervening tendon the anterior lleshy mihI cthIs ui, beUy (lig. 211,-)is directed upwards along the outer border of''J'""''""""^ ■ the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower border of the liody of the hyoid bone, close to the great cornu. The anterior belly is in cont;ict with the fascia, after escaping rdaiioiis; from lieneuth the sterno-nuistoid, and rests on the steruo-tliyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. This part of the nutscle crosses the carotid vessels on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Action. The omo-hyoid mu.scle depresses and tends to draw use. Ijackwards the hyoid bone. The STEENO-HYoiD JICSCLE (fig. 211, ') is a Hat thin band nearer au-nw- the nuddle line than the preceding. It ame.s from the inner end [ij'I^sdf: of the clavicle at its posterior aspect, from the Iiack of the manubrium and of the cartilage of the first rib. From this origin it ascends to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, internal to the jireceding muscle. Its fibres are often interrupted near the clavicle by a tendinous intersection. One surface is covered by the sterno-niastoid and the fascia, iviiitiuns; When the muscle is divided and turneil aside, the deep surface will be found to rest on the sterno-thyroid, the thyrodiyoid, and the thyroid cartilage. The right and left niu.scles are separated by an interval which is wider below than above. Action. It draws the liyoid bone downwar<ls after swallowing ; use and in labm-ious respiration it will aid in raising the sternum. The .STEUNU-Tlivuoli) MUSCLE is broader and shorter tlian the .SI.tuu- steruo-hyoid, beneath which it- lies. It arises from the po.sterior ]m,^[.]^; surfaces of the sternum and the carlihige of the lirst rib below theDISSECTION OF THE NECK. roliilioiis; Thyro- hyoid muscle: Thyioit] Ijody consists of t,wo lobes and a cross l)iece. Relations and extent of lobes. Middle lobe or pyramid. Accessory glands. ateniu-hyoid, and is inaeded into the oT)lique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it meets the tliyro-liyoid muscle. The inner border touches its I'ellow below, while the outer reaches over the carotid artery. The superficial surface is for the most part covered by the preceding hyoid muscle.s ; and the deep surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the traclieii, the larynx, and the thyroid body. A transverse, tendinous line frequently crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to draw domiwards the larynx after deglutition, but in conjunction -with the following muscle it can also act on the hyoid bone. Like the sterno-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THYRo-HYOiD MUSCLE (fig. 211, *)forms a continuation of the sterno-thyroid. Arisimj from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage, the fibres ascend to the anterior half of the great cornu, and the outer pait of the body of the hyoid bone. On the muscle lie the omo-hyoid and the sterno-hyoid ; and beneath it are the sujjerior laryngeal nerve and vessels. Action. It draws up the larynx towards the hyoid bone, as in swallowing. The sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid together fix the thyroid cartilage for the action of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Dissection. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles should I now Ije raised and the thyroid gland cleaned as it overlies the larynx and trachea. The muscles should not be divided but should be rendered slack for the pui'pose required by bending the neck for- ward. Care should be taken not to injure the vessels of the gland, and the inferior thyroid vein should he cletmed as it runs down the front of the trachea. The THYROID BODY (fig. 212 and fig. 213,13, p. 589) is a soft reddish mass, which embraces the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lateral lobes, united by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe. The connecting piece, from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed o\&v the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is interposed between the windpipe with the larynx and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies ; but usually it reaches a-s high as the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper border of the thyroid body, a conical jirocess, known as the ■pyramid, often ascends towards the hyoid bone, to which it is attached by a fibrous band. The pyramid genendly springs from the inner part of one of the lateral lobes, seldom from the isthmus ; and it is sonletimes connected to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator (jlunduloi thijroidcm. Detached portions of587 THE THYROID BODY. glaiicliJar sul)staiice, or accessory thyroid glands, are not uiifreciueutly found between the main body and the hyoid bone. The thyvoid bodv is of a bi^ownish red or purple hue, is granular in texture, and weighs from one to two ounces. It is larger in the Weight ...d woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid' VL-Uowish fluid escapes. It has not any excretory tube or duct. No cU.ct. The arteries of the tln-roid body are two on each side-superior Artenes: and inferior thvroid—and they will be subsecpienlly examined. The branches of the external carotids (superior thyroid) ramify chietly .sui.enor, Les.ser coriui. l''lG. 212. -DlAGKAM OF TIIK ThYROID (jLANI) ANU NeIGHBUURINQ PaKTS. on the anterior aspect: while those from the subclavians (inferior inferior, thyroid) pierce the deep surface of the mass. Occasionally there is a third branch (art. thyroidea ima) which amUsome-^ arises from the innominate artery in the thorax, and ascending in tjlyroid."*^ front of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The reins are large and numerous ; they are superior, middle, Vein.s. and inferior on each side. The first two enter the internal iui'ular vein. The inferior thyroid veins issue from the lower part inferior, JO J 1 n • 1 form 8t of the thyroid body, and descend on the trachea, forming a plexus ^^^^^^ „„ ou that tube beneath the stemo-thyroid niuscle.s, and finally enter trachea. the innominate veins by one or two trunks (tig. 171, p. 467).DISSECTION OK THE NECK. 588 of the subcliiviiin iirteiy ami its branches; Directions. Tlie Teniaining parts included in tliis section are llic !~caleui nuiscles and the subclavian blood-vessels, with tlie cervical nerves and the carotid blood-vessels. 'Tlie student may examine tliL'ui in the order here given. iJissocti.m Dissection (fig. 213). The sterno-mastoid is to be cut and the fat and fascia taken away from the lower part of tlie neck so as to prepare the scaleni muscles with the subclavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dissection the anterior scalenus muscle ^iU be seen ascending from the first rib to the lower cervical vertebra;, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in front of it, the latter crossing it near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery on the inner side of the scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its branches, but also of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which course over and along it from the neck to the chest. This dissec- tion will be facilitated by the removal of the inner part of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general easily found, exce])t the siiperioi' intercostal, which is to be sought in the thorax in front of the neck of the first rib. On, or near, the branch (inferior thyroid) ascending behind the carotid sheath to the thyroid gland, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; and the dissector should follow downwards from it a small cardiac nel-ve to tlie thorax. Only the origin and first part of the arterial branches can be now seen ; their termination is met with in other stages of -^he dissection. On the left.-side the student should seek the thoracic duct as it arches over the part of the subclavian artery internal to the scalenus ' muscle. If it is uninjected it looks like a vein, rather flattened, and smaller than a crow-quill; and it will be found about half an inch above the clavicle, crossing behind the internal jugular vein, and then bending downwards to end in the angle between the latter and the subclavian vein. The small right Ij'uiphatic duct at its entry into the veins in a '.corresponding position on the right side should also be found. The outer part of the subclavian artery having been already prejjared, let the dissector remove more conifiletely the filn-ous tissue from the nerves of the brachial plexus. From the plexus trace down the small branch to the subclavius muscle in front of the subclavian vessels, and the branches to the rhoudjoid and serratus muscles, which jjierce the middle scalenus. If it is thought necessary, the anterior scalenus may be cut through after the artery has been studied, of ei iviuai Clean the cervical ple.xus, beginning with the nerves at their lilfxus. emergence in the neck in front of the origins of the scalenus niedius and tracing them from this. Seek the muscular branches, the small twigs to join the de.scendeus cervicis from the hypo- glossal, and the roots of the phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the middle scalenus muscle be defined, as it lies beneath the cervical nerves. of tlioracic duct. Right lym- pliatic duct of bnicliial plexus ;THE SCAI,KN'E MUSCLKS. r.89 The scvLEM MUSCLES are usually described as three in nmnber N.-mbernr and are named fron. their relative position, anterior middle, and ,„„s.,,.s. . posterior pthey extend from the transverse processes of the cev^■lcal vertebra to the first and second ribs. . , ■ , The scale:.us anticus (fig. 213, >) is somewhat conical u, shape, ..*,,„s Fio. 21.3.—A ViKw OF THK Common Cakotid and Subclavian Artkkies (Qi'ain's " Artkuies"). 1. Anterior scalenus, witli tlie phrenic nerve on it. 2. Midille scalenus. 3. Levator anguli scapulno. 4. Omo-liyoid. n. Rectus capitis anticus major. 6. Common carotid artery. 7. Subclavian vein. 8. Subclavian artery. 9. Digastric muscle. 10. Parotid gland. 11. Submaxillary gland. 12. "Thyroid body. 13. Trapezius muscle, reflected. and arisen from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes origin: of the third, fourth, fifth, and si.xth cervical vertebra). It is inserted into the upper surface and inner border of the first rib, insertic surrounding the rough mark or projection on this part of the bone known as the scalene tiibercle( fig. 214, p. 590).590 THE DISSECTION OP THE NECK. rei«t,o„s, More deeply seated below than above, the muscle is concealed bv the clavicle and tlie clavicular part of the sterno-mastoi.l : the "ithveHsel.,. phrenic nerve lies along its anterior surface, and the subclavian yeui crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the -.1 n.,.vos; ,uternal jugular vein. Beneath it are the pleura, the subclavian artery, and the nerves of the brachial ple.xus. The attachment to the vertebra) corresponds with the origin of the rectus cai.itis anticus major muscle. Action. The muscle raises strongly the first rib, in consequence of Its forward atbichment. If the ril, is fi.xed,,it bends forwards the lower part of the neck. medi^': 7'-" ^^'^'^^"S (fig. 213, is larger than the anterior, and extends highest of all on the vertebra). Its oriyw is origin: Smratus niagnns (first rligitation). Fig. 214.—Thk First Rib, showing the Uppek Surpaob. from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrce except sometimes the first or the last; and it is insertion; inserted into an impression on the upper surface of the first rib, extending from the tuberosity behind to the groove for the subclavian artery in front (fig. 214). parts in In contact with the anterior surface are the suliclavian artery \vm\t- cervical nerves, together with the sterno-mastoid muscle : the posterior surAice rests on the posterior scalenus, and the deep, lateral muscles of the liack of the neck. The fibres are perforated by the nerves of the rhomboid and serratus magnus muscles. use. , Action. Usually it elevates the first rib. With the rib fixed, the cervical part of the s])ine can be inclined laterally by one muscle. Scnioniis The SCALENUS POSTICUS is inconsiderable in size, and appears poaticiis: pj^yj. jjjg preceding muscle. Arising from two or three ofTHE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. m the lower cervical transverse proces.ses, it is inserted helo^v hy a a tine... thin tendon ab.Jttt half an inch wide, into the second nh in front of the .serratus posticus superior. Zon. It acts as an elevator of the second rib ; and :ts ibres having the same direction as those of the me.Uus, it will help to iiuOiiip tlip neck in the same way. , , . "' The B~vi.v. AHTEKV (figJ 213) is the first portion of the Su-.v.an lai-e trunk which supplies the upper liml, with blood, and is thus designated from its position beneath the clavicle. On the rrghUrde .^^^^^ this vessel is derived from the bifurcation of the innominate arterv behind the stenio-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extend.s as far as the outer border of the first rib. On the left side the artery arises in the thorax from the arch of the aorta, and the fir.st part therefore has a longer course and the special points in connection with the vessel will be mentioned after a general description of the vessel in the neck has been "iven To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part ol the neck, taking an arched course over the top of the lung and the first rib, and between the scaleni mu.scles. For the purpose of .s <Uv^^l describing its numerous connections the vessel is divuled vnto three ,„„.ts. parts ■ the first extending from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus ; the second, beneath the scalenus ; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to outer edge of the first rib. r ^- . FiEST Part. Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery lies Wrt. deeply in the neck, and ascends somewhat from its origin. Between .,eaienus, the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary ■« '^""V- coverings with the platysma and the deep fascia; the sterno- mastoid" sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles; and a strong i" font oi, deep process of fascia from the inner border of the scalenus muscle. Behind and below, it rests upon the pleura, which ascends into behiml. an.l the arch formed by the vessel; and the apex of the lung separates the artery from the vertebraj and the posterior ends of the fir.st and SGConcT nljs Veins. The innominate vein lies below and rather in front of this part of the artery. The internal jugular vein crosses the arterial trunk close to the scalenus ; and underneath this vein, with the same direction, lies the vertebral vein. Much more superficial, and separated from the artery by muscles, is the deep part of the anterior jugular vein. Nerves. In front of the artery lies the pneumo-gastric nerve, near Position of to the internal jugular vein ; and inside this, the lower ciirdiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Beneath the subclavian artery on the right side winds the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric ; and one or two branches of the sympathetic nerve form loops round tllG vessel. Second Paht. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is not so deep as in ^^^'^j'^l""'' the first part of its course, and at this spot it rises highest above the scalenus, clavicle. It is covered by the integuments, platysma, and deep x,, fro„t, fascia: then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid ; and592 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. bem,,,,a,Kl lastly l.yM.e anterior sral.nus. Behind and l.el.nv tlu- artery ar. the pleura and lung. iV)sitfonor Veins. ^ ^elow the level of the artery, and separated from it In- tlie anterior scalenus niu.scle, lies the arch of the subclavian vein theTuC" ./"■'ff ^''^r'' °'' ^''^ ^''"^''""^ •1^^'^™^'^ I'^'renic nerVe. Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the large cerAacal nerves ; and the trunk formed by the last cervical and tirst dorsal nerves is behind the arterv. Ti,i,.i„art Third Part. Beyond the scalenus the artery traverses the clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (fig. 210) and i« u «.,per. nearer the surface than in the rest of its cour.se : this part of the vessel IS enclosed in a sheath of the deep cervical fascia, which it receives as it pas.ses from between the scaleni. It is coinparativelv Paru cover-superKcial in the greater part of its extent, for it is covere'd " ' only by the integuments, the platysma, and deep fascia ; but near Its termination the vessel gets under cover of the clavicle and sub- clavuis muscle, and the suprascapular vessels cross in front of it andbeneaii,. In this part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib, which is interposed between it and the pleura ; and the in.sertion of the scalenus medius is behind it. Positmiiof Veins. The siibcla\-ian vein ai^proaches the artery, not being separated by muscle, but lies commonly at a lower "level. The external jugular vein cro.sses it near the scalenus muscle ; and the suprascapular and transverse cervical tributaries, which enter the jugular, sometimes form a plexus over this j^art of the artery, arte?"'''^'\''«»'''«^^- The large nerves of the brachial plexus are mostlv above the artery, but the lowest trunk is still behind and close to it, and the small nerve to the subclavius crosses it about the middle. Superficial to the cervical fascia lie the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus. Peculiarities Peculiarities. The artery may spring as a separate trunk from of origin, (.]^g q£ ^jjg a,OTta, in which case it takes a deeper course than usual to reach the interval between the scaleni muscles, level anil The level of the arch formed by the subclavian artery in the course. j^g^j^ varies in different subjects, and occasionally the vessel pierces, or even passes in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. Branches of ORIGIN OF BRANCHES. The chief branches of the subclavian subclavian: . e ■ , r,,, , artery are lour m numlier. Three of these arise from the first part from first, of the arterial trunk :—one {yertchxtl) ascends to the head ; another [internal mammary) descends to the chest; and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards to the thyroid body and the shoulder. The,se arise commonly near the inner border of the scalenus anticus muscle, so as to leave an inter^'al at the beginning of the trunk free from offsets. This interval varies in length from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from less than a quarter of an inch to an inch and three quartei-s. In some instances the branches are scattered over the first part of the artery. second, On the right side the fourth branch {superior intercostal) arises beneath the anterior scalenus from the second jiart of the artery,THE SUliOLAVlAN ARTKKV. .'.Ki and "ives olV tl.e deep cervical branch : a small simml artery fre- Muentlv conies from this part of the trunk. On the left side the origin'of this vessel is usually from the first part of the artery, a little internal to the scalenus anticus. If there is a hrancli present on the third part ol the artery, iu,.uiur,l it is commonly the posterior scapular: if more than one, the internal mammary, the suprascapular, or the thyroid axis may be added. i r i i , -i The LEFT suBUL.wiAN ARTERY arises from the arch ot the aorta, instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends thence over the „,t,,y first rib in its cour.se to the upper lind:.. AVith this difierence on ;>:;i';;-'i:-'' the two sides in the origin of the subclavian—the one vessel s..bdavKi,> beginning opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, the other m the thorax—it is evident that the length and relations of the part of the artery on the inner .side of the .scalenus anticus must also (lifter on the two sides. First fart. The ].art of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus i.i thy n.Ht is much longer on the left than on the right side. It ascends nearly verticallv from its origin to the level of the first ril), and then bends s.nnex\-h!it abrupth' outwards over the top of the lung. On leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spuie and the .e.sopliagus, and does not rise usually .so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between the artery and the surface are structures like those on ^^^^ the right side, viz., the integuments with the platysina and deep parts; fascia,''and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. To the inner side are the tcsophagus and the thoracic duct, the latter arching forwards above this part of the artery ; and tlie pleura is in contact with the outer and posterior surfaces. Its relations lower in the chest are described in the dissection of the thorax (p. 468). Veins. The internal jugular and vertebral veins, as well as the vuins; beginning of the innominate, are in front of this ])art of the artery. iYerm? The pneunio-gastric nerve lies parallel to the ve.ssel i™|;'',i^^"' or instead of across it as on the right side; and the phrenic nerve crosses over it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac branches of the .sympathetic, which course along its inner side to the che.st. The second and third fcvrts of the artery and its brandies are u.^t of essentially the same as on the right side. Branches of the Subclavian. 1. The ccrtchnd artery^ is "enerally the first and largest branch of the subclavian, and arises „eck; from the ujiper and jiasterior jiart of the tnink. Ascending between the contiguous borders of the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the .skull Ihrougli tlie foramina in the other cervical vertebroe. Before the artery enters itsaiierturc it lies behind the internal jugular vein, and iscro.ssed by the inferior thyroid artery (fig. 213). It is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies small muscular offsets. Its farther course and distribution will be given afterwards.594 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Vortebml vuiii, 1111(1 braiiclios. Internal iiiamiiiary iirtery iu the necli. Thyroid axis divides into three. Supra- scapular artery. Transverse cervical artery: offsets, size and ending vary. Inferior thyroid artery gives laryn- geal offset, and ascciid- iiig cervical liiancli. The vertebral vein issue-s witli its accoiui}anying artery, to which it is here superficial, and descends over the subclavian ai'lery to join the iuiioininate vein ; it receives the deep cervical rein, and the branch {anterior vertebral vein) that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. 2. The internal mammanj artery leaves the lower part of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, and on the outer side of the iimouunate vein, enters the thorax between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleura. As the artery dis- appears in the chest, it is crossed superficially by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distrilnited to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy has been learnt with the dissection of those parts (see p. 440). 3. Ihijroid axis. This is a short thick trunk (fig. 213) which arises from the front of the subclavian artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches—one to the thyroid body, and two to the back of the shoulder. a. The suprascapular branch courses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius mu.scle, to the superior border of the scapula, and entering the supraspinous fossa is distributed on the dorsimi of that bone. The connections of this artery have been more fully seen in the dissection of the back. b. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle iu superficial cerviail and posterior scapular branches as already traced. In its course outwards through the posterior triangular space, this branch crosses in front of the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, but usually behind the omo-hyoid. Some small offsets are supplied by it to the parts in the posterior triangle. In many bodies the transverse cervical ve.<sel is of small size, and ends as the superficial cervical artery, while the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even from tin- second part of the subclavian trunk (fig. 213). c. The inferior thyroid artery is the largest oflset of the thyroid axis. Directed inwards with a flexuous coiu-se to the thyroid body, this branch passes beneath the common carotid arteiy and the accom- panying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle, to the side of the trachea. Behind the lateral lobe of the thyroid body it crosses either in front of or behind the recurrent nerve, and divides into branches which enter the lower part of the gland, and communicate with the superior thyroid and its fellow. Near the larynx an inferior laryntjeal branch is directed upwaixls with the nerve of the same name, and other offsets are furnished to the trachea and lesophagus, and to the neighbouring muscles. The ascending cervical branch is directed upwards between the origins of the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal off'sets enter the spinal ciinal through the intervertebral foramina.595 THE SUBCLAVIAN VESSELS. The veins correspoiuling with the branches of the lh> roid axis ^^^^^^^ hiive the following tlestiiiatioii:—those with the sui)niscapular and to ivrtorieh" transverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior tliyroid vein, lieginning in the thyroid body, descends on the front of the trachea to the innominate vein. 4. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior part of 'jjj'^ljjljl'^^'^,^, the subclavian under cover of the scalenus anticus on the right side and branch, internal to the muscle on the left. It arches over the apex of the lung, and passes downwards in front of the neck of the first rili; its distdbution to the first two intercostal spaces has l)een seen in the thorax (p. 483). Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical artery, '|™i>^^^ which passes backwards between the transverse process of the last oniiiuh. cervical vertebra and the first rib, lying internal to the two hinder scaleni muscles and the fleshy slips continued upwards from the erector spinee, to end beneath the complexus mu.scle at the posterior part of the neck as already seen (p. 532). A spinal branch is frequently given from the second part of the subclavian artery; its ofl'sets are continued into the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina. The SUBCLAVIAN VEIN is much shorter than the companion artery, ^^'^'1'^'='''^^"" reaching only from the outer edge of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus. It is a continuation of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the innominate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus. Branches. The suliclavian vein is joined at the outer edge of the {^^.^jj^.j^^.^. anterior scalenus by the external jugular vein, and sometimes also by the anterior jugular. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 215,°) ; and at the like spot on the left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic duels.' duct ends (fig. 215, 8). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian Vuives. trunk is placed outside the opening of the external jugular vein. It shoukl be borne in mind that occasionally the vein is as high P'^^^'ij"'^. in the neck as the third part of its companion artery ; and that it ' ' ' has been seen in a few instances with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The THORACIC DUCO? conveys the chyle and lymph of the greater JJj°™'='" part of the body into the venons circulation. Escaping from the thorax on the left side of the cesophagus, the duct ascends in the couira fi-om . , 1 » 1 the thorax, neck as high as the seventh cervical vertebra. At the spot men- tioned it issues from beneath the carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, and arches outwards and downwards above or over the subclavian artery, and in front of the anterior scalenus muscle and aiuijoins phrenic nerve, to open into the angle of junction of the subclavian with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the valves; veins, are present in the interior of the tube ; and a pair guards the opening into the posterior part of the vein. Frequently the f™!™^'^ upper part of the duct is divided ; and there may be separate openings into the large veins corresponding with those divisions. QQ 2DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 696 bnindics. Laif,'e lymphatic vessels from the left side of the head ajid neck, and from the left upper limli, open into the npi)ev part of the duct, and sometimes separately into the veins (i"). "^^^"^ ANTERIOH PRIMARY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES *" ■ spring from the common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. Immbei'"^^^^^^ nerves are eight in number, and are equally divided between ' the cervical and brachial plexuses ; the Tipper four being combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter ple.xus. Close to their origin they are joined by offsets of communication from the sympathetic cord. Fir.st two To this general statement some addition is needed for the first rest? nerves, the peculiarities of whicli will be noticed later. Fig. 215.—Diagram op the Ending op the Rigut Lymphatic Duct and THE Thoracic Duct in the Veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Right, and 3, left innouiinate vein. 4. Left, and 5, right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7. right subclavian vein. 8. Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic trunk joining the right lymphatic duct, as this is about to end in the subclavian vein. 10. A lymphatic trunk opening separately into the left subchivian vein. Uracliial BRACHIAL PLEXUS (Hg. 216). The lowcr four cerviciil nerves ])\p.\\xs, j^jjj ^jje larger part of the first dorsal are blended in this plexus ; irvtMierve^s. and a fasciculus is' added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the neck to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now lie seen. In the necic the nerves lie at lirst between the scaleni muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebra;, an<l afterwards in the posterior triangular space. The arrangement of the nerves in the ple.xus is as follows :— Disimsitio.i The iifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebnu, forming an of nci viw in (nt?^.'; the Seventh remains distinct and constitutesTHE liliACtrTAL PLKXrS. 597 a middle trnnk ; and the cij^htli c.rvical and lirst d-n'sal joinbanoath Thr.,. the anl.Tiov scalenus in a loinr Inntk. Near tlie onter l.onlei- ot FUI. 216.—DiAOIlAM OF TUK BllACllIAI, PleXUS. TlIK DiiTTKD LiXK InIU- CATKS THE LkVKI. AT WHICH THE OiJUDS AltH ClUlSSKl) BY THE CLAVICLE. CIV. to oviil. Fourth to eijjlitli cervical nerves. 1)1, and IHI. First anil second dorsal nerves. li, and 2i. First and second inter- costal nerves. l)lir. Phrenic nerve, rh.. Nerve to rhomboids, pt. Posterior thoracic nerve, sc. Piranch to subclavius. KIJS. Suprascapular nerve. the middle .scalenu.s these three tnink.s bifurcate, each giviiif^ oft an ^j'^jlj^..^ anterior and a jjosterior division. As they pass beneath tlie imo clavicle the anterior divisions of the upper and middle trunks join and''""' po.sterior branches.DISSKCTTON OF THE NKCK. Cords-nf llin Iimdiiiil jilcxiis. Branclioj in tlio neck an':— Norvos of scaloni anrl louKiis colli Nei'VR of rliomboids. Nerve of serratiis. Nerve of siihelaviiiR. Suprascaini- lar nerve. Offset to the phrenir. Cervical plexus. Arrange- ment of the nerves. Its offsets arc snper- llcinl; to form tlio! outer cord of the plexus : the posterior divisions of the three trunks by their union give ri.se to the posterior cord; while the large anterior division of the lower trunk is continued as the inver cord. The three cords accompany the suLclaviaii arterx-, lyiii" to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla where the nerves of the limb arise. Brandies. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. Those of the upper set end mostly in muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the scapula ; while the lower set consists of the branches to the upper limb, with which they have been described. Branches above the clavicle. Branches for the scaleni and lonffus colli muscles. These small twigs arise from the nerves close to the intervertebral foramina, and are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided. The bra,vch for the rhomboid muscles (fig. 216, rh) springs from the fifth nerve, and perforates the fibres of the scalenus medius ; it is directed backwards beneath the levator anguli scapulae to its destination. Branches are given usuallj' from this nerve to the levator anguli scapulaj. The mrve of the serratus (pt), the posterior, or long, thoracic nerve, arises from the fifth, sixth, and generally also the seventh, nerves near the intervertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scaleniLs medius lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is continued downwards behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on its axillary surface. The nerve of the suhcka'ius muscle (se) is a slender branch, which arises from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the deep surface of the muscle ; it often sends a twig to the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The suprascapular nerve (sjjs) is the largest of these branches, and arises from the trunk of the plexus foi-med by the fifth and sixth nerves. It is destined for the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and has lieen dissected with the arm. Occasionally an oftset from the fifth cervical truTik joins the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. The CERVICAL plexus, formed by the upper four cervical nerves, lies beneath the upper half of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguli sciipulaj. Each nerve entering the plexu.s, except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch, and these unite with corresponding parts of the adjacent nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From the.se arches or loops the difi'erent branches arise :— The branches are superficial and deep. Those of the superficial set are again subdivided into ascending and descending, and have been described with the ]iosterior triangular space of the neck ()). 578). The ascending liranches may be now seen to siu-ing from the union of the second and third nerves; and tlie descending, to tjike origin from the loop between the third and fourth nerves.DKEl' BRANOHKS OF THE CERVICAL Pr,KXUS. 599 The deep '.et of branches remains to he exaniinod ; they are mnacnlar and communicating, and may be arranged in an internal and an external series. ,„ - Deep set op branches of the cervical plexus. 1. Internal Un-emc SERIES The phrenic or muscular nerve of the diaphragm l^ derived from the fourth, or third and fourth nerves of the plexus ; and it may be joined bv a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliqueh" on the surface of the anterior scalenus (fio- 913) from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in°front of the internal mamn,ary artery, but behind the subclavian vein and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament ot the .sympathetic, and sometimes by an off-set of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve cros.ses over the first part ot the subclavian artery. • . The branches to the ansa cervici^ are two in number: one arises Nervos to from the second, and the other from the third cervical nerve They ..ervicis. are spoken of as the commMmranles cerricis nerves and are directed inwards over or under the internal jugular vein to join in a loop with the descendens cervicis branch (p. 602) of the hypoglossal nerve m front of the common carotid artery. The loop of the communication of the ner\-es over the carotid artery is called the ansa cervicis. Muscular branches are furnished to the rectus amicus major and B™,.el.os^to longus colli muscles from the trunks of the nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. ^ i „f Some vinsrnlnr and rmneddncj branches from the looi> between the first two nerves will be afterwards seen. , „ , t 2. External series. Muscular branches are supplied from the ^^^^^^ second nerve to the sterno-mastoid ; from the third and fourth nerves to the levator anguli scapuloe and middle scalenus ; and from the loop between the same nerves to the trapezius. Connectinrj bram'hes with the sinnal accessory nerve exist in three fj<^^^lp places First, in the sterno-ma.stoid muscle ; next, in the posterior spinal" triangular space ; and lastly, bene^ith the tmpezius. The union a.^cpssm-y. with the branches distributed to the trapezius ha.s the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the chief Vessel for Ihe supply Common of blood to the neck and head (fig. 213, «). The origin of tlie nrtory: vessel differs on the two sides, being at the lower part of the neck on the right^ side, and in the thorax on the left side. The cause and relations of the left artery in the neck are the same as tho.se on the right side, and the description serves for both. (The part of the. left common carotid artery in the thorax has been described on jjage 468.) The right ves.sel commences opi)osite the sterno-clavicular articu- origin lation at the bifurcation of the innominate artery on the right side, and prolonged uj) from the thorax on the left, and ends at, or a little above, the u])per border of the thyroid cartilage, on a level >vith the fourth cervical \ertebra, hy dividing into external andDISSECTION OF THE NECK. fiOO Nltimtioii. Parts covering it, beneatli it, ftnrt ou its sides. Position of veins, of artpries, of nerves to carotid. Brandies none. Intcninl jugnlar vein internal branches. The course of the artery is along the .side ol' the trachea and larynx, grailiially diverging from the ve.s.sel on the oi3i)o.site side in cuiiswjnence of the increa.siiig .size of llie laryn.x ; and its direction is marked hy a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a jioint midway lietween the angle of tlie jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a .sheath of cervical fascia with the internal jugular \ein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the common carotid artt^ry ha.s the following connections with the sirrrounding parts :—As high a.s the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma, and fasciaj; and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid. But from the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is more superficial, being covered only by the sterno-niastoid and the common investments of the neck. Tlie vessel rests mostly on the longus colli and scalenus anticus muscles, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, tbe ojsophagus and pharynx, and j:he thjToid body, the last over- lapping the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Veins. The large internal jugular vein lies on the outer side of the artery, being closely applied to it in the upper part of its course, but separated from it below by an interval about half an inch wide : on the left side the vein is nearer to the artery below and is even sometimes placed over it. One or two superior thyroid veins cross the upper end of the arterial trunk ; and opposite the thyroid body another small vein (middle thyroid) is directed backwards over the vessel. Near the clavicle the anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of the artery, but is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Arteries. An offset of the superior thyroid artery to the sterno- mastoid Descends over the upper part of the sheath ; and the inferior thyroid crosses behind it near the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Nerves. The descendeus cervicis branch of the hyjjoglossiil lies in front of the artery, crossing from the outer to the inner side, and is joined there by the communicating branches from the cervical plexus. The pneiuno-gastric lies within the sheath behind and between the artery and the vein. The sympathetic cord and its branches rest on the spine behind the sheath. AU the nerv&s above mentioned have a longitudinal direction ; but the inferior or recurrent laryngeal crosses obliquely inwards beneath the sheath, towards the lower end of the artery. As a rule, the common carotid artery does not furnish any collateral branch, thotigh it is very connuon for the superior thyroid to spring from its upper end. At the terminal bifurcation into the two carotids the artery is slightly bulged. The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN exteuds u])wanls to tlie base of the skull, bttt only the part of it that accompanies the common carotidTHE DIGASTRIC MUSCr,E. (iOl artery is now seen. Placed ou the outer side of tlie artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian to form the inn.inunate trunk. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close throughout, for at the lower part of the neck there is a space is do«. to between the two, in which the vagus nerve is seen crossing (on the .^^^..^.^ right side only) the .subclavian artery. Sonietimes the vein overlaps except the artery to a considerable extent. ^' °" ' The lower part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or sinus. Near its ending it becomes contracted, and is provided with a .single or double valve. . i , , In this part of its course the vein receives the superior and mauciios. middle thvroid branches. , . , Feculicu-iHes of the carotid. The origin of the artery on the right i^Werences side may be above or below the point stated. jMention has been artery" made of the dilference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that the common carotid may not be divided into two. As a very in aivisio... rare occurrence, instead of one there may be two trunks issuing from beneath the hyoid muscles. Dissection. The dissector may next trace out completely the nissceimn. trunk of the external carotid (fig. 217, p. 603), and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid, and define their origin and insertion. The DIGASTRIC MUSCLE (fig. 213, p. 589) consists of two fieshy Uia^^t;;^^ bellies, united by an intervening tendon. The posterior, the twubeiiies, larger of the two, arises from the diga.stric fossa on the inner side of "the mastoid process ; while the anterior belly is fixed to the depression by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw. From the.se attachments the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon, which is surrounded by fibres of the stylo-hyoid, and is united by an |viiic;ii ay^^ aponeurotic ex])ansion to its fellow and to the body and part of tcuion:" ' the great coniu of llie hyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at the P^^i^'™ posterior end, where it is beneath the steruo-mastoid and splenitis " "'' muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid ve.ssels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to the fore part of the hyoid bone. Along its ' lower border lie the occipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve, the former passing backwards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundary of a space between it,, tlie The muscle jaw, and the lia.se of the skull, which is subdivided into two by the spa"."*" stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are contained foi'tani the parotid gland ('"), and the vessels and nerves in connection " with it; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland ("), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the nuuscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses Use. ninuDISSKOTION OF TMK NUf'K. 002 Stylo-liyiiiil iniisrli- : uisi't t ion ; SUlTOllllds ilijiasti'ic li'iiil(ni ; ;;nrv(' in llic iiiiti'iinr IriiiiiL'lt': hnuirhc line lo li.vnid iiiiisolps IS .joinea witli cervical ncivf's. External carotid artery ; extent ; conr.se anil (lirectinn. Parts sniier- llcial to it, llial lioiic ami (ipeiis tlie nioutli. Tf llie jaw lie fixed, ilic twri liellies acl.iiii,' lo>,'eUiM' will elevittc (lie livoii] bdiie. 'J'hc sTYLo-iivoiD MUscr,K (lig. -li l, H, ]i. (i-24) is lliiii and sk-iidcr, and lies iiiiinediatLdy al>ove the jxjst.erior lielly of l.lie digiisti'ic. It iiriseis from the )i(jst(iri()r surl'iice of the styloid process near llie liasc, and is inserted info the outer part of flie liody of the hyoid l>oiie. Tlie nuiscle has the .same velation.s as the po.sterioi' bidly of the digastric ; and its Hi-sliy Klires are usually perforated by the tendon of that miis(de. Action. This mu.side elevates the hyoid bone in swallowiuL;, and with the posterior belly of the digastric, ])Tevents the lione being carried forwards by Ihe elevators. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (twelfth cranial) (fig. 224,appear.? in the anterior triangle at tlie lower edge of the digastric inttscle, \vhere it hoolcs round the occipital arteiy ; it is then directed Forwards to the tongue beneath the tendon of that muscle, and disa]i])ears in front under the niylo-hyoid. In this course the nerve jiasses over the two carotids ; and near the great cornu of the hyoid bone it also crosses the lingual artery. From this part arise the de.sceitdiug liranch, and a small muscuLtr offset to the thyro- hyoid. The dcscendeim (vrr7ci.s branch leaves the trunk of the hypoglos-sal as it turns round the occipital arteiw, and descends on the front of, or more fref|ttently within, the carotid sheath to Ijelow the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating branches of the cervical nerves so as to form a single or double loop (ansa ccrricis) with the concavity turned upwards. The descending branch gives an offset to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; and from the loop branches j)roceed to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, to the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles : sometimes anotlier offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac ner\'es.* The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 217, d) springs from the bifurcation of the common carotid opposite the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and furn'i.shes branches to the neck, and face, and the outer part of the head. From the place ol' origin it ascends in front of the ma-stoid proce.ss, and ends just bel(3W the neck of the lower jaw in the inlernal ma.xillary and su])erHcial temporal branches. Tlie artery lies at first in front of the internal carotid, but it afterwards inclines somewhat backwards and liecomes superficial to that ves.sel. Its ]iosition would be marked with suilicient accuracy by a line from Ihe front of the meatus of the ear bi the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is overlain by the ,s(erno-ma.«toid, and by the common coverings of the anterior triangular .space, viz., the skin, and ihv superficial and dee]) fa.sciiC with the platy.sma. P.ut above the levcd of a line from the mastoid ]n-oce.ss lo the hyoid ♦ I'.ntli the tlesceiiding and tlio tliyro-hyoiil l)ranclios of the liypoglos-sal arc erimijosed nf fibres whicli ]ia.ss from tlio first and .socniid cervical nerves into tiie trunk of the nerve near the base of the skull.THE EXTEHNAL CAKOTTD ARTKRY. r.03 lioiie, tlie avterv is crossed l>.v the digastric and stylo-Iiyoid muscles ; and 'higliev still it is concealed liy the parotid gland. At its he-inninti the arterv rests against the pharynx ; Imt al.ove the 1hm,..iu,i, ,i, an'^le (if the jaw il is placed over the styloid ]irocess and the stylo- Fir,. 217.—ExTKHNAi, Cahotii) and its Sdpkrpioiai, RiiANcnr.s ("Anatomy OF TIIK AUTERIES," QUAIN). (I. Common carotid. Internal jugular vein. c. Internal ("irotid. External carotid. r. Superior tliyroid. /. Lingual. (/. Facial. /(. Internal maxillary. ?'. Superficial temporal. m. Supraorbital. n. External nasal. <). Angular branch of facial. jj. Lateral nasal. /■. Superior coronary. s. Inferior coronary. /. Inferior labial. ?(. Submental artery. l.haryngeiis nius(de, which sepaiate it from the internal c'arotid. and in frnnt. In front of the upi>er part of the vessel are the ramus of the jaw and the stylo-nia.xillary ligament. I'uwx. 'There is not any comjianion vein with the '^'^^'ternal J^msjn^.^^^ carotid, as with most arteries; hut in the parotid gland the teniijoro- the artery;DISSEOTrnN OF TRR NRCK. 604 anil nerves. Its branches are anterinr, jjosterior, anil ascend- clianges in origin and in number. Branches now seen are— Superior thyroid has tliese ofl'sets ; the hyoid branch, to sterno- mastoid muscle, to larynx. to crico- thyroid menibrani!. Accompany- ing vein. ma.xilliUT \-ein lies on it, and 1.1ie anterior division of Ihi.s trunk Irwiuently runs wiLli the artery beneath tlie diga.stric niiLscle. Near the beginuiii-; it iss cro.s.sed by the facial and lingiuil veins joining the internal jugular vein. Nerves are dir(!cte(l from behind forwards o\-er and under the artery. At the lower border of the digastric the hypoglo.s.sal lie.s o\-er the vessel, and above that muscle it is cro.s.sed by the two di\'isions of the facial nerve. Three nerves lie beneath it—begin- ning below, the small external laryngeal; a little higher, the- superior laryngeal ; and near the angle of the jaw, the glcsso- pharj'ngeal. The BRANCHES of the external carotid are numerous, and are classed into anterior, imterior, and ascendiiuj sets. The anterior set comprises branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, and the face, viz., the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. In the posterior set are the occipital and posterior auricular branches. And the ascending set includes the ascending pharyngeal, .super- licial temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Besides these, the external carotid gives other branches to the neighbouring muscles and to the parotid gland. The arrangement of the branches of the carotid may be altered by their closer aggregation on the trunk. The usual number may be diminished by two or more uniting into one; or it may be increased by some of the secondary ofl'sets being transferred to the parent trunk. Directions. All the branches, except the ascending phar\-ugeal, lingual and internal maxillary, may now be examined ; but those three will be described afterwards with the regions they occupy. The SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY (e) arises near the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and passes beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to which it is dis- tributed chiefly on the anterior aspect. This arterj' is superficial in the anterior triangle, and furnishes ofl'sets to the lowest con- strictor muscle of the pharynx and to the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The hyoid hranch is very small, and runs inwards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the muscles attached to tliat bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. h. A sterno-viastoid branch descends in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to the muscle from which it fcikes its name. c. The superior laryngeal artery pierces the membi'ane between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid hro.nch is jjlaced on the membj-ane be- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and comnuuiicates with the corresponding artery of the ojiposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into the internal jugular vein.THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. n05 BRANCHES 01 The Facial Artery Oj) arises al.ove the liiif^.uil ; and is direete.l upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neek the artery passes vnider the diga-stric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and then heneatli the subniaxiUarv gland, under cover of which it makes a .sigmoid turn. Its anatomv in t.he face has been given alre^idy (pp. 557 et .s«y.). smM;i;- From the cervicai part branches are given to the pharynx, and to j,, „«-k structures below the jaw, viz. :— a The inferior or ascmdingpalatine branch ascends to the pliarynx to Ui,-, l.eneath the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossu.s and stylo-pharyn- i'''' ■ aeus muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, which it reaches by turning over the upper border of the sui)erior constrictor muscle. Its place in the palate is frequently sujiplied by an oflset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. &. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes toi.s.l, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the sxiperior constrictor mn.scle, and ends in otfsets to that body. c. aiandular branches are supplied to the submaxiHary gland from the part of the artery in contact with it. d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and myl'^./^y-;;;; courses forwards on the mylo-hyoid muscle to the anterior belly of the digastric, where it ends in oftsets : some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip ; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone, one or two perforating the mylo-hyoid and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The facial vein (p. 559) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical Facial vein, part of its course it receives branches corresponding to the offsets of the artery ; and it frequently sends a considerable branch dowiwards to join the anterior jugular vein. The Occipital Aktery .springs from the carotid opposite the Om'|1''''"' facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and iuscends to the inner side of the mastoid process. Here it turns backwards in the occipital groove of the temporal bone, passing aljove the transverse process of the atlas, and then runs between the nmls on muscles attached to the occipital bone, to become cutaneous and o'^^'l'"*-• ramify over the back of the head (p. 503). In the part of its course now exposed the artery lies beneath the digastric muscle, and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves. The occipital artery gives small branches to the surrounding n^«^''^.''|>- muscles, and one larger branch to the sterno-mastoid, which liends ; downwards over the hypoglossal and enters the muscle in company with the spinal accessory nerve : this branch frequently arises soim;times directly from the external carotid. In some bodies there i.s also a small meninyeal branch entering the skull by the jugular foramen. The ofifsets at the back of the neck are seen in the dissection of that region (p. 532). The occipital veins are two or three in number, and pass down- oci-ipiiiil wards between the mu.scles of tlie liack of the neck to enter tlie dee])606 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. I'osliii'ior auriciiliiv: a briiiiuli to tympuiiiini. Posterior iuiriculnr vein. Teniponil artery: termination branches to parotiJ, to articula- tion, and to ear; branch to face ; brancli to temporal muscle and fascia. Temporal vein. Dissection. Trachea lies in neclv and thorax: curvkal vein. They coiiimuniuate through the nui.stoic] t'oninieu with the hitei-iil siiiiis in the interior of the .skull. The Posterior Auricular Artkry is .smaller than the pre- ceding branch and take.s origin aljove the diga.stri.c muscle. Between the ear and the ma.stoid pvoce.ss, it divides into two branches for tbe ear and occiput (p. 503). A small branch (stylo-mastoid), enters the foi-ainen of the .s;ime name, and supplies the middle ear. The posterior auricular vein is of considerable size, and descends o\'er the ui)per end of the stemo-ma.stoid muscle to join the beginning of the external jugular. The Superficial Temporal Artery (i) is one of the terminal branches of the e.\ternal carotid, and in direction forms the con- tinuation of that trunk. Ascending in the parotid gland and over the posterior root of the zygoma, it divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches, which are distributed over the front and side of the head (p. 503). Before dividing the artery gives off the following branches : — a. Parotid branches are f uiiiished to the gland of the same name ; articular twigs to the articulation of the lower jaw ; and viusculav bi'anches to the masseter. b. Some anterior auricular offsets are distributed to the pinna and meatus of the external ear. c. The transverse facial branch leaves the temporal artery close to its origin, and is directed forwards oxev the masseter muscle (p. 559). On the side of the face it supplies the muscles and integuments, aud auastouioses with the facial artery. d. The middle temporal hmich pierces the temporal aponem-osis just above the zygoma, and enters the substance of the temporal muscle : it anastomoses Avith the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. e. A small orbital branch runs forwards between the layers of the temporal fascia, aud is distributed to the superficial structures near the eye, anastomosing with an offset of the lachrymal artery. The temporal vein begins on the side of the head and lies with its artery in front of the ear. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; it then receives branches correspond- ing to the other offsets of the artery ; and it ends by tmiting with the internal maxillary vein to form the temporo-maxiUary trunk. Dissection. The trachea and oesophagus in the neck are now to be cleaned, but care should be taken not to injure the recurrent laryngeal nerves or the symjsathetic nerves behind and to the inner side of the carotid sheath. The trachea, or windpipe, is continued from the laiynx to the thorax, and ends by dividuig into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends com- monly from the lower part of the sixth cervical to the lower boi-der of the fourth dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front and sides of the trachea are rounded in consequence of tlie existence of firmSDPBRFICIAI. TEMl'ORAL ARTERY. cartilaginous bands in tbosc parts o( the wall ; but at the posterior r.,,,,,. aspect the cartilages are absent, and the «-all is Hat and nien.- branous. , , , , „ . , Tiie cervical part of the tracliea is very moveable, and has the Ce.-v,™i follow-in" relative position to the surrounding parts. Covering it „n,o„„st in front w-e the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, with the deep ""'-sd.s cervical fascia: beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins ; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the a'sophagus, with the recurrent laryngeal and m-ss.Is nerves. On each side are the coiuiuon carotid artery and the thvroid body. The (ESOPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the phar>ux to the UJsoi.Iu.hus stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the lower part .;e™,>ies of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal t,,^,.,,^. vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax. Its length is about nine inches. i-".^"' In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax P where it projects to the left side of the air tube, and touches the thvroid bodv and the thoracic duct. Behind the asophagus are mid lehi- Ih'e longi coili muscles. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greater, in consequence of the projection of the cesophagus towards that side. The structure of the cesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Directiom. The lower part of the neck will now be left for some days, so that the dissector should stitch together the flaps of skin if they remain, and carefully wrap up the part and ajjply preservative. 'osiliun in Section VII THE PTBRYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and beneath ContcMts of the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the temporo-maxillary articulation. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the jaw, are the internal maxillary blood-vessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to the Diss,.ctiou. bone, has been partly laid bare in the dissection of the face. To see it more fully, the"branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should lie cut through and turned backwards, and the fascia cleaned olf the surface of the mascle. Shoidd there be any tow or cotton-wool left in the mouth let it be removed. The MASSETER (fig. 203, p. 553) rises by a Hattened tendon froni J^^l»«''^eiet the lower border of the zygomatic arch, including a small xjortion of "rigiii,''' the malar process of the superior maxilla, and by fine Ueshy fibres from the deep surfaces of the zygomatic process and the malar bone. It is inserted into the whole of the outer surface of the coronoidDISSKCTION OF THK PTERYGOID REGION. COS coii.-iist.s of two layers; muscle iieiirly siili- ciitaiieous; lies on the ,jaw; To see surface of temporal muscle. To see the iusertiou. Origin of temi)oral iimscle; insertion; relations; process mid ramus of the lower jaw, extending from the angle behind to the level of the .second molar tooth in front. The .superficial fibres arc inclined downwards and backwards, and fonii a layer that can be readily separated from the deeper portion of the muscle, in which the fibres run nearly vertically. The lower part of the masseter is covered only by the integu- ments, with the platysma and fascia ; but the upper is partly con- cealed by the parotid gland, and is crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels and branches of the facial nerve. The anterior border projects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of loose fat resembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle covers the ramus of the jaw, and the masseteric nerve and artery entering its deep surface. Action. It raises the lower jaw with the internal pterygoid in the mastication of the food. Dissection. To lay bare the temporal muscle to its insertion, the following dissection is to be made :—The temporal fascia is to be detached from the upper border of the zygomatic arch and removed from the s\rrface of the muscle. Next, the arch is to be sawn through in front and behind, so as to include all its length ; and is to be thrown down (without being cut off) with the masseter still attached to it, by separating the fibres of that muscle from the ramus of the jaw. In detaching the masseter, its nerves and vessels, which pass through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, will come into ■\'iew, and should Ije dissected out of the muscle. The surface of the temporal muscle may be then cleaned. And to expose its termination, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch to the last molar tooth, so as to include the insertion of the muscle. Before samng the bone let the student find and separate from the muscle the buccal vessels and nerve issuing from beneath it anteriorly. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised and the fat remo^•ed, in order that the lower fibres of the temporal muscle and their contiguity to the external pterygoid beneath them may be seen. The TESiroRAL muscle (fig. 218, ^) arises from the fascia covering it, and from the bones forming the irmer wall of the temporal fossa (p. 506), reaching upwards to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and downwards to the infratemporal crest on the great wing of the .sphenoid bone. From this extensive origin the fibres converge to a tendon, which appears on the outer surface of the muscle, and is imcricd into the borders and inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the front of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending downwards nearly to the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve: the last ner\ e occasionally perforates some of the fibres of the muscle. Action. All the fibres contracting, the muscle will raise the mandible and jiress it forcibly against the upper jaw. The hinder fibres acting alone can retract the lower jaw after it hiis been moved forwards by the external pterygoid.609 DISSECTION OF THE PTBRYGOIU RKGION. Dissection. For the display of tlie pterygoid i.uiscles (tig. 218), 'rodM it will be necessary to remove a pieoe of the ramus of the jaw. ,„„scle8, But the greater part of the temporal muscle is to he lirst detached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scalpel, and the deep temporal \-essels and nerves are to be sought in its fibres. A piece of the ramus of the jaw is next to be taken away by J;;;;;;,tf^°"el' sawing across the bone below the condyle, and close above the t'uejuw; dentaf foramen ; to protect the dental vessels and ner\-e in contact with its inner surface while doing this, the handle of the scalpel Fig. 218.—Superficial View of the Pterygoid Regioh (Quain's "Arteries"). 1. Temporal luuscle. 2. External pterygoid. 3. Internal pterygoid. 4. Buccinator. 5. Digastric and stylo - liyoid muscles, cut and thrown back. 6. Common carotid. 7. External carotid. 8. Internal maxillary artery pass- ing beneath the external pterygoid. may be inserted between them and the bone, and carried downwards to their entrance into the foramen. After the loose piece of bone has been removed, and the sub- t^^i^j" jacent parts freed from fat, the pterygoid muscles will appear, — the external {■) being directed backwards and outward.s to the condyle, while the internal ("), which is somewhat parallel in dii-ec- tion to the masseter, descends to the angle of the jaw. In removing the abundant fatty tissue, the student must be careful not to take away the thin internal lateral ligament, which lies on the internal pterygoid muscle beneath the ramus. PosUion of vessels. Kunning forwards over the external pterygoid ^o^^tion of muscle is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes ofl'sets D.A. B KDISSECTION OF THE PTBRY^GOID REGION. 610 Nerves. External pterygoid: insertion, relations; use of both muscles, of one muscle. Internal pterygoid: origin ; insertion ; contiguous parts; upwards and downwards: sometimes the artery is placed beneath the muscle as in fig. 218. The veins, which form a large plexus between the muscles, may Ije taken away. Position of nerves. Most of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are seen in this dissection, (fig. 219 and fig. 222, p. 616). Thus, the masseteric and posterior and middle deep temporal nerves appear between the upper border of the external pterygoid and the skull, while the buccal nerve, with the anterior deep temporal nerve, passes through the fore part of the muscle between its two heads. Issuing from beneath the lower border of the muscle are the large inferior dental and lingual nerves, the latter being the anterior of the two ; and coming out behind the condyle of the jaw is the auriculo-temporal nerve. The small posterior dental branch of the superior maxillary nerve is also to be found, lying with the artery of the same name on the hinder part of the upper jaw. The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 218, ^) is triangular in shiipe, and arises by two heads, which are separated hy an interval opposite the spheno-maxillary fossa. The upper head is the smaller, and is attached to the fore part of the zygomatic snrface of the great wing of the s^Dhenoid bone ; the lower head springs from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. From this origin the muscle runs backwards and outwards to be inserted into the hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw-bone, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the pterygoid is concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw ; and the internal maxillary artery usuallj' lies on it. Its deep surface is in contact with the internal pterygoid, the inferior maxillary nerve and its branches, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Through the interval between the heads pass the buccal and anterior deejj temporal nerves in a common stem and the internal maxillary artery, when the latter is placed beneath the muscle. The parts in contact with the borders of the external pterygoid have been enumerated above. Action. If both muscles contract, the jaw is moved directly forwards, so that the lower dental arch is placed in front of the upper ; but if one muscle act alone (say the right), the condyle of the same side is drawn forwards, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are moved obliquely to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action of the two muscles the trituration of the food is mainly effected. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 2IS,') crosses the direc- tion of the external, and is nearly parallel to the ramus of the jaw. It arises in the pterygoid fossa, mainly from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and by a small sliji from the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone and the superior maxilla in front of the pterygoid process. The fibres descend to be inserted into a rough mark on the inner side of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending from the inferior dental foramen to the angle. On the muscle are placed the inferior dental and lingual nerves, the inferior dental vessels, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw.THE TEMPORO-MAXir.LARY JOINT. (ill Its deep surface is in relation with the superior pharyngeal constrictor below, and the tensor palati above. The origin ol this muscle embraces the lower part of that of the e.xternal pterygoid. Action. It acts with the masseter in raising the mandible. TeMPORO MAXILLARY ARTICULATION (figs. 220 and 221, p. 612> This articiilalir.n is a compound joint, being forniwl by the condyle of the lower jaw and the fore part of the glenoid cavity ot the temporal bone, with an interposed disc of fibro cartilage. The bones are united by the following ligaments :— The capsule is a tliin membranous tube which is attached above to the temporal bone around the articular surface, and below to the condyle of the lower jaw, reaching farther down behind than iu front. The cavity in the interior is divided into two parts, Joint of lower jinv. Capsule of the joint. Posterior deep temporal nerve. Jliddle deep temporal nerve. Anterior deep temporal nerve. Extemal pterjgoid: Communication with facial nerve. Auriculo-temporal nerve. Chorda tympani. Lingual nerve. Inferior dental nerve. Branch to ex- ternal pterygoi<l. Lony buccal nerve. Internal pterygoid. FlO. 219.—DlAGR.\M SHOWING THE RELATIONS OF THU BbANOHES OP THE Inferior M.^.xillaiiy Nerve to the Pturvooid Muscles. upper and lower, by the fibro-cartilage ; and tlie upper portion of the capsule is wider and looser than the lower. The external lateral ligament is a thickened liand of the capsule, ^^^j;™"' composed of fibres passing from the tubercle at the root of the zygoma and the adjoining part of the outer surface of that process to the outer and posterior part of the neck of the lower jaw. The internal lateral liijament (fig. 220, i) is a long, thin, ""^m- branous band, which is not in contact with this joint. Sujieriorly ligament, it is connected to a ridge on the inner .side of the glenoid fossa, formed by the spinous process of the sphenoid and the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and iiiferiorly it is inserted into the inner margin of the dental foramen in the lower jaw. The ligament lies between the jaw and the internal pterygoid : and its origin is concealed by the external pterygoid muscle. The internal K R 2DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 612 Dissection. c'iu'lilaae ; shiiiii', and attaclr menta; iiiaxilliuy vessels, with the auriculo-teiiiporal and inferior dental nerves, pnss between the band and the laiiius of the jaw. Dissection. After the external hiteral ligament and tlie cap.sule have been examined, the interarticular tibro-earlilage will be exposed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 221). The interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 221,*) is an oval plate, elongated transversely, and thinner in the centre, where it is sometimes perforated, than at the margins. The up])er surface fits the, articular hollow and eminence of the temporal bone, being conve.x behind and concave in front ; and the lower is moulded to the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the caj)sule ; and in front the extei-nal pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular disc allows a double movement to take place in the articulation, the condyle of the jaw revolving in the socket Fig. 220.—Ligaments of' the Jaw — Inner View (Bodk- QERY AND JaOOb). 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo maxillary. Fig. 221.—A View op the Interior OF THE TEMPORO-MAXILLARr JolST (Bodrgery and Jacob). 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage : the dark intervals above and below the disc are tbe synovial cavities. formed by the fibro-cartilage, while the latter glides forwards and backwards over the temporal articular surface. Two syno. Two synovial sacs are present in the articulation—a larger one vial sacs. above, and a smaller one below the fibro cartilage, gt ,0. Another structure—the stylo^naxillary ligament (fig. 221, •^)—is maxniary described as a uniting band to the articulation. This is a process ligament. ^j, ^j^^ ^^^^^ cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder border of the ramus of the jaw ; it gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and sub- maxillary glands. Smfacosof Articular surfaces of the bones. The condyle of the jaw has a j'"' form resembling that of a part of a cylinder, with its axis directed obliquely from without inwards and somewhat backwards, and tern. Tlie upper articular surface is placed on the squamous part of porat bone.THE MOVEMENTS OF THE LOWKI! .IA\V. filS the tciiiporiil hone, and is larger than that on tiie J^iw. It includes the deep oval hollow formed hy the part of the glenoid Ibs.sii in front of the CJlaserian tissure, and the convex surface, known as the articular euiincnee, which I'oi'nis the anterior lioundary of (he hollow. Movements of the joint. The lower jaw has up an,l down, hirward and backward, and oblique movements. In depre>^svng the jaw, as in opening the mouth, the condyle J|;,»l>™;['« moves forwards till it is placed under the convexity of t-lie articuhu- how comiyle eminence ; but the interposed concave fibro-cartilage gives security to the joint. Even with this provision, a slight degree more of sudden motion mav throw the condyle off the prominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and give rise to dis- nisioc-at,,..,. location. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the ciipsule are tightened ; and the tibro-ciirtilage is drawn forwards with the condyle bv the external pterygoid muscle. AVhen the jaw is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and ^^^l^- the fibre cartilage glide liack into the glenoid fossa ; and the posterior part of the capsule is stretcheil. During the horizontal movements forwards and bachvards of the {^™'^,!;'J;J"'' jaw the condyle is placed successively opposite the front and back inineuipiit. of the temporal articular surface ; and the fibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even in dislocation. Excessive motion forwards would be prevented by the coronoid process of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch ; and the backward movement is checked by the external lateral ligament and by the meeting of the condyle with the postglenoid proce.ss of the temiHiral bone. The oblique movement is produced by the condyle of one side o^'^i^i^'^,^^^ advancing on the articular eminence, while the other remains in i,ow the glenoid fossa. If the right condyle advances, the chin moves I'rodiicetl. to the left side, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are carried obli(iuely to the left and forwards across the upper set. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. Dissection. The condyle of the jaw is next to be disarticulated |^,.'ifjf;:J:i°" and drawn forwards with the attached external pterygoid mu.scle, maxiiiai-y so as to allow the inferior maxillary nerve to be seen (tig. 222, p. 616). AVhile cutting through the joint-cjipsule, the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close beneath. On turning forwards the pterygoid mu.scle, and removing some fat and veins, the dissector will find the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. The ma.sseteric, temporal, and buccal I'l'a'iches . of the nerve should be traced to a common origin close below the foramen ovale of the si)henoid bone. The dental and lingual nerves should be cleaned beneath the muscle ; and the auriculo- temporal nerve followed forwards with care from the back of the articulation to its origin from the trunk. The small chorda tympani is to be found joining the back of the lingual nerve near the skull.DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. and iirleries. liiteinul ninxilliiiy artery: ooursc and relations: varies ill its jiosition. Branches are in tliree sets. Those be- neatli ,ja\v. Inferior dental lifs a branch to mylo-hyoid mnsole. Great meningeal artery ends in skull; but gives branch to tympanum, to meatus, The large meningeal artery and its offsets are to be sought beneath the external jiterjgoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery lies beneath that muscle, and in that case, it ami its branches are now to be cleaned. Tlie INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 218, i.s one of the terminal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, tlie interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed forwards between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the inferior dental nerve ; it then ascends over the lower portion of the external pterygoid, being jilaced lietweeu it and the temporal muscle ; and finally, it turns inwards ojjposlle the interval between the heads of the external piterygoid to gain the spheno-maxillary fossa. The course of the artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the exter- nal pterygoid ; and when that is the case, the artery reaches the spheno-maxillary I'ossa by passing between the heads of the muscle. The BRANCHES of this artery ai-e numerous, and are classed in three sets ; the first set arises beneath the jaw : the second between the muscles ; and the third in tlie spheno-maxillary fossa. Two chief branches, viz., the inferior dental and the great menin- geal, leave the internal maxillary artery in its first imrt while it is in contact with the ramus of the jaw. The INFERIOR DENTAL ARTERY descends between the internal lateral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the companion nerve ; it supplies the molar and bicusjiid teeth, and ends in an incisor branch running forwards in the bone to the incisor and canine teeth, and in a small mental branch which issues from the bone through the foramen of that name to end on the face. As the artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small mylo-hyoid branch to the muscle of that name ; this is conducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of its muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The GREAT MIDDLE MENINGEAL ARTERY is the largest branch of the internal maxillary, and arises opposite the preceding. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle, and between the roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve to the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid lione, through which it passes into the skull. It« cour.se and distribution within the cranial cavity have been already seen (p. 514). Before the artery reaches the foramen, it usually furnishes the following small branches ; but one or more of them may arise directly from the internal maxillary trunk :— a. The tympanic branch passes into the tympanum through the (jlr..serian fissure, and is distributed to the tymjianic membrane and parts within the tympanic cavity. h. A DEEP AURICULAR BRANCH usuallv arises with the former, enters the meatus through the cartilage or between that andBRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILr,ARY ARTERY. 615 the Iwne, and ramifies in tlie meatus and on the tympanic memhrane. . x.r , , C Tlie SMALL MIDDLE MKNIXOEAL BRANCH V.egUl.S near the to ton skull, and courses througli the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve : it ramifies in the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Another small branch springs from the dentvU artery or from tlie m-anch witl, internal maxillary trunk, and accompanying the lingual nerve, ends in the cheek and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The branches from the second part of the artery (between the ^^'^^ temporal and external pterygoid muscles) are distnlnited to the temporal, masseter, buccinator, and pterygoid muscles. The DEEP TE.MPORAL ARTERIES are two in number, anterior and to^ji«_..^j posterior, and ascend on the side of the skull beneath the temporal „uiscie'; muscle. The posterior anastomoses with the middle temporal branch of the superficial temporal artery ; the anterior communi- cates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery. The MASSETERIC ARTERY Is directed outwards with the nerve of toUie^^^^^ the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle, and passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the deep surface of the masseter muscle. Its liranches anastomose with the other offsets to the muscle from the external carotid trunk. The BUCCAL BRANCH quits the artery near the upper jaw, and ^ tj>|^^_ descends beneath the insertion of the temporal nniscle with its com- panion nerve : it is distributed to the buccinator muscle and other structures of the cheek, joining branches of the facial artery. The PTERYGOID BRANCHES are uncertain in their position and to iiterygoM number ; whether derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillarv, thev enter the two pterygoid muscles. Of the branches that'arise from the artery in the third part of its Br;j;;<-J;^^;^°f course, viz. in the sphenn-maxillary fossa, only one, the posterior ^^^^ ^^^^ dental, will be now described. The remainder will be examined „ow seen with the superior maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion ; they are infra-orbital, descendvig palatine, spheno-falatim, Vidian, and ptenjgo-palatine. The POSTERIOR DENTAL BRANCH arises as the artery enters the si)heiio-maxillary fossa, and descends with a tortuous cour.-se on the rie„tai. zygomatic surface of the upper jaw, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Its branches mostly enter the canals of the bone and supply the upper molar and liicuspid teoth,^ as well as the lining membrane of the antrum ; some external ofisets are furnished to the gum. The INTICRNAL MAXILLARY VEIN is a sliort trunk, often double, J^to™^'^ which leaves the hinder part of the pterygoid plexus, and runs back- vc'ih arises wards, Ijeiieath the jaw with the first jjart of the internal maxillary from artery, to join the superficial temporal vein in the parotid gland. The pterygoid plexus is an extensive network of veins surrounding Pj'^j|:y«':''^ the internal maxillary artery and the pterygoid muscles. Into it ' ' ' ' the veins corresponding to the branches of the artery empty them- selves and it communicates with the cavernous sinus in the interior tribuiarie.s,Glfi DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. of the skull tlirough the foranieu ovale and foramen laceruni From the plexus the large internal maxillary vein leads hackwards and outlets, and another considerahle In-anch, the anterior internal maxillary or deep facial vein, descends to the face to join the facial vein. A IM'olongation of the plexus into the spheno-maxillary fossa is often distinguished as the alveolar plexus. Sary '^^^'^ INFERIOH MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 222) is the largest of the nerve. tln'ce trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion. It leaves the Fig. 222.—Debp View of the Pterygoid Region (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Temporal reflected. B. Condyle of the jaw disarticu- lated forwards, with the external pterygoid attached to it. c. Internal pterygoid. D. Buccinator. F. Masseter thrown down. Nerves : 1. Buccal. 2. Masseteric, cut. 3. Deep temporal. 4. Auriculo-tempnral. 6. Chorda tympani. 7. Inferior dental. 8. Lingual. 10. Internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The arteries are not numbered with the exception of the internal maxillary trunk, which is marked with 9. skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides immediately below that opening into two principal pieces, viz., an anterior smaller part, which is distributed mainly to muscles, and a larger posterior part, ending in branches which are, with one exception, altogetlier .sensory. In addition to the-se, the nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle arises from the inner side of the primary trunk. Directions. Should the internal maxillary artery obstruct tlie view of the nerve, it may be cut tlirough.lil- 1 to THE INFERIOR MAXTT,LARV NRRVI?. 617 The \XTERiOR I'Airr receives ueuvly all Ihe fibres of the motor Anterior root of the nerve, and furnishes branches to three of the muscles ol the jaw, viz, temporal, masseter, and external rterygoid, an.l the buccal branch to the check (Hg. 219, p. 611). . , • ,• The deep temporal branches (hg. 219 and tig. 222, ") are three in ^i^^;;-^ number, and enter the deep surface of the temporal muscle ; the bnuK-hcs, middle, which is the largest and supplies the greater part of the midaic, muscle, leaves the anterior division of the trunk and ascends close to the bone, above the upper border of the external pterygoid ; the posterior is usually conjoined with the masseteric nerve, and enters post.r.or, the hinder part of the muscle ; and the anterior is given oil from |;;;<i^^._^_. the buccal nerve in front of tlie external pterygoid. , i ■ The masseteric branch C') takes an outward course alx.ve the Masseiou... external pterygoid muscle, and through the .sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle, in which it can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the ai'ticul; tion of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. The nerve to the external pterygoid generally arises ui common with the buccal nerve, and enters the deep surface of its muscle. ptery-oid. The buccal branch ('), longer and larger than the others, is mainly Buccal^ a sensory nerve to the cheek. It is first directed forwards beuveen ,^,,,01.^. the heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and then descends beneath the coronoid process and the insertion of the temporal muscle towards the angle of the mouth. After perforating the pterygoid, it gives off the anterior deep temporal nerve ; and on the surface of jin^^s oir the buccinator it divides into branches which form a plexus with temporal, the buccal branches of the facial nerve, and are finally distributed to the skin and mucous memlirane of the cheek. The POSTERIOR PART of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into Posterior three branches—auriculo-temporal, inferior dental, and lingual interior (fig. 21!)). A few of the filires of the motor root join the dental >"«''>"»iT- neVve, and are conveyed to the niylo-hyoid and digastric muscles. Th'e AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE (fig. 222, •") ari.ses from the trunk A'j^^j™;^;- near the base of the skull, usually by two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery. In its course to the surface of the head, it is first directed backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle a.s far as the neck of the jaw, and then upwards with the superficial li.'s iiem-ath temporal artery in front of the car. Its ramifications on the head ' are described at page 504. In tlie part now dissected its branches ■^'"^'^^^J^'^P'''''' are the following :— a. Brandies to the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to the meatus from the nerve beneath the neck of the jaw, and enter that tube lietween the cartilage and bone. h. Articular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw ari.ses .ioi"'-"f near the same spot as the preceding, or from the branches to the meatus. c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the tragus and adjacent part of the pinna. (/. Parotid branches. These small filaments ramify in the gland, purotid; (Jommunicating branches with the otic gamjlion. One or two J;°;i',;',';'^;;"*^DISSECTION OF THK PTERYGOID REGION. f.l8 and t'ncinl iiervo. Inferior dental is between pterygoid muscles, then in the and supplies branch to mylo-hyoid, dental branches to grinding and cutting teeth, brauch to lower lip. Dental artery has an incisor and labial branch. Lingual nerve courses to the tongue; no branch hero. Chorda tympani joins lingual, filaments pa-ss between the otic ganglion and the beginning of the auriculo-tt'mporal nerve. /. Branches to the facial nerve. Two considerable l)ranches pass forwanls roimd the superficial temporal artery to join the upper trunk of the facial nerve. The INFERIOR DENTAL (') is the largest of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. In its course to the canal in the lower jaw, the nerve is placed behind and external to the lingual, and lies at first beneath the external pterygoid muscle ; it after- wards rests on tlie internal pterygoid, and near the dental foramen on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a mental branch. Only one offset (to the mylo-hyoid muscle) leaves the dental nerve before it enters the boue. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hyoid nerve arises near the dental foramen, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoid, and to the anterior belly of tlie digastric muscle. b. The dental branches arise in the bone, and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nerve may be laid open so as to expose these minute branches. c. The incisor branch is small and continues the direction of the nerve onwards to tlie middle line, furnishing offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, below which it lies. d. The mental or labial branch which issues on the face beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth has been described on page 564. The INFERIOR DENTAL ARTERY, after entering the lower jaw, has a similar course and distribution to the nerve. Thus it supplies offsets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a mental bi-anch. The incisor branch is continued to the symjihysis of the jaw, where it ends in the bone ; it furnishes twigs to the canine and incisor teeth. The mental branch, issuing by the mental foramen, ramifies in the structures covering the lower jaw, and anastomoses with the branches of the facial artery. The LINGUAL or gustatory nerve (8) is concealed at first, like the others, by tlie external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined forwards with a small artery over the internal pterygoid, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region (p. 623). In its course beneath the jaw the nerve does not giv.e off any branches, but the following communicating nerve is received by it. The chorda tyni'pan.i (") is a branch of the facial nerve, and leaves the tympanum by a special aperture close to the inner end of the Gliiserian fissure. Appearing from benwith the upperTHE SUBMAXILLAEY GLAND. attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, this small nerve joins the lingual at an acute angle, about three-quarters of im inch below the skull. At the point of meeting a communi- cation takes place with the lingual, but the greater part of the ends m cliorda tympani is merely comlucted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and its course across the tympanum, will 1)6 described in Chapter XII. The nei-ve to the internal pterygoid can now be seen as it passes beneath the hinder l)order to the inner surface of its muscle, but pterygoid, it will be more fully shown in the dissection of the otic ganglion. Section VIII. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The submaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and parts in it. the hyoid bone. In it are contained some of the muscles of the hyoid bone and tongue, the vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. In this dissection tiie posiUpn of the neck is the same rosition or as for the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary Dissection, gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it he taken away. The SUBMAXILLARY GLAND (fig. 213,", p. 589) UeS beloW the jaw in SnbmaxH- the anterior part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric ^'^^^^^^^ ' muscle. Somewhat oval in shape, it rests on the mylo-hyoid, and sends a deep process round the posterior or free border of that an'i^.^^^. muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastrio; and behind is the stylo-maxillary ligament separating it from the parotid. The gland is covered only by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia ; and the facial artery winds forwards on its deep surface. In structure the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland and its strnctiu-e duct—duct of Wharton-issuing from the deep process, extends"'"""'- beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection, belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without injury the subniaxiUary gland from beneath the bono. The MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE is triangular in shape, with the base at Mylo-hyoid the jaw and the truncated apex at the hyoid bone, and unites ahmg the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises from arises from the rnylo-hydid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw as far back as the last molar tooth ; and its posterior fibres, including about inserted a third of the muscle, are ivserlecl into the front of the body of the bo°e'and'^ hyoid bone, whilst the remainder blend with those of the muscle of raph^;DISSKCTION OK TllK SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 620 luoniiil it ; Dissection to deliicli mylo-liyi.)i(I. Tu see deep muscles saw the jaw, fasten touyiie, and cut mucous membrane. Dedne nerves, tlic iipposile side, in ii iiiwliiui riiiilu; beUveen llu; liyoid Ijonc mid t liu Jaw. On tli(i cutanemi.s suilacu lie the autenor helly of llie digastric niuscleand Hit; subniaxillaiy gland, the facial artery with its subnientid offset, and the mylo hyoid nerve and artery. Tlie fibres of llie muscle are frec^ueiitly defic-ieut near the jaw, and allow the genio- hyoid to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattaclied, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The parts in contact with the deep stirface of the muscle will be shown alter the undermentioned dissection has been made. Actiun. The niylo-hyoid assists the digastric and genio-hyoid in depressing the lower jaw or in elevating the hyoid lione ; but its principal action is to raise the floor of the mouth and press the tongue against the palate, as in the first stage of deglutition. Dissection. To bring into view the muscles beneath the mylo- hyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the suljstance of the tongue, the .student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove lliein with the superficial part of the subma.viilary glaml; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneath the raylo-hyoid, because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Ne.xt he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo- hyoid ; and delaching that muscle from the jaw, .should turn it down (as in fig. 224, p. 624), but without injuring the geiiio-hyoid muscle beneath it. Ai'terwards the bone is to be sawn through at the symphysis, with- out injuring the muscles beneath it, the soft parts covering the jaw having been first cut. The loose ramus of the jaw (for it has been sawn in the dissection of the pterygoid region) is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened u]3 with a stitch ; but it should not be detached from the mucous membrane of the mouth. The ajje.v of the tongue is now to be well pulled out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the .septum of the nose, and the scalpel should be passed from below upwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tij). By means of a stitch the hyoid bone may be histened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue cover- ing the parts under cover of thejaw are to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the WharUmian duct, of the hypo- gh)ssal nerve and its branches, wh'ich lie on the hypo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small offset ascending to the stylo-glossus muscle ; also of the lingual nerve nearer thejaw. Between the lingual nerve and the deep part of the subnuixillary gland the dissector .should seek the small submaxillary ganglion with its oUsets ; and he .should endeavour to separate from tlie trunk ol the lingual the small chonhi tym])ani nerve, and to define the oifset from it to iho sub- ma.xillary ganglion.FAKTH HKNKA'fH lUK MYU)HYOiU. W> At ihH himlw WUrr of tJw. by'>^l'.«*"^ t*"^ »"5(«*' r«.»,-iti'/ »*?nf?ith that ina*^l« ; a»i'l a' ranin*. artery, which, with the e^rtni^uum vdr, In.giwl nerve, i* t/, he tra/;«:'l on the ni.'lw Mirfa/;e of tf>e twigoe v- the tip, A/lheri«t« t/» the nmc^iw fneiiil/nifie of the month -;i;in l, ah'I thii i* V> U defme/l, tf/^eth' : , •'.<- v/i'j -Ji *ni<pliei! it. ! : . the ohj-AiJ) <j,vcri^i hy tJie HiyU>-hyoi'l i.i now aj»f»arei)t; frr>i« the hyoid t></ne tf* the (ride of the t/mgue jji the hy'-s/)/«*..* ... fihre<» of which are cT'^^i i<ti{*riorly by thf«e of the »^/vr«fcT'>M -;ii<, the hyo-$5l'«*iii are jjla^^l, from l>elow npwanU, the hy\x>:\'OM\. nerve, \VharU,ri'-< 4iict, an^l the lin^'iial r.eiv<-, the kt'er i^T'^uy^ the 'liict; and nr^ar the anterior Jx-rder of the nnj*cle the two nerves are nnitwl hy branched. Beneath the «ame rniMck lie, from 1-elow npwar-l^, the lingual arter>-,the *tylr,-hywd limaatmt, ami the «l<,*i',-pharyn};eal nerve. .Alx,ve the hyf>-i^^/»H» w the nin<;*/iM membrane of the mouth, with the .Mjblingual }.'knd atta/;he*l to it in frr/nt, and w^nie fibres of the iiiiperiw c/jnirtrict/>r i«a-';le (y/vering it )^hind near the jaw. Between the chin and the hyoid U,uk, ch/m U> the middle line, ii mtiiat/r the genir>-hyoid mn«ie ; aV.ve thi* in a lazier fan-ihajMrd mu-vde, the genifA^'loM'w. Along the outer wde of the la«t rou«;le lie the n»nin<; v-.-^h ; and a sublingual >/ranch for the gland of the »ame name «j/ring^ from the lingual artery at the anterior Urder of the hyo.glo«us. On the under surface of the tongue, near the margin, lie* the :ingual nerve ; and the hyp/gh/^al nerve entera the fibreii of the genio-ghifwiuss. The Hro 'iUjH^XH Mtw;r.K (fig. 223,M'- f!22,a"d fig- 222,c),ia thin Hr>^ and somewhat wjuare in sliaj-e. It arm^i fr-m the lateral j/art of the Wly, and from all the great crnnu, of the hyoid ly.ne. The fibres aiv^jiA and enter the side of the t^.ngue, extending from the W% to the tip, ari'l they will afterwards be seen U> mingle with those of the palaUj- and stylf*-gl'/;-jfiis.* The j^rtK lying on the outer surface of the hy'>-glos«HH, well an g^^'. ihotM jjassing l^etieath its anterior and jKwterior Ufplen, have alrea/ly )>een ennmenited ; and under the mtt«;Ie there are a\in> pf^rtions of the geiiio-glossus and middle (ymstrictor, Acti'm. TUin mu-^le depre-ses the t^jngue, drawing 'lown the nj«. sides and giving a rounded fomi U> the dorsum ; and if the tongue ])b protruded from the month, the fibres will draw it l^ackwards inU> that (yivity. The HTVi/;-oi/)rtHt;« (223, ^) is a slender muscle, which ari»e» horn -stjio.^ * A 'iiKtirKrl rniiJCMilar slip ^;lion<lro-(;l'jinm»j, ailsing from the small conin of the hvoi'l Lone, is MirrK-.tirnex rn^urM a pftrt of the h)o-gUrt»us. For farther 'letiils n^p'.'-Xinii the anat/.i/iy of this aii'l the other lingual iummMk, rvUrnuix should \>e. made to the Hecliori on the Tongne.DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 622 comes to side of toiiKUe : usi' of botli, ol one. Genio- hyoid : relations; Geiiio- glossus: origin : insertion ; UOIlttgUOUii parts; tlie styloid process near tlie apex, and from the stylo-inaxillary ligament, and is directed downwards and forwards to the hinder jmrt of the lateral margin of the tongue. Here it gives some fibres to the dorsum, but the greater part of the muscle turns to the under surface, and is continued forwards to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is cro.ssed by the lingual nerve. Action. Bolh muscles will raise the back of the tongue against the roof of the mouth ; and if the tongue be jn-otruded they will restore it to the cavity. One muscle can direct the point of the tongue towards its own side of the mouth. The GKNio-HYOiD MUSCLE (fig. 223,') arises from the lower of the mental spines on the inner aspect of the .symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the front of the body of the hyoid bone. The lower surface of this muscle is covered by the mylo-hyoid, and the upper is in contact with the geuio- glossus (^). The inner border touches the muscle of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Action. The genio-hj-oid either depresses the lower jaw or raises the hyoid bone, ac- cording to which end is fixed by other muscles. The 6ENI0-GL0SSUS (genio- hyo - glossus, fig. 223, ^, and fig. 224, a) is a thick, fan- shaped ranscle, having its apex at the jaw, and its base at the tongue. It takes origin from the upper of the mental spines behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior jsassing backwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate ones to the tongue from the base to the tip. Lying close to the median plane, the inner surface of the muscle is in contact with its fellow. Its lower border corresponds to the genio-hyoid, and the upper to the fniiuum lingua^. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve jierlbrates the hinder fibres. Action. By the simullaneous action of the whole muscle the tongue is depressed, and hollowed along the middle. The hinder Fig. 223.—Muscles oj? thk Tongue. 1. Hyo-glossus. Stylo-glos.sus. Genio-glossus. Genio-liyoid. Stylo-pliaryugeus.623 THE LINGUAL VESSELS AND NERVE. fibres acting alone raise the hyoid bone and protrude the tongue ; wliilc the anterior retract the tip of the tongue. The LINGUAL ARTERY (fig. 217,/, p. 603) ari.ses from the e.xternal Ung.ul carotid opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone. At hr.^t it is n^.u^ io directed forwards above the hyoid bone, and then upwards beneatli „^„^,,,^,° the hyo-glossus to tlie under part of the tongue (hg. 224) ; it ends at i;yo-^^_^_ tlie anterior border of that muscle in the sublingual and raiune " branches. Before it reaches the hyo-glossus, the artery iorins a small loop, with its conve.xity upwards, which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve ; and tlie digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles also he over the vessel, but are separated from it by the hyo-glossus. The trunk rests ou the middle constrictor and geuio-glossus muscles. Its branches are :— a. A small hijoid branch is distributed to the muscles at the upper its branches border of the hyoid l)one ; it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid bone; artery of tlie same side. 6. The dorsalis linguw branch arises beneath the hyo-glossus to^l^^jk^^f^. muscle, and ascends to supply the xlorsal part of the substance ot the tongue and the tonsil. The tibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublingual branch springs from the final division ot the to tl'^esub- artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards to the ^^^.^ gland of the same name. Souie ottsets supply the gums and the con- tiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The raiime branch (fig. 224,») is tlie terminal part of the lingual totbe^>^ub. artery, and e-xtends forwards along the outer side of the genio-glussus "tongue, to the lip of the tongue where it ends. Muscular ollsets are furni.shed to the substance of the tongue of the same side. This artery is very tortuous, and is embedded in the muscular fibres of the tongue. The lingual artery is accompanied by two small vena, comites, but JJ'j.'jS""' the largest vein of the tongue is the raninc, which lies external to the artery of the same name, and, after being joined by sublingual branches, passes backwards over the hyo-glossus muscle witli the hypoglossal nerve. These veins end in the internal jugular. The LINGUAL NERVE (fig. 224, ') has been followed in the pterygo- Lingual maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle (p. 618). In the submaxillary region the nerve is inclined inwards to the side of the tongue, across the along side of mucous membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior con- strictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly it is directed forwards below the Whartonian duct, and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are furnished to the gives branches surrounding parts, thus :— Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, near the gland of that name. Further forwards one or more branches descend on the hyo-glossus to twelfth to unite in a loop with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve.DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 624 to mucous membrane, to the Iiapillic. Submaxil- lary ganglion Other Khxiiients are supplied to the mucous membrane of the mouth, the gums, and the sublingual gland. Lastly, the brmichus for the tonijae ascend through the muscular substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papilla;. The SUBMAXILLARY GANGLION (tig. 224, ^) reseuibles the other ganglia connected with the three tru7]ks of the fifth nerve, and communicates with motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerve. It lies on the hyo-glossus muscle immediately above the deep part of the FiQ. 224.—Deep View of the SnsMAXiLLAiiT Region (Illustratioks OF Dissections). Muscles : A. Genio-glossus. B. Genio hyoid, c. Hyo-glossus. D. Stylo-glossus. F. Mylo-hyoid reflected. B. Stylo-hyoid. J. Posterior belly of digastric. 1. Lingual. 2. Submaxillary ganglion. 4. Glosso-pharyngeal. 6. Hypoglossal. 7. Upper laryngeal. The lingual artery is seen dividing, close to the hypoglossal nerve : the ranine offset is marked with 9. 3. Wharton's duct. submaxillary gland, and is attached by two or three filaments to the lingual nerve. has roots Connection with nerves—roots. The tibres of the sensory root are from tho^^^ derived from the lingual, and of tiie motor root from tlie chorda ami'-sympa- tympani nerves, both joining the upper part of the ganglion. The thetic; sympathetic root comes from the plexus on the facial artery, gives Jlranchcs. From the lower part of the ganglion five or six small branches offsets descend to the submaxillary gland ; and from the fore part to giani. ^^^^^^ filaments are given to tlie mucous membrane of the mouth and to Wharton's duct.625 THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. Chorda tympani. Joining the lingual nerve close below its ^^'"/jlJ^'J^^. origin (p. 618), the chorda tympani accompanies that trunk, but can deatinatiou. be easily separated from it nearly as far as the tongue. Beyond that point its filires are mi.\ed with those of the lingual nerve. Near the subma.\iUary gland, an offset is sent to the submaxillary ganglion. The HYPOGLOSSAL or TWELFTH uerve in the submaxillary region ^weiWi^^^^ is directed forwards across tlie lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle, i^yoj," i^„„g_ and under cover of the niylo-liyoid. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-glossus, spreading out and dividing into numerous branches as it disappears. Branches. While restin" on tlie hyo-glossus, the twelfth nerve its branches furnishes offsets to the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid* muscles muscles, as well as one or two communicating filaments to the °f'""S""- lingual nerve. Its ternunal branches, within the genio-glossus, supply that muscle and the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. The lingual branches are long and slender, and some of them may be traced forwards to the tip of the tongue. The GLosso-PHARYNGEAL nerve (fig. 224, ■•), appearing between the two carotid arteries, courses forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus, and ends under the hyo-glossus in branches for the tongue. (See the DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE, p. 688). The duct of the sulmaxillanj gland (fig. 224,3), Wharton's duct, Wharton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. About two inches in length, it is directed upwanls and forwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and over the lingual nerve, to open on the centre of an eminence by the side opens by of the fraenum linguEe : the opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along the duct. The deep part of the submaxillary gland extends along-the side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland. The SUBLINGUAL GLAND (fig. 224, n) is an almond-shaped body sublingual with its longest diameter, which measures about an inch and a half, g'i""' directed from before backwards. It lies beneath the fore part of tiie tongue, between the genio-glossus muscle and the lower jaw, and resting on the mylo-liyoid. Its upper border is covered by mucous forms a membrane, which is raised into a fold along the floor of the mouth prommence ' . . ° . below over the gland : 'and its inner end touches the one of the opposite tongue, side behind the symphysis of the jaw. The gland consists of from ten to twenty small masses, each of .md is a which has a separate duct. The ducts (duets of Rivinus) open for ^t"u{,'°uJ.e° the most part on the sublingual mucous fold, but some of them join the submaxillary duct, and one larger tube (duct of Bartholin), which is, however, frequently wanting, springs from the deeper part of the gland and runs forward to end either in common with, or close to, the duct of Wharton. * The branch to the genio-hyoid muscle is composed of fibres derived from the cervical nerves. Compare note on p. 602. D.A. S s(i2(i DISSECTION OF DKKV VKSSELS AND KKltVKS OK NECK. Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. Parts in tiiis In this SECTION are included the deepest styloid muscle, the section. internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and some cranial and sj'mpathetic nerves. Position of Position. The position of the part is to remain as before, viz., the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissection Dlssectioil. To see the .stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the posterior pharyngeus, Ijelly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscle .should be detached from their origin and thrown down. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hypoglossal nerve crosses it, and by dividing those branches that have been already examined : any veins accompanying the arteries are to be taken away. While cleaning the surface of the stylo- andgiosso- pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches, iierve.""'^"' ^nd the stylo-hyoid ligament are also to be prepared. The side of the jaw is to be drawn forwards on the face. Stylo- The sTYLO-PHARYNGEUti MUSCLE (fig. 622,'% p. 622), resembles the piiaryngeus: ij^j^gj^. gtyioi^ muscles in its elongated form. The fibres arise from origin ; pQot of the styloid process on the inner side, and descend between the superior and mi<ldle constrictors to be inserted partly into the wall insertion; ^j^g pharynx, and partly into the upper and hinder borders of the thyroid cartilage. is between -phe muscle lies below the stylo-glossus, and between the two carotid arterL: arteries ; and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve turns over the lower end of its fleshy belly. use. Action. It raises the pharynx, and tends to dilate the ]>art of the cavity above the hyoid bone. From its attachment to the thyroid cartilage it will assist in elevating and drawing backwards the larynx. Styio-iiyoid The stylo-hyoid lifjament is a slender fibrous band, which extends ligament ^.^^^^ jj^g ^jp t|,g styloid process to the small cornu of the hyoid lies by side bone. Its position is between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus of preced- ^,^^^^(.135,^ ^nd over the internal carotid artery ; while the lower end is placed beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. To its posterior border, the middle constrictor muscle is attached below. It is frequently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or occasionally in all its extent. Sometimes a slip of fleshy fibres is continued along it. mtcrnai The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY sup])lies the deep parts of the tt?te"'^ head, viz., the brain, the contents of the orbit, and the nose ; and takes a circuitous course through and along the base of the skull before it ends in branches to the cerebrum. Part already The arterial trunk in the cranium has been already learnt, and its ophthalmic ollset will be seen in the dissection of the orbit ; but theTHK INTERNAL CAIIOTIP ARTKUY. (i27 portion in the uuck and the temporal bone remain to be dissected. The teniiiual branches of the carotid are examined with the lirain. Dissection (fig. 225, p. 628). For the disphiy of tlie cervicjU ^/-^t;-'., part of Uie artery there is now but little dissection required. By the neck ; detaching the styloid process at the root, and throwing it forward witli its muscles, the internal carotid artery and thejuguhxr vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals tliem ; and this is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. In the fascia, and directed forwards over the artery, seek the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and its branches near the skull, and the small pharyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal ollset, crossing beneath the carotid. Between the vein and artery, close to the skull, will be found the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves : and crossing backwards, over or under the ami of^tiio vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the vessels the loop of nerves the first and second cervical nerves over the transverse process of the atlas is to be defined ; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and to the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. The dissection of these nerves from tlie carotid vessels at the base of the skull is a difficult operation in consei^uence of the strong investing tissue. Ascending to the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending pharyngeal artery will be met with. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 225, cl) springs from the internal bifurcation of the comimm carotid trunk. It extends from the upper carotui. border of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through enters the the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of the .skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided its course into three portions—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third in the cranium. Cervical part. In the neck the artery ascends almost vertically throngh from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in contact with the ' pharynx on the inner side. The line of the common carotid artery would mark its position in the neck. Its depth from the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the digastric muscle may be taken as the index in this ditl'ereiice. Thus, below that less deep muscle, the internal carotid is overlapiied by the sterno-mastoid and covered by the common integuments, fascia, and platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though farther back. But above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external but very carotid artery and the ])arotid gland, and is crossed by the styloid' process and the stylo-[iharyngeus muscle. AVhile in the neck, the internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which rests on separates it from the vertebrte. lectu.s. ViAii. The internal jugular vein accompanies the artery, being position of contained in a sheath with it and jilaced on its outer side. s s 2DISSECTION OF DEICP VESSEI.S AND NEKVES OF NEOK. 628 ofvossols, SinuU vitsseh. Bl-1ij\v tlie dif^astric niiisclc the occipital artery is directed back over the carotid ; and the ofl'set from it to the sterno- FiG. 225.—Dkep Vhsskls and Nervks ov the Neck (Illustrations of Dissections). 4. Hypoglossal Arleries: ft. Subclavian. b. Common carotid. c. Extuiiial carotid, cut. d. Internal carotid. /. Inferior palatine branch of facial. g. Ascending pharyngeal. Kcrvcs : 1. Glosso-phaiyngoal, 2. Spinal accessoi-y. 3. Pneumo gastric or vagus. 5. Pharyngeal branch of vagus. 6. Superior laryngeal branch of vagus. 7. External laryngeal branch of the last. S. Tliyro-hyoid branch of hypo- glossal. 9. Descendens cervicis, cut. 10. Phrenic. 11. Brachial plexus. Recurrenlof the vagus winds round the subclavian artery, a. mastoid may run d..wTi on the carotid trunk. Above the digastric the posterior auricular artery crosses the internal carotid.629 THE INTERNAL .lUUl'LAU VEIN. Nerves. Tlie imeumo-i^astric is contained in the slicatli at the of neiAVs. back between the artery and vein, l)ein.^ paralhd to them ; and the sympathetic, also running hingitudinally, lies lieliind the slieath ot the vessels. Crossin;? the artery superficially, from below iqiwanls, are tlie hypoglossal, which sends its descending lirancli downwards along the vessel ; next the jiharyngeal branch nf the vagus ; and lastly tlie glosso-pharyngeal. Directed inwards beneath the carotid are the pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic and the superior laryngeal nerve, the latter furnishing the external laiyngeal branch. Close to the sknll, the cranial nerves of the neck are inter- posed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic and otl'sets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The cervical portion of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous ; and it usually does not furnish any branch. The PART IN THE TEMi'OiiAi, BONE is described on jiage 682. Tlie INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN is continuous with the lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the jugular foramen nearly to the first veTn rib. Behind the inner end of the clavicle it joins the subclavian tojoins sub- form the innominate vein. As far as the thyroid cartilage the vein accompanies the internal is outsider carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid artery ; and it lies on the outer side of eacli. Its contiguity to the artery is not eiiually close throughout, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a larger intervening space, in which the pneunio-gaslric nerve, with its cardiac branch, is found. The size of the vein remains much the same from the skull to the i^ilarged liyoid bone, where it is suddenly increased owing to the junction of ^,Qp(,. a number of tributaries corresponding to branches of the external carotid arteiy. Its lower dilatation and its valve have been before referred to (p. (iOl). The following tributarka ojien into the internal jugular, viz., the imuiciies inferior petrosal sinus close below the skull, the pharyngeal, lingual, facial and superior thyroid veins near the liyoiil bone, and the middle thyroid vein opposite the lower part of the larynx. The ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY (fig.225, (j) is a long slender A.sciMuliug branch of the external carotid, which ari.ses near the liegiiining of Ji,'.".',.y'°"" that ve.ssel. It runs ujjwards between the internal carotid artery and the pharynx to near the base of the skull, where it ends in ends at pharyngeal and meningeal branches. Its olt'sets are numerous, but' small;— a. Prevertebral branches pass to the longus colli and recti autici bianchus muscles, supplying also the nerves and lym|ihatic glands of this teiiraT^*^' region. 6. Phanjwjeal branches supply the wall of the jiharynx, the soft pliaiynya'. palate and the tonsil. The highest of these, one of the terminal branches of the artery, ramifies in the superior constrictor, the Eustachian tube, and the levator and tensor palati muscles: tiiisDISSKOTION OF DEE? VESSELS AND NERVES OK NECK. 630 iiiul niL'iiiii- Directions concerning small branches of tlie nerves. Dissection to ojien jugular foramen. Follow spinal accessory and pneumo- gastric; afterwards glosso- pharyngeal and its branches. Lraiicli is sometinies large and furnishes the inferior paktine ai tery instead of the facial. c. Small ineniv(ieid hrunches enter the skull throu^^h the foramen lacerum, the jugulur foramen and the anterior condylar foramen. These arteries are seldom injected. The pharyngeal veins form a plexus which empties itself into the internal jugular trunk. Dissection of the cranial nerves in the neck. By the time this stage of the dissection has been arrived at, the condition of the parts will not permit the tracing of the very minute filaments of the cranial nerves in the jugular foramen, and the parts described in the paragraphs marked with an asterisk cannot be seen at present. After- wards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in, which the bone has been softened by acid and the nerves hardened in spirit, the examination of the branches marked thus* may be made. * In the jugular foramen. Supposing tiie dissection of the internal carotid to be carried out as it is described at page 682, let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the skull. Let him then remove bit by bit with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone which bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the osseous crest between that foramen and the carotid canal. Between the bone and the coat of the jugular vein, the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve is to be found ; it is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. * Trace then the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastrir. nerves through the foramen, by opening the fibrous sheath around them. Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should be defined ; the latter is to be shown joining a ganglion on the vagus, and applying itself to the trunk of that nerve. A communication between the two pieces of the spinal accessory is to be found. On the pneumo-gastric is a small well-marked ganglion {ganglion of the root), from whicli the auricular branch before referred to faikes origin ; and Irom the ganglion filaments arc to be sought passing to the^smaller portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. * Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the fore part of the foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This nerve presents turn ganglia as it passes from the skull (fig. 226, p. 633) ; one (jugular), which is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane containing it; the other, much larger (petrosal), is situate at the hinder border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, seek the small nerve ot Jacobson, which enters an aperture in the crest of bone between the iuaular foramen and the carotid canal, and another filament of com- munication with Ihe ganglion of the .sympathetic. Sometm.es the dissector will be able to find a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, and another to end in the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric nerve.EXPOSURE OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. r,31 and recur- rent ; Jklow the foramen of exit fi'Oiu the skull, tlie cranial nerves have D'^lj^^^tion been fur the most part denuded by the dissection of the internal nerves in carotid ; but the intercommunications of the vagus, hypoglossal, = sympathetic, and first two spinal nerves, near the skull, are to be traced out more comi)letely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufficiently laid of spinal " ,. . 1.1 1 accessory: bare already ; but its small part is to be traced to the vagus close to the skull, and onwards along that trunk. The chief part of the glosso-pharyngeal has also been dissected ; of giosso- but the oftsets on the carotid, and others to the pharynx in front of I'l'^O-'igeal; the artery are to be defined. On the pneumo-gastric-trunk the student will find an enlargement of vagus; close to the skull (f/anglion of the trunk), to which the hypoglossal nerve is intimately united. From the ganglion proceed two branches (pharyngeal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the parts indi- cated by their names, especially the first which enters the pharyngeal 15]';^,!'^^'*''''"' plexus. The task of exposing the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and tho.^e of the glosso-pharyngeal ami sympatlietic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contained. Two or more cardiac offsets of the vagus, ^q!^"^'' one at the upper and another at the lower part of the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly, the dissector may prepare more fully the recurrent branch coursing up beneath the lower end of the common carotid ; by removing the fat around it, offsets may be seen passing to the chest and the windpipe. Only the first, or the deep part of the hypoglossal nerve remains to be made ready for learning ; its comniunicatious witli the vagus, sympathetic, and the spinal nerve are to be shown. A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on (p. 636) ; °[,^^j™Pf' but its large ganglion near the skull (upper cervical) should be part, cleaned, and the branches from it to the pharyngeal plexus should be pursued beneath the carotid artery. The ninth, tmth, and eleventh cranial nerves (glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory) leave the cranium together by nerves, the jugular foramen, from which circumstance they were formerly grouped together as one nerve—the eighth nerve of Willis. Outside the skull the nerves take different directions to their destination ; thus the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined forwards to the tongue and pharynx over the internal carotid artery ; the spinal accessory back- wards to the sterno-niastoid and trajiezius muscles over the internal jugular vein ; and the pneumo-gastric nerve descends to the viscera (jf the thorax and abdomen lying in the carotid sheath for a considerable distance. The GLOsso-i'HARYNHBAL NERVE (figs. 225,1 and 226,') is tlie smallest of the three trunks. In the j ugular foramen it is placed some- nerve what in front of the other two, and lies in a groove in the hinder border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of g^^J^gj^^";,, exit the nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one foramen, being the jugular, and the lower the petrosal ganglion.G32 DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Its upper and lower ganglion. lu the neck coui'ses to the tongue. Branches to join with others, viz., sympathetic and I'agus, facial and sympa- thetic. Distributed to pharynx, stylo- pharyngeus, tonsil, and tongue. Vagus nerve in .jugular foramen. and in the neck, The jugular ganglion (fig. 226, •") is very small, and is siLuate at the upper end ol' the osseous groove containing the nerve. It includes only the outer fibres of the nerve, and is not always to be recognised. The petrosal ganglion (°) is much larger, and encloses all the fibrils of the nerve. Ovali.sli in form, it is placed in a hollow in the j)osterior border of the temporal bone ; and from it spring the blanches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen, it conies forwards between the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 225,'), and descends over the artery until it reaches the hinder boi'der of the stylo-jiharyngeus muscle. Then curving forward.?, it becomes almost transvei'se in direction, crosses the stylo-pharyngeus, and finally passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, where it ends in branches to the tongue. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed into those connecting it with other nerves at the base of the skull, and those distributed in the neck. The connecting branches arise from the petrosal ganglion; and in this set is the tympanic nerve. * A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck to join the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is an offset from the ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, another to the upper ganglion of this nerve and a twig to join the branch of the facial to the posterior belly of the digastric. * The tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson ; fig. 226, °) enters the aperture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid foramina, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum : its distribution is given with the anatomy of the middle ear (page 812). Branches for distribution. In the neck the branches are furnished chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. a. Pharyngeal'branches. Two or three branches, arising from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve as it lies over the carotid artery, descend to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and take part in the formation of the pharyngeal ple.xus ; and one or two smaller twigs penetrate the superior constrictor muscle. b. A muscular h-anch enters the stylo-pharyngeus while the nerve is in contact with the muscle. c. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—circulus tonsillaris. d. Lingual branches. The terminal branches of the nerve supjily the binder part of the tongue, in connection with which they are described (page 688). The PNECMO-QASTRic or VAGUS NERVE (figs. 225,^ and 226,=) is the largest of the cranial nerves in the neck, and escapes through the jugu- lar foramen in the same shealh of dura mater as the spinal accessory. In the foramen it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. When the nerve has left the foramen, it receives the small part ofTHE FNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 63H reach tlie thorax, the. vagus descends almost vertically courses to ' " tlio thorax. the spinal acces.sory, and .swells into a ganglion nearly an inch long (gang, of the trunk). This ganglion lies between the internal carotid" artery and jugular vein, and communicates with several nerves. To between the internal jugular vein and the internal and common carotid arteries ; and it enters that cavity, on the right .side, by cro.ss- ing over the subclavian artery, but beneath the innominate vein. * The (/cuu/lion of the root (jugular ganglion ; fig. 226,**) is ol' greyish colour, and I'lom it small branches in the jugular foramen ari.se. The ganglion of the trunk (") is cylindrical in form, reddish in colour, and nearly an inch in length ; it communicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympa- thetic nerves. All tlie intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve enter the ganglion, but those de- rived from the spinal accessory nerve ('') pass over the ganglion without being connected to it. The branches of the pneunio- gastric nerve arising in the neck maybe divided into tho.se uniting it with other nerves, and those distributed to the several organs. * Connecting brunches (fig. 226) arise from the ganglia of the root and trunk oi the vagus. * From the ganglion of the root. The auricular branch (Arnold's nerve,') is the chief offset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near the root of the styloid process ; it traverses the substance of the temporal bone. Fig. 226.—Diagram up the Ninth, Brannhes Tenth, and Eluventii Nekves. A. Pons. B. jMediiUa oblongati. 1. GI0S.S0 pharyngeal nerve. 2. Vagus. 3. 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. .'1. Petrosal ganglion. 6. Tympanic nerve. 7. .Auricular branch. 8. Root-ganglion, anti 9, Trunk- ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrous and upper ganglion of the vagns. 11. 8mall part of spinal accessory. 12. Large part of spinal accessory. 13. Pharyngeal, and 14, superior laryngeal branch of vagus. to unite witli others; auricular branch; and is distributed to the outer ear. Its farther course will be described with the anatomy of the ear (page 814). * One or two short filaments unite this ganglion with the small "iUi el6V(?ntli part of the spinal accessory nerve ; and a branch from the upper symia- ganglion of the sympathetic enters it. Occasionally there is an J'l'-JjJ^'. offset (^°) to join the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. From th<: ganglion of the trunk. Coniniunicaling filaments pass twuiith,UISSKCTION OK DKEP VKSSELS AND NERVES OK NECK. 634 syiiiim- thctic, and spiiiiil Bniiiclies of supply. To ]iliarynx tluougli pliaiyiifteal plexus. Uliper branch to larynx: its external oflset. Branches to the heai't, upper and lower. Lower branch to larynx givos nrnnclies to heart, between it ;iiul the hypoglossal nerve. Other branchen connect it to the ui)i)er giinc;lion of the .sympathetic and tlie loop of the lirst two cervical nerves. Branches for distribution. The cervical branches arise from the lower ganglion and the trunk of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to sujjply the pharyn.x, tlie larynx, and the heart. a. The pharyngeal branch (fig. 225, s) springs from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk, and is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery to the side of the pharynx, being joined in its course by tlie descending pharyngeal branches of the glos.so- pharyngeal nerve. On the surface of the middle constrictor, the ramifications of the united nerves communicate freely together and, with the pharyngeal branches of the sympathetic, form the ■pharyngeal plexus. The offsets of the plexus enter the wall of the pharynx and supply the constrictor muscles, the palato-glossus, palato-pharyngeus, levator palati and azygos uvula; muscles, and the mucous membrane between the mouth and the larynx. b. The superior laryngeal nerve (fig. 225,") is much larger than the preceding branch, and conies from the middle of the gunglion of the trunk. It runs obliquely downwards and forwards, pa.ssing on the inner side of the internal and external carotids, to the interval between the hyoid bone and tlie thynjid cartilage. Here it perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and divides into branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the larynx (page 697). While beneath the internal carotid artery it furnishes the following off"set :— The external laryngeal branch (fig. 225,') descends on the inferior constrictor muscle to the side of the larynx, and then beneath the sterno-thyroid to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it end.?. Near its origin it gives off a filament to join the upper cardiac branch of the sympathetic ; and lower down it supplies twigs to the inferior constrictor muscle. c. Cardiac branches. One or two small cardiac nerves spring from the pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac branches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the ueck, on each side, there is a large cardiac nerve which descends into the thorax :— the right one joins the deep nerves to the heart from the sympathetic ; and the left terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus. d. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve leaves the pneumo- gastric trunk on tlie right side opposite the subclavian artery, and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the neck to the larynx, ascending beneath the common carotid artery, along the groove between the trachea and the oesophagus, and crossing either in front of or behind the inferior thyroid artery. At the larj'nx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, wlieie it will be afterwards traced (page U97). The following branches arise from it :— Some cardiac branches leave the nerve as it turns round the sub- clavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join tbe cardiac nerves of the sympathetic.THE sriNAI, ACCESSORY NKllVE. Tracheal an,l cesophacjeal hranche. spring from it as it ascends in the ^'--ijea.^ neck ; and ne,-.r the hirynx some fihunents are furnished to the inferior cunstrictor muscle. Un the left mle tlie recurrent nerve arises in the thorax, o],pos.te L.'it__^_^^ the arch of the aorta ; in the neck it lies Iwtween the trachea and ,K,,ve. oesophagus, as on the right side, and is nu)re frequently behind the inferior thyroiil artery. The SPINAL ACCE.S.SORY NERVK courses through the jugular tora- Wev«"th men with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any ganglion. The nerve is composed of two parts, a smaller one, accessory to Uaj uo the vagus, and a larger, spinal part, which have a .lifferent origin and distribution. . The part accessory to the vayu. (bulbar part; tig. 226,") arises from A.<^ry the medulla oblongata, and ends by joining the pneumo-gastric out- . side the skull. In the foramen of exit it lies close to the vagus, and is connected to the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Below the foramen it passes over the lower ganglion of U^ow _^ the vagus, and blends with the trunk beyond that ganglion. It gives distinct offsets to join the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric ; and other fibres are continued into the cardiac and recurrent laryngeal branches. The spinal part (fig. 226,'-^), which takes its origin from the spmal l-j;'. cord is much larger, and is connected with the smaller piece while passing through the jugular foramen. Beyond the foramen tiie nerve iu the n.ek (fia 2213 -) takes a backwanl course through the sterno-inastoid, and across the side of the neck to end in the t.apezius : at first it is con- emsses^to cealed by the jugular vein, but it then pas.ses either over or under that vessel. The connections of the nerve beyond the sterno-mastoid have been already examined. The nerve furnishes muscular oflsets to the .sterno-mastoid and to supplies the trapezius. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE, issuiiig from the cranium by the i^weiau anterior condylar foramen, is at first deeply placed between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (fig. 225,''). It next comes f.n-ward between the vein and artery, turning romul the outer side of the vagus to which it is closely united. The nerve now descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric muscle in the anterior triangular space (p. 602) ; from this spot it is directed forwards to the tongue and its muscles (p. 625). Connecting branches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united to i.jand.es the lower ganglion of the vagus by filaments crossing between the Vagus, two nerves as they are in contact. A little lower down the nerve is joined by offsets from the jy^JP""^,^,, sympathetic and the loop of the first two spinal nerves. spinal'' The branches for distribution have been met with in the foregoing ^'^'^j;™^' dissections. Thus, in the neck its descending branch supplies, in muscU«. common with the spinal nerves, the depressors of the hyoid bone. In the submaxillary region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio-hyoid) of the hyoid bone, to the extrinsic muscles of theDISSECTION OF DEKP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Dissection of rectus lateralis. Rectus lateralis: parts around : Dissection of first nerve. Anterior division of suboccipital nerve lies on atlas forms a loop with second: branches. Sympathetic nerve in neck has three ganglia. Other ganglia on Hfth nerve. Dissection of ujjper ganglion ; tongue e.xcept the palato-glcssus, and to all the intiin.sic mu.scles of the toiij^up. Dissection. The small rectn.s capitis lateralis muscle, between the transverse process of the atlas and the hase of the skull, is now to be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms a loop in front of the atlas, is to be found. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS is very short, and represents a posterior intertransverse muscle. It arijies horn the fore and upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein ; and in contact with the po.sterior are the obliquus superior muscle and the vertebral aj-tery. To the inner side lie the anterior primary bianch of the fir.-;t cervical nerve and the rectus anticus minor muscle. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in inclining the head laterally. Dissection. For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, divide the rectus lateralis mu.scle, observing the offset to it; then cut off the end of the transverse pro- cess of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies nn the first vertebra. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCH OF THE FIRST CERVICAL, or SUB- OCCIPITAL, NERVE is rather smaller than the posterior, and arises from the common trunk on the neural arch of the atlas. Fi'om that sjjot it is directed forwards above the fran,sverse jDrocess, and on the inner side of the vertebral artery, to the interval between the rectus lateralis and rectus anticus minor muscles. Emerging here, it bends down in front of the transverse j)rocess of the atlas and forms a loop with the second cervical nerve. As the nerve passes forwards it supplies the rectus lateralis and anticus minor mu.scles, and branches connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal and sympathetic nerves. Sympathetic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic nerve consists, on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral column, and is continued into the thorax. On this portion of the nerve are three r/anglia—the mperior near the skull, the middle towards the lower part of the neck, and the inferior close to the first rib. From the ganglia proceed connecting branches to the spinal and most of the cranial nerves in the neck, and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck, whei-e the .sympathetic enters into connection with the three divisions of the fifth nerve. Dissection. To display the branches of the sympathetic nerve greater care is necessary than in tracing the white-fibred nerves, for the sympathetic twigs are softer, more easily torn, and generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their branches have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be requiredof iiiitUiU' and inO'iiur miiiLilion. THE SYMl'ATHl'rrir NERVl^. to hviu-Ihem into view -.-TIil- jugular vein liaving l.e.u cut Uirou-h, tl.e upper yanglion will be seen by raising the caiolul artery and the trunks of the vagus and hypo-gh.ssal nerves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loo], between the lirst and second spinal nerves. The several branches of the ganglion are to be traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharynx, down- wards along the neck, and outwards to other nerves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inierior thyroid artery, and its branches to spinal nerves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part ot the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian artery is to be cut through, internal to the scalenus anticu.s, and drawn aside, without, however, destroy ing the tine nerves that pass over it. It is supposed that the clavicle has been removed. The ganglion is placed close above the neck of the first rib ; its branches are large, and are easily followed outwards to the vertebral artery and the sj^inal nerves, and downwards to the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the three, and S;>r^;;'„"^ of a reddish-grey colour. Fusiform in shape, it is as long as the noar skull, second and tldrd cervical vertebrae, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the beneath contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves ; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the pharyn.x, and the heart. Gonnectinri branches unite the sympathetic with both the spinal and ^^J^^^^^S the cranial nerves. With the spinal nei'ves. The four highest spinal nerves have ^^^^ branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the ofl'set to the fourtii nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. With the cranial nerves. Near the skull the lower gangli.m of the vagus and the hypoglossal nerve are joined by branches ol the sym- pathetic. Another offset from the upper part of the ganglion ascends an<ljn^ to the jugular foramen, and divides into two filaments wliich join fonuncn; the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the root-ganglion of the vagus. Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves by means of the ascending otfset from the ganglion into the carotid ,kuii. canal (p. 018). Branches for >listrUmtion. The branches of this set are more Branciie.s. numerous than the preceding, and the nerves are generally of larger .size. The ascending branch, prolonged from tlie upper part of the To intmial ganglion, accompanies the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it divides into two pieces which enter the canal lor the carotid, one on each side of that vessel, and are conliuued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain, forming secondary ^^•'>jjj'^jo"' plexuses on the ophthalmic and cereViral arteries. In the carotid ,|,;,.viw;(iH8 to external Ciirotkl, forming jilexnses and ganglia to pharyn- geal plexus; to cardiac plexuses; superlicial cardiac nerve. Middle ganglion joined to spinal nerves: loop to lower ganglion; branches of distribution, thyroid branches, middle cardiac nerve Inferior ganglion DrSSKCTION OF DEEP VESSHI.S AND NERVES OF NECK. uuiml comnuuiicntioiis are formed witli the tympanic branch of the ylosso-pharyngeal nerve, and with the splieno-palatine ganglion; with tlie former near the lower end, and with the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the brain are described at p. 518. Brunches for blood-vessels (nervi moUes). These nerves surround tlie external carotid trunk, and ramify on its branches so as to form plexuses on tlie arteries with the same names as the veissels : some small ganglia are occasionally found on these slender nerves. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the submaxillarij gcinglion communicates with the sympathetic ; and through the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic ganglion obtains a similar communication. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, where they join with the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves in the pharyngeal plexus. Cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join in the plexuses of the heart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz., superior, middle, and inferior, each talting its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior or superficial cardiac nerve of the right side courses behind the sheath of tlie carotid vessels, and enters the thorax along the innominate artery. In the neck the nerve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent nerve. In some bodies it ends by joining one of the other cardiac nerves. The MIDDLE CERVICAL or THYROID GANGLION is of Small size, and is situate beneath the great vessels, usually opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, on or near the inferior thyroid artery. Its branches are the following : — Connecting branches with the spinal nerves sink between the borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus to join the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. A considerable branch passes betw een the middle and inferior cervical ganglia, forming a loop (ansa Vieussenii) over the front of the subclavian artery, and supplying it with filaments. Branches for distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid body, together with the miildle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches ramii'y around the inferior thyroid artery, and end in the thyroid body ; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The middle or great cardiac nei-ve descends to the thorax across the subclavian artery ; its termination in the cardiac plexus has been learnt in tlie chest (p. 473). In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size, but irregular in shape, and lies over the interval between the first rib and the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, its jwsition beingTHE IxNFKHIOK CERVICAI- GANGLION. r.39 internal to the superior iut.rcoBt.l artery. Oitent.mes it extends on^n^.k^^ in front of the neck of the rib, and joins the first ganglion ol he cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those ot the other '"'SSi branches ^om the last two cervical nerves. CHher B,.,>ci,es to nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming the tertebml ple-cm nenes^aml around it, and communicating with tlie cervical nerves. ,,rt«y;' Onlv one branch for distribution, the uiferior cardiac nerve, issues ^^^'^"'^ from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac ple.xus behind the aich of the aorta. DiRKCTiONS. The student will now observe, so far as they are lelt, Directions, the structures in tlie upper opening of the thorax, and will then pro- ceed to the dissection of the orbit whilst the skull is whole, in the meantime carefully wra])ping up and treating with preservative the parts left in the neck. Parts in the upper aperture of the thorax (Hg. 171, p. 467). The relative position of the several parts entering or k-aving the thorax, thorax by the upper opening may be now observed. In the middle line lie the remains of the thymus gland, and the i.>;;ji''i'll<- trachea and tesophagus. In front of the trachea are the hiwer ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles with layers of tlie cervical fascia, and the inferior thyroid veins ; and behind the gullet and windpipe are the longi colli muscles. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the dome of tlie pleura and the apex of the lung on each project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and ' the trachea and oesophagus, are jilaced the vessels and nerves passing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both sides P^^t^y J;!'" lie the innominate vein, the plireiiic nerve, and the internal mam-^loth .wlcs, mary artery ; but the vessels and nerves next met with are different '^V^^^Pf^^^'y on the two .sides :—On the right side are the innominate artery, " "'" ' with the vagus, the cardiac nerves and tlie right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first dorsal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior intercostal artery. Section X. a DISSKCTION OF THE OllBIT. Position. In the examination of this cavity the head is to be Positioii nf placed in the same position as for the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull. Dissection. The cotton-wool beneath the eyelids should be taken How to open 111 !■ • 1 1. C -1 -1 • 1 1 • ("""it away, and tlie hone loriuing the root ol tlie orbit mav oe removetl in witii .saw,(MO cliisel, and l)nne PBi-iosteum of orbit. Open periosteum. Position of parts exposed. Trncn super- ficial nerves. Orbit has .seven muscles ; DISSECTIO.V OF THE ORBIT. the fbllovvinsr nmnner. Two cuts are to be made witli the saw tln'oiu-h the frontal bone, the inner one vertically over the internal'n,arKin".f ho anterior opening of tiie orbit, and the outer one, com.nencin-r .ehmd the teniporal crest, obliquely downvvard.s and inwards, to tiie external angular proces,9 : then with a chisel these are to be continued backwards along the roof of the orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. Tiie piece of bone included between the incisions IS now to be tilted forward.*, but is not to be taken away. This can be done by knocking forwards the piece of frontal bone between the saw-cuts with a mallet, and the orbital plate of the bone will be earned upwards iVoni the perio.steum beneath. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, wJiich is formed by the small wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the bone lorceps, except a narrow ring around the ojitic foramen ; and any overhanging bone, which may interfere witli the dis.section should be likewise removed. During the examination of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit is now seen where it has been detached from the bone in the dissection. This membrane forms a sac around the conteiit.s of the orbit which is continuous po.steriorly with the dura mater through the sphenoidal fissure and the optic foramen, and IS closed in li-oiit by the palpebral fascia passing from it to the lids. It adheres but loosely to the bones, and is perforated behind by apertures for the passage of the vessels and nerves entering the orbit. On the .sides, prolongations of the membrane accompany the vessels and nerves leaving the cavity. Dissection. The periosteum is next to be divided along the middle of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view (fig. 227, p. 642) ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat at this stage of the dissection. The frontal nerve and the supraorbital artery are placed in the centre ; the lachrymal verve and vessels close to the outer wall ; and the small/oi()7/i, nerve at the back of the orbit : all these nerves are above the muscles in the cavity. The superior oblique muscle lies on the inner side, and is recognised by the fourth nerve entering its ujiper aspect ; the levator jmlpeh m and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. At the outer jjart of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards to their exit from the cu-bit, and backwards, with the fourth nerve, through the sphenoidal fissure, to^he wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting anterior clinoid process, shouhl this still remain ; and some care will be required to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commencement. Contents of the orbit. The eyeball, the lachrymal gland, and a quantity of granular fat, are lodged in the orbit. Connected with(Ml TiiK i,Acniiv:\fAr- oland. the eye are six muscles—tour slraiglit and two obli(|ue ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in the cavity are numerous, viz., the second, third, several era- fourth, oiihthalmic of the fifth, and tlie si.xth, together with the small ; teniporo-nialar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and oflsets of the symjiathetic : their general distribution is as follows :—The second nerve entei's the eyeball; the third supplies all the muscles their distri- of the cavity but two ; the fourth enters the superior oblique ; and '"'t'^" : the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball with the sympathetic, but the greater number of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the and .some face. The ophthalmic vessels are also contained in the orbit. vessels. The LACHRYMAL GLAND (fig. 227, f) .secretes the tears, and is L.iciirymal situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process oJiter p.art of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, something like a small of orbit, almond, and measures about three-quarters of an inch in its longest diameter, which is directed transver.sely. From its fore part a thin accessory piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. The gland has from eight to twelve very fine ducts, which open on Ducts open the surface of the conjunctiva in a curved line above the outer part behind of the upper eyelid, and a little in front of the fornix. eyii'iid. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 227, ') is the most internal of the three Fourth nerves entering the orbit above the muscles. In the cavity, it is directed inwards above the levator palpebrse to the superior oblique suppiie.s muscle, which it pierces on the upper, or orbital surface. superior mu .. , , oblinue. The OPHTHALMIC TRUNK ot the filth nerve as it approaches ophthalmic the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, gives three and then divides into the frontal and lachrymal branches ; the first passes into the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before .said, above the muscles. Tlie/ro)i/aZ nerve (fig. 227, =) is close to the outer side of the fourth Frontal as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In the cour.se to the forehead the nerve lies along the middle of the divides into orbit ; and after giving off from its inner side the supratrochlear ^nd siipnv"' branch {■>), it leaves the cavity by the supraorbital notch. Taking the trochlear, name supraorhifal, it ascends on the forehead, where it is distributed. This nerve frequently divides into its two main branches (p. 504) while still within the orbit. While in the notch the suptftorbital nerve gives one or two palpebral Palpebral filaments to the upper lid. lilaments. The supratrochlear nerve {') passes inwards above the pulley of tiie 8,,,,^. U])per oblique muscle, and leaves the orbit to end in the eyelid and trochlear forehead (p. 504). Before the nerve turns round the margin of the ''™'"^''' frontal bone, it sends downwards a twig of communication to the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. D.A. fji iji042 DISSECTION OF THE ORBTT. Lacliryiiial uervo ends in eyelid: oll'set .joins superior mnxillary. The lachrymal nerve [fv^. 227, '■>) after euteriug Uie orbit in a separate canal of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the outer ])art of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland in the upper eyelid, where it pierces the palpebral fascia, and is distributed to the structures of the lid. The nerve furnishes branches to the laclirymal gland ; and near Fia. 227.—First View of the Orbit (iLLnsTRATioss of Dissf.ctions). Muscles : A. Superior oblique. B. Levator palpebroe. 0. External rectus. I). Superior rectus. F. Lachrymal gland. Nerves : 1. Fourth. 2. Frontal. 3. Lachrymal. 4. Supratrochlear. 6. Offset of lachrymal temporo-malar. to join the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments C) to join the temporo-malar brancli of the superior maxillary nerve. Nasal, after- The nasal nerve is not fully seen at this stage of the dissection, and will be noticed later (p. 644). Dissection. Dissection. Divide the frontal nerve about its middle, and throw the ends forwards and backwards ; by raising the posterior piece of the nerve, the separate origin of the nasal branch from theMUSCLES OF THR ORBIT. 643 ophthalmic trunk will appear. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LISVATOR I'ALPEDR/E SUPERIORIS (Hg. 227, B) is the most super- Eluvatorof ficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in "y^Pij'i^ front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens in front, and bends downwards in the upper eyelid to be mainly inserted by a broad nUaciiud to tendon into the front of tlie tarsal plate. Expansions from the tendon • can be traced to the tissues over the eyebrow and at the root of the upper lid. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the frontal nerve relations; and the periosteum; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the middle, a small branch of the tliird nerve will be seen entering the posterior half on the under surface. Action. The lid is made to glide upwards over the ball by this use. muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the skin above the lid being folded inwards at the same time. The SUPERIOR RECTUS (fig. 227, d) is the upper of lour muscles Upper rec- that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper'"l*"""*'^'"' part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In front the fleshy fibres end in insertion; a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the transparent cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact with the globe of the position to eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwards .seen ; the l^'"''*'' upper surface is ])artly covered by the preceding muscle. The action use. of the muscle will be given witli the other recti (p. 650). The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 227, a) is thin and narrow, uppor and passes through a Hbro-cartilaginous loop at the inner an"le of "'^'■'^i"*' * ^' "I o muscle the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises behind from tlie upper and inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop, or pulley, referred to, is reflected backwards and outwards between traveises a the superior rectus and the globe of the eye to be inserted into the ■"'""^' sclerotic coat behind the middle of the ball. insertion ; The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of tlie muscle relations: and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external recti, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. The imlleij, or trochlea (fig. 228, p. 645), is a fibro-cartilaginous ring pulley of about one-sixth of an inch wide, which is attaciied by fibrous tissue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margin of the pulley on to the tendon ; and a synovial sheath lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the .synovial sheath and the free motion of the tendon, this prolongation may be cut away.DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 644 Dissection. Find len- ticular L'linirlion, and roots. Clean eyeball. Sejiarate nerves. Third nerve as it enters orbit ; its upper branch, lower branch. Na.sal nerve. General course to the face. In the orbit. Branches. Long root of lenticular ganglion. For the use of the nuLscle, see the de.scription ol' the inferior oblique (p. 650). Dissection (tij^. 228). The superior rectus nmscle is next to be divided about the middle and turned backwards when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the ophthalniic vessels will come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve ; these should be tiaced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away the fat between the optic nerve and the external rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find ea-sily fine nerves {ciliary) with small arteries lying along the side of the optic nerve ; and by tracing these ciliary nerves backwards, he will be guided to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head). The dissector should find then two branches from the nasal and third nerves to the ganglion : the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind ; while that of the third nerve, short and thick, joins the lower part. The eyeball is to be fully exposed by dissecting off its investing fascia (capsule of Tenon), which will be seen to send processes around the several muscles inserted into the sclerotic. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the external rectus muscle into the orbit. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous sinus; but at the sphenoidal fi.'^sure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachrymal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into the orbit between the heads of the outer rectus, having previously divided into parts. The u-ppcr division (fig. 228, ^) is the smaller, and ends in the under surface of the levator palpebrae and superior rectus muscles. The lower division supplies the internal and inferior recti and the inferior oblique muscles, and will be dissected afterwards (p. 648). The NASAL BRANCH OB' THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE (fig. 228,1) enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, lying between the two parts of the third nerve, and is then directed obliquely inwards to reach the anterior of the two internal orbital canals. Passing through this aperture with the anterior ethmoidal artery, the nerve appears in the cranium at the outer margin of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture at the front of the cribriform plate ; and after passing behind the nasal bone, it issues between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer surface of the nose. /li the orbit the nasal crosses over the optic nerve, but beneath the superior rectus and levator palpebras muscles, and lies afterwards below the superior oblique ; in this part of its coui-se it furni.shes the following branches :— The branch to the lenticular ganglion (°) is about half an inch long and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve comes into the orbit: this is the long root of the lenticular ganglion.THE NASAIi NKKVE. G-15 Lima ciliarii nerves. As the iiaaal crosses llio optic nerve, it Longi-iiuiry ur<iiiclics supplies two or more ciliary branches (lig. 228,') to the eycl)iill. These lie on the inner side (jf the optic nerve, and jiiiii the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. The infratrochlear branch (-) arises as the nasal nerve is "•^""'^ ..^^ to leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of the branch! Fig. 228.—Second View of the 0 Muncles: A. Superior oblique, u. Levator paljjelira; and upper rectus thrown back together, c. External reclna. 1). Fore part nf upper rectus. F. Laclirymal gland. Serves: 1. Nasal. 2. Its infratrochlear branch. IT (Illustrations of Dissections). 3. Lenticular ganglion :—-1, its short root ; 5, its long root (too large). 6. Branch of third to inferior oblique muscle. 7. Ciliary branches of the na.sal nerve. 8. Upper branch of the third. 9. Sixth nerve. 10. Tliird nerve, outside tlio orbit. superior oblique muscle, to end in the upper eyelid, the conjunctiva, and the side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of communication from the supratrochlear nerve. In the nose (fig. 2i59, p. 675). Wliile in the nasal cavity the nerve Nnsni nerve furnishes brandies to the lining membrane of the septum and outer wall; and these will be subsequently referred to with the nerves of the nose (p. 677).CiG DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. and in tlie face. Lenticular ganalioii: situation ; ronncc- tions. Three roots long, sliort, and sym- imthetic. Ciliary branches to eyeball. Ophthalmic artery, in the orbit. Branches: general dis- tribution. Branch to retina. Ciliary arteries are poaterior— two niinicd long ciliary, Termination of the nasal nerve. Alter llie nerve becomes cutaneous on the side of tlie nose, it descends beneath the com- pressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC or lenticular ganglion (fig. 228,3) ie a small reddisli body, about the size of a pin's head, and in form nearly square. It is placed at the back of the orbit between tlie optic nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of, and close to, the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior jjart the ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots); and i'roni the anterior part proceed ciliary branches to the eyeball. The ganglion receives roots from sensory, motor, and sympathetic nerves. The hranches of communication are three in number. One, the long root (°), is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, -which joins the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thicknes.?, the short root (•*), passes to the inferior angle from the branch of the third nerve that sujiplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the sympathetic root is derived from the cavernous plexus, either in union with the long root, or as a distinct branch to the posterior border of the ganglion. Branches. The short ciliary nerves (fig. 228), ten or twelve in number, are collected into two bundles, which leave the ujijjer and lower angles at the front of the ganglion. In the ujjper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. In their course to the eyeball they lie along the outer and under parts of the optic nerve, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The ophthalmic artery (fig. 229), a branch of the internal carotid, enters the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is below and to the outer side of the optic nerve, but it then courses inwards over (or occasionally under) the nerve to the inner side of the orbit, and finally perforates the palpebral fascia above the internal tarsal ligament to end by dividing into frontal and nasal branches. The branches of the artery are numerous, though inconsiderable in size. They supply the structures within the orbit, and some leave that cavity to be distributed to the lining membrane of the cranium, to the interior and exterior of the nose, and to the adjoin- ing part of the forehead. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch which pierces the optic nerve about half an inch behind the eyeball. The ciliary branches are divided into anterior and posterior, which enter the eyeball at tlie I'ront and back :— The jMsterior ciliary usually rise by two trunks—inner and outer, close to the optic foriiincn : tliey divide into a number of liranches (from ten to twenty) which run to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the posterior part Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve), are named long ciliary and647 THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. pierce tbe sclerotic farther out tlian the others, and lie along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the oplithalmic, and perforate the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the eyeball they anastomose with the long ciliary. For the ending of these vessels, see the dissection of the eyeball, pp. 797 and 798. The lachrymal artery accompanies the nerve of the same name to Jj-'^^J^j'^j^""'^ the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and joining iu the arches in the eyelids. It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva ; and it communi- g^^^'j^"'' """^ Nasal. Laclirymal gland. Lachrymal. Branch to outer side of orbit. Communication with middle meningeal. External rectus. Anterior meningeal. Frontal. Anterior ethmoidal. Po.sterior ethmoidal. Supraorbital. Tosterior ciliary, outer trunk. Posterior ciliary, inner trunk, riiteriial rectus. Superior oblique. Central artery of retina. Superior rectus turned back. Fia. 229.—Diagram of thr Ophthalmic Artery and its Branches. cates with the large middle meningeal artery by an offset through the sphenoidal fissure. The lachrymal artery also sends twigs to the external rectus ofTsets muscle, and a small branch with each of the divisions of the niaiar°bone. temporo-malar nerve ; these join the temporal and transverse facial arteries. The supraorbital branch is small, and arises as the artery is Supraorbi- crossing the optic nerve. It takes the course of the nerve of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead. The muscular branches are a superior to the upper and outer Muscular, muscles, and an inferior to the lower and inner muscles, as well as .small irregular offsets. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, and are Ethmoidal directed through the canals in tlie inner wall of the orbit :— branches, The posterior is the smaller of the two, and often arises in common posterior648 DISSECTION OF THE OHBIT. and an- terior. Brandies to eyelids. Fi'ontal branch. Nasal branch. Ophthalmic veins: superior and inferior. Optic nerve ends in retina. Dissection. Lower division of third nerve supplies muscles, and joins ganglion, witli the supraorbital artery. It ends in ofl'sets to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the nose and the ethmoidal cells. The anterior branch (internal nasal) accompanies the nsisal nerve to the cavity of the nose, and gives anterior meningeal offsets to tlie fore part of the falx cerebri and the dura mater of the anterior fossa of the skull. The'palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally rise together opposite tlie pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with tlie eyelids (p. 569). The frontal branch turns round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 503). The nasal branch (external) supplies tlie skin and muscles of the upper part of the nose, and anastomoses with tlie angular and lateral nasal branches of the facial artery. The OPHTHALMIC VEINS are two in number, superior and inferior, and leave the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the external rectus, to end in the cavernous sinus. The superior vein is the larger and accompanies the artery : it begins in front by a wide communication with the angular vein, and on its way back- wards it receives tributaries corresponding to most of the offsets of the artery. The inferior vein lies below the optic nerve, and is formed by the lower ciliary and muscular veins ; it communicates through the spheno-maxillaiy fissiu'e with the pterygoid j)lexus. The supraorbital, frontal and palpebral veins do not join the oph- thalmic, but pass to the veins of the face. The OPTIC NERVE in the orbit extends from the optic foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve leaves the foramen it is sur- rounded by the recti muscles; and beyond that spot the ciliary arteries and nerves entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal exj)ansion of the eye. Dissection (fig. 230). Take away the ophthalmic vessels, aud divide the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On renio\ing some fat the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, will appear; and lying ou the first two are the offsets of the lower division of the third nerve. The LOWER DIVISION OF THE THIRD NERVE (fig. 230) Supplies three muscles in the orbit. As it enters this space, between the heads of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately the ner\-e divides into three branches. One (^) passes to the internal, another (*) to the inferior rectus, both entering the muscles on their ocular surface;?, and the third (3), the longest and most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique mu.scle, which it pierces at its hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch coninmnicalcs with the lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. 228, ■•) of that body ; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus muscle.THE RECTI MUSCLES. G49 The SIXTH NERVE (tig. 230, -) lies below the other nerves, and Sixth nerve, aliove the ophthalmic veins, in the interval between tlie heads of the external rectu.s. In the orbit it tirst lies against, and then penetrates the inner surface of the external rectus muscle. Recti Muscles. The internal (fig. 230, d), inferior (c), and external Striiiuht rccti{B) are placed with reference to the ej-eball as their nanies "yi^jjjjf'f.''^ express. They anse posteriorly from the circumference of the optic origin. Fiu. 230.—Third View op the Ohbit (Illustrations op Dissections) Muscles: A. Upper rectus and levator pal pebra; tluown back together. B. E.\ternal rectus, c. Inferior rectus. D. Internal rectus, p. Superior oblique cut, .showinj the insertion. H. Insertion of inferior oblique. Nerves : 1. Upper branch of the third. 2. Sixth nerve. .S. Branch of third to inferior oblique. 4. IJranch rectu.s. .5. Branch rectus. of third to inferior of third to internal foramen by a coniiiion attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. The e.xternal rectus differs from tlie others in having two Extendi heads : the upper one arises on the outer margin of the optic foramen : and joins the superior rectus in the common origin : the lower and larger head blends ou the one side with the inferior rectus in the common origin, and on the other side is attached to a bony point on the lower border of the splienoidal fissure near the irtner end, while some of its muscular fibres are also connected with a tendinous baud650 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. insei'tiou. Between heads of outer rectus. Use of all; inner and outer, upper and lower, and two ad,jacent. Common tendinous origin of the recti. Dissect inferior oblique. Lower oblique muscle: ongin ; course; insertion ; relations. Ar.tlon of oblique muBclcs: alone, between the two lieads. All the muscles are directed forwards, the lower ones also obliquely outwards, and have a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye about a ([uarter of an inch from the cornea, and in front of the greate.st transverse diameter of tlie ball. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different nerves before mentioned are transmitted into the orbit, viz., the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic veins. Action. The four recti muscles are attached to the eyeball at opposite sides in front of the greatest transverse diameter and are able to turn the j)upil in opposite directions. The inner and the outer muscles move the ball liorizontally around a vertical axis, the former directing the pupil towards the nose and the latter towards the temple. The dipper and lower recti elevate and depress respectively the fore part of the ball around a transverse axis; but as the muscles are directed obliquely outwards, the upper muscle turns the pupil upwards and inwards, and the lower muscle turns it downwards and inwards. By the simultaneous action of two adjacent recti, the ball will be moved to a point intermediate to that to which it would be directed by either muscle singly. Dissection. By opening the optic foramen, the attachment of the recti muscles will be more fully laid bare, and they will be seen to arise from a tendinous ring which passes above, outside and inside the optic foramen, and bridges across the sphenoidal fissure from below the inner and outer sides of the foramen, the two fibrous bands meeting below at a small spicule of bone on the iipper margin of the great wing of the splienoid. To dissect out the inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural position ; then by seijaratiiig from the facial aspect the lower eyelid from the margin of the orbit, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the eyeball arching from the inner to the outer side : if the external tarsal ligament be divided, it may be followed upwards to its insertion into the ball. The INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 230, h) is placed near the anterior margin of the orbit, and differs from the other muscles in being directed across, instead of parallel to the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior maxillary bone immediately outside the opening of the nasal duct. From this spot the muscle passes owt- wards between the inferior rectus and the bone and then between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat between the outer and upjier recti. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the posterior receives its branch of the third nerve. The insertion of the tendon is near that of the superior obli(iue muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Action of the oblique mmcles. Tlie superior obli((ue acting alone would draw the hack of the eyeball upwards and inwards, and651 ACTION OF TflE OBLIQUE MUSCLES. therefore cause the front of the eye to be directed downwards aud outwards. The inferior obli(|iie would similarly turn the front of the eye upwards and outwards. In consi'quenoe of their transverse direction, these muscles would also tend to rotate the eyeball around its antero-posterior a.\is, the superior oblique depressing, and the inferior obli(|ue elevating the inner end of the horizontal meridian of the eye, but movements of this nature take place only to a very limited extent during life. The oblique muscles are believed to act mainly in controlling the and with tendency of the superior and inferior recti to rotate the eyeball and ^JJ^/nf^rjo,. turn it inwards. Thus, to move the eye directly upwards, the superior lecti. rectus and the inferior oblique are used, while the inferior rectus and superior oblique co-operate in directing the eye downwards. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the remain- Seek tensor ing poi'tion of the paljiebral fascia is to be separated from the margin of the orliit ; but the lids must be left attached at the inner side by means of the internal tarsal ligament. On clearing away a little areolar tissue in the neighbourhood of the inner commissure, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. The TKNSOR TARSI MDSCLE arises from the crest of the lachrymal Tensor tarsi bone, and slightly from the bone behind the crest. Its fibres are "™'''^''' ■ pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the internal tarsal ligament, which divides like that structure into a .slip for each eye- lid. In the lid the slip lies by the side of the lachrymal canal, and insertion; blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsus. Action. The tensor tarsi draws backwards the inner canthus of use. the eye and compresses the lachrymal sac, after it has been dilated by the orbicularis palpebrarum in the act of winking. Dissection. A small nerve, the orbital branch of the superior Trace oiTset maxillary trunk, lies along the lower part of the outer wall of the maxiiiary"^ orbit, and is now to be brought into view by the removal of the eye- n>=i'v«- hall and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered, as it enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis muscle). Two blanches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it ; and the junction of a filament of the lachrymal nerve with the former is to be sought close to the bone. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. The TEMPORO-MALAR Or ORBITAL BRAKCH of the superior maxillary Orbital nerve arises in the spheno-maxillary fussa, and divides at the back of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramifv on the maxillary face and the side of the head with companion vessel.s. nene. The wator branch is directed forwards through the canal of the its malar same name in the malar bone to supply the skin of the upper and outer part of the clieek, where it communicates with the malar branches of the facial nerve.652 DISSECTION OF TIIK OKBIT. and temporal olfsets. Orbitalis muscle. Dissection iu spheno- maxillary fossa; Superior maxillary nerve. in floor of orbit. Infraorbital vessels. Upper max- illary nerve passes to face through infraorbital caniil. Its branches are—to orbit; to the nose and palate; to the liinder teeth and cheek ; The temporal hravch ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer wall of the orbit, and after being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fos.-a tlirougli the temporal canal in the malar bone : it is then directed upwards between the temporal niu.scle and the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 50-1). Orbitalis muscle. At tlie lower and outer angle of the orbit this thin layer of nnstriped muscle is .sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the spheno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are pierced by the temporo-malar nerve. Dissection. The contents of the orbit liaving now been removed, with the exception of the temporo-malar nerve, which is to be preserved if possible, the whole of the outer wall is to be cut away and the greater wing of the sphenoid chipped away so as to open up the siiheno-maxillary fossa. Only an osseous ring should be left round the su-perior maxilkmj division of the fifth nerve where it issues from the skull through the foramen rolundum, and the exposure of the nerve as it crosses the fossa to pa.ss on to the floor of the orbit will be completed by removing the fat. In the fossa the student seeks the following oft'sets,—the orbital branch entering the cavity of the orbit, branches to Meckel's ganglion which descend iu the fossa, and the posterior dental branch along the back of the upper jaw. To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the contents of the cavity having been taken away, the bony canal in which it lies must be opened to its termination on the face. From the infraorbital canal the anterior and middle dental branches are to be traced downwards for some distance in the bone. The infra- orbital vessels are prepared with the nerve. The SOPERIOK MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 231) commences at the Gasserian ganglion, and leaves the cranium by the foramen rotuu- dum. The course of the nerve is almost straight to the face, acrcss the spheno-maxillary fossa, and along the orbital plate of the upper maxilla through the infraorbital canal. Issuing from the canal by the infraorbital foramen, where-it is concealed by the elevator of tlie npper lip, it ends in iulraorbital or facial branches wliich radiate to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip. After the nerve comes to lie on the floor of the orbit it is called the INFRAORBITAL NERVE. Branches.—a. The orbital or temporo-malar brandi {*) has already been described. b. The spheno-palatine brandies (•'') descend from the nerve in the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate; they are con- nected with Meckel's ganglion, and Avill be dissected with it (Section XIII., p. G73). c. The postenor dental branch (•'■) leaves the nerve near the upper jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; near the teeth it joins the middle dental nerve. Before entering the canalTHE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. C53 it furnishes one or more oflsets to the gum and the mucous mem- briiiie of the cheek. After the nerve becomes the infraorbital it .t;ives oil"— d. and e. The middle and anterior dental branches which aiise to foio together or separately from the trunk in the floor of tlie orbit, and ' descend in special canals in the wall of the antrum to end in branches to the teeth, after forming loops of communication with one another, and with the posterior dental nerve. From the middle branch filaments are given to the bicuspid teeth ; and from the anterior to the canine and incisors, as well as a twig or two to the inferior meatus of the nose. The terminal branches on the face, palpebral, lateral nasal and to lower labial, have already been studied (p. 5G4). eyelid ; The INFRAORBITAL ARTERY is a branch of the internal maxillary infiaoibital in the sisheno-maxillary fossa (p. 615). Taking the cour.se of the "'^''^ Fio. 231.—Diagram op the Supp.kior Maxillary Nervk. 2. Trunk of the ncvve leaving the 5. Posterior dental nerves. Gaasermn ganglion. 6. Middle and anterior dental. 6. bpheuo-palatme branches. 7. Facial branches. 4. lemporo-malar branch. nerve through the infraorbital canal, the vessel appears on the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and it ends in branches ■which are distributed, like those of the nerve, between the eye and g„,,, ,„ mouth. On the foce its branches anastomose with od'sets of the facial face^'" and buccal arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery l urnishes hranciios to small twigs to the orbit, and a larger antei-ior dental branch which "'If^'n^ runs with the nerve of the same name to the incisor and canine anterior " teeth ; the dental branch also gives off-sets to the antrum, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery. The vein accompanying the artery communicates in Iront with the Infraorbital facial vein, and terminates behind in the alveolar plexus. Direction. The examination of an eyeball may be omitted with advantage till after the dissection of the head and neck has been completed.DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 654 Section XL Diiection. Detach pliaryux from spine, detach head, Separate phai'ynx from verte- bral column chisel through basi-occipi- tal. direction of a saw-cut, complete division with chisel. Preserve piece of spine. Fasten pharynx, then ch^nn muscles, viz. THE PHARYNX AND THE CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. Direction. In this section the students of the two sides must work together. The i^harynx can be examined only when it has been separated from the back of the head and the spinal column ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner indicated below, so as to have the anterior half, with the lAarynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The head is to be separated from the trunk by sawing through the vertebral column at the third dorsal vertebra unless the dissector of the thorax has already done this in his examination of the ligaments. The block then being removed from beneath the neck, the head is to be placed downwards, so that it may stand on the cut edge of the .skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib, and all are to be separated from the spine by drawing them forwards as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone, defining the base of the skull between the pharynx and the pre- vertebral muscles, but being careful not to injure eif;her. Then incise the j)eriosteum on the under surface of the exposed basilar part of the occij)ital and cut through this part of the bone with a sharp chisel, directing the chisel somewhat backwards as it is driven into the skull cavity—a block being j^laced inside the skull against the base to give the necessary support. Next turn the head on its side and make a saw-cut on each side j)assing close behind the mastoid process and extending, internally, to the posterior limit of the jugular foramen. The division of the skull will then be completed by chiselling, from within the cranial cavity, backwards through the base between the outer end of the chisel-cut through the basi-occipi tal and the inner end of the saw-cut behind the jugular foramen, taking care that the chisel passes in this operation on the inner side of the jugular foramen and the inferior petrosal sinus. The base of the skull is nowdiwled into two parts (one having the pharynx attached to it, the other articulating with the spine), which can be readily separated with a scalpel. The spinal column with the piece of the occipital bone connected with it should be set aside, and kept for after examination by the workers on the two sides together. Dissection of the phanjnx (fig. 2:32, p. 656). Let the student take the anterior part of the divided skull, and, after moderately filling the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the tcsophagus may be pendent and towards him. He will then proceed to remove the fascia from the constrictor muscles, in the direction of their fibres, and comjilete the separationDISSKOTION OK TIIR PITAIiVNX. Go of tlie diii'crent struclures lyiiifr ugaiiist (hf pliaryii.^'cal wiill iVom one anotlier and make out tlieir relations IVom llie I'resli point ol' view. Tlie niarijins of the inferior and middle constrictor muscles are to lowiTami be defined. Beneath tlie lower one, near tlic laryn.\, will be found "ti-uao,.;'"'' the recurrent nerve with companion vessels ; between the inferior and middle are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels ; and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle disappears beneath the npper border of the middle constrictor. To see the attachment of the sujierior constrictor to the lower jaw upper con- aiid tlie i)terygo-nia.\illary ligament, it will be necessary to cut thiough tlie internal pterygoid ninscle. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near tlie base of the skull, are two small muscles of the palate (f and h) entering the pharyn.x : one, tensor palati, lies close inside the internal pterygoid muscle ; and the other, levator palati, is deeper and larger. The Pharynx is a portion of the alimentary canal wliich gives rimrynx: ])assage to both food and air. It is j.laced behind the nose, mouth and larynx, and extends from the base of the skull to the lower ,.xi,,.nt; border of the cricoid curtilage of the laryn.x, where it ends in tlie oesopliagus on a level with the lower part of the si.xth cervical vertebra. In form it is .somewhat conical, with the dilated jiartfonn; upwards ; and its length averages about lour and a half inches, but i.MigUi ; varies according to the position of the head and the degree of elevation of the larynx. The tube of the jdiaryn.v is incomplete in front, wiiere it com- is .m inco,,,. nuuucates with the cavities above mentioned, but is clo,sed above,' behind, and at the sides. Below, it opens into the gullet. On each .vlations; •side of It are placed the trunks of the carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein, and the accompanying cranial and sympathetic nerve.s. Behind it is tlie spinal column, covered by muscles, viz., longi colli and recti cai)itis antici. In front, the pharyii.v is uniterl to the larynx, the liyoid bone, atud,. the tongue, and the bony framework of the nasal foss;e. which form the boundaries of its cavity in this direction. Behind and at the ,u„i con- sides. It lias a .special muscular wall, and is only united by very loose connective tissues to suiTonnding parts. At tlie upj.er Jnd the bag IS comjileted by a fibrous aponeurosis which fixes it to the base of the .skull ; ami the whole is lined by 7nuc(nis membrane. The nponcuro,is of attachment is seen at the upper part of the Apn„H,u-o.si.s pharynx, where the muscular fibres are absent, to connect the tube to the base of the .skull, and to complete the posterior boundary Su],eriorly it is fi.xed to the basilar process <,f the occipital, and the petrous part of the temporal bone ; but inferiorly it becomes thin and IS lost III the layer of connective ti.ssue between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane .some of the fibres ,,f the su]ierior constrictor muscle terminate. The MascLEs of the pharyngeal wall are arrangi.l in two layers- Musoh.s i„ an outei' comprising the three constrictors, the fibres of which run t"'"'"yor.s. more or less transversely to the direction of the tube, and an innerDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 656 of longitudinal fibres derived from the stylo-phaiyngeus and palato- pharyngeal pliaryngeus. Externally the constrictor muscles are covered by a fascia. Fio. 232.—External Vikw of the Pharynx (Ii.ldstrations of DiSSKUTIONS). Muscles : A. Inferior constrictor B. Middle constrictor, c. Upper constrictor. 1). Slylo-pliaryngeus. p. Lev.vtor piilati. II. Tensor palati. I. Pmccinator. K. Hyo-glossus. Nerves : 1. Glosso-pharyngeal. 2. Hypoglossal. 3. Superior laryngeal. 4. External laryngeal. 5. Inferior, or recurrent, laryngeal. 6. Lingual. fascia, which is continued forwards above, beneath the internal pterygoid muscle, to the surface of tlie buccinator.THE CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. 057 The INFERIOR CONSTRICTOR (fig. 232, a), the most superficial, Lower arises from the sitle of the cricoid cartilage, and from the inferior ariTos from coriui, oblique line, and upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The origin is small when compared with the insertion, for the fibres m'Idai'o' radiate as they pass backwards, to be inserted along the middle line, where the muscles of opposite sides join. The outer surface of the muscle is in contact with the sheatli of part.s in the carotid vessels, and with the muscles covering the spinal column, wiuun The lower border is nearly horizontal, and beneath it the inferior laryngeal nerve and vessels (°) pass ; while the upper border ascends very obliquely and overlaps the middle constrictor. A few of the lowest iibres of the muscle turn downwards, and are continued into the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. The MIDDLE CON.STRICTOR (fig. 232, b) lias a similar shape to the pre- Middle ceding, that is to say, it is narrowed in front and expanded behind. <=o"s'''"i<=t''"' Its fibres arise from the great and small cornua of the hyoid bone on "''^^^ "^""J^. a deeper plane than the hyo-glossus and from the stylo-hyoid liga- ' ment. From this origin the fibres radiate, and are blended along the middle line with those of the opposite muscle. The posterior surface of this muscle is to a great extent concealed relations, by the inferior constrictor. Laterally, it touches the carotid sheath ; and its origin is beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, the lingual artery passing between the two. Its upper border is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus ; and in the interval between the origins of the middle and inferior constrictors are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. The SUPERIOR CONSTRICTOR is thinner than the others, and of a Upper • quadrilateral form. It has a broad origin from the following parts ^i^^from in succession, commencing above,—the lower end of the internal pti'rygoid pterygoid plate and the hamnlar process, the pterygo-maxillary jaTand ligament, the hinder part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, '^°'^S»<': the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the side of the tongue! The fibres pass backwards, and are inserted by joining those of "the inserted fellow muscle along the middle line, where a tendinous raph6 is !">rtiy into formed between the two for the upper half of their depth. Some of " ' the highest fibres reach the tubercle on the under surfoce of the basi-occipital and others end on the aponeurosis of the pharynx. The parts in contact with this muscle externally are the deep relations: vessels and nerves of the neck at the side, the middle constrictor and prevertebral muscles behind : internally are the aponeurosis of the pharynx and the palato-j^haryngeus muscle. The upper border interval forms an arch with the concavity upwards extending iroui the ptery- muS and gold plate to the basilar process ; and the space between it and the "k'ln.""" base of the skull is occupied by the aponeurosis of the pharynx, which projects outwards above the muscle, and by the levator paiati, Eusta- chian tube and inferior palatine artery. The attachment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds with the origin of the bucci- nator muscle (I) between the two maxillaiy bones. Action of constrictors. The muscles of both sides contracting at the u.se of jj ^ constrictursDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 658 in swallow- of upiier constrictor. Pterygo- maxillary. ligament. Dissection to show longitudinal muscles. Dissection. Interior of pharynx. Ob.jects to bo notej. same time will diminisli the size of the pharynx ; and as the anteiioi- attachments of the lower muscles are nearer together than tho.se of the upper, tlie tube will be contracted more behind the larynx than near the head. In swallowing, the object is first seized by the lower part of tlie upper constrictor, and then forced on to the oesophagus by the succe.s- sive action of the middle and inferior constrictors. Since the back of the pharynx is closely applied to tlie prevertebral muscles, from which it cannot be separated in the natural condition of the parts, the efl'ect of the contraction of these muscles is to draw the tongue, hyoid l)one and larynx backwards, as well as somewhat upwards owing to the oblique direction of the greater number of the fibres of the middle and lower constrictors ; and the cavity, when empty, is compressed from before backwards. The upper part of the superior constrictor narrows the space above the mouth, and assists in bringing together the posterior pillars of the soft palate. (See the action of the palato-pharyngeus, p. 6G4.) The ijteryyo-maxillary ligament is a thin fibrous band w-hicli passes from the tip of the hamular process to the hinder end of the mylo- hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and gives origin in front to the middle fibres of the buccinator and behind to the superior constrictor. It is often partly concealed externally by the meeting of the fleshy fibres of the two muscles. Dissection (ftg. 233). By dividing the middle and inferior con- strictors midway between their origin and insertion, and reflecting the parts forwards and back-\vards, the longitudinal fibres of the pharyngeal wall will be exposed. The LONGITUDINAL OT ELEVATOR MUSCLES of the pharynx are the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus. The stylo-pharyiujcns has already been described (p. 626), but it may now be followed to its insertion. The ixdato-yharyngcus is only partially seen, and will be described with the muscles of the soft palate. Its fibres appear behind those of the stylo-pharyngeus, and descend to the lower part of the pharynx, reaching backwards to the middle line. Dissection (Hg. 233). Open the pharynx by an incision along the middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks : a better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX is wider from side to side than from before backwards, and its greatest width is opposite the hyoid bone ; from that spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter direction. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures (q) of the nasal fossa3, which are separated by the septum nasi. Below them hangs the soft palate, partly closing the opening into the mouth ; and Irom its free margin a primiineut fold of the mucous membrane, the posterior pillar of the fauces (l), is continued downwards and back- wards on each side of the pharynx. Immediately behind each nasalINTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX. aperture is tlie trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube ; and from the anterior extreniitj' of the prominence formed Ijy tlie tube, a ridge descends to join tlie posterior pillar of the fauces. Behind Fio. 233.—Interior View of tiik Pharynx (Illostrations op Dissections.) Muscles of the Palate, and named parts : Levator palati. Tensor palati. iSalpingo-pharyngeus. Azygos uvula;. Internal pterygoid. End of the Eustachian tube. Posterior naris. H. Mouth cavity. I. Anterior pillar of fauces. K. Po.sition of tonsil. L. Pcsterior ])illar of fauces. N. Opening of larynx, o. Opening of cesoijhagus. I'. Uvula. Superficial part of palato- pharyngeus. the opening of the Eustachian tube the mucou.s membrane is pro- longed into a-deep hollow, the lateral recess of the plHm/ux, which corresponds to the projection of the aponeurosis of the pliuryii.x seen externally. u u 26G0 DISSECTION OK THE PHAKYNX. Seven aper- tures, viz.— Posterior uares. Eustachian tube cartilagi- nous part; pharyngeal opening ; construc- tion. Fauces. Isthmus of the fauces. Upper opcTiiuK of larynx. On I'iii.sing the soft palate, tlie opening into the month-—isthmus faucinm (h) is exposed, honnded laterally liy a mucous ibid which descends to the tongue and is named the anterior pillar of the fauces ; while between the anterior and posterior pillars on each side is a hollow containing the tonsil (k). Next in order, below the mouth, conies the aperture of the larynx (n) with the epiglottis projecting above it. Lowest of all is the opening (o) from the pharynx into the ossophagus. The apertures into the pharynx are seven in number, and have the following position and boundaries :—• The posterior openings of the nasal fossct (choana;; g) are oval in form, and measure abotit an inch from above downwards, but only half an inch across. Each is constructed in the dried skull by the .sphenoid, with the vomer and palate bones above, by the palate below, by the vomer internally, and by the internal pterygoid plate on the outer side. The Eustachian tube (f) is a canal, partly osseous, partly cartila- ginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear communicates with the external air. If the mucous membrane be removed from the tube on the right side, the cartilaginous part is seen to be nearly an inch long. It is fixed above to a groove betv/een the petrous part of the temporal and the sphenoid bones, and ends in front by a wide opening on the inner side of the internal pterygoid plate, on a level with the posterior extremity of the inferior spongy bone of the nose (fig. 237, p. 670). Its ojiening in the pharynx is oval in form, and the inner margin projects forwards, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed of a triangular piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is bent downwards on each side so as to enclose a narrow space. The inner portion is larger than the outer, and increases in breadth from behind forwards. On its outer side the tube is completed by fibrous tissue. The cartilage is covered on its inner side by mucous membrane, and through the tube the mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the soft palate is called the fauces. It is wider below than above ; and on each side lies the tonsil. The ISTHMUS FADCIUM (h) is the narrowed aperture of communtca- tion between the mouth and the pharynx. It is bounded above by the soft palate, below by the tongue, and on the sides by the anterior pillars of the soft palate. Its size Varies with the movements of these parts, and it can be closed by the meeting of the soft palate and the tongue. . . The APERTURE OF THE LARYNX (n) is Wide in front, where it is bounded by the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the arytenoid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before backwards, and are formed by folds (aryteno-epiglottidean) of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Behind it is limited by the cornicula laryngis, and by the arj-tenoid muscle covered by mucous membrane. During respiration thisOPENING INTO THE (ESOPHAGUS. OIU apei-ture is unobstructed, but in tliu act of deglutition it is closed by the approximiition of the lateral folds and liie lower part of the epiglottis. The OPENING INTO THE QisoPHAOUs (o) is the narrowest part of BuKiimingof the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the sixth "''"'''''"f^"''- cervical vertebra. At this .spot the mucous membrane in the ajsophagus becomes paler than in the pharynx ; and the point at which the pharynx ends is marked externally by a .4ight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular hbres. The CAVITY OF THE PHARYNX is divided into three parts, which Snbriivi.sion differ in their function with regard to the transmission of the food H^ryll^ ""^ and air. The upper or nasal 2Mrlion- is limited below by the soft ""s"'- palate and its posterior pillars ; it gives pnssage only to air, and is always open. The middle or oral jiortion extends downwards to ("■"!. the aperture of the larynx, and is traversed by both food and air ; it is open when breathing through the mouth, but closed when breathing solely through the nose, the aperture of the larynx then corresponding to the interval between the posterior pillars. The third part being behind the larynx is termed laryngeal, and only and inryn- traiismits food ; its walls are naturally in contact, except during the tio'ils.'™' act of deglutition. The SOFT PALATE (velum pendulum palati ; q) is a moveable Soft p„i,-itB structure between the mouth and tiie pharynx, which can either ilUtf-"'^ close the opening of the mouth, or cut off the comnumication with the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual smfaees; position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) its anterior .surface is concave, and is continuous with the roof of the mouth ; \\hile the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard boi-dor.s; palate ; and on each side it joins the pharynx. The lower border from it IS free, and is produced in the centre into a conical pendulous part '"'"s^'""I"' —the uvula (p). Along its middle is a .slight ridge, indicative of the original separation into two halves. Descending from the soft palate on each side of the fauces are Arolms or the two folds of mucous membrane before referred to, containing ' muscular fibre.s, and named the arches or pillars of tlie soft palate ov fauces. The anterior pillar (i) springs from the anterior surface •'^"tfrior; of the soft palate near the base of the uvula, and reaches to the side of the tongue rather behind the middle ; and the 2Msterior (u), posterior, longer than the other, is continued from the lower border of the velum to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular .space in which the tonsil lies. The soft palate consists of an aponeurosis, wiih muscles, vessels Consti- nerves, and mucous glands; and the whole is enveloped by the v,:,,'™ mucous membrane. Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily Dissect displayed, but others require care in their dissection. The two principal muscles of the soft palate-lhe elevator and levator an,l tensor tmDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 662 on left, palato- pliaryiigeus, azygos UVUliE, and iialiito- kIossus. Aponeurosis of palate. Nine mns- cles in it. Elevator muscle ari.ses outside pharynx, and is lost in velum; relations. tensor, are very plain. These have already Ijcen partly dissected ; but to loUow tlieni to tlieir termination, let tlie upper attachment of llie pharynx ov the right side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal pterygoid ])late he cut through. The levator will he fully laid hare hy the removal of the mucous mem- brane and a few muscular fibres covering its lower end. The tendon of the tensor pilati should be followed round the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evident. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should also be ascertained. 0?i. the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised with great care from the posterior surface of the soft palate, to obtain a view of the superficial muscular fibres. Immeiliately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus muscle ; and beneath them, close to the middle line, are the longi- tudinal fibres of the azygos uvulre. A slender muscular bundle contained in the ridge of mucous membrane descending from the extremity of the Eustachian tube is to be exposed and traced to its junction with the palato-pharyngeus. On the right side, a deeper set of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus is to be followed beneath the levator and azj'gos muscles. The mucous membrane should next be removed from the muscular fibres contained in the arches of the palate, and the muscle fibres should be followed upwards and downwards. In order to see those in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane away from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres may not be visible. A2Mneurosis of the soft imlate. Giving strength to the velum is a thin but firm aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is Joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE are, on each side, an elevator and tensor, which descend from the skull, with the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, which act as depressors, aud a small median azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 233, A ; 234, is a thick roundish muscle which is partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone close in front of the carotid foramen, and from tiie lower border of the adjacent cartilaginous part of the Eustachian lube. Entering the pharynx above the superior constrictor, the fibres of tlie nuiscle spread out in the soft palate, where they join along the middle line with tho.se of the nuiscle of the opposite side. The belly of the muscle rests against the lower border of the Eustachian tube ; and the expanded part is embraced by two layers of fibres of the jialato-pharyngeus (4). Action. It raises the soft palate from the tongue, so as to enlarge the fauces ; and by bringing the hinder part of the velum intoMUSCLES OP PALATE. contact with the ]mstcriui' wall of the pharynx, it can shut oil' the U])])er pai't uf that cavity, as in vocalisation, when the air is pre- vented from passin},' througli the nose. The TENSOR or circdmflexos palati {fig. 233, b ; 234 -) is a thin Tensor flattened muscle, lyini; immediately beliind the internal pterygoid jilate. About an inch wide at its origin, it is attached to the scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the arises outer side of the Eustachian tube, and to the spinous process of ; the sphenoid. The fleshy fibres end below in a tendon, which turns round the hamular process, and is inserted into a ridge close inserted into to the posterior border of tlie hard palate, and blends inferiorly o'/soft with the aponeurosis of the velum. palate; The fleshy part of the tensor palati is placed between the internal relaiiojis; Era. 234. 1. Azygos uvulse. 2. Tensor palati. 3. Levator palati. 4. Palato ■ pharyngeus — upper eiul. 5. External pterygoiil. pterygoid muscle externally and tlie Eustachian tube and levator palati internally. The tendon enters the pharynx between the attachments of the buccinator muscle, and is thrown into folds as it winds round the hamular process, a bursa being placed between the two. In the soft palate it lies between the palato-pharyngeus and palato-glossus. Action. Acting from the skull the muscle will tix and make nse on tense the soft palate ; but its movements will be very limited, seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. The soft palate being fixed by its depressor muscles, the tensor, on tube, taking its fixed point below, opens the Eustachian tube in swallowing. The I'ALATO-GLOHSUS jiusci.E (constrictor isthmi I'aucium) is a ralato- small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior pillar (fig. 233, i) of the soft palate. It is connected below with the side of nit-"!;''- Mients;664 DISSECTION OF THK PHARYNX. relations; Palato- pharyngens forms two layers in velum: posterior layer is joined by salpingo- pharyngeus; anterior layer is larger : inserted into thyroid cartilage and wall of pharynx ; in swallow- ing; of salpingo- pharyngeus. Azygos muscle is in two slips; the tongue ; from tbis spot the lihiei; ascend in front of tlie tonsil to tlie anterior aspect of the soft jialate, wlicre they form a tliin muscular stratum, and join those of tlie fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended witli tlie glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed beneath the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus closes the isthmus of the fauces, bringing the soft palate into contact with the tongue, and approxi- mating the anterior pillars, thus shutting off the mouth from the pharynx. The FALATO-PHARYNGEU.S (fig. 233, Q ; 234, is much larger than the preceding muscle, and gives rise to the eminence of the pos- terior pillar of the soft palate. It begins in the soft palate in two layers, which enclose between them the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles. The superficial part, very thin, and situate immediately beneath the raucous membrane, meels in the middle line the corre.sponding part of the opposite muscle ; it is also joined by a slender fasciculus, which descends from the anterior extremity of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube [salpincio-jiharyn- geus, Santorini; fig. 233, c). The deep or anterior layer is much stronger, and lies between the levator and tensor palati muscles ; its upper fibres spring from the hinder margin of the hard palate and the aponem-osis of the velum, while the lower ones join those of the ojjposite side. The two layers meet at the outer part of the soft palate, and the muscle descends behind the tonsil on the side wall of the pharynx. Spreading out below, the anterior fibres are inserted into the hinder border of the thyroid cartilage, but the greater number end in the submucous tissue of the pharynx beneath the inferior constrictor, the hinder ones meeting the fellow mu-scle in the middle line. Action. The palato-pharyngeus depresses and tightens the soft palate, raises the larynx and lower part of the pharynx, and at the same time brings together the posterior pillars of the fauces, thus acting as a sphincter by which the nasal portion is separated from the oral portion of the i^harynx. In swallowing, the hinder pillars of the soft palate, being approximated by the action of this muscle, form, together with the uvula, an inclined plane, beneath which the food is directed downwards. The contraction of the salpingo- pharyngeus at the same time assists in opening the Eustachian tube, by drawing inwards and backwards the cartilage bounding its orifice. The AZYGOS DVOL/E (fig. 233, D ; 234,i) is situated along the middle line of the velum near the posterior part. The muscle consists of two narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeu- rosis, and end below in the base of the uvula. Behind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Action. Its fibres shorten the mid-part of the soft palate, and elevate the uvula, directing that process backwards.TIIK CWTTY OK TIIK MOCTIl. riic TOXSII. is an oval bnily, ,,[' \aria!ilr size, jjlaccd alHUc llic: Tuiisil is ii'iit of the tongue, in a recess lielwrcu the anleiitJi- and [loslerior Jim",'.-'!',!- ]>illars of tlie sol't pahite. Kxt<-inally it is cnvere.l liy the siipei ini'= eonstrictdv ninsch-, aiid is a litth' almv,. tlie an.^lc oT tlie hiwer jaw. Tile surl'aee of tlie tonsil is marked hy a])ertures, wliieli h'iKl into stnirtuiv. cnpts, or recesses, lined Ijy nuieoiis nieniln'ane. Its sulistanee consists mainly of lymphoid tissue, jiartly dilfused, anil paitly collected into follicles set round the walls of these recesses. A similar riuiryiiK.-.-.l collection (/f lymphoid tissue stretches across the posteriijr wall of the pharynx, between the openings of the Eustachian tube, and is known as the pltitrjiiKjial tonsil. The aiicr)r.s of the tonsil are nium-rous, and are derived from the Vu.ssmIs, facial, lingual, ascending pharyngeal and internal maxillary bram hes of the external carotid. Its reins have a plexilorm arrangement on anancn-s the outer .side. Ncrrcs are furni.shed to it from Ihe fifth and glosso- pharyngeal. Its Iumphatics ]oin the dee[i cervical glands. The JIUCOL-S .MEMBH.VNE OF THIC rH.MtVX.X is CoIlliniUlUS in front .Miu-,H,s with the lining of the nose, mouth and laryn.x. A fold encloses the "!^";^™'!'" muscles and glands of the soft jialate, from which the membrane' descends on each side over the tonsil to the tongue. It is also ].ro- longed by the Eustachian tube to the tympanum ; and below, it is continued int., the (esophagu.s. It is provided with numerous u'la,.ls; mucous glands m the up],er part of the ],harynx, and on both sur- faces, l,ut especially the ui^per, of the soft palate. Another collec- tion of glamls (arytenoid) is enchi.se.l in the fold of mucous mem- brane bounding the opening of the laryn.x on each .side. The epiti„.i,„„, epithelium is columnar and ciliated above the soft palate, but scaly and stratified Ijelow that part. The aosoi.HAGus. This tube is much smaller than the pliaryn.x, negh.ni,,.- ami the walls are flaccid. It .-onsisls of two layers of muscular hbre.s, with alining of mucous membrane. The crternal !a„er is tTo i-u-,.,. tormed of longitudinal fil^res, which begin opposite the cricoid "f rartilag^ by three bundles, an anterior and two lateral; the Ibrmer ou'rfo,,- IS attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the other ^itiuiii);il, .join the inlerior constrictor. The internal layer is formed of circuhir a„.i i,„„.,- 11 hres, which are continuous with those of the inferior constricl.jr ilie structure of the a>s(,phagus is described more fullv in the uis.sectioii of the thora.x. The CAVITY ,H.' THio MouTii. The cavity of the ni.,utli extends .M.uil,. from the lips m front to the anterior pillars of the fauces behind Its boundaries are partly os.seous and parllv muscular, and its si/e dq^ends upon the position of the lower jaw-bone. When the lower f.,n„, jaw IS moderately removed from the uj.per, Ihe iiioutii is an oval cavity wn 1 the loliowiiig boundaries. The roof, concave, is consti- t ted by he hard and .soft palate, and is limite.l in front and on the tl r T H 1 'surrounded archol the lower teetli ; and beneath that body is the sub- g al gland on eacdi side. I^ach lateral l.nnalar, consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in i,; ,.ear the .secondDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 606 Vestibule. Lining of the mouth differs in parts: on roof, molar tootli in the upper jaw, is tlie opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is hounded by the lips ; and the posterior is the istlinius faucium, leading into the pharynx. The space between the lips and the teeth is distinguished from the rest of the cavity as the vestibule of the mouth. The mucous membrane is less sensitive on the hard than on the soft boundaries of the mouth ; it lines the interior of the cavity, and is reflected over the tongue. lu front it is continuous with the skin, and behind with the lining of the pharynx. The epithelium cover- ing the membrane is scaly and stratified. Between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw the membrane forms a small fold—frsenulum. Over the bony part of the roof it blends with the dense tissue enclosing the vessels and nerves ; on the soft palate it is smooth, and thinner. Along the middle of the roof is a slightly raised raphe, which ends in front opposite the anterior palatine fossa in a small papilla ; and on each side of this, at the fore part of the hard palate, there are two or three irregular transverse ridges. In the floor of the mouth the membrane forms the frtenum linguae beneath the tip of the tongue, and on each side of the frfenum it is raised into a ridge by the sub- lingual gland, at the fore part of which is a small papilla, perforated by the opening of Wharton's duct. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands. Over the whole cavity, but especially on the lips and tongue, are papilla3. The CHEEK extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus of the lower jaw, and is attached above and below to the alveolar process of the jaw on the outer a.spect. The chief constituent of the cheek is the fleshy buccinator muscle ; on the inner surface of this is the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The LIPS surround the opening of the mouth ; they are formed mainly by the orbicularis oris muscle covered externally by integu- ment and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular struc- ture and the mucous covering lie the labial glands; and in the sub- stance of each lip, internal to the muscular structure, and separated from the free edge by the marginal bundle of the orbicularis, is placed the arch of the coronary arteries. Teeth ; Teeth. In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, which are nuinhc'r and -j^ alveolar borders in the form of an arch, and are surrounded .mungen.ent ^^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ .^^ couvexity turned forwards; and, commonly, the arch in the maxilla overhangs that in the man- dible when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in t he half of each jaw, and have received the following names ;-the most anterior two are incisor.«, and the one ne.xt behind is the canine tooth ; two, still farther back, are the two bicuspids; and the last floor cheek, and lips. PapilliB. Cheek; extent, and struc- ture. Lips, formed by orbicularis, contain arteries.THE CAVITY OP THE NOSE. (i67 three are mular teeth. For details as to tlie form and structure of the teeth reference must be made to a work on systematic or general anatomy. Section XII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. The skull will now be divided from before backwards into two Directions, halves for the examination of the nasal cavity and of various remain- ing parts of the anatomy of the skull. The tongue and larynx will be separated, as directed, and put aside for examination by the workers on the two sides together ; after which they will similarly examine the prevertebral region and the ligaments. In this Section also, and in the next, the students work together. While examining the boundaries of the nose, the student should be provided with a sinular section of a macerated .skull. It is also desirable, in order to fully comprehend the form of the cavity, that he should have the opportunity of inspecting a coronal section of the nose in the recent state. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower Dissection, jaw should be taken away, and the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, are to be detached from the oi^posite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissectors are ready to use them. Un the riyht side of the middle line saw carefully through the frontal Cut througli and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the body "'ithg'^v " of the sphenoid bone, without letting the saw descend more than can be helped into the nasal cavity. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft Cut soft parts are to be divided on the right side opposite the cut in the roof ''"w b'oneln of the nose. Then by sawing through the hard palate and the ■■oof of alveolar process of the upper jaw along the same line, the piece of the skull will be separated into two parts, right and left ; the right half will serve for the examination of the meatusu.^, and the left will show the septum nasi, after the mucous membrane has been removed. The CAVITY OF THE NosB: is placed in the centre of the bones of situation of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and between the orbits. The .space is divided into two nasal loesiE by Division a vertical partition, the septum. "I'o two. Each fossa is elongated from before backwards, and compressed from Form and side to side. Its length is greater below than above, and measures near the floor about lliiee inches. Its height in the middle of the cavity 18 about one inch and three-quarters, becoming less in front and behind. The upper part of the fossa is narrow (lig. 23.5, p. 608) not exceeding one-eighth of an inch in bicadtii, and has been named the olfactory cleft, which extends down as far as the lower border ofDISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 668 Opuiiiii; Roof. the middlu turbinate bone ; below tliis tlio outer wall recedes, form- ing the rcspindory passcuje, which has a width near the floor of about Ihree-fifth.s of an inch. In front, each fossa oijens on to the face, and behind into the pharynx, by orilices called nures. Oilier apertures in the roof and outer wall lead into air-sinuscs in the surrounding bones, viz., frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. Each fossa presents for examination a roof and flooi', an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The ROOF is strongly arched from before backwards, and is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the lateral cartilages in front; and by the body of the sphenoid, and the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the Floor. bouiiilary sup.hirl. tone mid. elhm. cell Fig. 235.—The Nasal Fossje in Coronal Section. On the right side of the figure tlie section passes through the openings of the middle ethmoidal cells and the anlnim into the middle meatus: on the left side, a section of the hinder part of the fossa is represented, and the posterior ethmoidal cells are seen opening into the superior meatus. palate bone, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it; most are in the ethmoid bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nerve and vessels; on the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The FLOOR is slightly hollowed from side to side, an<l is formed by the palate ])rocesses of the superior maxillary and palate bones. Near the front in the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The INNER WALL (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly cartila- ginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the frontal an<l nasal with which this last bone articulates. TheTHE SPO>TGY BONES AND MEATUSES. ,!(;y angular si.ace in front in the macerated skull is filled in the recent p.iriiy carti- state hy the caHilaije of the septinn, which forms part of the parti- tion between the nostrils, and supports the lateral cartilages. Fi.xed between the vomer, the ethmoid, and the nasal bones, this cartilage rests in front on theinci.sor crest of the superior nia.xiIke, and projects between the cartilages of the nostrils. The septum' nasi is commonly bent to one side. The OUTER WALL has the greatest extent and the most irregular Outer surface. Seven bones enter into its formation, and they conie in the following order from before backwards:—the nasal and superior maxillary ; the small lachrymal bone and the lateral mass Fra. 236.—Outer Wall of the Nasal Cavity. 8. Lower meatus. 9. Rudimentary fourth meatus. 10. Vestibule. The cut al.so shows the apertures of the glands of the nose. 1. Upper turliinate bone. 2. Middle turbinate bone. 3. Inferior turbinate bone. 4. Flat part of the ethmoid bone. 6. Upper meatus. 7. MicUlle meatus. of the ethmoid, with the inferior turbinate bone below these ; and posteriorly the a.scending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the .sphenoid ; of these, the na.sal, lachrymal, and r„nno,i nr ethmoid reach only about half way from roof to floor, and the inferior turbinate is confined to the lower half, while the others extend the whole depth. In front of the bones, the lateral cartilaaes complete this boundary. " From this wall three slightly convoluted os..eous plate.s, named is irroj-uiar turbinate or spovcjy boms (tig. 236j, project into the cavity-—the °" ' upper (') and middle (^) are processes of the ethmoid, but the lower "v" one 0 18 a separate bone. The turbinate bones are confined to that portion of the outer wall which is situate above the hard i.alate ?"nUlSSECTION OF THE NOSE, 670 Butwetin each turbinate boue and the wall of the nose is a longitudinal lioUow or meatus; and into tliese hollows the nasal duct and the sinuses of the surroiuiding hones open. Monluses. Tlie vieaiusvs are the spaces arched over hy the spongy bones ; and as the bones are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so are the spaces beneath them. Upper The ujiper meatus (fig. 236, °) is the smallest and straightest of the meatus. three, and is limited to the posterior half of the space above the hard palate. Into its fore part the posterior ethmoidal cells open (figs. 235 and 237), and at its posterior end, in the dried skull, is acjjcr. atrium j'roniai siixiiB riiJ. rHim. cells poflt. ctKm. c<*U8 at. rcc. Eust. tahe Iiiahis scmilun. ant. ethm. cells. Fig. 237.—Outer "Wall op Riqht Nasal Fossa. The whole of tlie middle, and the fore part of the lower turbinate bones have been cut away, to show the openings in the middle and inferior meatuses. the spheno-palatine foramen by which nerves and vessels enter the nose. Mi,i,iie The middle mea<tts.(flg. 236, 0 is longer than the upper, and reaches meatus. f^^,^ tjjg posterior opening of the nasal fossa, nearly as fiir forwards as the hard palate. The free border of the middle turbinate bone being curved upwards anteriorly, this meatus is open in front as well as below. On raising, or cutting away, the overhanging turbinate Hiatus bono (fig. 237), a deep groove, hiatus semilunaris, will be seen in the semilunnris. ^^^^ ^^^.^.^ ^|^g lateral wall of the meatus, bounded below by the uncinate process of the ethmoid, and leading njnvards through the ivfundihulum of the latter bone to the frontal sinus. Into the groove lower down the anterior ethmoidal cells open, and at its hindmost ))art is a small aperture leading into the antrum of the superior maxilla. Above the hiatus is a crescentic enlargement (the Eti,u,oi,l.il ethmoidal bulla), above which is an opening leading into the middle bulla.REGIONS OF THK NOSK. 671 ethmoidal cells; and in some cases (liere is a second opening into the antrum close above tlie lower turbinate bone. Tlie inftrior meatus (fig. 235), is wider tlian tlie middle one, and Loww extends the whole length of the hard palate. Near its anterior extremity is the opening of tlie nasal duct (fig. 237). Above the superior meatus, in an angle formed by the roof, there spi,o„o- is a vertical depression called the sjiheiio-ethmoidal recess (fig. 237), on ''^'""o''!"' the posterior wall of whicli the sphenoidal sinus opens ; and occasion- ally a small fourth meatus, communicating with a posterior ethmoidal a fourUi cell, is present between the rc-cess and the sui)eri(ir meatus. mnatus In front of the attached border of the middle turbinate bone there is usually to be seen a faint ridge, the agger nasi (fig. 237), directed A.^-er nasi obliquely downwards and forwards, and forming the upper boundary of a slight hollow known as the atrium of the middle meatus (fig. a„d atriun, 237). The nares. In the recent condition of the nose each fossa has a Na,.es distinct anterior opening on the face, and another in the iiharynx ; but in the skeleton there is only one common opening in front for both sides. These apertures and their boundaries have been before described in the anatomy of the face. The IIDCOUS LINING OF THE NASAL FOSS.B is Called the ^n'?Ul/rrn/ Muccs or Schneulenan. memh-ane, and is blended with the subjacent perios'- ''»'»«<"■ "'e teum or perichondrium. It is continuous with the skin at the nostril, with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior nares, and with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct; and it sends prolongations to line the different sinuses, viz., frontal, ethmoidal sphenoidal, and maxillary. ' The apertures in the dry bone which transmit nerves and vessels, somofora- viz., the mcisor and spheno-palatine foramina, the holes in the cribriform plate, and the foramen for the nasal nerve and vessels are entirely closed by the membrane ; and the openings leading to others the sinuses are reduced in size by the prolongations passing through '/'"""isl-e-i them. At the termination of the nasal duct the mucous membrane ' orms a single or double fold, which is sometimes suflicient to close the opening and prevent air entering the canal from the nose Over the middle and lower turbinate bones (to a greater extent PoiCs o„ on the latter) the mucous membrane is thickened and projected ■'^''""By beyond the edges of the bones by the large submucous vessels, so that the meatuses are deeper and longer in the recent state than in tne dried skull. The appearance and structure of the lining membrane differ in the Ti„ve upper and lower parts of the nasal fossa, and near the anterior open- nig, whence a division of the cavity is made into three portions, which are termed respectively the olfactory region, the respirato,.; legion, and the vestibule. ' i J The vestibule (fig. 237) is the slightly dilated portion of the Vestibu.e c^rt il '^^^^ "°«tril. It is bounded by the mo.e fiexible than that of tlie part above. The lining membrane of672 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Respiratory region. Olfactory region. the vestibule lias the character.^ of the outer skin, being furnished with papillffi and hairs (vibrissse), and lined by a stratified scaly epithelium. The respiratorij region is the part below the level of the middle turbinate bone. Its mucous membrane is thick, of a red colour, very vascular, and has numerous mucous glands, the openings of which are readily seen on the surface. The glands are largest and most abundant on the inferior turbinate bone, and at the lower and back part of the cavity. The epithelium of this region is columnar and ciliated. The olfactory region is the narrowed upper part of the nasal fossa, which is enclosed by the ethmoid bone. It comprises the part of the Fig. 238.—Neeves of the Septum of the Nosb. 1 Olfactory bulb and inner set of 3. Naso - palatine nerve from olfactory nerves. Meckel's ganglion (too large in the 2. Nasal nerve nf the ophthalmic figure), trunk. roof formed bv the cribriform plate, the part of the septum (about one-third) formed by the perpendicular plate of tlie ethmoid, ami, on the outer wall, the upper and middle turbinate bones, together with the flat surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid in front ol tlie former. Over this region the olfactory nerves are distributed, d it is, therefore, the seat of the sen,«e of smell. The olfactory mucous membrane is thinner, softer, and le.ss va.scular than that in the respiratory region, and it has in the fresh state a yellowish colour. Its epithelium is .•olnmnar, but not ciliated ; and il is thickly beset with siiuide tubular glands. , , j In the sinuses the mucous lining is thin and pale, and its glands MUCOUK irZu™"" fire few and small.OLFACTORY NERVES. 073 Dissection. At this stage of the dissection, but little will be Dissection seen of the distribution of the olfactory nerves. If the bonv and , cartilagmous septum be removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the left side, the nervous filaments will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. In the membrane, near the front of the septum, an olfset of the nasal nerve is to be found. The naso-palatine nerve and artery (tig. 238, ■') are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine fossa; the artery is readily seen, especially if it is injected, but the fine nerve is embedded in the membrane, and will be found by scraping with the point of the scalpel. By cutting through the fore and upper part of the membrane detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The OLFACTORY NERVES spring from the under surface of the Olfactory olfactory bulb as it lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone = (fig. 238,1), and descend to the olfactory region of the nose through the apertures in this part of the roof. They are about twenty in number, and are divided into two sets. Those of the inner set are inner «et- the larger, and run downwards in the grooves on the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, to be distributed over the upper third of the septum. The oute^- set (fig. 239, p. 675) ramifies over the upper urbinate bone the flat surface of the ethmoid in front of this, and outer set. the fore part of the middle turbinate bone. As the nerves leave the skuU, they receive sheaths from the dura mater and pia mater, which are continued as far as their terminal ramifications, and then become lost m the surrounding tissue. The trunks break up into tufts of filaments which commmiicate freely together, forming a close net- work beneath the nyicous membrane. The olfactory nerves consist wholly of non-medullated fibres. The other nerves in the nose will be described in the followin<» section. " Blood-vessels. The different vessels of the nose will be described Biood-ves- n the next section, p. 677 et seq. The arteries form a network in the pituitaiy membrane, and a large submucous plexus on the ed"e of each of the two lower spongy bones, especially on the inferio°r I LIZ T r ^ ''^""^ disposition like the arteries, an.l this veins. IS laigest on the lower spongy bone and the septum nasi. Section XIII. SVHENO-PALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA TH vm M THE FACIAL NERVE AND THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. C.AROTID The preparation of Meckel's ganglion and its branches ^fi^r 9•^Q^ „ and of the terminal branches ^f «ie internd ^^^^ a difficult task, m consequence of the nerves and vessels helnc. D.A. " X X674 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Dissection of palatine and nasal branches ; body of ganglion; Vidian nerve. contained in osseous canals which require to be opened. The branches are first to be sought, and these are then to be followed to the ganglion and the main trunk. Dissection. The left hall" of the head is to be used for the dis- play of Meckel's ganglion and its branches ; but the students will derive advantage from tirst attempting the dissection on the remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches to the palate, detach the soft parts in the roof of the month from the bone, until the nerves and vessels escaping from the posterior palatine canals are arrived at. Cut oft", with the bone forceps, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level with the vessels and nerves ; and cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the front of the mouth. Take away, without injury to the naso-palatine nerve and vessels (already found), the hinder portion of the loose piece of mucous membrane detached from the septum nasi ; and separate the mucous membrane from the outer waU of the nasal fossa, behind the spongy bones, as high as the spbeno-palatine foramen. In reflecting for- wards' the membrane, vessels and nerves will be seen entering it through the foramen ; but these may be left for the present, and directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has been removed behind the spongy bones, the palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and may be readHy reached by breaking carefully through the latter with a chisel. Afterwards the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves beinc opened, these are to be foUowed down to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the gang]^on which is close to the body of the sphenoid bone. To bring Meckel's ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the overhanging body of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The oanglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body from which the Vidian and pharyngeal nerves pa.ss backwards. Besides these branches, tire student should seek two large nerves from the. top of the ganglion which join the superior maxillary trimk, and smaller offsets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the Vidian branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nerve, the student must lay open the Vidian canal in he root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small pharyngeal branches of nerve and artery which ^re ^^^^^'^ to the Vidian, and lie in the pterygo-palatine canal. At the back oi the Vidian canal, a small branch from the nerve to the plexus on the nternal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, 1- -J of the Vidian nerve (large superficial petros.il) is to be ^f^^l the skull through the dense tissue in the foramen laceiurn alter Jutting away the apex of the petrous portion of the ten.poral bone,675 MECKEL'S GANGLION. and dividing the internal carotid artery ; and it is to be pursued on the surface of the temporal Lone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii. Its junction with the facial nerve wiU be seen witli the dissection of that nerve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose will be found entering Seek the outer surface of tlie detached mucous membrane opposite the spheno-pahxtine foramen, with con'esponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-ijalatine), dissected before in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to wliere it enters the floor of the nose. The branches of the internal maxilhiry artery with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. Fig. 239.—Nerves op the Outer Wall of the Nose and op the Palate. 1. Olfactory tract. 2. Olfactory bull) giving branches to the nose. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. n. Fifth nerve. 6. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic. 7. Meckel's ganglion. 8. Vidian nerve. 9. Large palatine nerve. 10. Small palatine nerve, tt Nasal branches. The SPHENO-PALATINE or Meckel's ganglion (fig. 239,2) lies in the spheno.ma.xillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine fora- men, and is connected with the branches of the superior maxillary nerve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate, foi' tlie most part, behind tlie branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior maxilhiry nerve, so as to surround only some of their fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into the VicUan nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles the other ganglia in connection with the fifth nerve in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic ofi'sets or roots connected with it. The miANCHES of the ganglion are distributed chiefly to the nose and palate, but small offsets are given to the pharyn.x and the orbit. Other oflsets or roots connect it with surrounding nerves. X X Ganglion of Meckel : situation and cnnnec- tioii witli II ftil nervo ; compo.si- tinn : brandies.676 DISSKCTION OF THE HEAD. Nnsnl brrinclii's iiic— superior iinsal, imso- jwlatine. Palatine branches are tliree. Large nerve has branches to nose; small: and external palatine. Pharyngeal branch. Orbital brandies. Unitins! branches, to liflli. and to facial and aympa- throiit?li the Vidian. Branches to the nose. The nasal branches, from three to five in number, are very small and soft, and pass inwards tlirough the spheno-palatine foramen ; tliey are distributed in tlie nose and the roof of the moulli. ]. The superior nasal branches ramify in the mucous membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few filaments reach the back part of the septum nasi. The itaso-palatine nerve (fig. 238,p. 672), crosses the roof of the nasal fossa to reach the septum, on which it descends to near the front of that partition. In the floor of the nose it enters a special canal by the side of the septum, the left being anterior to the right, and is conveyed to the roof of tlie mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine fossa. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are distributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and communicate with one another. On the septum nasi filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrine. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth must be opened. Branches in the palate. The nerves of the palate, though connected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 652). Below the ganglion they are divided into three—large, small, and external. 1. The large or anterior palatine nerve (fig. 239, ^) reaches the roof of the moutb through the largest palatine canal, and coirrses for- wards nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve. While in the canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments (inferior nasal, t) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in the roof of the mouth it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an ofi"set to the soft palate. 2. The small or posterior palatine nerve ('") lies in the smaller canal, and ends below in the soft palate, the uvula, and the tonsil. 3. The external palatine nerve is very small, and descends in the canal of the same name to be distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. The pharyngeal branch is a minute twig whicli is directed througli the pterygo-palatine canal to supply the mucous membrane of tbe pharynx near the Eustachian tube. Branches to the orbit. Two or three in number, these ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the periosteum and orbital muscle (p. 652). It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, ^^^th the spheno-palatine l)ranches of the fifth nerve (fig. 239, '), receiving sensory fibres through them ; and through the medium of the Vidfan, wliich is described" below, it communicates with a motor nerve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve. The Vidian nerve (") passes backwards through the Vidian canal, and sends some small filaments through the bone to the membraneBRANCHES OF THE FNTBRNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 677 lit the liack of tliu niof of the no.se (upper pnderiar tuisiil liriiKclicK). At its exit from the canal, the nerve receives a soft reddish olfset [lanju deep petrosal nerve) from the sympathetic on the outer side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters tlie cranium through the foramen lacerum, and is directed backwards in a groove on tlie surface of the jietrous part of the temporal bone, wliere it takes tlie name of lanje siqierjicial iietrosal nerve {[V^. 2-10,-, p. (MS). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallojjii, to join tlie geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve (p. 679). The Vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and .'sympathetic viiUaim fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the ''""'i'"""'' sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The students may now give their attention to the remaining nerves in the nasal cavity. Dissection. The nasal uerve is to be sought liehind the nasal ■■ioi'i; otlicr bone (tig. £39) by gently detaching the lining membrane, after""™"""' . having cut ofi' the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum, but probably this, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal ma.xillary artery in the vr.ssuis of spheno-nia.villary iassa have been laid bare in tiie dissection of Meckel's ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The NAS.4L NERVE (of the ojihthalmic) (tig. 239, has been already .\a.sal nerv« seen in the skull and orbit. Entering the nasal fo.s.sa by an aperture J,',';j,i,'"',jou"l at tile front of the ethmoid bone, the uerve gives a branch to the fives membrane of the septum, and tlien descends in a groove on the back of the nasal bone. At the lower margin of the latter it escapes between the bone and the upper lateral cartilage to the surface of the nose. Branches. The hraneh to tlie aeidum (fig. 238) divides into bnuich to filaments that ramify on tlie anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower border. One or two Ji laments are likewise furnished by the uerve to the aiidto mucous membrane on the outer wall of the nasal fossa: these extend as low as the inferior spongy bone. Terminal uranche.s of the internal maxillary artery. ii,-,uiciH« of Tlie branches of the artery in the spheno-ma.xillary fossa, which \ll^,'^M'^,y have not been examined, are the superior palatine, nasal, pterygo-"rtery mu palatine, and Vidian. The s7i,perior or descandinij ■palatine is the largest branch, and pnl'itino accompanies the large palatine nerve through the posterior palatine ' canal, and along the roof of the mouth ; it anastomoses behind the incKsor teeth with its fellow, and with the naso-palatine branch through the incisor foramen. This artery supplies olfsets to the sott palate and tonsil through the other palatine canals, and some twigs are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous membrane, glands and gums receive their vessels from it.DISSECTION OP THE HEAD. 678(!79 THE FACIAL NERVE IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. Dissection. Each studmt may now work on his own side. The nisseetion J ^ .1,1 , -i of nerve 111 trunk of the nerve is to be tound as it leaves the styio-masioici ti,p i^gjie, foramen, and from this point it is to be followed upwards through the temporal bone. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through ^-ertically between the meatus auditorius extemus and the anterior border of tlie mastoid process, so as to open the lower part of the aqueduct of Fallopius from behind. The nerve will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed forwards by cutting away with the bone- forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will he opened, and the chain of bones in it exposed. The nerve Ls to be traced onwards along the inner side of the mui iu tympanum, until it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards 2""" ' , to the meatus auditorius internus. The surrounding bone m to be removed from the enlargement, so as to allow of the petrosal nerves being traced from it; and the internal meatus is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that canal. The course of the chorda tynipani nerve (branch of the facial) of diortla across the tympanum' will be brought into sight by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. This nerve may be also followed to the facial through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone are very and other , branches. minute, and are not to be seen except on a fresh piece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may, therefore, omit the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, until he is able to obtain a part on \\'hich a careful examination can he made. The FACIAL NERVE (Hg. 240, '), traverses the internal auditory Facial nerve meatus, and entering the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of that hollow, is conducted througli the temporal bone to the stylo-mastoid winds foramen, and the face. In its serpentine course through the bone, jg,'°porai the nerve is first directed outwards to the inner wall of the bone, tympanum ; at that spot it bends backwards, and is marked by a is marked ganglionic swelling—geniculate ganglion, with which several small Ivhich^'givS nerves are united. From this swelling the nerve is continued at off twigs, first backwards and then downwards through the arched aqueduct, to the aperture of exit from the bone. The hranclm of the nerve in the bone serve chieKy to connect it with other nerves ; but one suijplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle, but the branches marked thus * will not be seen except on a specially prepared part as described on p. 812. * Connecting branches unite the facial with the auditory and Bianchos glosso-pharyngeal nerves, with Meckel's ganglion, and with the ]Z""o^ lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. * Union with the auditory nerve. In the bottom of the meatus to auditory, the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute filaments. Connecting branches of the genic^llate ganglion. From the con- vexity of the swelling on the facial nerve three small branchesDISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 680 to Mt!c;U(il's giinj;li()ii, tyiiipanic ol' jllosso-jilui- rynt;iMl, and synipa- tiiclic ; nervo to -staiiwliiis ; chord II tyinpani to lingual. Auditory nerve. Otic traii'dioM, Disspction to lind it, r-4 proceed. One is the large superficial petrosal nerve (^), passing to the Vidian ; another is a filament* of comnumicalion with tlie small superficial petrosal nerve of tlie tymjjanic plexus (") ; and the third is the external superficial petrosal nerve* (■•), which unites the ganglion with the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery. * The branch of the stapedius muscle arises at tlie back of the tymjianum, and is directed forwards to its muscle. Ghorda tympani. This long but slender branch of the facial nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it enters the tympanum below the pjTamid. In the cavity (fig. 240,^) the nerve is directed for- wards across the han- dle of the malleus and the membrana tympani to an aperture on the inner side of the Gla- serian fissure, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the .skull the chorda tympani joins the lingual nerve, and continues along it to tlie submaxillary ganglion and the tongue (p. 625). The AUDITORY NERVE will be learnt with the ear. Entering the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger part, which are distributed to the membranous labyrinth. Otic ganglion. At this stage of the dissection there is little to be seen of the ganglion, but the student should keep in mind that it is one of the things to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, immediately below the foramen ovale, and it adheres closely to the trunk of the nerve. Dissection (fig. 241). Putting the part in the same position as for the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and tlie muscles of tlie palate, and then take away the levator palati and the cartilaginous jiortion of the tube, Fio. 241.—The Otic Ganglion erom the Inner Side. 0. Tensor tympani muscle. b. Internal pterygoid muscle. c. External carotid artery with the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining lingual. 5. Nerve to internal pterygoid. 6. Nerve to tensor palati. 7. Atu-iculo-temporal nerve.BRANCHES OF THE OTIC GANGLION. 081 using iniicli care in removing the latter. When, some loose areoliir ti.s8iie Jia.s been cleared away, the internal jiterygoiil muscle (6) comes into view, with the trunii of the inferior maxillary nerve above it; and a liranch descending from that nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. If the nerve to tlie pterygoid be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. To complete tlie di.s.section, saw vertically through the j.etrous i"d«iii.e part of the temporal Ijone near the inner wall of the tympanum, the ZZ^lu" bone being supported while it is divided. Taking off some mem- lJ™'"'l'>.->i. brane which covers the ganglion, the student may follow backward.s a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; but he sliould open the small tube that contains the mu.scle, by entering it Ijelow through the carotid canal. Above this small branch there is another minute nerve (small suiterficial petrosal), which issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palatl muscle ; and other minute filaments to join the sympathetic nerve on the large meningeal artery and the chorda tympani. The OTIC GANGLION (Arnold's gauglion ; fig. 241) is a small reddish OUcgan- body, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior ma.xiUary f,',ner'si<?"of nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to '"'''':',?'" inc internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little distance behind lies the krge middle meningeal artery. In this ganglion, as in the .Structure, othere connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, .sensory, and .sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are furnished by it to muscles. Gonnccting branches—roots. Tlirougli its connection with the Hmn.iios nerve to the internal pterygoid, the otic ganglion receives iibres from ^^^'^ both the small and large roots of the inferior maxillary nerve, so that It may be said to derive its motor and sensory roots from the hfth. Its sympathetic root comes from the plexus on the middle sympa- meningeal artery. The ganglion is farther joine.I behind hy the small superficial petrosal nerve (•'), through which fibres are conveyed hcv^uii,, to It from the facial and glosso-pliaryngeal nerves. One or two ninUi, sliort branches pass between the ganglion and the beginning of tlie auricuio- auriculo-temporal nerve ; and a filament descends to the clior.la ailll'dionia tyipaui. tympani. lirmches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves through Jirandics to the otic ganglion, viz., tensor tympani and tensor palati. The nene '^^^^^ ' to the tensor tympani (^j i.s directed backwards to gain the bony 'y'"l«>"i camil lodging the muscle. The branch for th> fmsor palati («) arises i'.'aiLu."""' Irom the front of the ganglion, and enters the outer surface of its muscle. The fibres of the-^e branches are derived mainlv from the internal pterygoid nerve. 'The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle (J-) arises from the inner N.'. v.M^f side of the inferior maxillary nerve near the .skull, and penetrates ^^^l^^ui tlie deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is formed almost entirely ' ' by an offset from the motor root of the fifth.682 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Expose tiio The Carotid Canal. Dissection. The student slioiild now coni- urtery'' plete the exposure of the internal carotid artery in the temporal bone by chipping away the outer wall of the canal, taking the artery as a guide. In cleaning the artery large, and rather red, branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be seen if the part has been well kept; and, in a fresh part, a small filament from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal may be seen to join the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal, and another from the Vidian at the fore part. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. The artery has a winding com'se in the bone ; at first it ascends in front of the cochlea and tympanum; ne.\t it is directed forwards and inwards almost horizontally; and, lastly, it turns upwards into the cranium through the foramen lacerum. Branches of the sympathetic nerve and a venous plexus surround the vessel in the bone. Section XIV. DirectiolLs. Dissection. Tongue: form iuid sitiiatiou ; relations of apex, and base. •Upper surface: body ; root. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. The tongue and larynx are to remain connected with each other while the students learn the general form and structure of the tongue. Bissection. The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles that have been detached may be shortened, but enough of each should he left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE is an ovoid, somewhat flattened body, with the larger end turned backwards, which occupies the floor of the mouth, and forms a part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. It is free over the greater part of its surface ; but at the back, and at the posterior two-thirds of the under surface, it is attached by muscles and mucous membrane to the parts around. The tip of the tongue touches the incisor teeth. The base is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likewise with the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane-a central and two lateral. . . The upper surface or dorsum is convex, and m the anterior two- thirds of its extent is marked by a medium longitudinal groove or raphe, which terminates behind in a depression of variable depth named the foramen cwcum. From the depression a slight lat^ra ..roove is directed outwards and forwards on each side for a sliort distance. The part of the tongue in front of the lateral grooves ,s distinguished as the body, and is received into the ho low of the roof o the mouth ; its surface is covered with papilhe. Ihe posterior thinl or root of the organ looks into the pharynx ; and its surface is smoother, although rendered somewhat irregu ar by prq,ect i g mucous glands and grou]3s of lymphoid folhdcs, and by .mallSTRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. (183 ajsertures leading into recesses of the mucous membrane. The umler surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous Lower membrane and to the different lingual muscles connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw. In front of the muscles the mucous membrane forms a lold in the middle line, termed the frcenum lingiuc; and on each side an irregular ridgti—plica Jimhriata (better seen in infants), runs forwards and inwards about midway between the frreuum and the margin of the tongue towards the tip. Kach border of the tongue is joined opposite the lateral groove lioiiii'is. above mentioned by the fold of mucous membrane descending from tlie soft palate, and known as the anterior pillar of the fauces. Behind this fold, the root of the tongue is attached on each side to the wall of the pharynx ; but in front the margin of the body is free. The free border ia thick and rounded in its hinder part, where it ia marked by vertical ridges and furrows, and becomes gradually thinner towards the tip. PapilLjE. On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds Kinds of of papillae; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the ^'''i''""-'' circumvallate. A hand lens may conveniently be used iu the examination of them. The conical and filiform papilla; are the numerous small projec- cunicni tions which cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the ^^"""'^ • tongue. They taper from the base towards the free extremity, where they are provided with smaller secondary papillae; and many of them, especially towards the sides of the organ, have their epithelial covering produced into long hair-like processes, whence the name filiform is given to them. Towards their limit behind they are arranged in lines parallel to the lateral grooves, and on the sides they form vertical rows. The fungiform papillae are less numerous but larger than the fungiform; preceding set, amongst which they are scattered, especially at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and project beyond the conical papilla;. Their surface is covered with small simple papillre. The circumvallate papillm are much larger than the foregoing, cir,;umvai- and are placed at the junction of the middle and posterior thirds of the tongue. Their number varies from seven to twelve. One, larger than the rest, is situate immediately in front of the foramen cx'cum, and the others are disposed in two rows (one on each side) parallel to the lateral groove, so as to form a figure like a widely- spread letter V. Each papilla is attached by a constricted stem, which is surrounded by a groove; its wider end or base projects beyond the surface of the tongue, and is covered witli small simple papilloe. Around the groove the mucous membrane forms a slightly prominent fold, which is also beset with secondary papillse. Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves Parts found separated by a fiibrous layer in the median plane. Each half is made up of muscidar fibres with interspersed fat; and entering it areptSSBCTION OF THE TONGUE. G84 Denne septum, hyo-glossal iiicmbnine, and inferior lingualis. Fibrous structures of tongue. Septum. Hyo-glossal membrane. Submucous layer. Muscles in each half: two kinds. Extrinsic: number. Dissection of palato-, stylo-, and hyo-glossuR the lingual vessels and nerves. The tongue is enveloped by mucous membrane ; and a sjtecial fibrous layer attaches it to the hyoid bone. Bissection. To deiine the septum, and the membrane attaching' the tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum ; and, the remains of the right mylo- and genio-hyoid muscles having been removed, the genio-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating those muscles, and cutting across their intercommuni- cating fibres, the edge of the septum will appear. By tracing the hinder fibres of the genio-glossus muscle towards the hyoid bone, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. On the outer side of the genio-glossus muscle is the longitudinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which will be better seen subse- quently. Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum ; the root of the tongue is attached by another fibrous structure, the hyo-glossal membrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ is a submucous layer of the same tissue. Se-ptum. This structure forms a vertical partition between the two halves of the tongue (fig. 243, b, p. 686), and extends from the base to the apex, but does not reach to the dorsum. It is thicker behind than in front, and is connected posteriorly with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is attached. Its disposition may be belter seen subsequently on a vertical section. The hyo-glossal viembrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, which attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the hyoid bone. The submucous fibrous stratum of the tongue invests the organ, and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the muscular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue. MoscLEB. Each half of the tongue is made up of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former or external are distinguished by having only tlieir termination in the tongue ; and the latter, or internal, by having both origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing from one part and ending at another. The extrinsic musdes (fig. 242) are the following : palato-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-glossus, hyo-glossus, chondro-glossus, and pharyn- geo-glossus. Only the lingual endings of these, except in the case of the chondro-glossus, are now to be studied. Dissection. After the tongue has been firmly fa.stened on its left side, the extrinsic muscles nuiy be dissected on the right half. Three , of these muscles, viz., palato- (d), stylo- (u), and hyo-glossus (c), come together to the side of the tongue; and, to follow their radiatingTHE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES OP THE TONGUE. fibres inwards and forwards, it will be necessary to remove from the dorsum, between them and the tip, a thin layer consisting of the mucous membrane with the submucous fibrous tissue, and the fleshy fibres of the upper liugualis. Beneath the tip a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of oj)posite sides is to be traced. The piece of the constrictor muscle (o) which is attaclied to the tongue, and the ending of the genio-glossus will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus. To lay bare the chondro-glossus (f), which is a small muscular slip attached to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small comu of the hyoid through the mucous membrane. Then remove the mucous membrane in front of this, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be visible. The PALATO-GLOssus reaches the side of the tongue at the junction of the posterior and middle thirds. Its fibres are directed inwards, in part on the surface, and in part deeply with the transverse muscle of the sepl um. The STYLO-GLOSSUS joins the body of the tongue below the foregoing, and is continued forwards as a gradually tapering ljundle beneath the lateral margin to the tijj of the organ, where it becomes united with the inferior lingualis, and meets the muscle of the opposite side. From its upper Ijorder fibres are directed inwards over the dorsum of the tongue to the middle line; and other bundles pass inwards from its lower edge between the i'iisci- culi of the hyo-glossus. The HYO-GLOSSUS enters the under surface of the tongue in its middle third, between the stylo-glossus and the inferior lingualis. Its filjres are collected into bundles -which turn round the margin and form, with those of the preceding muscles, a layer on the dorsum of the tongue, the hinder fibres passing almost transversely inwards, the anterior inclining forwards to the tip. The CHONDRO-GLOSSUS is a small lan-shaped muscle, which arises from the lesser cornu and the adjacent part of the body of the hyoid bone. Its fibres are directed forwards, spreading out beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the tongue, and are inserted into the submucous layer. of jilia- ryiigeo. glossiis, of elionilro. glossii.s. FiQ. 242.—Muscles on the Dorsum ep the Tongue. (After Zaglas.) Superficial lingualis. Slylo-glossu.s. Hyo-glossus. Palato-glossus. Clioiulro-glossiis. Pliaryngeo-glossus. H. Septum linguae. ralato- glossus in toiiguo. Stylo- glcs.siis jji-o- loiiged to tip of tongue ; sends niiiny llbrcs in- wards. Hyo- glos.sus united with palato- and stylo- glossus. Chondro. gloss U.S.DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. M usi'ulat' coi tex of tons'iie. Geuio- glossus in the toni'ue its posterior fibres. Constrictor in tlie tonsue. Intrinsic muscles. First sliow inferior, tlien .supe- rior lin- gnalis, then trans- versalis. Trace tlio nerves. Trnnsver- salis is hori- zontal : attach- ments ; '( 'urtex uf Ihi: tuuijuc. Tliii muscles above described, together with the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where the genio-glossus and inforior lingualis muscles are placed, and resembles "a slipper turned upside down" (Zaglas). This stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. The GENio-QLOSSDS (fig. 243, a) enters the tongue vertically by the side of the septum and perforates the cortical covering to end in the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibre.s spread Ulie the rays of a fan from apex to base, and are collected into transverse kniinse as they pass through the transversalis. The hindmost fibres end on the hyo-glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is pro- longed from them, beneath the hyo-glossus, to the upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The PHARTNGEO-GLOSSDS (fig. 242, g), or the fibres of the upper constrictor attached to the side of g the tongue, passes beneath the fibres of the hyo-glos.?us, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. The intrinsic muscles are four in number in each haK of the tongue, viz., transversalis, a supe- rior and an inferior lingualis, and a set of perpendicular fibres. Dissection. To complete the preparation of the inferior lin- gualis on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in front, and those of the hyo-glossus over it behind are to be cut through. The superior lingualis (fig. 242, a) may be shown on the left side, by taking the thin raucous membrane from the upper surface from tip to base. The transversalis may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting away on the upper surface the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen ; and by removing on the lower surface the inferior linguaUs and the genio-glossus, after the former muscle ha.s been examined. The nerves of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit ; but a fresli specimen will be required to follow them satisfactorily. The TRANSVERSE LINGUALIS MUSCLE (fig. 243, c) fomis a hori- zontal layer in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat cui^ved, to their insertion into the submucous tissue at the side of the tongue. D Fig. 243 -Transverse Section op THE Tongue. Genio-glossus. Septum linguae. Transversalis. Inferior liuguahs. (After Zag- lasTHK INTIUNSIC MtlSCr,RS OK THE TOXnUR. fiS7 Its fibres are collected into flatteneil bundles, so as (,o allow the fibres in passage between them of the ascending fibres of tlie genio-glossus. iin""*; Action. By the contraction of the fibres of the two muscles the "se. tongue is made narrower and rounder, and is increased in length. The SUPERIOR LiNGUALis (fig. 242, a) is a very thin layer of Supei-iioiai oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath tlie submucous tissue = on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the frajnuni epiglottidis, and from the fibrous tissue along tlie middle line ; from this attachment they are directed obliiiuely outward.s, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue at which they end in the submucous fibrous tissue. Action. Both muscles tend to .shorten the tongue ; and they will use. bend tiie point upwards. The INFERIOR LINGUALIS (fig. 243, d) is much stronger than the Lower preceding, and i.s placed on the under surface of the tongue, between 'ing"a>'s: the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus. The muscle arises beliind from origin ; the fascia at the root of tlie tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle : from its attaclied surface fasciculi are continued eiuiinK; upwards through the transverse fil)res to tlie dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the stylo-glossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and dis- tributed with it. Action. This muscle shortens tiie tongue, and bends the ape.x use. downwards. The intrinsic perpendicdlar fibres are found near the border Peqjendicu- of the fore part of the tongue, and can be seen only in trans\'erse • sections. They pass from the submucous tissue of the dorsum downwards and somewhat outwards, decussating with the cortical and transverse filn-es, to the under surface. Action. By their contraction these fibres flatten and render uso. broader the part of the tongue in which they occur. Medullary port ion of the toni/ue. The central part of the tongue, .Mwiuiia of which is thus named, is paler in colour and softer than the cortex. It is composed mainly of the bundles of the transverse muscle cross- ing the lamina3 of the genio-glossus internally and the perpendicular fibres e.xternally, together with intersjjersed fat. The mucous membrane of the tongue is a continuation of that lining Mucous the mouth, and is provided with a stratiBed scaly epithelium. It Its e"liZ''' invests the greater part of the tongue, and is reflected off at diflerent points in the form of folds. At the epiglottis are three small glosso-qmjlottidean f<,lds, connecting this body to the root of the Folds tongue ; tlie central one of these is calle.l the frmnum of the epiglottis. It IS furnished with nuiuerous glands, and lymphoid crypts and folucles. The crypts are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are sui- Ly.n„i,oi,i rounded by lymphoid follicles in the submucous tissue ("the lingual t07isil"), like the arrangement in the tonsil ; they occupy the dorsum of the tongue between the circumvallate papilla) and the epiglottis where they form a stratum close beneath tlie mucous membraneDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 088 niul gliincls at Uio base: glands at tho side, and beneatli tip. Nerves from three sources: lingual of flfth. tNvelfth, and ninth. Arteries, veins, and lympliatics. The Ungual glands are raceino.se, similar to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed beneath the mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue behind the ciicumvallate papillaj. A few are found in front of the circumvallate papilliu, where they project into the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on' the surface and others in the hollow.s around the circumvallate papilhe, or into the foramen csacum and the depressions of the crypts. Opposite the circumvallate papilltc, at the margin of the tongue, is a small cluster of mucous glands. Under the tip of the tongue, on each side of the frsBUum, is another elongated collection of the same kind of glands embedded in the muscular fibres, from which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nerves on the under surface of each half of the tongue, viz., the lingual of the fifth, the hypoglossal, and the glosso-pharyngeal (fig. 224, p. 624). The lingual nerve sends upwards filaments through the muscular substance to the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, and supplies the conical and fungiform papiUas. Accompanying this nerve are the lingual fibres of the chorda tympani. The hypoglossal nerve is spent in long slender offsets to the mus- cular substance of the tongue. The glossa-pharyngeal nerve di^'ides under the hyo-glossus into two branches. One turns to the dorsum, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen caecum, - supplying also the circum- vallate papilbK. The other passes to the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the mucous membrane, extending forwards to about the middle of the border. Vessels. The arteries are derived from the lingual of each side: the veins pass to the internal jugular trunk. The lymiiluiiics of the tongue for the most part pass backwards to the upper deep cervical glands, and have connected with them two or three small lingual glands on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle ; but some descend to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. Section XV. General construc- tion of larynx. Dissection. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The Larynx is the upper dilated part of the airtube, in which the voice is produced. It is constructed of several cartihiges united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the larynx by cutting through its root, but this is to be done without ijijuring the epiglottis.THE CaiCO-THYBOID MUSCLE. 089 The student will find it advantageous to study a museum prepara- tion of the laryngeal cartilages as described in the next section (pp. 698 to 704) before beginning the dissection of the larynx. The Larynx is placed in the middle of the neck, in front of the situation pharynx, and in the resting condition opposite the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. It i.s however very moveable, its connections varies, permitting especially a considerable degree of elevation, M'hich comes into play in the act of swallowing. Its fomi is pyramidal, the base being turned upwai-ds and attached Fonu; to the hyoid bone, while the apex joins the trachea. In length it ".ml 'limen- measures, in the male, about an inch and three-quarters ; in width, nmieV" at the top nearly as much, and at the lower end one inch ; while the greatest depth from before backwards is about an inch and a half. In the female, the average length is an inch and a half, and in fomale the depth one inch. Before the age of puberty the larynx is "'"idii'id. relatively very small. On each side the larynx is covered by the depressor muscles of Relations, the hyoid bone, the carotid vessels, and the lateral lobes of the thyroid body. The front projects beneath the skin in the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Muscles. The stemo-thyroid and tliyro-hyoid muscles, which, Muscie.s, together with the stylo-pharyngeus and inferior constrictor of the pharynx, move the larynx as a whole, are frequently called the extrinsic muscles of the larynx. The intrinsic muscles are six pairs extrinsic and one single muscle. Of these, one paii-ed muscle is exposed on and the side of the larynx ; two pairs and a single muscle are seen at the back ; and the rest are concealed l)y the thyroid cartilage. Directiom. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the" muscles Directions, may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and the superficial muscles, which do not require the cartilac^es to be cut, are to be first learnt. Dissection. The lai-ynx l^eing extended and fastened \nth pins. Dissection tlie dissector may clear away from the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage the following muscles, viz., omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and inferior constrictor. Along the side, between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, the of ti.e crico-thyroid mu.scle (fig. 245, >) will be recognised superficial To denude the posterior muscles (fig. 244), it will be necessary to tiirn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane coverin- it On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle (c); and above this, on the back of the aryte- noid cartilages, the arytenoid muscle (b) wiU appear, with the crossing iascicuh oi the aryteno-epiglottidean muscles (a) on its surface. The CRico-THYKOiD MUSCLE (fig. 245, 1) is fan-shaped, and is crico- separated by a triangular interval from the one on the opposite side It ™ from the front and the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage '; origin • and Its fibres radiate to be inserted into the lower cornu, and the inserti n • lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forward, as a quarter of Y yDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. G90 ■ I an inch from the middle line; as well as for a short distance into the inner surface of that cartilage. The muscle rests on the ciico-thyroid membrane, and is concealed by the sterno-thyroid muscle. Action. It draws the cricoid cartilage upwards and backwards, so as to increase the distance between the thyroid and the arytenoid cartilages, and thus tighten the vocal cords. The POSTERIOR cRico-ARYTENOiD MUSCLE (fig. 244, c) aHscs from arytenoid is t^i^ depression by the side of the vertical ridge at the back of the on back of cricoid cartilage. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards cartilage: and upwards, converging to their insertion into the muscular process at the outer side of the base of the arytenoid cartikge. Posterior crico- Fia. 244.—Hinder View of thk Larynx. A. Aryteno-epiglottidean muscle. B. Arytenoid muscle. 0.0. Posterior crico-arytenoids. Fig. 245.—SrDE View of thb Laktkx. 1. Crico-tbyroid muscle. 2. Thyroid cartilage. 3. Cricoid cartilage. Kerato- cricoiil. Arytenoitl musclo lies on back of arytenoid cartiUges Action. It draws the arytenoid cartilage downwards and outwai-ds to a slight extent, separating this from the one of the opposite side ; but its principal action is to rotate the cartilage, turning outwards the vocal process, and thus dilating the glottis. Kerato-cricoid mmcle (Merkel). This is a small fleshy slip which is occasionally seen at the lower border of the preceding muscle. It arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back ol the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The ARYTENOID MUSCLE (fig. 244, b) is single, and extends across the middle Une, closing the interval between the arytenoid cartilages behind Its transverse fibres are attached on each side to the outerTHE ARYTENOID MUSCLES. 91 part of the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. On its hinder surface lie the aryteno-epiglottiilean muscles ; and the laryuf^eal mucous membrane covers it in trout in the space lietween tlie cartilages. Action. It draws together the arytenoid carlilage.s, rendering ii.se. narrower the opening of the glottis. The ARYTENO-EPIGLOTTIDEAN MU.SCLE.S (a) are tWO small bundles AryLnni)- which cross obliquely from one side to tlie other on the back of the ^^^^"nuis- arvtenoid muscle. Eacli arises from the outer and lower part of the posterior surface of one arytenoid cartilage, and passes to the x: upper part of the outer border of the cartilage of the opposite side, where a few of the fibres are inserted, but the greater number turn round this border and end in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of the uiucous membrane, some reaching the margin of the epiglottis. A slip is also prolonged into the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The ending of the muscle will be seen later when the ala of the thyroid cartilage has been removed. Action. These muscles Ijring together the tijjs of the arytenoid use. cartilages, and depress the epiglottis, thus assisting to close the upjier aperture of the laryn.x in swallowing. Bissection. The remaining muscles (tig. 246, p. 692) will be Di.ssectiou brought into view by removing the greater part of the right ala of °/^J"ei;™''' the thyroid cartilage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch from the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the Remove half cricoid, and the crico-tliyroid muscle taken away. By dividing ne.xt caiUbge. the thyro-hyoid membrane attached to the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating the subjacent areolar tissue from it. By the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define Po.siiion or interiorly the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle; above it, the thyro- arytenoid muscle ; and still higher, the pale fibres of the aryteno- epiglottidean and thyro-epiglottidean muscles in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. On cleaning the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glands will appear above the tleshj- fibres. Tlie LATERAL ClUCO-ARVTENOID MUSCLE (tig. 246, •') arisCS from Lateral the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the side, and is directed ,I;l-yt°'„oia backwards to be inserted into the fore part of the muscular process of '""sciu: the arytenoid cartilage. It is concealed by the crico-tliyroid muscle and the thyroid cartilage, and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle. Action. It rotates inwards the arytenoid cartilage, opposing the use. posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, and bringing one vocal cord to the other, so as to narrow the glottis. The THYRO-AUYTENOID MUSCLE (fig. 246, 'j e.xtends from the thyroid Thyro-ary- to the arytenoid cai'tilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded nui'sct above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of its depth, and from the crico-thyroid Y Y 2G92 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. COll.Si.'il.S of outer aiul inner parts: some fibres ft cm aryte- noid carti- lage to \ ocal cord ; relations ; Tliyro. epiglotti- dean muscle: membrane. The fibres are directed backwards with different inclina- tions :—The external (••) ascend somewhat and are imerted into the outer border of the arytenoid cartilage. The internal fibres f) are horizontal, and form a thick bundle which is inserted into the margins of the vocal process and the lower part of the outer surface of that cartilage, whilst a few of the deepest fibres of the muscle pass from the outer surface of the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage to be inserted into the true vocal cord. The outer surface of the muscle is covered by the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ven- tricle and pouch of the larynx. Action. The thyro-aryte- noid draws forwards the arjle- noid cartilage, and causes the cricoid to move forwards and downwards, thus opposing the crico - thyroid muscle, and slackening the vocal cords. It also moves inwards the fore part of the arytenoid car- tilage with the true vocal cord, so as to place the latter in the position necessary for vocali- sation. The short fibres pass- ing from the arytenoid carti- lage to the vocal cord will tighten the fore part, and relax the hinder part of the cord. The THYRO-EPIGLOTTIDEAN MUSCLE is a thin layer which varies much in its develop- ment in diflerent bodies. Its fibres arise from the thyroid cartilage in conjunction with the outer part of the thyro- ai^tenoid, and are directed upwards, covering the outer surface of the saccule of the larynx, to be inserted into the margin of the epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold with the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle. The whole of the muscular fibres p;issuig from the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages to the epiglottis are sometimes described together as the depressor oj tlie cimjlottis. Fio. 246.—Internal Muscles of tue Larvnx. 1. Crico-thyroid detached. 2. Posterior orico-arytcnoid. 3. Lateral crico-arytenoid. 4. Tbyro-arytenoid, superficial part. 5. Depressor of the epiglottis, consist- ing of fibres of llie aryteno-epiglottidean muscle and others given off from the thyro-arytenoid. 6. Thyro-hyoid, cut. 8. Deep part of thyro-arytcnoid.THE GLOTTIS AND THE LAUTNGEAL I'OtTCIT. im Adiuii. This imisclt; draws downwards llie epiglottis and arytcnu- use. epiglottidean fold, and assists in closing llic u]iiicr apiTluri: of tliu larynx. Cavity op the larynx and farts inside. On looking into the interior of cavity of the larynx from above, the tube will be .seen to become Ti'ecavityis narrower from aljove downwards, owing to the projection inwards of two prominent folds on each side termed the vocal cords. The lower or true vocal cords are jilaced on a level with the bases of the ary- tenoid cartilages, and the slit-like interval between them is called the glottis. Below this the cavity enlarges again to the loivcr aperture of the larynx, where it is continued into the trachea. Ujjjjer aperture of the larynx (Hg. 233, N, p. 659). This is the orifice upper open- by which the larynx communicates with the pharynx. It is tri- angular in shape, with the base, which is formed by the epiglottis, form aiui turned forwards and upwards. The sides, which are sloped from before downwards and backwards, are formed by the aryteno-e])i- glottidean folds of the mucous membrane; and at the apex is the arytenoid muscle, with the upper ends of the arytenoid cartilages, covered by the mucous membrane. This aperture is closed by the tubercle of the epiglottis during deglutition. The lower aperture of the /ar//«a:, bounded by the lower edge of Lower open- the cricoid cartilage, is nearly circular in form, and of the same size as the interior of the cartilage. Bissection. To see tiie parts within tiie larynx, the tube is to be Dissection, divided by a median incision along the back; but in cutting through the arytenoid muscle, let the knife be carried a little to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. On the side wall of the larynx (fig. 247, p. GOo) there will now he Purls inside seen the projecting bands of the vocal cords separated by a depression '"''y"^- called the ventricle of the larynx (a). If a probe be passed into this hollow, it will enter a small pouch—sacculus laryngis (d), by an aperture at the upper and fore part, under cover of the .superior vocal cord. The (jlotti.1 or rima (jlottidis is the narrowest part of the laryngeal Glottis: cavity, and is placed on a level with the bases of the arytenoid position, cartilages. If the cut surfaces of the back of the larynx be placed forms and together, it will be seen to have the form of an elongated triangle, boundaries ; with the base turned backwards. It is bounded on the sides by the true vocal cords (u) in the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and by the aiytenoid cartilages (e) in the posterior third. In front, the right and left vocal cords meet at their attachment to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind, the base is formed by the arytenoid muscle. The portion of the slit between the vocal cords, being sui)division. alone concerned in the loroduction of the voice, is distinguished as the vocal glottis, while the part between the arytenoid cartilages is termed the respiratory glottis. The size of the glottis differs in the two sexes ; and its form Size and undergoes frequent changes during life, caused by the movements of the arytenoid cartilages and the vocal cords. In the male, the len^tli,G91 DISSECTION OF THE LARTNX. and Ijroadtl). Form rlnring life; in easy respiration in forced inspiration in produc- tion of the voice. Muscles producing changes in glottis. Ventricle: situation. Pouch of larynx: form and position; sunounding parts. Dissection <jf vocal cord.s, interval measures nearly an iiidi from before bacltwarcls ; in th<: female, nearly a quarter of an inch less. Its breadtli at the base is about one-tliird of the length. The lenf{th of the glottis is increased by the stretching, and shortened by the relaxation of the vocal cords. In quiet, breathing the glottis has the triangular form seen after death, the space being slightly widened in inspii'ation, and narrowed in expiration. In forcible inspiration it becomes widely dilated, tlie vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages being directed out- wards, and the aperture acquiring the form of a lozenge with the posterior angle truncated. The widest part is then opposite the junction of the vocal cords with the arytenoid cartilages, and its transverse measurement is about one half of the length. During vocalisation the cords and the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages are brought together, and the vocal glottis is reduced to a narrow chink, wliile the hinder part of the .space is closed by the meeting of the anterior borders of the arytenoid cartilages. The glottis is rendered longer, and the vocal cords are tightened by the crico-thyroid muscles ; the opposite effect is produced by the elasticity of the cords and the contraction of the thyro-arytenoid muscles' Widening of the glottis is effected by the posterior crico- arytenoid muscles ; and the cords and arytenoid cartilages are approximated by the thyro-arytenoid, lateral crico-arytenoid, and arytenoid muscles. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 247, a) is best seen on the left side. It is the boat-shaped hollow between the vocal cords, the upper margin being concave, and the lower nearly straight. It is lined by the mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle. In its roof, towards the front, is the aperture of the laryngeal pouch. The laryngeal foucli or saccxdus laryngis (fig. 247, d), has been laid bare partly on the right side by the removal of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, but it will be opened in the subsequent dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, about half an inch long and rather conical in form, which projects upwards between the false vocal cord and the ala of the thyroid cartilage, reaching as high as the upper border of the latter. Its cavity communictites with the fore part of the ventricle by a somewhat narrow aperture. On the deep surface of the mucous lining are numerous smaU glands, tbe ducts of which open on the inside. Its outer side is covered by the thyro-epiglottidean muscle. The size and extent of the pouch vary greatly in different subjects. Dissection. The genend shape and position of the vocal cords are evident on the left half of the larynx, but to show more fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in contact, and detach on the right side the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle from its cartilages. Take away in like manner the thyro-arytenoid. raising it from beiore back. By the removal of the last muscle an elastic membrane, cnco-THE VOOAL CORDS. G05 thyroid (fig. 249,p. 702), comes into view ; and it will be seen to be continued upwards into, and give rise to tlie prominence of the inferior or true vocal cord. Lastly, dissect off the mucous membrane from the vocal cords on the right side, and in doing this the wall of the ventricle and saccule, which are formed mainly l)y this membrane, will dis- ajipear. Tlie VOCAL CORDS (fig. 247) are two bands on each side, which extend from the angle (if the thyroid to the aryte- noid cartilage, one forming tlie upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle of the larynx. Each consists of a fold of the mucous membrane supported by a ligamentous structure — the superior and inferior thyro- arytenoid ligaments respec- tively. The superior or false mud cord (c) is arched with its concavity downwards, and is much softer and looser than the lower. Its free border is thick and rounded. The contained superior thyro-aryte- noid ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, and is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage near the attachment of the epi- glottis, behind to the middle portion of the anterior sur- face of tlie arytenoid carti- lage. It is continuous above with scattered fibrous bun- dles in the aryteno-epiglot- tiJean fold. The inferior or true vocal cord (b) is attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage about lialf way down below the notch, and behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. Between tliese points, its free margin, by the vibration of which the voice is produced, is straight, sharp and smooth. The cord projects upwards and inwards into the cavity of the larynx, and forms the boundary of the vocal ])ortion of the glottis. It is about ,'^ths of an inch long in the male, and j'^ths of an inch less in the female. The mucous and crico- thyroid nieinbrjKie. Vocal eorils; Superior cord, and tlijTO- arytenoid ligaineiit. Fig. 247.—Vocal Apparatus, on a Vertical Section op the Larynx. A. Ventricle of the larynx. B. True vocal coid. c. False vocal cord. D. SaccuUis laryngis. u. Arytenoid cartilage. V. Cricoid cartilage. 0. Thyroid cartilage. II. Epiglottis. K. Crico-thyroid nieinbrane. L. Thyro-hyoid membrane. Inl'erior cord,DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. ami liga- ment. Mucous membrane of larynx. Epithelium differs in kind. Glands. Dissection of nerves; inferior, superior laiyngcal; of vessels. luembrant of llie ti-iiu Vdciil curd is very thin, and intimately united to the inferior thiiro-anjhiwid ligament. The latter structure is the upper edge of the lateral portion ol' the crico-thyroid membrane, and consists of fine elastic tissue, which shows a slight thickening close to its attachment to the thyroid cartilage. On the outer surface of the ligament is the deep part of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, some of the fibres of which are inserted into the band ; and a thin submucous layer of elastic tissue is continued outwards from it to line the ventricle of the larynx. The MUCOUS membrane of the larynx is continued from that lining the pharynx, and is prolonged downwards into the trachea. At the superior aperture of the larynx it forms the aryteno-epiglotti- dean fold on each side, between the margin of the epiglottis and the tip of the arytenoid cartilage : here it is very loose, and the sub- mucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the membrane lines the wall of the cavity closely, .sinks into the ventricle, and sends a pro- longation upwards into the laryngeal pouch. On the lower thyro- arytenoid ligaments it is very thin and closely adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the superior vocal cords, the epithelium is of the stratified squamous kind, and free from ciUa. But a columnar ciliated epithelium covers the edges of the superior cords and the surface below these, though it becomes flattened without ciUa on the lower cords ; on the epiglottis the epithelium is ciliated in the lower half. Numerous racemose glands are connected with the mucous mem- brane of the larynx; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytenoid) ; and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the true vocal cords, but close to those bauds is the collection of the sacculus laryngis, which moistens the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves and vessels. The termination of the laryngeal nerves may be dissected on the left side of the larynx. For this purpose the half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, care being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies close behind the joint between the two. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down with pins ; and after the thyroid has been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the recurrent larjnigeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx and the mucous membrane of the ]3harynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal nerve is found as it pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, and branches of it are to be followed to the mucous membrane of the larynx and pharynx. Two communic.itions are to Ije looked for between the laryngeal nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharjTix. An artery accompanies each nerve, and its offsets are to be dis- sected at the same time as the nerve.THE NERVES AND VESSELS OF THE l,AIiVNX. Nkhves. 'J'lic iiur\X'.s (if llic liu-yiix iiru llic suiierior and iiifei iur Ncivi's miv hiryiigeal brandies lA' llio pneuiiio-.i^asti'ic; : tliu Inrmcris ilistributccl f'"'" ^'"K'"*- to thc! imicous memln'aiic;, and llie latter mostly to tin; niusclus. The inferior lunjmjcal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the ReciiiTeiit larynx, t'lunislies backwards an ofl'set to the mucous membrane of'""'™ the pharynx ; this joins lilanients of the upper laryngeal. The nerve passes finally beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and suppiicB ends in branclie.s for all the special muscles of the hirynx, except JJ|,'',"cu.!f the crico-thyroid. Its small muscular branches are mostly super-exceiii one. ficial, but that to the arytenoid muscle lies beneath the ]iosterior crico-arytenoid. Beneath the thyroid cartilage the inferior is joined by a loni; oH'set of the upper laryngeal nerve. The superior laryngeal nerre (internal division) pierces the thyro- Suijuiior hyoid membrane, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the ]".n'('f'"'' pharynx ; it furnishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerve. The joins recur, trunk terminates in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane :—Some of these ascend in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are and emls in the largest, descend on the inner side of the sacculus, and supply ""mbnuif. the lining membrane of the larynx a.s low a.s the true vocal cords. One branch of this set pierces the arytenoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. The external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve has previously External been traced to the crico-thyroid muscle (p. (334). laryngeal Vessels. The arteries of the larynx are furnished from the Arteries: superior and inferior thyroid branches. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters thc superior larynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides into ascending JvoJjl'"™' and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the sujjeriiir rest supply the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane from the root ' of the tongue to the vocal cord. Like the nerves, the two laryngeal arteries coniniunicate beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the nuicous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the iuftuior back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of Inim'iTfcrior the pharynx and the posterior muscles of the larynx. tliyroiil; Some other twigs i'rom the crico-thyroid branch of the superior from crico- thyroid artery perforate the crico-thyroid membrane, and ramify in arlev'-'^ the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. '^'^ Laryngeal veins. The vein accompanying the l)ranch of the Veins, superior thyroid artery joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein, and the vein with the artery from the inferior thyroid opens into the plexu.s of the inferior thyroid veins. The lymphatics of the larynx pass to the dee)) cervical glands. Lymi.iia. lies.698 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Section XVI. Dissection. Hj'oid bone form ; body; cornua, larye and small. In larynx there are fonr largo and some small carti luges. Thyroid cartilage THE HYOID BONE, THE CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND THE STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. A IVesli larynx sliould be obtained for tliis Section if possible. Failing that good use may be made of the jjarts remaining in the specimen already examined. All the muscles and the mncous membrane are to be taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the membrane joining the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed. In the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may be recognised; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. : The hyoid bone (fig. 248) is situate between the larynx and the root of the tongue. Kesenibling the letter U placed horizontally, and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two lateral pieces or cornua on each side. The hody (o) is elongated transversely, in which direction it measures about an inch, and flattened from before backwards. The anterior surface is convex, and marked in the centre by a tubercle, on each side of which is an impression for muscular attachment. The posterior surface is concave and smooth. To the upper border the hyo-glossal membrane, fixing the tongue, is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side—large and small. The large cornu (h) continues the bone backwards, and is joined to the body by an intervening piece of cartilage, or in old persons by contiHUous bony union. The surfaces of this cornu look rather upwards and downwards ; and the size decreases from before back- wards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cormi (J) is directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament; it is seldom wholly ossified. It is united to the body of the bone by a synovial joint, with a surrounding capsule. Cartilages of the Larynx (fig. 248). There are four large cartilages in the larynx, by which the vocal cords are supported, viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two arytenoid. In addition there are aonie yellow fibro-cartilaginous structures, viz., the epi- • (Glottis, a capiLulum to each arytenoid cartilage, and a small ovahsh piece (cuneiform) in each aryteno-e.piglottidean fold of mucous membrane. . , The thyroid cartilaoe (b) is the largest of all : it forms the front of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield The upper part of the cartilage is considerably wider thanTHE THYROID AND CRTOOID OARTILAOES. 09!) the lower, and in conseqiience of this form the larynx is somewhat fiuniel-shaped. The fore part is prominent in the middle line in front, ibrming the suljcutaneoiis swelling named the pomum Adami, and concave behind, where it gives attachment to the epiglottis, and to the thyro-arytenoid muscles and ligaments. The npper border is notched in the centre. Tlie cartilage consists of two squarish halves or aim, which are united in front. Posteriorly each ala has a thick border) which is continued upwards and down- wards into a rounded process or comu (e and f). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards : of the two, the np])er (e) is the longer ; but the lower one (f) is the thicker, and articulates with cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of the ala is smooth ; the outer is marked by an oblique line for the attach- ment of muscles, which extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, to a projec- tion at the middle of the lower border. The CRICOID CARTILAGE (d) is stronger though smaller than the thyroid, and surrounds the lower part of the cavity of the larynx ; it is i)artlj' concealed by the thyroid cartilage, below which it is placed. It is something like a signet ring, being very unequal in depth before and behind,— the posterior ])art being nearly four times as deep as the anterior. Its contained space i^ about as large as the forefinger. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square portion, which is marked on its posterior surface by a median ridge between two oval dejires- sions which are occupied by the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. On each side, immediately in front of the square part, is a slightly raised articular facet, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is horizontal, somewhat undulating, and is united to the trachea by ^fibrous membrane. The upper border of IS convex 111 front, concin'o behind : formed of two aliu, Cricoid cartilage: A. B. CO. D. E. F. lage. 0. n. J. -Hyoii) Bone and Lahyn- OEAL CaRTILAOKS. B|jiglottis. Thyroid cartilage. Arytenoid cartilages. Cricoid cartilage. Upper cornu. Lower coi n 11 of thyroid carti-surfaces; Body of hyoid hone. Largo cornu. Small cornu. borders.DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 700 Arytenoid cartilages : situation and form ; base: apex; surfaces, internal, anterior or extenial, and posterior. Fibrccarti- lages of Santorini. Fibro-carti- lages of Wrisberg. Epiglottis fonn and position ; surfaces, anterior, the Lroad part of tlie cartilage is slightly excavated in the middle, and is limited on each side by a convex articular facet lor the arytenoid cartilage, which slopes downwards and outwards. In front of that spot, the border descends rapidly as it passes forwards to the middle line. The two ARYTENOID CAETiLAGES (c) are placed one on each side at the back of the larynx, on the upper border of the cricoid carti- lage. Each is pyramidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has the form of an elongated triangle, with one of the angles (the postero-internal) rounded off. Its anterior extremity is thin and tapering, and gives attachment to the inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament, whence it is named the weal process. The external angle is thick, and projects backwards and outwards, form- ing the muscular process, into which the crico-arytenoid muscles are inserted. On the under aspect of the muscular process is an oval, concave articular facet, sloped downwards and outwards, for the cricoid cartilage. The apex of the cartilage is directed backwards, and is surmounted by the cartilage of Santorini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and flat; and it is covered by the mucous membrane. The anterior or outer surface is the largest and irregular, being convex above and concave below. It is marked near the upper end by a tubercle, and lower down, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, by an oblique ridge. This surface gives attachment to the superior thyro-arytenoid liga- ment and the thyro-arytenoid muscle. At its posterior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth, being covered by the arytenoid muscle. Cartilages of Santorini, cornicula or capitula laryngis. At- tached to the apex of each arytenoid cartUage is the small, conical fibro-cartilage of Santorini, which is inclined backwards and inwards. The aryteno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cdneiform cartilages. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the aryteno- epiglottidean folds, have received tliis name. Each is somewhat elongated in form, like a grain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytenoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection. These cartilages are often absent. The epiglottis (iig. 248, a) is single, and is the largest of the pieces of yellow hbro-cartilage. In form it resembles an ovale leaf, with the stalk below and the blade above. Its position is behind the tongue and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is phice.l vertically ; but during deglutition it t^ikes an oblique direction over the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is covered in its upper part by mucous membrane, wliicli forms the three glosso-epiglottidean folds (p. 687) between it and the tongue ; its lower part is attached to the hyoid bone by fatty tissue containing glands, and by the hyo-epigloltidean70] LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. ligcament. The posterior surface is entirely covered by closely and fidlierent mucous nienibrane, and is for the most part concave ; but 1'°''''°"'" • at the lower end tliere is an elevation known as the tubercle or cushion of the cjtujlottis. To the sides the aryteno-epiglottidean folds .sides; of mucous membrane are united. After the mucous membrane has glands in it. been removed from the cartilage, its substance will be seen to be excavated ))y numerous pits, which lodge mucous glands. In tlie adult the liyaline cartilages of the larynx are commonly Ossiiicution to a greater or less extent (in old persons sometimes completely) c,i,.ij'|„g"f''^' converted into bone. The ossification begins in the thjnoid and cricoid cartilages at about twenty years of age, the deposition of osseous matter in the former taking place first in the neighbourhood of the inferior cornu, and tlience extending along the inferior and posterior borders; while in the cricoid two or three bony spots appear near the arytenoid articular surface on each side, and spread through the upper part of the cartilage. The arytenoid cartilages ossify later, from below upwards. The tendency to ossification is more marked in the male than in the female. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is connected by extrinsic Ligaments ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Other i^fryJix ligaments unite together the cartilages, sometimes with joints. Union of the lanjnx icith the hyoid hone and the trachea. A loose Toliyoid elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) extends from the thyroid cartilage to t,°"i,^"'' the hyoid bone ; and a.second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-hyoid memhrane (fig. 247, L, p. 695) is attached on the one Thyro-liyoid hand to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other = to the upper border of tlie hyoid Ijone. Its central part, extending from the body of the hyoid bone to the margins of the notch in the median and thyi-oid cartilage, is of some thickness, but its lateral parts are thin j,arTsI^ and ill-defined. It ends behind in a rounded elastic cord on each side (lateral thyro-hyoid ligament), uniting the extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone to the superior cornu of the thyroid tiCyro^hyoid cartilage : this band frequently contains a small cartilaginous or ofign^"'' osseous nodule (cartilage triticea). contains The superior laryngeal nerve and vessels perforate the lateral part'"K"- of the membrane : and a synovial bursa is placed between its central ° " part and the posterior surface of the body of the liyoid bone. The memljrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage Ciico. to the first ring of the trachea, crico-tracheal ligament, resembles n™m'bn!no the fibrous layer joining the rings of the trachea to the other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are united by a membrane in front, and a synovial joint on each side. The crico-thyroid membrane (fig. 249, ") occupies the space Crico- between the thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages ; and its right ",e^™ijrauo- haK is now visible. It is of a yellow colour and is formed mainly of elastic tissue. By its lower border the membrane is fixed to the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage, reaching back to the articulation with the arytenoid. Its central part is thick and strong, and is attached mediiii.imri,702 DISSECTION OP THE LARYNX. ami liitoral [jiii'ls ; relations. Crico- thyi'oid joint : movements. Crico- arytenoid joint aud ligament: movements, Rliding and rotation. Arytenoid and capitulum, above to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage (see fig. 212, p. 587). The lateral part is thinner, and is continued upwards beneath the ala of the thyroid cartiUige, to end in a thickened border, which is attached behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage, constituting the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament in the true vocal cord. The central part of the membrane is partly exposed between the crico-thyroid muscles, and small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels into the larynx. The lateral part is separated from thyroid cartilage by the thyro-arytenoid and lateral crico- arytenoid muscles. The deep surface of the membrane is lined by the mucous membrane. The crico-thyroid articulation is formed between the inferior comu of the thjToid and the lateral ai'ticular facet of the cricoid cartilage. A capsular ligament, which is thickest behind, and lined by sjmovial membrane, surrounds the articulation. This joint allows of a slight degree of gliding movement backwards and for- wards, and of a rotatory movement around a transverse axis, by which the front of the cricoid cartilage is raised or depressed. Grico-arytenoid articulation. Between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages there is a syno%'ial joint surrounded by a loose capsule. To the inner side of the joint there is a well marked crico-arytenoid ligament, which passes from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage near the middle line to the adjacent part of the base of the arytenoid and prevents the latter cartilage being drawn forwards over the cricoid. The arytenoid cartilage glides upwards and inwards, or downwards and out- wards, to a slight extent on the oblique articidar facet of the cricoid; but its prin- cipal movement is one of rotation, by which the vocal process is carried inwards and somewhat downwards, approximating the vocal cords and narrowing the glottis, or outwards and upwards, enlarging the glottis. Between the apex of the arytenoid cartiLoge and the capitulum there is sometimes a synovial joint, but the two cartilages are most frequently united by connective or fibro-cartilaginous tissue. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments have been examined with the vocal cords (pp. 695 and 696). Fio. 249.—View of the Vocal Cords and Crico- thyroid Ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Arytenoid cartilage. 5. Saoculus laryngis. 6. Lateral part of the crico- thyroid membrane.STEUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. 703 Ligaments of the epiglottis. An elastic band, thyro-eingloitideam:y.o\i'i!i- ligament, connects the lower extremity of the epiglottis to the "1"^?^ thyroid cartilage, close to the notch in the upjjer border of the ^^'^ ° latter (fig. 247); and a membranous layer of fibrous and elastic tissue, hyo-epiglottidean ligament, passes between the front of the epiglottis and the hyoid bone. Structure of thk Trachea. Tlie windpipe consists of a series Constitu- of pieces of cartilage, which are deficient behind, and connected l"^c\°e[ together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the cartilages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane and muscular fibres ; and the interior is lined by mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages. The pieces of cartilages vary in number from sixteen Cartilages: to twenty. Each forms about three-fourths of a ring, extending form; round the front and sides of the airtube. Their arrangement is not in-egu- riuite regular throughout, for some of them are often bifurcated at one end, or sometimes two adjacent pieces are partly fu.sed together. The highest is commonly broader than the others, and may be joined to the cricoid cartilage. The lowest piece is triradiate, or V-shaped, a median process being sent downwards and backwards in the angle between the two bronchi. ^ The fibrous membrane enslieaths the cartilages, and, being con- Fibrous tinned across the intervening spaces, binds them together. It also '"^'er- extends across the posterior part of the trachea. Dissection. On removing the fibrous membrane and the mucous Dissection, glands from the interval between the cartilages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will appear. After the muscular fibres have been examined the membranous ])art of the tube may be divided, to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular fibres. Between the ends of the cartilages is a continuous Muscular layer of transverse bundles of unstriated muscle, which is attached 'S" to the truncated ends and the adjacent part of the inner surface of the cartilaginous hoops. By the one surface the fleshy fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and glands, and by the other with the elastic tissue. Some longitudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attaciied to the fibrous tissue. The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the trachea beneath Submucous the mucous membrane; and at the posterior part, where tlie carti- ^^^^^ lages are wanting, it is gathered into strong longitudinal bundles. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. The mucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and is Mucous furnished with a columnar ciliated epithelium membrane, Connected with this membrane are numerous branched mucous SgS glands of variable size. The largest are found at the back of the trachea, in the membranous part of the wall, where some are placed outside the fibrous layer, and others between that membrane and704 DISSECTION OF THE NKCK. the muscular fibres. Smaller glands lie beneatli the mucous membrane. Other small glands are found at the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartilaginous rings. Vessels and The arteries of the trachea are derived Irom the inferior thyroid uerves. bronchial. The veins have a corresponding disposition. Nerves are supplied to the tube from the vagus, mainly tlirough the recur- rent laryngeal, and from the sympathetic. Section XVII. PREVEETEBRAL MDSOLES AND VERTEBRAL VESSELS. Muscles in front of spine. Dissection. Longus colli in three parts: vertical, superior oblique, and inferior oblique; parts in contact ■with it; Directions. On the piece of the spinal column which was laid aside after the separation of the pliarynx the student is to learn the deep muscles on the front of the vertebrse. Dissection. The prevertebral muscles will be prepared by re- moving the fascia aud areolar tissue. They are three in number on each side (fig. 250), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line, and the longest, is the longus colli (a) ; the - muscle external to it, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major (b) ; and the small muscle close to the skull, which is external to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor (g). The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone in separation of the pharynx. The LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE (a) is situate on the bodies of the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae, and is pointed above and below. It consists of three parts, one internal or vertical and two external or oblique, which differ in the direction of their fibres, but are closely, united together. The vertical part arises by fleshy and tendinous processes from the bodies of the upper two dorsal and lower two cer\dcal vertebras, and from the front of the transvei-se processes of the lower three cervical vertebrte. It is inserted by similar slips into the bodies of the second, third, and foui-lh cervical vertebrae. The up2)er oblique part is inclined inwards. It arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrtc, and is inserted int o the side of the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. It is generally joined by a slip from the upper end of the vertical part of the muscle. The loicer oblique part, passing in the opposite direction to the last, arises in common with the vertical part from the upper dorsal vertebra), and is inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebra}. In contact with the anterior surface of the longus colli are the pharynx and the o;s(ipliagus. The inner border is at .wme distance from the muscle of the opposite side below, but above only theD.A. 2 RECTUS CAPITIS ANTFCUS MAJOR. ]>oiiited anterior common ligament of the vertebrre separates the t wo. The outer border is contiguous to tlie anterior scalenus, to the vertebral vessels, and to the rectus capitis antieus major. The number and attacliments of the slips of this muscle are subject to great variation. Action. Both muscles l)end forwards the neck ; and the upper oblique part of one may rotate the head to the same side. The RKCTa.s capitis anticus major (b) is external to the preceding Rf^rtns muscle, and is largest at the upper end. Its origin is by pointed m'ai'oi'!' tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse jirocesses origin; Fia. 2.50.—Dbkp iMusoles op thk front op the neck, and THE SCALENI. A. Longus colli. b. Scalenus medius. B. Rectus capitiis anticus major. v. Scalemis posticus. 0. Scalenus anticus. «, Rectus capitis anticus minor. of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae ; and the fibres insei iion; ascend to be imerled into the basilar process of the occipital bone by the side of the pharyngeal tubercle, reaching from the middle line to the petrous portion of the temjioral bone. Tliis muscle partly conceals the longus colli and rectus anticus reintions; minor. Its anterior surface is in contact with the pharynx, tlie internal and common carotid arteries, and the sympathetic nerve. Tlie origin from the cervical vertebra) corresponds with that of the scalenus anticus. Action. It flexes the iiead and the cervical portion of the spine, useDISSECTION OF THK NECK. 706 milieus iniiHir is biiiieuth preceding: use. Dissection of inter- transver- sales. Inter- transverse mnscles; number and attach- ments ; relations; Cervical nerves in their fora- mina give anterior and pos- terior branches. First two nerves differ: anterior and posterior branches. The. RECTUS CAPITIS ANTicus MINOR (g) IS a small flat mviscle, which arises from the front ol' the lateral mass of the atlas at the root of the tiaiisver.se process, and is inserted into the basilar process of tlie occipital hone hehinrl the last muscle, and half an inch from it.s fellow. The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve emerges between the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Action. Tt hel]is in bending; forwards the head. ■'. Dissection. The small intertransverse muscles will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the Iront and back of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves, the intertransver- sales will be readily seen in front of and behind tliem. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare tbe vertebral artery. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES are slender fleshy slips in the intervals between the transverse processes. In the neck there are si.v pairs on each side—the first being between the atlas and axis. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes. The anterior primary divisions of the corresponding spinal nerves issue between these muscles ; and the posterior primary divisions lie to the inner side of the hinder muscles. Between the atlas and the occipital bone the rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent . intertransverse muscles. Action. By approximating the transverse processes these muscles bend the spinal column laterally. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal. The trunks of the cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina, except the first two, and bifurcate into anterior and posterior primary branches. The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the inter- transverse muscles, and joins with its fellows in the plexuses already described. The posterior 'primary Immch turns to the back beneath the posterior intertransverse" muscle and the other muscles att^iched to tlie posterior parts of the transverse processes ; in its course it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first two. The first two nerves leave the spmal canal above the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primanj branch of the first or suboccipital lurve ha-s been examined (p. (536). The anterior branch of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebra;, is directed forwards outside the vertebral artery, and between the two intertransverse muscles of the first s])rtce, to join the cervical plexus. The posterior primanj brandies of the first two nerves are describeil in the ilissection of the back.707 THE VEllTKBUAL VESSRLS. The VEitTEiiiiAL AUTEHY liiis liceii SUCH iit its origin in tlic lower Vrridinii part of the neck (p. 503) ; and its termination is described with the noi'i'*: "' vessels of the brain. Entering, usually, the foramen in the sixth i-oursr; cervical vertebra the arteiy ascends through the corresponding foramina in the other vertebra;. Finally, the vessel winds hack- wards round the upper articular process and crosses the neural arch of the atlas, piercing the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and the dura mater, to enter the skull through the foramen magnum. In its course upwards the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of ii'iiiiion lo the cervical nerves, except the first, which crosses on the inner side. The vessel is accompanied bv a \ ein, and by a plexus of nerves of vein, .and ■ iirrvcs are the .?ame name. wini it ; In the neck the artery furnishes small twigs to the surrounding branches, muscles, the spinal canal, and the spinal cord. The vertebral vein begins on the neural arch of the atlas by the Vertebral union of a considerable offset from the intrasinnal venous plexuses with other branches proceeding from a network between the muscles in the suboccipital region. It is also joined by the emissary vein leaving the skull through the posterior condylar foramen when that aperture is present. In the neck, the vein forms a jilexiis around eourso; the artery in the foramina of the transverse processes ; and it termi- nates below by emptying itself into the innominate trunk. iMniinf;; In this course it is joined by branches from the internal and bianciics. external spinal veins ; its other tributaries are noticed at p. 594. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inlerior cervical ViTtc-brai ploxus of iuxery, aiiu com- municates with the spinal nerves which it crosses. ganglion of the sympathetic. It surrounds the artery, and com- nerves. Section XVIII. LIGAMENTS OP THE VERTEBRiE AND CLAVICLE. Directions. On the remaining part of the spine, the ligaments Directions, connecting the cervical vertebra) to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cervical from tiie first dorsal Dissection, vertebra. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat from the cervical vertebi oo. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the cervical vertebra; Common are similar to those uniting the bones in other parts of the spine, vSiXlc'' viz., an anterior and a posterior common ligament, bands between the laminse and spines, capsular ligaments lined by synovial mem- brane for the articular processes, and an intervertebral disc between the bodies of the bones.DISSECTION OF THE KECK. 708 nrii (icSlM'iltcll els('\vllrl-i'. Special liKami'iils between first two vertebne anrl occipi- tal bone. Directions. The common li^'iuuents will be best seen on the doisiil or lumbar prntion of the spine, wliere they are more stron<j;ly developed ; tliuir preparation and description will be found at the end of the thorax, wil li the description of the ligaments of the spine (pp. 492 to 498). Should the student examine them in the neck to .^ee their diCference in this region, lie shotild leave nnciit the neural arches of the upper two vertebne, to which special ligaments are attached. Special ligamicnts unite the fir.^t two cervical vertebras to each other and to the occipital bone : .some of lhe.«e are external to. and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the simuil canal are fibrous membranes, which connect the axis to the atlas, and the latter to the occipital Fig. 251. -External Ligaments in front between the Occipital Bone, Atlas, and Axis. (Bourgery.) 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Capsule of articulation between occipital bone and atlas, internal to whioli is the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament. 3. Anterior atlanto-axial. 4. Lateral articulation between the atlas and axis opened. Anterior ligament betweiMi atlas and axi.s, bone in front and behind. Capsular ligaments also surround the articulations formed by these bones on each side, but they will be examined more conveniently after tlie spinal citnal has been opened. The anterior atlanto-axial ligament (tig. 251, consists of a mem- branous layer attached to the anterior arch of the atlas and the body of the axis, and a superficial thickened band in the centre, prolonged from the upper end of the anterior common ligament, and connect- ing the ridge on the front of the axis to the tubercle on the anterior arcli of the altas. and between The anterior occipito-atlantal liiiamcnt (fig. 251,2) resembles the alias and foregoing, and passes from the basihir process of the occijutal bone, bone.'''"' imniediately in front of the foramen magnum, to the anterior arch of the atlas. Its central part i.s also thickened, and is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas.THE LIGAMENTS OF THE ATLAS AND AXIS. 709 The posterior occipito-atlantai lujanient (tig. 252, ') is a Uiiii bruiul I'usiiTioi- membrane, the (lee[i sui-laee (if whicli i.s intimati'ly miileil to tlio i.Stw.'cn occipilal bOIK! iLud Fig. 252.—Extkhnal Ligaments dkuinii uktwekn tiih Ooimpital Bunk. Atlas, and A.\is. 1. Posterior ooeipito-atlaiital liga- 3. Vertebral artery ontering be- uieut. ncatli the oooipito-atlantal ligament. 2. Posterior atlanto-axial. dura mater. It is attached above to tlie liiuder margin oi" the Ibramen magnum of the occipital bone, and below to the posterior arch of the atlas. Behind the upper articular process of the alias I'vi. 253.—Lnteiinai. Lioamknts nETWKEN THE Occipital Bone, Atlas, AND Axis. First view, (liourgery.) 1. Long occipito-axial ligament. 2. Beginning of tlio posterior eunimou liganicut. it lorms an arch over the groove of the bone in this situation, bounding with the latter an aperture through which the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve pas.s.710 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. and beUveeu ntlas and axis. Internal ligaments between same bones. Dissection of the liga- ments. The posterior atlcmto-axial ligament (^) is also thin, and adherent to the dura mater. It closes the interval between the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and is pierced on each side by the second cervical nerve. The licjaments inside the spinal canal are much stronger, and assist in retaining the skull in place during the rotatory and nodding movements of the head. Between the occipital hone and the second vertebra are four ligaments—a long occipito-axial with a central and two lateral odontoid ; and the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the body of the atlas by a ti'ansverse baud. Dissection (fig- 253). Supposing the neural arches of the cervical vertebra} to be removed except in the first two, the arches of these vertebrffi are to be sawn through close to tlie articuhir processe.s. Next, the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the Long oeciiiito- axial ligament Fig. 254.—Internal Ligaments between the Uocu'ital Bone, Atlas, AND Axis. Second view. (Bourgery.) 1. Check ligament. 2. Transverse ligament, sending offsets upwards and downwards. 3. Cut end of long occiiiito-axial ligament. foramen magnum is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal; and, by following upwards the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebra, its continuation, the long occipito-axial ligament will be exposed. Tlie long ov posterior ocdinio-axial ligament (fig. 253) is a strong flat band which continues upwards the posterior common ligament of the vertebrte. It is broad above, where it is attached to the upper surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, reacliing outwards on each side as far as the insertion of the clieck ligaments. Descend- ing thence througli the foramen magnum, and over the odontoid process, it becomes somewhat narrower, and is inserted mainly into the back of the body of the axis, but many of the superficial fibres are prolonged into tlie posterior common ligament. Occasionally a bursa is found between it and the transverse ligament.THE ODONTOID LKiAMBNTS. 711 ■nisspption fli" 254). After the removcal of the long oocipito-axial Disst-ctiou \ n / _ 1 u ui'trans- ligaiiieut, by cutting through it transversely above, and reHeuting ^^^.^^ it°downwarcls, the student should define a strong band, the trans- verse ligament, which crosses the neck of the odontoid process, and sends upwards and downwards a slip to the occipital bone, and the axis. The upper offset from the transverse ligament may be cut through afterwards for the purpo.se of seeing the odontoid ligaments, which radiate from the process, the central one being a slender band undoaontoid in the middle line, and the lateral, much stronger, pas.sing nearly horizontally outwards. The transverse ligament of the atlas (lig. 254, - and fig. 255, ') is a toIK strong arched band behind the odontoid process, which is attached '^^"^^'^ on each side to a tubercle on the inner surface of the lateral mass is tii» of the atlas, below the fore part of the upper articular process, ine ugameut, ligament is rounded at each end, but flattened aud wider in the middle : and at this spot it has a band of longitudinal fibres con- also named . 1 1 ■ /!■ ^r- • ■>\ i- 1 cruciform, nected with its upper and lower margins (fag. 254, -) so as to produce Fill. 255.—Atlas with the Tbansvekse Ligament. 1. Transverse ligament with its offsets cut. '2. Space occupied by the odontoid process. a cruciform figure : the upper band is inserted into the basi- occipital, and the lower into the body of the axis. Towards the spinal canal it is concealed by the long occipito-axial ligament. This ligament forms, with the anterior arch of the atlas, a ring ^o^J^J^^.Jj"' (fig. 255, '■*) which surrounds the neck of the odontoid process of the pi^^asH. axis, and prevents separation of the bones. The lateral udontoiil or check liyavients (fig. 254, ') are two strong Check bundles of fibres, attached by one end to a flat impression on each side of the head of the odontoid process, aud by the other to a rough mark on the inner surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the long occipito-axial band : their upper fibres are short and nearly horizontal; the lower are longer and oblique. The central odontoid ligament is a small median cord, which Snsponsory passes from the tip of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of '■fe'-'""'^"'- the foramen magnum. When the transverse and odontoid ligaments have been cut Articular ^ through, the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartihige- odoiaoidDISSECTION Ol<^ THE NECK. 712 covered surfaces, which correspond to as many synovial sacs. One surliice is on the I'ruiit of the process, and articiihiteH with the anterior arch of the atlas; the other is the floor of the groove behind the neck of the process, and is in contact with the transverse ligament. The posterior synovial sac is larger than the anterior. OcoiPiTO-ATLANTAL AHTicuLATioNS. A synovial joint is formed between the condyle of the occipital bone and the upper articular pro- cess of the atlas on each side. Surrounding the articulation is a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in front. When the joint is opened, the elliptical articular sui'face of the condyle will be seen to be convex in all directions, and to look outwards as well as downwards. The articular cavity of the atlas has a corresponding direction, upwards and inwards, and is marked by a slight transverse groove, from which the cartilage is often wanting. Atlanto-axial articulations. Three synovial joints exist between the atlas and axis. The central articulation is between the anterior arch of the atlas and the odontoid process, and has already been exposed. The lateral articulations are formed on each side by the inferior articular j)rocess of the atlas and the upper articular surface of the axis. These are united by a loose capsule (fig. 251, p. 708), which is thickened so as to give rise to an accessory ligament at the inner and posterior aspect of the joint. The articular surface of the axis is somewhat convex, and is sloped downwards and outwards ; while that of the atlas presents a slight transverse ridge in the middle, so that the opposed surfaces are more extensively in contact when the atlas is turned to one side, than when it is placed symmetrically over the axis. Movements op the head. The head can be bent forwards— flexion, or backwards—extension ; it can be inclined towards the shoulder—lateral flexion; and it can be turned to either side— rotation. Flexion and extension take place in the joints between the atla.s and occipital bone ; and the range of movement is greater in the forward than in the backward direction. Flexion is limited mainly by the long occipito-axial and the check ligaments ; extension by the anterior occipito-atlautal ligament, and by the approximation of the occipital bone to the neural arch of the atlas. "When the head is moved more freely, flexion and extension of the cervical portion of the spine come into play. Lateral flexion is eflected mainly by movement between the placehf''"''' cervical vertebrce ; but a very slight degree may be due to move- ment having its seat in the occipito-atlautal articulations. Rotation takes place in the atlanto-axial articulations, the atlas and head moving together round the pivot formed by the odontoid process. The movement is stopped by the check ligamente. Less than half of the whole possible rot^ition of the head is obtained between the atlas and axis, the rest being made up in the neck. Stehno-claviculau AUTicuLATioN (fig. 256). The articular surfaces of the two bones ai'e not preci-sely adapted to each other, process, unci two synovial hacs. Occipito- ntlimtal articula- tions are conilyloid joints : articular surfaces. Between atlas and axis are a pivot-joint and two gliding joints: articular surfaces of latter. Movements of head, kinds of. Nodding movement: seat, extent; and checks. Inclination neck. Turning movement between atlas and axis; and in neck. Stonio- clavicular articulation713 THE STERNO-Cr-AVKTLAR ARTICULATION. and lui interarticiilar fibro-cartilage is plaueil between them. They is a com. ,. , , , . 1 • IT pound joiul are uniteil by a capsular ligament ; and tlie chivicle receives addi- tional .support From a ligament pa.ssing to the first rib-cartilage, and from another band connecting it to the bone of the opposite side. Dissection. For the examination of the ligaments of the steruo- Dissuuiion. clavicular articulation, take the piece of the bones that have been .set aside. If the ligaments have become dry, they may be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will be seen in the situation indicated by their names, after the removal nf some connective tissue. Fig. -iol).—LiU.lMKNTS ok TIIK I.NNEU UNII ok TIIK CLAVICLIi, .VNl) OK THE C'AKTIb.lOK OF THE SECOND Klli. 1. CaiJSiile. 6. Intenirticular Hganieiit of the 2. (.'osto clavicular ligaineiit. .same joitit. 3. Interclavicular liyaineiit. 7. Interarticular fil)ro-cartiUi{;e be- •). Anterior liganiunt of the .second tween the stornum and clavicle. chonilro-steinal articulation. The capsular litjamcnl (fig. 25G, ') is a stout membrane surrounding I'ibious the articular portions of the bones and the fibro-cartilage. Its fibres run obliquely from the clavicle downwards and inwards to the sternum. The stronger parts in front and behind are described as the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaiiients. The inlerdavicnlar ligament (fig. 256,") extends above the sternum, imcr- betweeii the ends of the clavicles. The fibres dip into the hollow between the collar-bones, and are Cdiinected with the upper edge of the sternum. The ojHto-cluvicidar or rlwvihoid lujament (fig. 2.j6, -) is a short an.l cosio- etrong band of oblique fibres, passing from the upper surface of the t^^l^DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 714 Fibio- cartilnge attach- ments. Twn synovial sacH. notion in four directloiks. cartilage of the first rib to ;i rough mark on the under BiuTace of the clavicle near the sternal end. lu front of the ligament is the origin of the subclavius muscle. Sometimes the ligament is hollow, and contains a synovial bursa. The interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 256,') will come into view by cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the clavicle. It isovalish in form and flattened, and is thicker at the cii-cumfereuce than in the centre. Its upper margin is firmly united to the inner end of the clavicle ; and laelow, it is similarly fixed to the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it unites with the capsule of the joint. The fibro-cartilage is of considerable strength, and prevents the cla\'icle being displaced upwards or inwards. Two synovial sacs are present in the articulation, one on each side of the fibro-cartilage. The external one is prolonged outwards for a short distance below, between the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib. Movements. The clavicle can be moved upwards and downwards and forwards and backwards ; but the extent of movement in each direction is very limited, in consec^uence of the shortness of the ligaments surrounding the articulation : the forward and upward niovements are freer than the opposite. In the upward and down- ward movements, the clavicle glides on the interarticular fibro- cartUage ; and when the shoulder is depressed, the inner end of the bone is raised, while elevation of the shoulder is accompanied by a sinkijig of the inner end of the clavicle. In the forward and backward movenients, the fibro-cartilage gUdes in the same direction over the sternal articular surface. Dislocation may take place in any direction, except downwards ; but it is of rare occurrence owing to the strength of the ligaments.CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. ♦ Section I. MEMBRA^IBS AND VESSELS. Directions. The workers on tlie head and neck e.xaniine the brain together, and it is most desirable that, at the time of its removal from the head, they should obUiin a second specimen, so that a seuond the minor cuttmg operations should be perloinied on one and the desirable, other left in its entirety till the study of the cerebral hemispheres is commenced. Notwithstanding this, however, the directions for dissection are given as far as possible so that one specimen should suffice. Both brains will be preserved according to the subjoined instructions. Preservation and dissection. After the removal of the brain with its divesting membranes as directed on pp. 509 et seq, it should be thoroughly washed free of blood and then placed, with its under surface upwards, in a good-sized earthenware jar provided with a well-htting co\'er. The brain should rest on a large, loose, pad. of tow or cotton wool spread over the bottom of the jar, and the vessel Pieseiye in should contain a 5 jier cent, solution of formalin in water in sufficient s°'iutioii. t[uantities to cover the Ijiain with a clear inch of liquid. The membranes and vessels, as described in this Section, should be examined as soon as possible after the specimen has been in the preservative for two days ; for the reason that they are more easily traced whilst the prej)aration is still moderately soft, and that they can then be more readily removed without injury to the brain substance ; moreover, it is necessary to remove them at an early stage in order to give the hardening fluid free access. When tlie preparation is removed from the jar for the examination of the membranes and vessels, it should lie well washed in running water to remove the adhering formalin solution, which is apt to be inconvenient to the dissector by tbe lachrymation it causes. In describing the distribution of the lilood vessels it is unavoidable to refer to various pacts of the brain that have not yet been e.xamined in detail, and it i.s therefore desirable that the student should have at hand a museum jireparation in which the convolutions and sulci are clearly defined and marked (see fig. 270, p. 746, and fig. 273, p. 753).716 DLSSECTIOK OF THE BIIAIN. Sdudivisions of the encephalon. Before the description of the meiiibraiies and vessels is given, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon may be shortly noticed. Kiimlai °^ '^^^'^ cranial or encephalic mass of tlie nervous system (fig. 268, inas.s. P- 741), consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, pons, and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions :— uWoi!.''iVi "^^^^ medulla oblongata, or bull) of the spinal cord (fig. 268, «), lies in the groove between the halves of the cerebellum, and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. Pons Viuolii The pons Varolii (d) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and is marked along tlie middle by a groove, wliich indicate.-; a and its separation into halves and which lodges the basilar artery. Above it pniiuectioiis. large processes (crura cerebri, /) connecting it to the cerebrum; and on each side it is united to the cerebellum by a similar white mass. Cerebellum. The cerebellum (6), or the small brain, is separated into two hemispheres by a median groove ; and its surface is marked by concentric laminaj. Cerebrum, The cerebrum (?• and |)), or the large brain, is divided into two hemispheres by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line ; and each and its great hemisphere presents a deep transverse cleft—tlie fissure of Sylviits. The surface of the hemispheres is convoluted. ^ Weight of The average weight of the brain in the European male is about ' 49 oz. ; in the female about 44 oz. Three. Membraxes OP THE Brain. The Coverings of the brain (meninges) ■ are three in number, viz., dura mater, arachnoid, and piamater. The dura mater is a firm fibrous investment, which separates and supports the different parts of the brain, and serves as an internal periosteum to . the cranial bones. The pia mater is the most internal layer; it is OAO-C l^r adherent to the brain substance and contains the ramifications of the r»ft,«»v vessels of the brain. The arachnoid, which is interposed between the other two, is the membrane that is seen when the brain is removed from the cranial cavity. Besides enveloping the brain, these membranes are prolonged on the cord into the spinal canal. Only the cranial part of the last Uura mater, two will be now noticed. For the description of the cranial portion of the dura mater, see pp. 507 et seq. Arachnoid The ARACHNOID is a Very thin filirous membrane, which envelopes membrane: ^^^^ loosely, and is separated from the dura mater by the interval named the subdural i-pace and from the pia mater by the sub- arachnoid space. Its outer surface is free and smooth and in the natural slate is in close apposition to the dura nniter. The inner surface is attached to the pia mater by numerous fine cords and relaiionn bands, wliicli cross the subarachnoid space. The membrane covers to suiei; ^j^^ convolutions and laininno of the large and small brain, bridging over the sulci between them, and at the under surface or base of the brain it stretches across from side to side between the cerebral^«ral?ouX C'S'^^nvvf. wxM^^ ^ ' 1 THE ARACHNOID AND THE IMA MATER. 717 lieinisplieres, so as to leave a consiJerable space bt'iieatli it. Superiorly, it is prolonged into the median fissure between the cerebral liemi- s])heres a.s far as the falx cerebri, but does not reach to the bottom of tlie cleft. The arachnoid forms tubular sheaths on the nerves leaving the sheatlis on ^ cavity of the cranium which enter the apertures in the dura mater, and then terminate in a free edge ; but around the vessels passing to ami vessi'ls / or from the brain, the membrane joins the dura mater. ' The subarachnoid space is tilled by a watery Huid named ccrebro- Submactii- spinal. The space varies greatly in size at different parts. Over the Ji'irifis'i'iT" convolutions and prominences of the brain the arachnoid approaches extent: the pia mater closely, and the interval between them is very small; r. r' but opposite the sulci and depressions of the surface the space is expanded. The largest cavity {cisterna viagiui) is between the cere- bellum and medulla oblongata, wliere the arachnoid is reflected from the one to the other, being widely .separated from the pia mater which follows the surfaces. Byanarorture in the pia mater at the depth three large of this space the suliaraclnioid space is placed in communication *^*V , with the fourth and, ultimately, with the otlier ventricular cavities ' ' of the brain. Another considerable subarachnoid space {cisterna . ^ husalis) exists between the cerebral hemisplieres in front of the pons oAjo"^-^ with extensions outwards into the fissures of Sylvius and backwards to the cistenia magna ; and a third extends tlie whole length of the corpus callo.sum, in tlie great longitudinal fissure. The PIA MATER closely invests the brain, following all inequalities Pia mater of the surface, and dips into the sulci of the cerebrum and cere- bellum. It jilsojends a large process, namgd the velum interpositum, fonn.s velnm into tlie interior of the cerebrum, and from this vascular processes po'^jinu , | known as tlie clioroid plexuses project into some of the ventricles of the ""<l rf>n'ni<l brain. Two similar fringes, the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle, ' ''"''''^' .similarly project into that cavity between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. The pia mater consists of a network of vessels, formed by the structure, ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into, or issuing from the nervous substance, the intervals between the vessels being closed by connective tissue so as to form a continuous meralirane. From its deep aspect minute and very numerous vessels pass into the brain perpendicularly to the surface ; and these can readily be seen as fine How to hair-like processes projecting from the membrane when a portion of vessels" it is stripped from the brain substance under water or when a piece of tlie freshly removed membrane is floated out in a dish. Vessels and nerves. The arachnoid has no vessels, but various Vessels and anatomists have described minute branches of some of the cranial X'mbraL..?. nerves in the membrane. The sources of the vessels of the pia mater are given below, and its nerves, which are probably destined for the vessels, come from several cranial nerves and the sympatlietic. Dissection. First follow out the arteries at the ba.se (fig. 257, Dissection p. 719), let tlie brain be upside down, and remove the araclmoid membrane. Having displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries (i^)DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 718 of Inrgii brain, and of small brain. Ai'teries of the brain. Vertebral ends in basilar, winds round medulla oblongata: branches to dura nialer; to spinal cord, posterior and antprior; and to under part of cerebellum, on the medulla oblongata, and those of the carotid near the median fissure of the large brain, the student should lay bare on one side the brandies to the large brain. Define first the two arteries {anterior cere- bral) lying in the median fissure (-) and joined by a short liraneh (s) {anterior communicating) ; next, an artery that passes outwards (■■) in the fissure of Sylvius {middle cerebral), and pursue it to the outer sur- face of the hemisphere. Look then for a much smaller vessel {anterior choroid) which sinks into the brain on the outer side of the crus cerebri (°). Then by gently raising the cerebellum on the same side, the last artery of the cerebrum {posterior cerebral, '•) may be traced back round the crus cerebri to tlie inner part of tlie hemisphere. Two principal arteries pass to the cerebellum. One on the upper surface {su;perior cerebellar) may be brought into view just behind the bifurcation of the basilar artery (*) and separated from the posterior cerebral by the third nerve. The fourth nerve runs beside it, and the cerebellum should be raised in tracing the ves.sel. Two other arteries {anterior and posterior inferior cerebellar) turn backwards and outwards from the vertebral, and may be easily followed. The branches of the anterior, middle and posterior cerebral arteries will be followed out as they are described by removing the adhering membranes, by gently opening the fissures and sulci in which they partially lie, and by drawing them and their branches away from the brain substance as the work proceeds, and if care is taken no material injury will be done. Arteries op the Brain (fig. 257). The brain is supplied with blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The VERTEBRAL ARTERY ('2) is a branch of the subclavian trunk and enters the skull through the foramen magnum ; directed upwards and forwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends with its fellow in a common trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the pons. As the vessel winds round the mediilla oblongata, it lies between the roots of the first cervical and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is afterwards internal to the latter. Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termination in the basilar, each artery furnishes offsets to the dura mater, to the spinal cord, and to the cerebellum. a. The posterior meningeal branch leaves the trunk opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the cere- bellar fossa of the occipital bone. The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the back of the medulla oblongata: it descends along the side of the cord, behind the nerves, and anastomoses with its fellow and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. c. The anterior spinal branch (") is small like the preceding, and springs from the trunk opposite the front of the medulla. It joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior aspect. d The posterior inferior cerebellar artery {'") arises from the end of the vertebral (sometimes from the basilar), and winds backwards719 THE VKRTEBRAL AND BASILAR ARTERIES. round the medulla oblongata, between tlie pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves,'to the median groove of the cerebellum. Directed onwards in the sulcus between the hemisphere and the inferior vermiform process, the artery readies the hinder margin of the cerebellum, and there anastomoses with the superior cerebellar artery. An ofl'set of this branch ramifies over the under part of the oitscts. cerebellar hemisphere, and ends externally by anastomosing with the artery of the upper surface. As the vessel passes by the side of 1. Internal carotid tniiik. 2. Anterior cerebral. 3. Anterior cominiiiiicating. 4. Middle cerebral. 5. Anterior choroid. 6. Posterior communicating. 7. Posterior cerebral. 8. Superior cerebellar. 9. Auditory. 10. Posterior inferior cerebellar. 11. Basilar. 12. Vertebral. 1-3. Anterior spinal. The anterior inferior cerebellar artery which i)asses outwards from the basilar behind No. 8 is not indicated by a pointer. the fourth ventricle, it gives a small choroid branch to the ple.\us of that cavity. The BASILAR ARTERY ("), formed by the unicm of the two verte- Basilar brals, reaches from the lower to the upper border of the pons, where ■"''"'■y • it ends by dividing into two branches (posterior cerebral) for the cerebrum. The vessel lies in the median groove of the pons, resting sitnniion ; against the body of the sphenoid bone. On each side of, and almo.st parallel to it, is the sixth nerve. Branches. Besides the two posterior cerebral branches, the artery branches ; supplies transverse offsets to the pons and the fore part of the cere- bellum, and a large branch to the upper surface of tlie cerebellum.720 DISSECTION OK TPTE BRAIN. trnnsver.sM to tlio poll.' auditory ; anterior cerebellar, .Snjierior eereliellar. n. Tlie tHnisvene arteries nf tlie ]}ons are four or five small twigs, wliich are named from their direction, and are distributed to tlie suljstance of the pons. One of tliem (") gives an olfiiet {midilory) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. /). Like the branches of this set is the anterior inferior cerebellar artery: it arises from the Ijasilar trunk, and is distril)uted to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellar hemisphere. c. The mperior cerebellar artery is a con.siderable vessel derived from the basilar so near the termination as to be often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is the upper surface of the cerebellum, to which it is directed backward.?, winding round tlie cms cerebri below the tliiixl, but parallel to the fourth Pntcuneal. Artery of corpus callosum. ,^hra.l l-ArCer-y Parieto-occipital. Internal frontal. Central. AXTERIOR CERKBRAL. Internal orbital. Posterior communicating. Anterior choroid. Posterior cerebral Posterior choroid. Temporal. Temporal. Calcarine. Fig. 258.—The Mesial and Under Surfaces of the Cerebral Hemi- sphere, SHOWINQ THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE ANTERIOR AND POSTERIOR Cerebral Arteries. nerve. The ramifications of the artery spread over the upper surface of the cerebellum, and anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar arteries. Some twigs of this ve.ssel enter the fold of tlie pia mater (velum interpositum) which projects into the cerebrum. d. The POSTERIOR cerkbral artery (fig. 257,and fig. 25S) takes a backward course, similar to thai of the preceding artery, but .separated from it by the third nerve. It winds round the crus cerebri and is branches of directed upwards and backwards to l)eneath the posterior end of the corUcal™ corpus callosum ; it enters the calcarine fissure and divides into its two terminal branches, ]iarieto-oc'cipitaI and calcarine. Near its origin it is joined by the jjosterior conimunicaling artery, passing backwards on each side from the terminal part of the internal carotid. The artery gives ofi" numerous branches— central, 1. 'I'he deep or central arteries leave the trimk close to its origin, givin;; offsets to velum. Posterior cerebral artery ;THE rOSTEUIOK CKUKllKAJ. AK'I'KKY. 7 ami enter the posterior perforated space between the crura cerebri, to KUi)iily the optic tlialaiui in tlie interior of the brain. They are iliviiled into two sets, those near the niicklle line and those further out, and !U'e named respectively the poduro-mesial and poskro-lalend central arteries. 2. Tlie posterior choroiti artery (fig. 208) leaves the parent vessel as it winds round the cms aiul pursues a parcallel course until it turns forwards beneath tlie posterim' end of tlie corpus callosuni to enter the velum interpositum and the clujroid plexuses of the ventricles of the cerebrum. 3. Two or more superficial, or cortical, temporal branches pass outwards from the artery in its course backwards and supplv the under surface of the temporal lobe, except at the most anterioi' and niost posterior parts. 4. The calcarine and p)arielo-occlpital, like the foregoing, are c(]rtical arteries. The calcarine runs into the p<jsterior \\m\) of the calcarine posli'iiui' |-]llil'()jcl aitfi-y. Corticiir lininches : Ti'iiipurnl. Ciilcariiii', AsciMiilin^' pariiiUil. Asl'cliililiL; froiiUll. ^^re.hra,l l\Ar-t^ Tenipoml. External orbitiil MiDDI.K (MlKEBHAr AllTKllV. _ . Paritilo-lumpural. Fio. 259.—The Outer Sdrfacb op the Cerehrai, Hemispuere, suowiNa THE Distribution of the Middle Cereukal Artery. Hssure and sui^plies the back part of tlie fifth temporal convolution and the adjoining cuneus. The parieto-occipital branch runs mainly P„,ieio. in the internal parieto-occipital fissure and supplies tlie front pai-t of o^iP't"' the cuneus and tlie back part of the pre-cuneate convolution. The posterior cerebral artery thus supjilies the cortex of the cerebral hemisphere over the wliole of the mesial aspect of the temporal (except the most anterior part) and occipital lol,es, with a small part of the parietal (pre-cuneus); as weU as a small part of the corresponding parts on their outer or convex surface (fig. 259). From the foregoing examination of the offsets of Uie vertebral arteries and the l«silar trunk, it appears that about half the brain— ,. VIZ., the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerel^ellum, and the veriH.ml P.lrl of Itraili .-.iip- pHcd hy722 [nteriml carotid ends in cerebral arteries: brandies. Posterior conininni- catin''. Anterior cerebral artery: its com- municating central, ai\d cortical offsets. Internal orbital. Internal frontal. DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. posterior third of the uerebium, as described—receives its blood throu'di these brandies of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 257, ') terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerebrum. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus internal to tlie anterior clinoid process, and divides at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into cerebral and communicating arteries. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives off the ojMialmtc offset, before it ends in the following branches (fig. 257) :— a. Posterior communicating. 6. Anterior cerebral. c. Middle cerebral. d. Anterior choroid. a The posterior communicating arterij («) is generally a sraaU vessel, directed backwards on the inner side of the third nerve, to ioiu the posterior cerebral artery near the pons. h The ANTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY (fig. 257,=, and fig. 258) supphes the inner part of the cerebral hemisphere. It is dkected forwards to the median fissure between the halves of the large bram ; and as it is about to enter the fissure, it is united to its feUow by a short thick branch-the anterior comnunicating (fig. 257,»). Then passing mto the fissure, it bends round the fore part of the corpus caUosuna, and is continued backwards along the upper surface of that body, sending its . branches nearly to the posterior extremity of the ^TtrSiLs, like those of the posterior cerebral, consist of deep or cmtraUnd superficial or corficaUrteries. The central branches {antero-mesial) consist of two or three small offsets which arise near the beginning of the arteiy, and pene^aie the anterior perforated space at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius to reach the fore part of the corpus striatum m the interior of the ^'^tcoHical branches supply the fore and upper « °Mh« internal .surface of the hemisphere, extending ^^^^war'ls a. 1^^^^ a. the parieto-occipital fissure ; and some turn round the margin to tt adjacent portions of the frontal lobe on both the upper and lower aspects. They are named as follows :—(fig- 258). 1. Internal orbital. 2. Internal frontal. 3. Prajcuneal. 4 The artery of the corpus callosum. t ?he interlal orbital is'di.tributed to the inner part of the undei. or orbital surface of the frontal lobe. 2 The internal frontal are two or three branches S'^.c" convex surface (fig. 259).723 TRE MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. 3. The pm'ciiiiml is a considerable vessel lyiiii,' more or less in rivi!uii«ii. tlie calloso-niarginal sulcus and distributed to tlie para-central and priBCuneate convolutions as well as to the upper part of tlie callosal. 4. The artery of the corims callosum is a small vessel directed Aitci-y of backwards in the callosal sulc\is, and distributed to the corpus nii'ii'simi, callosum and the lower part of the callosal convolutions. C. The MIDDLE CERHBRAL ARTEUY (fig. 257,4, and fi''. 259) is the Jliil'"'' largest branch of the carotid, and ramifies over the outer surface of the arti'iy: hemisphere. Entering the fissure of Sylvius, it divides into four or five large cortical branches, which issue therefrom and supply the coiiicai whole of the parietal lobe, together with the neighbouring parts of the frontal and temporal lobes. As tlie vessel enters the fissure of Sylvius it gives olf the antero- ^""l central lateral set of central arteries, wdiich are the largest of their kind and pass upwards through the anterior perforated area to the central Antmo- nuclei, supplying chiefly the lenticular and caudate nuclei of the set.'"' corpus striatum and the intervening white matter of the internal capsule. The origin of the cortical branches will be seen by opening out Cmtiiial the.fissiu-e of Sylvius, as in fig. 259, and they are named as a™"^^^''^''^ follows :— 1. External orbital. 2. Inferior e.xternal frontal. 3. Ascending frontal. 4. Ascending parietal. 5. Parieto-teniporal. 6. Temporal. 1. The external orbital is distributed to the outer part of the under, oxtenmi or orbital, surface of the frontal lobe. orbital, 2. The inferior external frontal are two or three small branches inferior which pass to the lower part of the outer surface of the frontal f^Pf^ lobe. 3. The ascendinfj-frontal is a considerable vessel lying more or less ascondiny in the pre-central sulcus and distributed to the adjoining parts of ° the cortex. 4. The ascendimj-imrietal branch, like the foregoing, passes a-sccndint' upwards ; it is partially received into the post central sulcus, and is P""'"''''' distributed to the cortex in its neighbourhood. 5. The jparieto-temporal are, usually, two large terminal vessels from pai-ioto- the middle cerebral which emerge from the back part of the Sylvian a™'""'"'' fissure to pass to the outer surface of the back part of the parietal, tlie front of the occipital, and the contiguotis portions of the temporal convolutions. 0. The temimral branches are two or three in number : they lomi.oi-ai emerge from the lower part of the Sylviau.to the anterior part of /. the temporal lobe, and to the whole of its otff er'surfacc as far l)ack'"^7*'^"^ as the preceding vessels. On comparing figs. 258 and 259, it will thus l)e seen that the 3 A 2724 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. cortical distribution of tlie anterior cerebral branch of the inteiUal carotid is mainly on the mesial, whilst that of the middle cerebral is on the outer surface of the cerebral hemisphere. AuUTior The anterior choroid artery (fig. 257," and fig. 258), is small, and arte™'.'' ai 'ses either from the trunk of Ihe carotid, or from the middle cerebral artery : it passes backwards on the outer side of the posterior com- municating artery, and makes its way between the hemisphere and the cms cerebri into the dentate fissure, at the bottom of which it enters the choroid ])lexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Circle of Willis (fig. 257). The arteries at the under part of = the brain are united freely both on their own side and across the middle line in an anastomotic ring—the circle of Willis. On each vessels that side this ring is formed by the trunk of the internal carotid giraig form it. ■ forwards the anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior com- municating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cerebrals, and the anterior communicating artery. And behind is the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into tlie posterior cerebrals which receive the posterior communicating. In the area of the circle lie several parts of the brain corresponding with the floor of the third ventricle. Use of the The complete inosculation between the cranial vessels in the circle free in-" of WilUs possibly allows at all times a free circulation of blood osculation. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^j^^^^^^ ^ ^^^.g^ ^^^^i on one side of the neck Other Beyond the circle of Willis the arteries of the cerebrum communi- anastomoses ^^^^ together Only by fine anastomoses. V^^rdthe The VEINS of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura mater, .md brain. -^^q^ form companion trunks to the arteries. Two sets to Two sets of veins belong to the cerehrtnn, viz., superficial or cerebrum: external, and deep or internal. exten,ai, The superficicU veins of the upper part of the l^-r^Plj^ J^;;^ "■i'i<^"to the superior longitudinal sinus ; and those ot the lateial aml IS;"" under parts enter the sinuses in the base of the skull, especial y the cavernous and lateral sinuses. These vessels communicate Ireely together. , . , ,„,i,a.rnnl. The deep veins of the cerebrum join the veins ot Galen U,. -64), and reach the straight sinus. j , i (i,, v..ins of The veins of the cerebellum end differently above and below. On :^;.ebeilum. ^1^, , ,,^.face they are received by the veins of Galen and the straight sinus ; and on the lower surface they terminate in the occi- Dissection Care to be pital and lateral sinuses. , i ^ • „ i Dissection The pia mater and the vessels are now to be stripped care to be from the brail., and the origin of the cranial nerves is to be care- trilen in"- .lefined. Over the cerebrum and pons, the p.a mater can be i;in:;:tel detached with toleraWe ease by using two pairs of forceps ; but on the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata the membrane adheies so closelyt to require much care in removing it without teanng the brain-substance, or injuring the nerves. ,.p,.pbelluui In clearing out the groove between the halves ol the ceiebelluniTHE BASK OF THE BRAIN. 725 on the under surface, tlie memljrane bnundinf,' tlie opening,' inti) tlie fourth ventricle will he taken away : therefore the position, size, and limits of that opening between the back of the medulla obhnifjata and the cerebellum should be now noted (p. 781). When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be reiilaced in Repiacn in the formalin liquid, but it is to be turned over occasionally, so that all the parts may be hardened. A little additional formalin may be added from time to time to maintain the strength of the solution. The remaining Sections on the brain will be taken after tlie dissection of the bead and neck is completed. Section II. GENERAL SURVEY OF THE BASE AND THE ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Directions. Now that the student enters upon the systematic Transfer dissection of the brain he is recommended to transfer the hardened spint. preparation from the formalin solution to methylated spirit in order to avoid the inconvenience that arises from a close examination of specimens recently taken from the former licj^uid. For convenience sake a general survey of the base of the Tlie tasr; of BRAIN will be made first so that the student may be familiar with the names of the parts, although the structures mentioned will be examined again later. Beginning behind on the lower, or anterior, surface of the medulla oblongata (fig. 2(il, p. 732) is the anterior median fissure in the middle line ; on either side of this are two elongated eminences, the anterior jniramids (1) ; external to the pyramid below the pons Varolii is the Parts of tim oval olivary body {o) ; external to this is a narrow band, which, if traced downwards, appears to become continuous with the lateral tract (2) of the spinal cord, and beyond this, passing upwards into the cerebellum, is a large mass at the postero-external part of the medulla known as the restiform body (3). Emerging from the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olive are the roots of the twelfth nerve and in front of the restiform body a large number of nerve roots appear which belong to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves. In front of the medulla the lai'ge mass of the fons (fig. 268 d, p. 741) passes across, and lying in the outer and back part of this is a con- voluted piece of the cerebellum, the flocculus (c). Immediately in Enumora ' front of the pons are two large white masses, the peduncles of the ^1,°"^°^ cerebrum or crura cerebri (/),one belonging to each hemisphere ; and Pnrts between them is a small area perforated by vessels, which is named the imterior ^nrforated space (cj). Crossing the peduncle is the optic tract; and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. In front of the-posterior perforated space are seen two roundedDISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. 720 rmiN 111 wliite Ijodies—tlie corpora albiccmtia (e) ; and lliun a prominent rniragi'cyisli mass, called tuber cinereum [h). From the tuher cinereum a ccrobii, conioa! process, the infundihulnm, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to the tuber cinereum are tlie converging optic tracts with their commissure (i). In front of the commissure lies a thin greyish layer—lamina cinerea {m): and still farther forwards is the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum (?t) in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the Sylvian fissure is a depre.ssion termed the vallecula Sylvii (1), at the bottom of which is seen another spot perforated by vessels—the anterior jierforated space. Olfactory Lastly, in front of the anterior perforated space, and resting on " the surface oi the frontal lobe of the cerebral hemisphere, is the elongated process of the brain (o) named the olfactory lobe, from which the olfactory nerve-filaments spring. This process is frequently called the olfactory nerve, but its true nature as a lobe of the cerebrum is shown by its position and structure, as well as by its condition in the lower animals, in which it is generally of large size. Deiiiiitioii. Tlie CRANIAL NERVES take Origin from the encephalon, with one exception, the spinal accessory, and pass through apertures in the wall of the cranium. Origin is The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at which it apparent appears on the surface, for fibres or roots may be traced deeply into the brain-substance. Each nerve lias therefore a superficial or appa- rent, and a deep or real origin. With respect to the superficial attachment there cannot be any doubt; but the deep origins, in consequence of the difliculty of tracing the roots, are matters for the most part outside the ]wssibilities of Real is from ordinary dissection. When the roots are followed into the encephalon, grey matter, ^j^^y gj^^-gr masses of grey substance, containing nerve-cells, which are looked upon as nuclei of origin in the case of motor nerve fibres or of termination in the case of sensory, or aft'erent, fibres. Classifica- The cranial nerves are enumerated as forming twelve pairs. ^wei«,nirs According to this arrangement (Sa3mmering'.s) each trimk is con- simmer- sidered a'separate nerve, although it may be associated with others m the foramen of exit. Designation The Several nerves may be designated first, second, thml, and so forth : this numerical mode of naming applies to all. But a second name has been derived for some of the nerves from inmcof the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of this noineii- part, clature the terms pneumo-ga.stric and hypoglossal may be taken. A different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the orfnnetion. function conferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the terms auditory, oculomotor and olfactory express. In this way two names may be employed in referring to a nerve :-one being numerical," the other local or functional, as is exemplified below Oifactoiy The FIRST or OLFACTORY NERVES are about twenty fihu.jenls uerves. ^^^jji^i, from the under surface of the olfactory bulb (hg. 260, )I. I. t). (/- •I , , , , ,;■ V <;'.'.! Ill 1»'>H' '1 tit*-. 'xmiijiMtuiv. H*tinu4 it divide ittto two pieoets trUidu v »•■ ■ '■ ' ' > uum. Ac tix; twit )ia**<« lonraj' j .-fDISSECTION OF THE KRAIN. 72S of fibres. iiiuli across, iiiul lies on tlie olivary eminence of tlie sphenoid bone, situation, within the circle of Willis. It is ])laced in front of the tuber cine- reuni; and ])a.ssing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. nrrangement In the Commissure each tract is resolved into three sets of fibres with the following arrangement :—The outer fibres, few in number, are continued straight to the temporal .side of the eyeball of the same side. The middle, the most numerous, decussate with the corresponding fibres of the other tract,—those of the right tract being continued into the inner part of the left nerve and passing to the nasal portion of the opposite eye, and vice versa. The most internal fibres are continued across the back of the commissure into the tract of the other side back to the brain without entering the eye, and are not visual fibres. Trunk of The optic nerve extends Irom the commissure to the eyeball, and is about one inch and a half in length. It leaves the skull by the optic foramen, where it receives its sheaths from the dura mater and arachnoid and crosses the orbit to end in the retina. Origin of tlie The THIRD or OCDLOMOTOR NERVE (■') is round and firm, and is ■ attached by a series of filaments along an oblique groove on the inner side of the crus cerebri, near the posterior perforated space, and close in front of the pons Varolii. deep in mis Deep origin. The fibres of tlie nerve traverse the crus in their course cerebri. from a nuclear origin in the grey substance in the floor of tlie aqueduct of Sylvius beneath the anterior corpus quadrigeminum. * Fourth The FOURTH or TROCHLEAR NERVE (*) cannot be followed back- nerve from -(ygji-dg at; present to its origin. It is the smallest of the cranial cerebellum : J- ° ,. n , nerves, and emerges on the ujiper surface of the crus behind the posterior corpus quadrigeminum through the valve of Vieussens (fig. 277, ^, p. 765). The nerve appears at the base between the cerebrum and cerebellum on the side of the crus cerebri, and is directed forwards to enter an aperture in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. nucleus in Beep origin. In the valve of Vieussens the nerve crosses to the opposite floor of Hide, decussating with its fellow, and then arches round the aqueduct of afueduct Syl^'us to reach its nucleus in the floor of that canal, immediately behind the nucleus of the third nerve. Fifth nerve The FIFTH or TRioEMiNAL (*) is the largest of the cranial nerves, roots"" consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and agaiiglionic or motor, which are separate to beyond the ganglion, both issuing The nerve emerges from the side of the ]3ons Varolii, nearer the from pons, ^^pp^, t,ii(. lower border. The small or aganglionic root is the higher, and is separated from the large root by one or two of the transverse bundles of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone into the cavum Meckelii, as ali-eady described, p. 516. * The position of the nuclei of this and the following nerves is roughly shown on lig. 287, on p'. 783.oiur.rN OF rrtK orantai, nerves. 7211 Deep ori<iiii. The larifr ronf divides within the pons into two parts. One Drcp on^-in of tliese is connected with a mass of grey matter (sen.sory nucleus of the liftli) |™| near tlie floor of the fourtli ventricle : tlie other (ascending root of tlie fiftli ; JUJui'iiV"" fig. 267 Va, p. 739") arises from the cells of the posterior horn of the grey matter di.iongntn ; in the lower part of the medulla oblongata and up|)er part of the spinal cord, and is directed ui)wards on the outer surface of the gelatinous substance of Rolando to join tlie up])er part. Tlie sm/i/l Viiol. also lias a double origin, one part springing from a special of small in nucleus (motor nucleus of tlie fiftli) in the floor of the fourtli ventricle internal jj™/]'*)"."'',, to the sensory nucleus, and the other (descending root of the fifth ; fig. 2S.3, p. US) from a collection of nerve-cells on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius. Tlie SIXTH NERVE (''), abiluceiit nerve of tbe eyeball comes tlirough si.vtli nerve the outer part of the anterior pyramid close behind the pons, and [,'y"^nij(i, often by a second band from the lower border of the pons. Deep orirjiit. The fibres of the nerve pass forwards, through the lower and iinolons part of the pons, from a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, beneath hcneiith the outer part of the fasciculus teres (fig. 267). ventricle The SEVENTH or facial kerve (") appears at the lower border of Si^venth the pons, to which it is closely adherent, in the dejiression between tract the upper ends of the olivary and restiform bodies. A small accessory 9f.''"j''^jy bundle (jiortio intermedia of Wrisberg) leaves the medulla oblongata intermediate between the facial and the auditory nerves, and joins the former within the internal auditory meatus. Deep orhjin. The fibres of the facial nerve pass backwards to the floor of Deep origin the fourth ventricle, and there wind round the nucleus of the si.Kth nerve, to from a arise from a group of nerve-cells lying in front and to the outer side of the JloJ^s-il'p.'Irt latter (fig. 267). Whether some of the fibres are connected with the cells of of pons, the nucleus of the si.\th is uncertain. The eiohth or auditory nerve has a surface attachment outside Eighth the foregoing to the restiform body internal to the flocculus ; one ol' "es"Korin''' its roots passing round the restiform body to its dorsal surface. I'orty. Deep origin. At its attachment to the medulla oblongata, the auditory Deep origin, nerve consists of two roots, upper and lower. The fibres of the upper or dorsal part con.stitute the cochlear diiuaioii of the nerve, some of its fibres Cochlear terminate in cells forming the ventral cochlear nucleus on the under part of division, the restiform body, and others pass to the dorsal cochlear nucleus (outer auditory nucleus) in the later.al angle of the floor of the fourth ventricle dorsal to the restiform body. The filires of the stria; acusticie arise from the latter nucleus, and they, with many more from the ventral nucleus, eventually pass, through the intervention of the superior olivary nucleus and other groups of cells, into the lateral fillet and are connected _witli the posterior corpus quadrigeminum. Th« lower, or ventral part of the auditory nerve con.stitutes the vestibular Vestibular division. Many of its filires ]iass through the pons, internal to the restiform division, body to the inner anditory nucleus, or the dorsal vestibular nucleus, beneath the auditory tubercle in the floor of the fourth ventricle ; other fibres pa.ss to groups of large cells internal to and beneath the restiform body forming the nucleus of Deiters, and some to a group of cells styled the nucleus of the descending root. Many fibres from the dorsal nucleus of the vestibular division of the auditory nerve pass through the restiform body into the cei'ebelhini. The NINTH or hlosso-pharyngeal nerve (") leaves the medulla Ninth nerve below facialDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. nucleus in floor of fourth ventricle. Tenth nerve below ninth nucleus benejith fourth ventricle. Eleventh nerve in two pieces ; accessory fron\ medulla oljlongata, spinal from corrl. oblongata by five or six filaiaents close below the facial nerve, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. Deep origin. Directed liackwanls through tlio medulla oblongata, the fibres join a main nucleus beneatli the inferior fovea in the floor of the fourth ventricle. A considerable bundle of libres pas.ses to the faaciculuH solilarius in the medulla and upper part of tlie cord, and some motor fibres spring, with others of the vagus, from tlie nucleus ambiyuus in the medulla. The TEKTH, VAC4UR or PNEUMO-GASTRic NERVE (*) issues by il number of filaments (twelve to filteen) from the medulla oblongata in a line with, and Imlow the glossso-pharyngeal. Deej) oric/iii. Taking a similar course in the medulla oblongata to the roots of the ninth nerve, the fibres of the vagus reach their main nucleus beneath the calamus scriptnrins of the fourth ventricle. Other fibres pass to the fasci- culus solitarius, and others spring from the small nucleus ambiguus in the medulla. The ELEVENTH or SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE consists of tvvo parts —accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory or bulbar ixu-t is of small size, and is formed by the union of slender filaments continuing the line of the glosso-j>haryn- geal and vagus nerves along the medulla oblongata, as low as the first cervical nerve. After communicating with the spinal part in tlie jugular foramen, it passes into the vagus nerve outside the skull. The spinal -part is firm and round, like the third or the si.x.th nerve, but only a small piece of it can now be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal cord as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nerve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, witli the upper of which it may be connected. It enters the skull by the foramen magnum. Both from Deep nrigiii. The fibres of both accessory and spinal parts have been one nuele\is. traced inwards to an elongated column of cells reaching from the lower third of the olivary body to the level of the fifth cervical nerve, and situate, in the spinal part of its e.xtent, in the outer jjart of the anterior horn of the grey matter, and, in the medulla oblongata, behind and to the outer side of the hypoglossal nucleus. The ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves convei^e below the crus cerebelli, and rest on tlie fl(jcculus. From that spot they are directed outwards to the jugular foramen. The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve 0 appears on the front of the medulla oblongata, where it is attached by a series of filaments (ten to filteen) along the groove between tlie pyramid and tlie olivary body, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. Tlie filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which pierce the dura mater separately, and unite at the outer part of the anterior condylar foramen. nucleus near Deep origin. The roots of the nerve can be followed through ^^^^ '^'^^^^ centralcmu.1 oblongata to a nucleus, whicli is placed in front of the central canal below, •""'/?",'""' and extends upwards into the lower part of the fasciculus teres m the fourth ventricle. . . , ventncle. Twelfth nerve troni front of medulla oblongata:731 THE MRPUTJ-A OBLONGATA. Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND I'ONS VAROLII. The medulla oljlmigata ami Uie jidiis aiv interposed between the spinal cord aiul the brain proper. Dissection. On a sinc-k brain the student may learn nearly all nissretion. tlie anatomy of the medulla and pons ; but 11' lie has a second brain he should cut througli the crus cerebri above the cerebellum imme- diately behind the po.'^terior corpus quadrigeminuni and then carefully take away the cerebellum from the pons and medulla by cutting through the attachments close to the cerebellum, opening out thereby (fig. 262, p. 733), the fourth ventricle and exposing the uiD])er surfaces (jf the pons and medulla. Position. The brain is to remain in the same position as for the Position, examination of the vessels and nerves. The MEDULLA OBLONGATA or BULB is the expanded upper end of Medulia^^_ the spinal cord which is contained in the cranium. Its limits are "xteiir "' the lower border of the pons in one direction, and the lower margin of the foramen magnum in the other. It is somewhat conical in form, and 'measures nearly an inch in length, half an inch in form ami breadth below, and about an inch at its widest part above. Its base joins the pons, the transverse fibres of the latter marking Base, its limit ; and its apex is blended with the spinal cord. The Apex, anterior surface (fig. 261) is irregularly convex, and is in contact with siufuces. the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The oppo.site surface (fig. 262) is convex below, and somewhat excavated above, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle ; it rests in the groove between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, and on this posterior or upper aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mai'k the limit of the bulb. The medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median fissure Median in front and behind, in a line with those of the cord. The anterior anterior median fissure is interrupted at the lower end of the bnlb by some bundles of fibres which cro-ss obliij^uely from one side to the other, and constitute the ilecussation of the pyramids; above, it ends at the lower border of the pons in a dilatation (foramen ctecum). The posterior median fissure is continued upwards from the cord through and the lower half of the medulla oblongata, and then terminates by the i'"'''''''""• se])aration of its lateral boundaries to form the sides of the fourth ventricle. On each half of the medulla oblongata are elongated eminences, Surfara con- separated by slight grooves, and continuous with the columns of the j)niti.v con- spinal cord ; but they receive dift'erent names in this part of their ,VuJ.J"{,^rtly extent, and .some fresh bodies are added. Thus, the part continuing the anterior column of the cord, by the side of the anterior median li.ssure, is known as the anterior jnjramid (fig. 261, '). The pro- longation of the lateral column takes the name of lateral tract ('), the new.732 DISSECTION OK TfTR RltATK. position of wliioli is occupied in tlic npper half of the bulb by an oval emiuence called the olivarij bodij. Continuing the posterior column is the funiculus cuncatus (fig. 262, /c), which is Separated from the lateral tract by a smaller eminence to which the name of funiculus of Rolando (E) has been given : in the upper part of the medulla these are succeeded by, or become lost on, the restiform hudij (fig. 261, 3 ; fig. 262, rh) projecting outwards towards the cerebellum. And lastly, between the funiculus cuueatus and the posterior median fissure is the funiculus gracilis (fig. 262, f(j) continued from the posterior median column of the cord. Pyramid. The anterior mimmid is placed between the anterior median fissure on the inner side and the lateral tract with the olivary body on the outer side. It increases in size from below upwards, whence its name ; but at the upper end it is somewhat constricted and rounded just before it disappears beneath the superficial transverse fibres of the pons. This Ijody is only in small part pro- longed from the anterior column of the cord, its inner and larger por- tion being formed by the decussating fibres seen in the anterior median fissure. The lateral tract in the lower half of the medulla oblongata is of the same width as the lateral column of the cord ; but above, it is reduced to a narrow strij) along the bottom of the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. The olimrii body is oval in shape and about half an inch long. Its upper end, which is more prominent than the lower, does not quite reach the pons. Internally it is .separated a nari'ow groove along which the hypoglossal nerve arises ; and externally from the restiform body by a broader one, where the glosso-]iharyngeal and vagus nerves issue. Fiiniciiiu.s The funiculus of Rolando begins in a pointed e.\tremity at the orRo"iImioI'' lower end of the medulla oblongata, and enlarging upwards forms, on a level with the lower end of the olivary body, a slight prominence known as the tubercle of Rolando. Towards the front this funiculus is .separated from the lateral tract by the continuation upwards of the lateral groove of the cord ; but posteriorly the line of separation from the cuneate funiculus is often indistinct. The funiculus and tubercle of Rolando are better marked in tlie child, and the tubercle Latei-al tract. Olive. Fio. 261.—Medulla Oblongata AND Pons from before. 1. Pyramid. 2. Lateral tract. 3. Restiform Ijody. 5. Olivary body. 6. Decussation of ijyramids. from the anterior pyramid by733 TIIK MEDUr.LA OBLONGATA. lias then a yiv.yisli uoluur, wlieiicu llie uaiue tvJierctduiii cinercura is also giveu to it. The funiculas cuncatns i.s the prolongation of tlio posterior column of the cord, and forms a awQWing—liiberculam cunmtaiii (lig. 2(52, cl), opjiosite the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle. The restiform body is the largest of the ])rominence» of the medulla olilongata, and appears to be the continuation of the funiculus of Rolando and the funiculus cuneatus. It inclines outwards above, and enters the hemi- sphere of the cerebellum, of which it constitutes the iiderior peduncle. On the back of the medulla oblongata, the inner margin of this body forms the latcr.d boundary of the lower part of the fourth ventricle. The funiculus gracilis (pos- terior pyramid) lies by the side of the posterior median fissure, and is the smallest of the parts of the medulla oblongata. It ends above in an enlargement termed the clava (fig. 2tj2, cl), which bounds the lower point of the fourth ventricle. On the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata there may be seen, more or less distinctly in different subjects, a set of fibres crossing transversely to the res- tiform body over the upper half of the pyramid and the olivary body. These are the superficial arciform fibres. Stuucture. The fibres of the several columns of the spinal cord enter the medulla oblongata below, where they undergo a partial re-arrange- ment and are partly continued Cuiu'uttj runiciilus ami tubercle. Hf.sti foiin 1)0(1 V. Siipcrllcial urei f'oiin Fig. 262.—MeIjULLA UliLUNOATA AND Pons from iseuinu. /(J. Funiculus gracilis. cl. Clava. fe. Funiculus cuneatus. ct. Cuneate tubercle. JR. F^uniculus of Rolando. rb. llestiform body. a St. Auditory strirc. ft. Fasciculus teres. sp. Superior peduncle (cut). mp. Middle peduncle (cut). ip. Inferior peduncle (cut). onwards to the cerebrum and cerebellum, being joined by other fibres which take theu' origin in the bulb, and they partly end in the grey substance of the medulla oblongata. The course of the fibres can only be shown to a very small extent by dissection, and for the complete study of the arrangement of the fibres, as well as of the grey matter, it is necessaiy to examine sections of diifercnt parts of the medulla oblongata. Dissection. In tracing out groups of fibres in the hardened brain the student will use the knife very little, but he will find that by liitin-nal structure of tllGflulllL ubloni-'atii. DIsst'clinii to tinw pyramid.734 DISSECTION OF THR BRAIN. taking liold of a bundle of fibres in the forceps or lingers and gently tearing tliem up that thoy will separate in their proper direction. To expose the connectiim of the pyramid with the spinal cord he should take hold of with the forceps and turn outwards on the left side, as in fig. 203, the small part of the anterior cohinin of the cord at the lowest part of the specimen (which will be below the decussation), and the pyramid of the right side will then be seen to divide below into two parts, one passing directly into the anterior column, and the other crossing the median fissure and disappearing in the ojiposite half of the cord. Similarly an incision about Jth Fig. 263.—Supeiu'icial Disskction of the AIedulla Oblongata and Pons. a. Anterior pyramid. c. Sui)erficiat fibres of the pons, h. Decussation of the i)yramids. cut tln-ough ami reflected. c. Pyramidal fibres in the pons. /. Superficial fibres of the pons, in d. The same in the eras cerebri. place. of an inch deep will be made in the middle line of the pons and its superficial fibres stripped transversely and the pyramidal fibres carefully cleaned upwards on the right side, when they will be found to pass into the lowest part (crnsta) of the crus cerebri. Fibres of Pyramid and anterior column. The fibres of the pyramid form a the pyramid well-defined and independent bundle (seen in section on fig. 265 a, p. 736) thnnigh the whole e.xtent of the medulla oldongata, and are continued below partly into the antcricn- column of the .sanu' snlc of the cord and partly into the lateral column of the opposite half. The set of fibres kee])ing to the same side forms the outer portion of the pyramid, but in the anterior column of the cord, where it is direct, known as the direct pyramidal tract, it is placed close to tlie anterior How ti) i*xi>ost.i tliu ]iyiaiiiidul liuros,735 KIBHES OF THK MKDULf.A OBLONGATA, median Hssufu. Tim decussating fibres are the more numennis, and pass obliquely backwards, across the median fissure and behind the opposite anterior column, to enter the lateral column of the cord, where they constitute the crossed pyramidal trad. Upwards, the fibres of the pyramid are prolonged through the pons to the crusta of the cerebral peduncle (fig. 263, c, d). The fibres of the anterior column of the cord which are not continued into the pyramid incline backwards, ""u',,,,,,. (I. Pyramidal fibres, out through, aud raised as far as the optic thahiTiius. b. Lateral tract. f. Olivary body. d. Deep longitudinal fibres in the pons, derived from the anterior and lateral columns of the cord. c. Superficial, and ./', deep trans- verse filires of the pons, cut through, and partly removed. (J. Substantia nigra in tlie orus cerebri, between the cnista and tegmentum. and enter the reticular formation (fig. 265, 0 in the deeper pai ts of the medulla oblongata. The decmsation of tlie pyramids (fig. 263, 6) occupies the anterior lissuie of the medulla oblongata at a distance of three-quarters of an " " inch below the pons. It is about a quarter of an inch in length, and is generally constructed by the crossing of three or four bundles ot fibres from each side, but the proportion of the pyramidal fibres ™™« which decussate in the medulla varies much in difierent individuals. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the deeper fibres of the UissccUon. medulla oblongata, the pyramid may be cut across on the right side just below the olivary body (fig. 264) and raised towards the pons.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Fillies ol' liilenil Unci. Direct cerobelliir tract. Fibres of funiculus c^uiieatus, gracilis, auil of Holaudo. Arciforin fibres: suiiei-flclol, Formation of restiform body. Fig. 265.—Transverse Section op the Medulla Oblongata at the Lower Part op the Fourth Ventricle (Clarke). The lateral tract is composed of the remainin}^ fil)re.s of the lateral columu of the cord, after the crossed ijyraiiiidal ti-act has been given off. Most of these pass deeply behind the olivary body, and throiij^h the reticular formation to the pons ; but one small band, the direct cerebellar tract, is continued superficially from the lateral column to the cerebellum. This band is often visible on the surface of the medulla, as a whiter streak lying along the outer edge of the lateral tract, and inclining backwards above the tubercle of Rolando to join the restiform body. Posterior funiculi. The white fibres of the cuneate and slender funiculi are the continuation of the postero- external and po.stero-median columns of the cord respec- tively, and are believed to end entirely in the grey nuclei of the funiculi. The funiculus of Rolando has only a very thin superficial white layer, which is also derived from the pos- terior column. The restiform body is formed by the arciform fibres of the medulla, by the direct cere- bellar tract, by fibres from the gracile and cuneate nuclei and from the vestibular portion of the auditory nerve. Dissection. The separated pons and medulla will now be divided longitudinally. One half we will put aside. On the other, by making transverse sections at different levels, the student will be able to dis- tinguish the grey matter of the olivary body and a few other larger nuclei as well as the chief bundles of white fibres, hut the parts described in small type require specially stained sections for their proper display. Arciform fibres. In the upper half of the medulla oblongata, covering its anterior surface and traversing its substance, is an extensive system of fibres, curving outwards and Ijackwards from the median plane to the restiform body, to which this name has been given. The superficial arciform fibres (fig. 265, s) have already been noticed in the description of the exterior of the medulla oblongata. a. b. c. d. e. /• Pyramid. Olivary body. Tubercle of Rolaudo. Restiform body. Lateral boundary of fourth ventricle. White core of the olivary body, with the roots of the hypoglossal nerve to its inner side. (•/. Olivary peduucle. li. Deep arciform tibres entering the raphe (a few more are added from a second drawing). li.l. Reticular formation. n. Floor of fourth ventricle. 0. Hypoglossal nucleus. •p. (jlosso-pharyngeal nucleus. r. Inner auditory nucleus. s. Superlicial arciform fibres. t. Remains of the gelatinous substance.737 STIIDCTURE OF MEDULLA OliLONnATA. The deep arciform fibres (h) are nioro mnucroiis, and arc seen over tlio uiul Uiiep. whole area of transverse sections except in the pyramid. Some of tlieni cinie to tlie surface on the inner side of, and through the olivary body, and join tlie superficial set. Others are deep in their whole extent, and pass out\yards into the restiforni body, and to the nuclei of the cuneate and slender finiiculi. Internally, the aroifonn fibres enter the raphe, through which they are continued to the opposite half of the bulb. The raj'hc (between h and /) occupies the median plane of the medulla Rnphi. oblongata above the decussation of the pyramids, and consi.sts of liljres running obliquely, longitudinally, and from before backwards, which are in part con- tinuous with the superficial and deep arciform libres, and in part aiuing from the nuclei in the lloor of the fourth ventricle. Furtimlio reticularis. In the dorsal portion of the medulla oblongata, Rclicular behind the pyramid and olivary body (/, and k), the longitudinal libres lormation. derived from "the anterior aiul lateral columns of the cord, decussating with the deep arciform libres, give rise to a structure that is known as the recticular formiition of the bulk In the part of the reticular formation behind the olivary body (t) interspersed grey matter containing nerve-cells is also present. OUvarii hodij (fig. 265, /). On removing a Ihiii slice from the 0'_|j™;'>' olivary body, it will be seen to consist of three parts, viz., an " ^" e.xtenial investment of white substance, a thin grey layer, the olivary nucleus, and a central white core. The outer white layer consists mainly of transverse libre.s, which ljulong to the superficial arciform group. The olivarii nucleus or corpus dcntatum is a thin plaited capsule its nucleus, or bag, having a zigzag outline in section. Towai'ds the surface and behind it is closed, but on the inner side it is open, forming a narrow neck, which is turned towards the raph^, and gives passage to the olivary peduncle. The central white matter fills the grey capsule, and is formed by the .spreading out of a tract of white fibres called the olivary and peduncle, which jiasses inwards through the opening in the nucleus P'^''""'^''^- to the rapli6. The fibres of the peduncle partly terminate in the cells of tlie corpus deiitatuni, and are partly continued through the grey layer to join the arciform fibres. Orel/ mailer of Ike mrduUa ahloiujata. The larger part of the grey matter Grey matter in the bulb is a continuation of that of the cord, but there are in addition some smaller independent masses. ProloiKjation iif ;/rei/ mailer of Ihc spinal cord. At the lower end of the prolonged medulla oblongata the central grey matter rcseinliles that in the spinal cord, but as it extends upwards it undergoes the following changes :— The anterior cornu is broken up by the iias.sage through it of the fibres of Clianges in tlio cro.ssed pyramidal tract, and the detached extremity of the horn is continued upwards in the lateral tract for some distance as the lateral nucleus. ' The posterior cornu is pushed outwards by the increasing development of in posterior the gracile and cuneate funiculi, and its extremity (caput), consisting of the born, substantia gelatiuosa of Kolando, becomes greatly enlarged and approaches the surface, giving rise to the funiculus and tubercle of Rolando (lig. 265, c). From the base of the horn, processes of the grey matter extend backwards into the slender and cuneate funiculi, and are known as the nuclei of those bodies. Tbey are largest in the neighbourhood of the lower end of the fourth ventricle, where they cause the swellings which have been described above as the clava and cuneate tubercle (p. 733). By the opening out of the posterior median fis.sure and central canal of the and in cord to form the fourth ventricle, the anterior portion of the grey commissure conmu.ssure. IJ.A. 3 15738 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. and the bases of the anterior horns are exposed, constituting the grey layer in the floor of that oavitv. Speciiil s;it'y Special dc^iosita of gre;/ matter. Tliese are the olivary nucleus, which masses. ^^^g j„g(, |jgg,^ examined, some groujjs of nerve-cell.s at the back of the medulla oblongata forming nuclei of origin for several cranial nerves, which will be noticed in connection with the anatomy of the fourth ventricle, and a few small masses of grey substance of the front of the medulla beneath the superficial nrciform fibres. Pons Varolii. Poms: The TONS VAROLII is situate above the the medulla oblongata, and position, between the hemispbere.s of the cerebellum. In its natural position in the skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelli, sup. mei 'A.velu dorsal grey reticular J^ormatioii duncle rebcllam peduncle mid .peduncle deep traniuerse fibres pifraTnida.1 Jrtres' suprrjirial trausucrseJ*il)res. Fig. 260.—Diagram ok a Transvehsb Section thuotjgh the Lower Part OF THE Pons, showing its Chief Constituents. fOlTll, surfaces borders, aufl sides. It consists of ventral aud dorsal portions. Dissection to expose tlie Hbres. resting against the hinder part of the body of the sphenoid bone. It is nearly of a square shape, though it is rather wider from side to side, in which direction it measures about an inch and a half. The anterior surface is convex and prominent on each side, but marked along the middle line by a groove in which the basilar artery lies. By the opposite surface the pons forms the part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The upper border is the longer, and arches over the crura cerebri. The lower border is nearly straight, and projects above the medulla oblongata. On each side the pons is continued into the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and the fifth nerve issues through it on each side. Structure. The ventral or anterior half of the pons consists of transverse fibres which are in part of their extent divided into two layers by the prolongation upwards througli them of the fibres of the pyramids of the medulla oblongata. The dor.sal or posterior half is a continuation of the reticular formation, with the grey layer of the floor of the fourtii ventricle, from the medulla oblongata. Dissection. The superficial transverse fibres of the pons have739 STRUCTURE OK THE PONS VAROr,ir. already been diviiled along the line of the p^'iiuniil of the rit,dit, side (fig 263, p. 734) and turned outwards so as to denude the longitu- dinal fibres ((•) of that body ; and this set of iongituilinal fibres, having been out across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as I'ai as tiie upper border of the pons. Beneath them will appear the second or deep set of transverse filjres of the pons (fig. 204 /, j). 735). The deep transverse fibres may next be cut through outside the pyramidal tract (tig. 201), and the reticular formation will llicn ln^ nvmo l''io. 267.—TuANSvKiisij Section of the Lowkr Paiit ok tiik Tons (after Oueiisteiner). ra. Raplie. ipc. Inferior iicduiicle of cere- bellum. slf. Superficial tninsver.so fibres. piir.h. I'yramiilal bumlles. (///. Deep transver.se fibres. / Fillet. Son. Superior olivary nucleus. Vu. Ascending root of fifth nerve. VI. Sixtli nerve. n VI. Its nucieu.s. VH. Seventh nerve. II VII. Its nucleus. VIIf. Upper root of auditory nerve. n VIIIo. Outer auditory (dorsal vestibular) nucleus. seen, in which deep longitudinal fibres ascend from the medulla oblongata (d). The tru'inneise fibres of the ventral portion of the pons pass into the Trnnsverso middle peduncle of the cerebellum. They are mostly collected into v('''iinu' two layers, superficial and deep (fig. 200), which enclose the loiigi- portion, tudinal libres of the pyramid; but some ti'un.sverse fibres pass between the bundles of the pyramidal ti'act. The superficial fibres are nearly horizontal in the lower part of the pons, but the tipper ones descend to join the cerebellar peduncle, and some are seen on the surface crossing obliquely over the lower fibres. It will be found, however, that the same bundles of transverse fibres cannot be traced across in the pons from one side of the cerebellum to the 3 1! 2740 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Pyrainklal tract in pons. Grey matter in transverse fibres. Formatio reticnlaris. Raph6. Superior olive. Oilier, but tlint they break off near tlie middle line and nio.stly asisunie a lonf;itudinal direction. They are in great part connected with pontine cells which are associated with fibres descending in the crusta of the crus cerebri of the opposite side. The jnjramidal filires (fig. 266, 2(57, pyr. b) enter the pons below as a single mass, but in their passage upwards through the pons they are broken up by decussating bundles of transverse fibres. Much increased in number, they emerge at the upper border of tlie pons, and are continued into the lower portion (crusta) of the crus cerebri. Scattered amongst the transverse fibres are numerous small masses of grey matter (nuclei pontis), with which the cerebellar fibres are connected, as just explained. The reticular formatio7i oi the pons (fig. 266) is formed of longi- tudinal fibres continued from the medulla oblongata and passing upwards to the up)5er portion (teginentnm) of the crus cerebri and decussating with various transverse fibres. It contains much in- terspersed grey matter; and near the floor of the fourth ventricle there are several nerve-nuclei, which will be referred to when that cavity is described. In the dorsal portion of the pom?, as in the meduUa oblongata, there is a median rajjhe (fig. 267, ra), formed mainly by the trmis- verse fibres changing their direction as they cross the middle line. There is also in the lower part of the pons, close behind the deep transverse fibres of the ventral portion, and occupying a position immediately above the olivary body, a small collection of grey matter to which the name of siq^erior olivary nucleus is given (fig. 267, Son), and which is connected with some of the fibres coming from the cochlear portion of the auditory nerve. Section IV. Situation of the cerebnnn. DISSECTION OF THE CEllEBRUM. The CEREBRUM, or great brain, the largest of the subdivisions of the encephalon, fills the upper part of the cranial cavity, and occupies the anterior and middle fossa3 of the base of the skull. Its hinder part rests on the tentorium, which separates it from the cere- Lower limit bellum. Its lower limit would be indicated on the stirface of (M head by a line carried along the eyebrow to the external angular process of the frontal bone and then descending to the upper border of the zygoma and continued backwards to the external occipital protuberance. Taking the general form of the cranial cavity, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower. It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side by side, and separated by a mecUan longitudinal lissure above as far down as the great transverse Form. Two hemi spheres.BASE OF THE CEREBRUM. 741 commissure—tlie corpuf: calloaum. In tlieir lower lialt' Ihe liemi- si)heres are united by otlier commissures, as well as by several uniiwl liy connecting parls at the under siirfiice. The under part of each 5",'rts!" hemisphere is divided into two by the deep transverse cleft—tlie fissure of Sylvius. Undkii Surface, oil Base, of the Cereuruji (lig. 268). Tlie Undor .surface of cerebniin Fio. 'it)8.—Undku Suufack of tiih Iiii.\iN. rt. Atechilla oblongata. IIeiiii.s|)liere of cercl>olliuii. Flocciihi.s. b. c. U. PoiLS. e. Coi-jnis albicans. /. Cms cerebri. g. Posterior perforated h. Tuber cinereum. 1. Optic conimis.sme. I. Vallecula Sylvii and perforated space. space. anterior 111. Lamina cinerca. n. Rostrum of corpus callosiim : on each side of m, is a narrow white band—the peduncle of the corpus callosuni. 0. Olfactory bulb. ]i. Frontal lobe of the cerebral hcnii.sphero. r. Temporal, separated from the foregoing by the lisssure of Sylvius. under surface ol' the cerebrum is irre<,'ulai', in consequence of its fitting into inequalities in the base of the skull ; and on this aspect the separation into liemi8i)liere is not so complete as on the upper. The main objects to be recognised along tlie median part of the base of the brain have already been enumerated (pp. 725 and 726). The PEDUNCLE OP THE CEREUItUM or CRUS CERHIiRI (/). This is a Crus large, white, stalk-like body, wliich reaches from tlie upper border '^"'"^742 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. of the pons to the uuclcr part <jf the eerohral hemisphere of the same side, near the inner margin. In tlie natural position the two pednnck's 00014)7 the ojiening in tlie tentorium cerebelli. Each is about Ihree-iiuarters of an inch hnig, and widens as it approaches the cerebrum. Crossinjj; its lower surface is the optic tract ; and between the crura of opposite sides is the interjmluncular space, which contains the posterior perforated space, tlie corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereuni with the infuudibuluni. Com posed of Htrudure. The peduncle consists of a superficial (lower) layer of three paits. fiiji'eSj the crusta, continued from the longitudinal fibres of the pons, a prolongation of the reticular formation and of other parts termed the tegmentum, and an intermediate stratum of grey matter— the substantia iiiyra. Dissection Dissection. For the present, the main coubtituents of the crus cerebd*^'"^ cerebri may be made out; but various accessory parts will be referred to later. If the students are working with two In-ains, the cut surface of the crura should be examined on the preparation in which the pons and cerebellum have been removed, the fibres of the crusta should be dissected forwards to their entry to the cerebrunr and sections should be made of the tegmentum as far forwards as through the anterior corpus quadrigerainum. If only one brain is used the right crus only should be examined. The optic tract should be divided, and the fibres continuous with the pyramid of the medulla oblongata should be raised as far as the junction of the crtis with the hemisphere. In this proceeding the siib.stantia nigra (fig. 264, g) will appear ; and beneath it will be seen the tegmentum. Finally a block of this crus should be removed beneath the qmidrigeminal bodies, but leaving them behind, taking care not to transgress the middle line into the left crus. Crusta. The crusta (fig. 269) is composed of coarse bundles of white fibres, ascending from the pons to the cerebral hemisphere, where they enter a layer of white fibres termed the internal capsule, which will be subsequently seen. The continuation of the pyramidal fibres of the medulla oblongata (pyramidal tract) occupies the central part only of the crusta ; and the lateral parts consist of fibres which have already been traced into the pons. Those on the inner side of the crusta pass from the frontal lobe of the hemisphere, the outer ones from the occipital and temporal lobes, whilst fibres from the fronto- parietal regions, with the pyramidal tract, occupy the intermediate station. H,.i,stn>,tia The substantia nigra (lig. 260) is a layer of dark grey matter which sei)arates the crusta from the tegmentum. In transverse sections it is seen to be convex towards the crusta, and thicker at the inner than at the outer side. The tegmentum is united internally with the like structure of tlie opposite side below; but liigher up, the two are separated by the cM-ey matter of the posterior perforateil space. It consists of a reciicular formation continuous with that of the pons, together witli a considerable bundle of fibres derived from the cerebeUum (superior Ti«mniituin.743 STRUCTURE OK 'J'JIK CRUS CEREBRI. peduncle of the cerebellum), iu cuniiectioii with which ;i roundish mass of grey substance named the nucleus uf the tegmentum or red lifd nucleus (fig. 283, j). 775) may be seen on transverse .section of the fore part. Aliove, the tegmentum joins the under surface of tlie o])tic thalamus. Eetweeii the tegmentum and the substantia nigra will be seen, on Stmtnm section, an intermediate greyish layer known as the stratum mlHuum. intermedium, and above tliis, and along the outer margin of the tegmentum in tlie region of the inferior (j[uadrigeminal body, will be seen a whitish band, the fillet (tig. 269). The POSTERIOR PERFORATED SPACE (fig. 268, <j) is situate in the Poslwior de])ression between the crura cerebri. The bottom of thi.'^ hollow is ipot"' formed by a layer of grey matter, which is perforated hy the central branches of the posterior cerebral arteries. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The CORPORA ALBICANTIA (corp. niamillaria ; e) are two round Corpora white bodies, about the size of smidl ixaxa, which are constructed in iny; quad, body nqucjuft of Stjluiua ijrcij mutter of / aquoducl:—"/ 7 •pillct—-LI , \ \ tctjnicnlam \ sup.ficd. of ^^^1^ //^S^jubsfantic I cms _ ' niym i CLTcbri crusia cerebellum Fia. 269.—TllANSVERSE SKOTIUN up tub CliUUI CeHEDUI THlUlUOn THE SuPEUIua Colil'US QUAlJlUUHMINU.M. greater part by the crura of tlie fornix. If one, say the right, is. cut across, it wyll be seen to contain grey matter. The TUBER ciNEREU.M (/i) Is a portion of the thin grey layer forming Tuber the floor (jf the third ventricle, which is continuous behind with the cnieroum grey matter uf the posterior perforated space, and in front, above the ojjtic commissure, with the lamina cinerea. It is convex on the surface, and is prolonged at its fore part into the following body. The INFONDIBULUM is a I'unnel-shaped tube which reaches from nnrt in- the tuber cinereum to the posterior lolje of the pituitary body. It fi"'"'''"''"'"' consists of a layer of grey matter; and its cavity is a part of the third ventricle. In the foetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in tlie adult it is closed below. The prruiTARY body will be very imperfectly seen when it has Pituitary been dislodged from its resting place: it should therefore be''"''^" examined when opportunity otters in the l}ase of the .skull by removing the surrounding bone. It is situate in the hollow of the .sella Turcica on the sphenoid situatiun ; bone, and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior two lolws. is the larger, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In tlie adult tliis body is solid and firm in texture ;DISSECTION OF THE BllAlN. Dissection. Grey lamina. Corpus callosum end.s below in two bands, and.'extends into hemi- sphere. Vallecula Sylvii. Anterior perforated space. Olfactory lobe lies in olfactory sulcus. Olfactory bulb. Olfactoiy tract: roots, outer and inner. but in tlie fcetus it is hollow, and the posterioi' lobe opens into the third ventricle tliroiigb the inriuidibulum. Dissection, To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior end of the corpus callosum, the hemispheres are to be gently separated from each other in front. The LAMINA CINEREA (fig. 268, m) is a thin concave layer of grey substance, which gradually tapers upwards from llie tuljer cinereuni to the termination of the corpus callosum. This sti-itum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle between the two central hemi- spheres, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated space. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain. The CORPUS CALLOSUM (n), bent downwards in front, is continued horizontally backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina cinerea, and ends by two white narrow bands—the jJeduncks of the corpus callosum (or sub-callosal convolutions), which are continued along the edge of the lamina cinerea on each side to the anterior perforated .spot. The anterior bend of the corpus callosum is known as the genu (fig. 274, p. 757), and the recurved portion is known as the rostrum; but this, with the other parts of the corpus callosum, will be seen to more advantage later. Vallecula Sylvii and anterior perforated space. The vallecula Sylvii is a depression between the optic commissure and tiie fore part of the temporal lobe of the hemisphere, which lodges the upper end of the internal carotid artery. Externally it leads into the Sylvian fissure, and in front it is bounded by the diverging roots of the olfactory tract. The floor of the fossa is formed by a layer of grey matter which is perforated by the central branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, thus giving rise to its name as the anterior fcrforated space. The olfactory lobe consists of an elongated nerve-like part which is named the olfactory tract, and a terminal expansion in front —the olfactory bulb. It lies in a groove (olfactory sulcus; fig. 272, p. 750, ol) on the surface of the inner orbital convolution of the frontal lobe of the hemisphere. The olfactory bulb (fig. 268, o) is an oval mass, of a greyish colour, and nearly half an inch in length, which rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. From its under surface the olfactory nerves arise. Tlie olfactory tract is a prismatic band, about an inch long, the up])er edge of which is received into the olfactory sulcus. It is attached by its base, where it is somewhat expanded, to the frontal lobe close in front of the anterior perforated space ; and from this part two diverging white streaks, the inner and oiUer olfactory roots, proceed to neighbouring convolutions. The external root passes along the outer margin of the anterior perforated si>ace, and across the beginning of the Sylvian fissure, to the anterior extremity of the temporal lobe. The internal root, not always visible, bends inwards, and joins the lower end of the subcallosal convolution. By raising745 FISSURKS, SULCI AND CONVOLUTIONS. the olfactory lolie from its sulcus, the dorsal ritlge will bu seen to olfactory become eiiliirged at its posterior end, forming the olfactory tubercle. " Position of the part. Now that the base of the cerobruiu has Position r been studied, the brain should be turned over for the exaniiiiatioii of exalnino the upper part. Something should then be placed beneath the fore "iMwr part, part, in order that it may be rai.sed to the same level as the back ; and a rolled-up clotli should loosely encircle the whole, lo support ihe hemispheres. THE FISSURES, SOLCI AND CONVOLUTIONS OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE. Upper Surface of the Cerehhum. Viewed from above, the Cereiinim is cerebrum is ovoidal in form, and the upper surface is convex in ai',ovo''aii(l accordfince with the shape of the .skull. A median lomjitmHiml fissure divides it inconijdetely into halves, divideil into At the front and back the hemisplieres are i[uite separated by it; but medinn" at the middle and under parts tliej' are united by connecting bodies, 'issure. the largest of which is the white corpus callosum. The falx cerebri is lodged in the fissure. Each hemisphere is larger in front than behind, altliough the lleniisplicro greatest breadth is placed Ix'hind the middle. Its outer surface is convex and applied to the skull, and the inner is flat and rests against tlie falx cerebri. Tiie surface of the hemisphere consists of (''■""J' °" ,, , 1 s 1 • 111 siirfiice, giey matter (cortex ol the cerebrum), and is marked by tortuous nmrkeii by eminences separated by grooves. The eminences are named convolu- tio'Ms''aMa tions or (jijri; the grooves are eithery(s.si()r.s or sulci. furrows. (jrooves arc of two kinds. The greater number are su])erficial Furrow.s are depressions which carry inwards the grey cortex and only indent the ""^"'"•'•'''•^ central white substance, and are called sulci; a few, however, ])eiietrate more deejily, and are the result of folds involving the whole thickness and of both grey and white substance of the heniisiihere, so as to affect the '^°™P'"''°- form of the cavity (lateral ventricle) contained within or to give rise to eminences projecting on its v.-all. Tiiese hollows are distinguished as fissures. Tlie convolutions and sulci, especially the smaller ones, vary in Convoln- difl'erent brains, and they are not exactly alike even in the two J^™'^ ^'"'y' liemisplieres of the same cerebrum. Their general arrangement or plan is, however, sufficiently constant, and there will seldom be plan i.s much difiiculty in recognising the several parts referred to in the ""fo'"'- following description. Inteulodar Sulci and Lobes of the Hemisphere. The outer Division or surface of the hemisphere is divided into regions, or groups of con- sp"Jro."'" volution.-*, known as the lobes of the cerebrum, by means of some of the most constant fissures or sulci, aided by lines prolonged from these. The interlobar sulci are three in numbei', vi/,. :— The fissure of Sylrius (fig. 270, s) begins at the vallecula Sylvian Sylvii, whence it extends transversely outwards across the under surface of Ihe hemisphere, separating tlie frontal and temijoral lobes.DISSECTION OF THE BHAIN. liiis tlirai braiiclii's. Ah soon as it reaches the ouk-r surluce, iL gives oil' one small branch forwards, the anterior Ihiih (li},'. 270, s'), and another iijiwards. the ascendinij liinh{s"), whieli project into the inferior frontal convolution, Fia. 270.- Sulci and Convulutiuns of the Odter Surface of the Hemisphere. Fisst(,res and Stdci. Con vu!lUioiis : s. Fissure of Sylvius ; s', its an- terior, s" its asoeiiJing, and s'", its posterior braucli. r. Sulcus of Rolando, jw. Parieto-oocipital lissure. sf. Superior, and if. Inferior frontal sulcus. jjr.c. Prieceutral sulcus. ip. Intraparietal. 2il. c. Postcentral (superior). cm. End of calloso-margiual sulcus. s'. First temporal or parallel sul- cus, and mt. Second temporal sulcus. Superior. Middle, and IF. Inferior frontal. AF. Ascending frontal. Ascending parietal. Superior pai it-tal lobule. Supramarginal convolution. Angular, so. Supei'ior. MO. Middle, and 10. Inferior occipital. ST. First. MT. Second, and IT. Third temporal. SF MF Al>. Sl'L. S.M. All!/ Me.—The inferior parietal loljule is commonly described as consisting of these parts :— sulcus. 3. The podparictal surrounding the upturned end of the second temporal sulcus. 1. The siqyra-marginal surround- ing the upturned end of the fissure of Sylvius. 2. The avr/iiktr surrounding the upturned end of the first temporal Only the first two of these arc represented on the figure. The upturned, posterior, part of the second temporal sulcus is often separate from the anterior part. and then continues hackwanls a.s the posterior limh (s'") Ihrough about the niid.Uc Uiird of the hemisphere. The posterior linib aeparales the temporal from the frontiil au.l parielftl lobes ; it ascends747 r,OBES OK THK ('K R KI'.liAI, 11EMISI'11 KKE. somuwlmt as it runs 1 uickwards; and at its tcniiinatidii it is Ix'iit upwards tnv a short distance and jirojccts into llie pariclal lolx". When the liraiii is in thr skull, the idace of division oT the ivisiiion in tissure of Sylvi\is is oiipositf thi' articulation of tlie great wing " of the spheiioid witli the parietal hone; or ojiposite a point one and a quarter inches behind the external angular process of tlie frontal bone and ([Uarter of an inch above the level of that jirocess (III the iDidisscrtcil head. The sulem af llolamlo (central sulcus; lig. 270, ;■) cr()sses the Siarnsj.r outer surface of the heinispliere near the middle. Beginning above close to the margin of the gu'at longitudinal fissure, the furrow runs downwards and somewhat forwards, with a ser]ientine course, to end about one inch behind the place of division of l-he Sylvian fissure, and very near to its posterior limb. This sulcus sejiarates the frontal from the parietal lobe. The niiper end of the furrow of liolando is placed from an is ii.'liin.l inch-and-a-half to two inches behind the coronal suture, and the s„i,i,„. lower end alxjut one inch. /// the wndisxeded head its upper end is half an inch behind a point midway lietween the glabella and the e.xternal occdpital protuberance, measured along the conve.xity of the skull, and the general direction of the sulcus is downwards and forwards towards the nud-point of the zygoma. The iiarieto-occqiUal Jismrc (fig. 270 and tig. -ll'.i, p. 753, po) is 1^^^^;^^ a deep hollow at the hinder part of t-he inner surface of the henu- ii.<siiic; sphere. Its u]iper end a[)pears on the superior surface of the cerebrum about nudway between the sulcu.s of Eolando and the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, and extends outwards for nearly an inch from the margin of the longitudinal fissui'e. It indicates the anterior linnt of the occ'i]iilal lobe. The part on the mesial surface (jf tlie hemis])here is often called the internal, and that on the outer surface the external jmrieto-occipital fiamrc. The fissure is placed ojiposite the summit of the lainbdoid suture, sitimtion. Lobes. The outer surface of the hemisphere is divided into five Lobes of lobes (excluding the olfactory) which have the following names and """"I"'"- limits :— mhc. friyntul lohe forms the anterior half of the hemis]ihere. It is I'lonlnl IoIjo limited lielow by the ])osterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius (fig. 270, .?"'), and behind by the sulcus of Rolando (r). Its under iiart, which rests on the roof of the orbit, is named the orbital oi-liitiil , , ; lolMile. tobiUe. The parietal lobe is litt.le more than half the size of the frontal. PaiiiiUil Its anterior limit is the sulcus of llidando (r), and its posterior a line drawn transversely over the hemisphere from the ])arieto- occiintal fi.ssure. Below, it is bounded in its fore part by the bouinlarifs jjosterior branch of tin- fi.ssure of Sylvius («'"), and in its hinder part Ijy a line extending l)ackwards from the sjiot where this uiUiieini. fissure turns upwards to the line drawn transversely outwards from the parieto-occi])ital fi.ssure. This limitation (jf the lofie is ipiite arbitrary and can be used only for descriiitive jiurposes, since itsDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN, 748 convolutions are continuous wilh those of the occipital lobe behind, and oi' the temporal lolje Ijelow. Occipital The occipital lobe is small, and triangular in shape. It is separated Iroiu the parietal lol)e for a short distance above by the parieto-occi[)ital fissure (^jo) ; but its anterior boundary is for the most part artihcial, being constituted by the line just mentioned, continuing the direction of that fissure across the outer surface of the hemisphere. Its con^'olutions join those of the parietal and temporal lobes. Temporal The temporal lohe projects into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. Its fore part is separated from the frontal and parietal lobes by the fissure of Sylvius, but its hinder part is only limited by the lines above mentioned, across which its convolutions pass into those of the parietal and occipital lobes. Sulcus of Rolando. .Short gyri of the island. Central sulcus. Fio. 271.—Thk Island of IIeii,, showing whkre the Oi'ercdla Other convolutions of this lobe will Ije seen on the under surface of the hemisphere. The central lobe, insula, or island of Reil (fig. 271), i.s jilaced at the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and is concealed liy the over- lapping of the temporal, pariet,al and frontal lolies. If the mai^ins of the Sylvian fissure be drawn asunder, the island will be seen to have a triangular form, with the ape.v directed downwards towards surroundi'd t^ic anterior perforated space, and to be bounded by three furrows by thrcR (tiie sulci, of Reil), one in front, one above, and another behind ; the sulci0 Rci . jiij^^^gj^, yi^^ being continuous with the jiosterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius. The central lobe is placed ojiposile the lenticular muscles of the corpus striatum in the interior of the henii.sphere. Opercula The portions of the frontiil, parietal and temporal lobes which oftl.o overhang, and conceal, the island arc called opercula of tli^ imnla. in.iuia; opercula have been cut away to expose the island in fig. 271, Central lobe, or island of Beil,'J"h>- o; ' (I) (ji'l/iLal, IjviiUj, (/5y Jiyiiv/- J. 'J"li»' 'ifhOjd i/iif-ir.uXam in tU« lyiKiif part of ll vr ^. ill' J/'/' ,' liiiib tin- t. ifi. ■-•;«; of Uu: froJiUJ k>Ui tlM-l« UU; I'otU' CjJ»volutiwi/, M;j/ai;il<;<] by t<>, Ui«- lower lja.ir'jf tlik Aukuji'jf Koluiido. JJ"' / ■// fiijiii'ii If {if) tiiiw. Uti\MU(ir aii'J 'Jowiiwai' till- orbit.1 '/f Uii; If^U;. Al/<^v<; tlii.-. tJjj- »u,]^.i vl'U--Jj ijiliU'l Uj/ted ou«;4; or lwi<>: by olo.v J !»♦; iwaiiaIiivj jiijiO/iX wnc'Aatiijn ' . aud forjiu- 1 liiii'ljiioMt pail of lli<- fioiilul loU', lai , ,., . , ui- uj>per uiaigi. of titi; liuiuiAphej'i: \m th<: 8ylviaii tiAijurf, along Uu; front of the fujiow of Jiolamlo. Fioiii iU- foii: j/aj1 tlw tlu'i;': lojjgitu'iiiiai <.'/ii. olulioiu; of tliij; lol^M^ titkif tli<;ir ^Jr'i•^lu. 'J"li<: nuperU/f fr</tilal cjucoIiUUih {avj if. loiigw aixl bioad^r thaii Myuhijr, tin; otLu^fr, aud ih (»iiiiiioiily hul/iivided by a i>]x:<;Lal eulciu jAirai/uMUdu iuto ac'x/ii'lajy }.'yi-i. It liia; butwec-u tL<; juaigiu of tL<; h(;iiiL>j>Len; aud tin; uj>j>< I froiitiil huh-.un. 'i'lm 'indddk frvnUd couvAutum <uyj l uiv iioui llwr ab<>;u<iixi^ middk, frontal U> tJw; lower liiargiii of tin; loW, the uppei- and lower frontal Huld. Liki; tLe huj^rior frontal convolution, it ie aUo ofU;n hul^lividwi inUj u]>]M>r and low^r part>; l.>y a Bulcu* [sulcue //'/,(''•' : 'J - lilfajt of alJ. 8prinf.'- i-.-' iiifurior liu iowcr end ol Uii-ut>'>;nding Irontai cjiisolution, it ar l ..1 a<><>;nding aud anterior brandien of tin: Sylvian liooui . and pato<;K into the poiiterior orljital gyrufc. It ie i>oui>ftLiu<;e dee<;ribed a<! <;'<: ' " . — J ; tLe a«ueudiug liuib of the fib6ure of Kylviiu aiiu ini; inlejior j/art of the j^ra^^sntral buIcu*^. 2. >>ttir« Iriatiyuku-u, l>;tween the ai><>;ndiug aud aiiterior liniljt- of the Sylvian lisbuie, l>:ijig only aiiotlier Jiaiue for the froutal opeieulunj ; aud 5J. th<; ■jjacn orOUaUe, Uie jjsirt Ijelow the auterior liuib of the liwure of bylviue <jt tilK iiifeTKir : owilanii, tfiinigiiltrui,DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Orbihvl sulcus and L'Vri. Olfactory sulcus. Pniietal sulci are intra- patietal, which has ascHuding and hori- zontal parts. Orbital lobule (fig. 272). TLe oihital lobule k siilxlivided hy a Y- or H-sbapetl orbital sulcus (orli) into three convolutions, named internal (lo), anterior (ao), and posterior (po), orbital, which are the continuation respectively of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions. On the internal orbital convolution is a longi- tudinal groove—olfactory sulcus (ol), for the recep- tion of the olfactory lobe. Sulci and convolu- tions OF THE PARIETAL LOBE. In the parietal lobe there are two named sulci; and four convolu- tions are distinguished. The intra2)arietal sulcm (tig. 270, ip) begins close to the posterior bi-anch of the fissure of Sylvius, aboitt midway between the upturned extremity of this and the lower end of the sulcus of Rolando. It first ascend.s, running nearly parallel to the lower half of the latter sulcus, and then is directed backwards to the hinder limit of the parietal lobe, where it often becomes continuous with the supe- rior occipital sulcus. Com- monly, also, it ends in a forked manner in a sulcus, {anterior occvpital), which passes from above down- wards at the front of the occipital lobe. The upper, or horizontal, part of the intraparietal sulcus is fre- quently interrupted by one or two cross gyri. The lower, or vertical part, is often distinguished is mostlv continuous with the and post- central. Convolu- tions : ascending parietal Fig. 272.—Orbital Lobule and Island OP Reil. orb. Orbital sulcus, ol. Olfactory sulcus. ar. Anterior, er. Superior, and pr. Posterior sulci of Reil, the last opened by the removal of tlie temporal lobe. 10. Internal. AO. Anterior, and po. Posterior orbital convolutions. 0. Central lobe or island of Reil. IF, AF, and Ai'. Lower part.s of the inferior frontal, ascending frontal, and ascending parietal gyri, constituting opercula. APS. Anterior perforated space. as the inferior postcentral sulcus, and following one The superior postcentral sulcus (ptc) continues the direction of the ascending ]iart of the intraparietal sulcus, and ascends behind the upper half of the furrow of Rolando. It gi-nerally opens into tlio intraparietal sulcus at the spot where the latter is directed backwai-ds. The ascendimj parietal convolution (ap) is placed opposite theTHE PARIETAL AND OCCIPITAL CONVOLUTIONS. 751 ascending front;il, and like that is simple, and extends from the np|)ev margin of the henusphere to the posterior branch of the Sylviaii fissure. In front of it is the furrow of Rolando, round tlie ends of which it joins the ascending frontal convolution. Behind, it is limited by the superior postcentral sulcus above, and the a.scending pai't of the intraparietcil, or the inferior postcentral sulcus below. Parietal lobules. The larger portion of the jsarietal lobe behind superior the ascending parietal convolution is divided into two parietiil lobulo) lobules by the horizontal part of the intraparietal sulcus. The superior parietal lobule (spl) is connected in front to the upper end of the ascending parietal convolution between the postcentral sulcus and the upper margin of tlie hemisphere, and behind to the npj^er occipital convolution by a small winding gyrus which is called the first or siqierior pnrieto-occipital annectant conrolutioii (below "po). This lobule is divided into several secondary gyri. The inferior jJarietal lobule is again subdivided into two, or some- ami inferior times three, convolutions, but the separation between them is often ii'ibliV" very indistinct. The siipramaryinal convolution (hji) is the anterior Jjf"y^r'"''' and larger of these ; it springs in front from the lower end of the nmryinai, ascending parietal convolution, encircles the extremity of the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure, and ends by joining the first temporal convolution. The angular convolution (Any) arises from the hinder part of the aiigulnr, foregoing, arches over the upper end of the fir.st temporal sulcus (st) and descends liehind that furrow to be continued into the .second temporal convolution. A third part of the inferior parietal lobule may al.so be dis- and post- tinguished, but it is not indicated in fig. 270. It is called the ionvohl 2)0st-parietal convolution, and is continuous with the angular convolu- '•'""s. tion in front. It arches over the up-turned end of the second temporal sulcus, in front of which it is continuous with the second and behind with the third temporal convolution. Posteriorly also it is continued into the occipital lobe and forms the inferior parieto occipital annectant convolution. The posterior part of the second tenijioral sulcus, which it embraces, is often separate from the anterior jjart of that sulcu.s, and can only be distinguished from the latter hy the fact that it continues the direction of the furrow backwards and upwards. SdLCI and convolutions of the OCCIl'ITAL LOBE. The occipital OccipiUl lobe is divided into three convolutions, which run forwards from convolu-' the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, by two small farrows— tionsarn the superior and middle occipital sulci. The superior occipital convolu- m'itkiie.'';,n,i tion (so) is united anteriorly to the superior parietal lobule by the i»r<"-'or- superior annectant gyrus ; the middle (iio) to the post-parietal con- Annoetant volution by the inferior, and the inferioi- (lo) to the third temporal IZ'm^''' convolution hy the occipito-temporal annectant gyrus. An inconstant inferior occipital sulcus, at the lower margin of the hemisphere, separates the third occipital convolution from the temporal lobe on the under surface. Tlie occipital convolutions are very varial)le, and the sulci are frequently ill marked.DISSECTION OF TRE BRAIN. 752 Temporal sulci: II rat or [larallel, Becond, and third. Convolu- tions. Convolu- tions, of island of Reil. Sulci and convolu- tions of inner and tentorial surfaces. How to see them. CdUoso- inarginal .•tnlcus. Sulci and convolutions of the outer surface of the TEMPORAL LOBE (I'lg. 270). There are five convolulioiLS of tbi.s lobe; the first, second and a part of the third, with their inter- vening sulci, are seen on the outer surface and the remainder on the under aspect of the cerebral hemisphere. The first teviporal or parallel sulcus (st) \s well marked, and runs below and parallel to the posterior liranch of the fissure of Sylvius, from near the anterior extremity of the lobe, backwards and upwards, into the inferior parietal lohule. The second temporal sulcus (mt) takes a similar course at a lower level, but it i.s not so constant as the superior ; and the third (fig. 273, it), which is also very variable, is placed on the under surface of the hemisphere near the margin, separating the third from the fourth convolution. The first temporal convolution (inframarginal ; fig. 270, st) forms the lower houndary of the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure, and is continuous behind with the suprauiarginal cou\-olution. The seco7id and third temporal convolutions (mt and it) are com- monly united in some part of their extent. The posterior end of the second one is joined by the angular and post-parietal gyri. The third forms the lower margin of the lobe and joins the post- parietal and lowest occipital gyri. Convolutions of the central lobe (figs. 271 and 272, c). The surface of the insula is divided hy an ohlique furrow—the central sulcus of the insula, placed opposite the lower end of the furrow of Rolando, into an anterior triangular, and a posterior more elongated portion. The anterior part is again .subdivided externally into three small (jyri breves, and the posterior part into two gyri longi. Sulci and convolutions of the inner surface of the hemisphere (fig. 273). The convolutions of the inner a.spect of the hemisphere, with which are included those of the lower surface behind the fissure of Sylvius, are generally well defined ; but some being so long as to reach beyond the extent of a single lobe of the outer surface, they are not usually like those described as forming lobes. Dissection. The parts to be now described can only be seen satisfactorily on a separate hemisphere, and if the students are working with two brains, one of the hemispheres on that brain in which the cerebellum and other parts have been removed, should he used by separating it from its fellow by a mesial incision. If, however, the student possesses only the one brain, he may show much of the inner surface by cutting off the left hemisphere as low as the corpus callosum and examining the right side and the under surface of the left. , , , , Sulci. The calloso-marginal stilcxis (m) beguis below the rostrum of tlie corpus callosum, and arches u])wards, following the cunx ol the fore part of that body. It is then directed backwards as far as the posterior extremity of the corj.us callosum, where it bends upwards and ends by notching the superior margin of the heim- sphere (lig. 270, cw). Us fore part is frciuently interrupted bySULCI OM THE JIKSIAI, SUI!KA('K onu or two siiiiill gyri uniting the adjaceiit convolutions. Some ilistanco buforo its posterior turniinution it .sends ;i sniull liiiili n])\var(ls, wliicli Ibrnis tlie aiitericn' limit of a convolution (para- central, lig. 273, ov) unclosing the ii])i)er end of the Rolandic, or central salens on its mesial aspect. The parieto-occiyital w 2)i:rj)e7Hlicidar Jissiirc (lig. 273, jio) is a I'aricio- deeii cleft wliich descends from the npper niaridn of the Iiemisiiheve '"''■'I'l'-'ii 111 ■ 1 !• 1 • 1- • lissnm. at the hack Jiart, with a slight inclination forwards, to join the Fig. 273.—Sulci and Convolutions of thk Innkh Asukct ok IIemisi'iikuk. ■riiK Fissures and Sulci : cm. Calloso-inarginal. po. Parieto-occipital fissure, c. Calcarine li.ssure. /(. Hippocainpal ordoiitatu li.s.sinc. coU. Collateral lissure (fom-tli tem- poral hollow). il. Third temporal sulcus. Oonvoliilinits : M. Marginal. Ov. I'ara-contral, or oval, loluilc. Old/. Callo.sal coiivohition. y. I'necuncus or ipiadrate lobule. Ouii. Cuueate loljule. V. Uncinate convolution (fifth temporal). HOT. l'^urt,li temporal (occipito- temporal). IT. Third tem]inral. PI). Dentate convolution or fascia dentata. Tii. Ticnia hippocampi. * Cut surface of optic thalamus. calcarine fissure on a level with the hinder end of the corpus callosum. The calcarine jL-ssure (c) is nearly horizontal. It begins close to Ciilcarine the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, and is directed foi'wards, receiving the parieto-occipital lissure aliout the middle of its length, to end a little below the siilenium of the corpus callosum. It gives rise to the eminence called the liipjmcavqnis minor in the lateral ventricle. The jiosterior and anterior parts of this fissure are developed separately at first ; and if the student opens up the fissure near the entrance of the parieto-occipital he will see a small754 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. convolution running across its lioor from the cuneate lobe (C'«7i) to tlie back jiart of the fifth teiuporal or uncmate convolution (u). The back part of the uncinate convolution is commonly styled the , ^ linaual, and the small yyrus crossing the calcarine fissure is therefore Annoctant ' ,. '^'^ ... couvoUitioii. the cuneo-hngual annectant convolution. Tlie hiiypocampal or dentate fissure (h) is placed in front of the foregoing, at the inner margin of the lower portion of the hemi- sphere, and separates the uncinate, or hippocampal convolution (o) from the trenia hippocampi (th), which will be revealed by gently opening up the fissure. The fissure produces the hippocampu.s major in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and its relations will be better seen when that body is examined. The collateral fissure {coll) represents the fourth temporal sulcus and gives rise to the collateral eminence in the lateral ventricle. It extends from near the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the fore part of the temporal lobe, and is fretiuently broken up into two or three parts by cross gyri. The third temporal sulcus (it) is usually broken into two or three parts which run more or less parallel with the outer margin of the temporal lobe. The posterior extremity of the sulcus is sometimes prolonged on to tlie outer surface for a short distance. The callosal sulcus is the hollow between the upper surface of the corpus callosum and the lower surface of the callosal convolution {Gall). Convolutions. The marginal convolution (ii) occupies the space between the calloso-margiual sulcus and the border of the hemi- sphere. It is much subdivided, and at its posterior extremity a small portion is marked oft' by a short vertical furrow, and is Oval lobule, distinguished as the oval or paracentral lohulc {Ov.) The marginal convolution is continuous over the border of the hemisphere with the internal orbital and superior frontal convolutions, while the oval lobule is formed by the upper end of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions. The callosal convolution (gyrus fornicatus ; Call) is narrower and simpler than the marginal. Beginning below the rostrum of the corpus callosum, this convolution follows the curve of that body, and turns downwards behind its posterior extremity to end m a tbni part which joins the uncinate convolution (u). It is bounded m the greater part of its extent by the calloso-marginal sulcus, but behind the spot where this furrow turns upwards it is continuous Ih tlie priucuneus, or quadrate lobule (q). Near its ending, it iniited below by the calcarine fissure. B.ttween it and the corpus callosum is the callosal sulcus. The prcecuneus or quadrate lobule (q) is placed between the end of the calloso-marginal sulcus and the parieto-occipital fissure. Much subdivided by secondary furrows, it reaches the margin ot the hemisphere above, where it is continuous with the superior ])arietal lobule ; it joins the callosal convolution below. The cuneate lobule (occipital lobule ; Cu7,) is triangular in shape, the base being formed by the margin of the hemisphere. In Iront Hippocam- pal flSSlU'U. The n.ssure produecs. Collateral li.ssiu-e. Third temporal sulcus. Callosal sulcus. Marginal convolu- tion. Convolu- tion of the corpus callosum. Wll is rnecunnus or Quadrate lobule. Cunoiile lobule.3 0 2 THE TEMPORAL CONVOLUTIONS. 75S of it is the parieto-occipit<il, and below tlie calcariiie fissure. Small irregular sulci divide it into secondary gyri. The uncinate or fifth temporal convolution, (u) extends'from tlie Unuiiiato posterior extremity of the hemisphere behind to the Sylvian fissure in front, being bounded by the calcarine and hippocampal fissures above, and by the uollateral fissure below. It is somewhat narrowed in the middle, where the callosal convolution joins it, and enlarged in front and behind. At its fore part is a small piece {uncus) bent backwards over the lower end of the dentate fissiu-e, and from this feature the convolution derives it name. The posterior part of the convolution, that which is limited above by the Ungmil calcarine fissure, is often described as the linyual convolution. uaion's. The fourth temjmral, or occvpito-teirvporal, convolution (eot) lies i'"oiiitli ^ between the collateral fissure and the third temporal sulcus (it). Svouilion. This is frecinently not distinct from the third temporal convolution, which forms the outer margin of the temporal lobe in the greater part of its extent. At the bottom of the dentate fissure, the grey cortex of the hemisphere ends in a projecting notched margin, which is named Dentate the/a«cw( clentata or the dentate convolution (fd). This will be better gyms, seen subsequently. Structure of the convolutions. Each convolution is continuous Fonn and with the general mass of the hemisphere on the one side and is con'voh" ° free on the other, wliere it presents a summit and lateral surfaces, I'o'is; which are covered by pia niatei'. A cross section will show it to con.sist of a layer of cortical grey substance on the surface, which Krey is continued at the bottom of the sulci from one eminence to another, and of a white medullanj part in the centre, which appears as a and while process of the large medullary mass forming the greater part of the part.". "'^ substance of the hemisphere. On examining closely the section of a convolution in a fre.sh specimen, the cortex may generally be seen to structure of consist of three grey, and of intermediate white, layers arranged alternately, covered externally by a thin white stratum, which is most marked over the fore part of the uncinate convolution. If a portion of the cuneate lobule be taken it will be found that the fourth layer of the cerebral cortex is particularly distinct as a white line running in the grey matter. INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. Each cerebral hemisphere consists of white and grey substance, outline of the white forming the larger portion of the mass (medullary centre • •of the hemisphere), while the grey matter is chieHy disposed in a superficial layer (cortex) which covers the medullary centre, except nieduliary over the region on the inner side whence the corpus callosum issues ; '^""'^' but at the lower part of the hemisphere there are other collections cortical •of grey matter more or less surrounded by the medullary substance. grey'^'iJiases; In each hemisphere is an elongated cavity, named the lateral ventricle, which comnmnicates with another median .space—the ventricles. third ventricle, placed close to the base of the brain.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 756 Cut ilowu to smaller oval centre of tlm heniispliere. Reflect callosal con volution. Cingulura. Eepeat dis- section on right side to show coUosal fibres. The larger oval centre is deeper. Corpus callosum: situation, extent and form: anterior and posterior ends ; fibres transverse; a few longi- tudinal. Dissection The student will now proceed to examine the parts in the interior of the hemisphere, carrying tlie di.s.section from ahove downwards. Dissection, Supposing l)oth hemispheres entire, the left is to be cut off to the level of the calloso-marginal sulcus. When tliis has lieen done, the surface displays a white central mass of a .semi-oval shape (centrum ovale minus) sending proce.sses into the convolu- tions, and surrounded hy an irregular grey mai'gin. In a fresh brain this surface would be studded with drops of blood escaping from the divided vessels. Next, the callosal convolution is to be divided transversely about the middle, and the two pieces, taken in the hngers, are to be thrown backwards and forwards. On its under surface will be .seen a thin baud of white fibres, the cingulum or covered band of Reil, which bends downwards before and behind the corpus callosum. A similar dissection is to be carried out on the opposite side ; but in this case the student should insert his fingers into the calloso-marginal sidcus and pceZ off the marginal convolution, and again he should do likewise with the callosal convolution. He will find that the parts tear in the direction of the central white fibres, and in this way he will obtain a good idea as to how the fibres of the corpus callosum diverge into the convolutions above its level. Finally both hemispheres are to be removed to the level of the corpus callosum. Now a much larger white surface comes into view (centrum ovale majus), and the white masses in the two hemispheres are seen to be continuous, across the middle line, through the corpus caUosum. The CORPUS CALLOSUM reaches from one half of the cerebrum to the other, and forms the roof of the lateral ventricle in etich hemisphere (fig. 279, p. 768). Its central part, which is exposed in the longi- tudinal fissure, is narrow, and measures about three inches in length from before backwards. It is nearer to the anterior than to the posterior end of the cerebrum, and is somewhat arched from before backwards. On each side its upper surface is free for a short distance beneath the callosal convolution, from which it is separated bv the callosal sulcus. In front^ the corpus callosum is bent downwards, fornung the genu and rostrum ; and behind, it ends in a thickened part named the s2;Ze?iwm (fig. 274). The fibres of the corpus callosum are for the most part directed transversely, but on its upper surface there is a somewhat irregid:u-, narrow longitudinal Ijand on each side close to the middle hue (the supra-callosal convolution or the strire longitudinales). Between the two bands is a median groove or raphe. Farther out there may be seen other longitudinal fibres belonging to the cingulum, if that has not been completely removed. The longitudinal stria, are prolonged downwards in front, and are connected witli the sub-callosal convo- lutions or the peduncles of the corpus callosum. Dissection. In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosum, and to bring into view the parl« in relation with it^ under surface,757 THE CORPUS CALLOSUM. a cut is to l>o mado llirougli it on the viglit side about lialf an ineli from tlie luiddle line ; and this is to be extended forwards and backwards, a.s far as the limits of the underlying ventricle. While cutting through the corpus callosum, the student may observe that a thin membraniforiu structure (epeiulyma) lines its under surface. The corpus callnmm is thicker at each end than at the centre, in Is thickened conse,(|uence of a greater number of fibres lieing collected from the ' ' ' /or..Vt tran.BU.J'iBs. jlineal stria. pos^. comm. pincnl bodij pit. ho(i\j corp. alt. Fig. 274.—Portion Cailosdm, Third (3) III front of 3, tlie i.s seen ont across. 1 finnlibulum and the the tiiher cinereuni, corpus albicans the forateil .space and nientii are forniin;' uuula pi|rn.nLi(i OP A Mkdian Section of the Brain, showino tub Corpus AND FODRTH (4) VENTRICLES, ArdOR ViT.E CekEHKLLT, &0. soft commissure Uiird ventricle. Above 4, is the I'etween the in- superior medullary velum witli the corpus albicans lingula upon it, and below are the and behind the inferior mednllary velum and the posterior per- nodule. The pia mater and velum the united teg- interpositum are removed, the tloor of the cerebrum in those positions ; and the posterior i)art is the thickest undor of all. Connected with its under surface along the middle at the fore part is the .septum lucidum or partition between the ventricles (fig. 274), and behind is the fornix. This is the chief comnii.ssural body of the halves of the cerebrum, and its fibres pass laterally into the medullary centre of the hemi- sphere, in which they radiate to the convolutions. Dissection. The left lateral ventricle is to be now opened in Dis.section. the .same way as the right ; and to prepare for the examination ofDISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 758 the cavity on the right side, as much of the corpus callosum as forms the roof of the space is to be removed. A part of tlie ventricle extends down into the tenqjoral lobe towards the ba.se of the brain ; and to open it, a cut is to be; carried outwards and down- wards, through the substance of the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow ; and the best way to do tliis is to remove the part.s with a scalpel, piecemeal, carefully following the descending horn of the ventricle until the parts are displayed as in fig. 275. nrniii con- VENTRICLES OF THE Brain. Five ventricles are described in the ventricles ■ '' ^^^'^^^ ''^''^ subdivisions of one large central cavity, and these are lined throughout by a thin membmne named the ependyma, which is covered by epithelium, for the mo.st part ciliated. They are the two lateral ve7ilricles, one in each cerebral hemispbere, the third ventricle close to the base of the brain between the two hemispheres, and t\\& fourth ventricle between the cerebellum and the back of the pons and medulla oblongata (fig. 274). lifth is Tlie fifth ventricle is a small space between the layers of the septimi from others ^Lif^Wmib and has not any lining of ependyma (fig. 275 6.) Lateral The LATERAL VENTRICLE (fig. 275) is a narrow space which ventricle. extends nearly the whole length of the hemisphere, and sends a process downwards into the temporal lobe. The cavities of the two sides approach one another in front, where they are only separated by the thin septum lucidum ; and below the hinder part of that partition, each communicates with the third ventricle by an aperture known as the foramen of Monro (fig. 274). At the back there is a wider interval between them. The roof of the .space is formed in its whole extent by the fibres of the corpus callosum passing outwards to the convolutions; in the floor are numerous objects which will be enumerated in connection with the several parts of the ventricle. Sab<iivision. The ventricle consists of a central part or lody, and three processes or cornua, anterior, posterior, and middle or descending. Body The body is beneath the parietal lobe of the hemisphere, and extends from the foramen of Monro to the spleniuni of the corpus callosum. It is somewhat arched, with the convexity upwards, and in its floor are seen the following parts, proceeding from without objects in inwards (fig. 275):—!, the hinder portion of a pyrifonn mass of ca-ey matter forming a part of the corpus striatum (caudat« nucleus ; e), 2, a slender white band—the tasnia sen.icirculans (/), 3 a narrow part of the optic thalamus (</), 4, a vascular fringe of the pia mater-the clioroid plexus (/i), and 5, a thin white layer— the lateral part of (be fornix {(). It is bounded internally for a .nesiai linnt. short distance in front by the hinder pari, of the septum lucidnm (?.), and behind this by the meeting of the fornix and corpus callosum. Anterior Tlie anterior cornu projects forwards, with an inclination down- wards and outwards, into ti.e frontal lobe. In the floor are the boundaries, large anterior extremity {head) of the emulate nucleus and the rostrum of the corpus callosum ; its anterior boundary is formed ..^ the genu of the latter body ; and internally it is separated from tlie cavity of tlie opposite side by tlif septum luculum.7.-)!) THE LATERAL VENTRICLE. The posterior cornu (o) is narrower and generally longer than the Poii^'^oy'O'' anterior, but its breadth and length vary much in different brains. It extends backwards into the occipit^il lolie, being curved outwards form ; round the parieto-occipital fissure of the internal surface of the hemisphere. Along its inner side is an elongated white cuninence «^a" > —the hippocampus minor (i), which will be seen, on pushing the FlQ. 275.—VlF.W OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLES : ON THE LePT SiUE THE Desoendinq Cornu is laid open. a. a. Ends of tlie corpus ciillosum. b. Septum lucidum, enclosing the small space of the fifth ventricle. c. Fornix. d. Posterior pillar of the fornix or trcnia hippocampi. e. Caudate nucleus of the corpus striatum. /. Tajiiia semicircularis. {/. Optic thalamus. /;,. Choroid plexus. i. Hippocampus minor. k. Eminentia collateralis. /. Hippocampus major. 0. Po.sterior cornu of the ventricle. handle of the scalpel into the calcarine fi.ssure, to be an infolding of the brain wall corresponding to that fissure ; and the lloor is formed by the hinder part of the eminentia collateralis (/c), which, in the same manner as the preceding, represents the collateral Assure. The middle or descending cornu leaves the hinder ])art of the Middle body of the ventricle oppasite the .splenium of the corpus callosuni, ' "' and runs downwards and forwards in the temporal lobe, describing direction;DISSECTION OV THE BDAIN, 7C0 roof; uiiil floor. Septum lucidum: position, form, and attacli- ment.s: is a double partition, containing fifth ventricle. Dissection.. Fifth ventricle. Dissection. Fornix position and form. Uppnr sur- face and liordors. a curve with the convexity outwards. 7w tlie rouf are contained the fibres pa.ssing from the hinder end of the corpius callosum down- ward.s and outwards into the temporal lobe, together with the pro- longation of the caudate nucleus and tlie tajiiia .'feniicircularis ; and at the anterior extremity is a i)rominence called the amygdaloid tubercle. The floor is formed mainly by a long curved eminence— the hippocampus major (l), along the inner margin of which is a thin band prolonged from the fornix—the taenia hippocampi (d), while to its outer side lies the tapering fore part of the eminentia coUateralis (k). The choroid plexus {h) is continued downwards along the inner side of the taenia hippocampi to the lower extremity of this cornu. Dissection. If the student has a separated hemisphere and opens the descending horn of the lateral ventricle as already described, he will be able, by placing the handle of the scalpel in the dentate fissure below, to demonstrate that the hippocampus major is an infolding of the brain wall corresponding to that hollow. The SEPT0M LUCIDUM (figs. 274, 275, 6) is j)laced vertically between the two lateral ventricles, beneath the anterior half of the corpus callosum, to which its upper border is attached. It is triangular in shajie, with the base turned downwards and forwards, and fixed to the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The posterior border is oblique, and joins the fornix. Its surfaces look into the lateral ventricles, opposite the head of the caudate nucleus. Although often so thin as to be translucent, the septum lucidum consists of two lainince which enclose a space—the fifth ventricle. Each lamina is composed of ■white substance, with a thin layer of grey matter internally ; and the ependyma of the lateral ventricle covers its outer surface. Dissection. The fifth ventricle will be exposed Ijy cutting through the piece of the corpus callosum which remains in the middle line, and detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum. The FIFTH VENTRICLE (vent. of the septum) is a narrow slit in the fore part of the septum lucidum, where this is deeper. Posteriorly and above, the laminae of the septum are united to a varialile extent. Like the septum, it is larger in front than behind. This cavity has not any epithelial lining. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay bare this body the posterior part of the corpus callosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown backwards ; and the septmn lucidum should also be removed from its upper surface. The FORNIX (fig. 275, c) is a thin white layer bcneatli the corpus callosum, which, projecting on each side into the lateral ventricle, forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its central part or body is triangular in shape, with the ba.se turned backwards ; and it is con- tinuous with the rest of the brain by processes named crura, or inllars, in front and behind. The upper surface of the body has the septum lucidum attached to it along the middle line in front; and behind, its median partTIIK KOKNIX. 7rtl is united to the corpus callosuni. E;icli border is free in the eorrespoiidiii^' lateral ventricli', where it rests on the optic thalamus, the vohiiii interpositiini licin;,' l)(!tu-<'cn the two ; and alon<,' it lies the choroid plexus. Posteriorly it joins the corpus callosuni in the Posterior middle, while on each side it sends off a small riband-like band— the posterior ])illar or tcenia hippncariipi. (fig. 270, c, p. 703), along the concave margin of the hippocamims niajoi-. At the anterior end anterior it is arched over the foramen of Monro, ojiposite the front of the ojitic thalamus, and ends likewise in two anterior pillars, which will be afterwards followed downwards to the corpora albicanlia and thence into the ojitic tlialami. If the foriux be-cut across near its front, the foramen of Munro Umler will be opened, and the descending anterior pillars wdll l)e seen (lig. 270). When the posterior jiart is raised (and it must be done with great care), it will be found to be supported on a ])roce.ss of the pia mater, named velum interposituni. Posteriorly, on the under aspect, is a triangular surface, marked by transverse is marked lines, which are produced by the fibres of the cori)ns callosum ''^ a]>]iearing in the interval between the two diverging posterior pillars of the forni.x : the part which is so defined has been called the lyra (fig. 276, a). The forni.v may be described as consisting of two band.s, right Fornix and left, which are united for a certain disfemce in the central ])art ["™'/ia'n?la or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in the optic thalamus and passing through the corpus albicans, arclies over the foramen of Monro, and after forming the body of the forni.x, is continued as the tionia hippocampi to the hook of the uncinate convolution. The FORAMEN OF MoNRO (fig. 274, ]i. 707) is a short slit Foramen of between the fore part of the fornix and tlie optic thalamus. Througli it the lateral ventricle communicates with the third ventricle, ami indirectly with the one of the op))osite side. It is lined by a prolongation of the ependyma, which is thus continued from one ventricle to the other. The student may leave untouched for the present the velum interposituni, and proceed to examine the liodies which have been enumerated in the floor of the posterior and descending coi-nua. The HIP1>0CAM1'U.S MINOR or CAI-CAR AVIS (fig. 275, i) is a spindle- Hipi.ocain- shaped prominence on the inner side of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. If it is cut across, it will be seen to be formed formed by by the calcarine fissure pushing outwards the wall of the cavity, !i!j|j',J're'''^ and beneath the white layer is the cortical grey subst^mce passing from the uncinate convolutioii to the cuneate lobule at the bottom of the fissure. The HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR (figs. 27r>, /, and 276, /;) is the large Hippoeam- convex eminence in the floor of the d(!scending cornu of the lateral ""'■i'"'- ventricle, and, like that, is curved, with the concavity directed inwards. Its anterior extremity, which is named the pes hippocampi, pus iiippo- is somewhat enlarged and presents two or three indentations, resembling the foot of a feline animal.7fi2 DISSECTION OF THE BRATN. Tii'iiin Along tlie inner margin of the hippocampus is the tcmia hippo- i,i,,,,ocnn,pi. ^.^^^jj^^ (flg_ 276, (■), "'liicli is the prolonged posterior pillar of the Fornix ; this en'ls below by joining the recurved pari of the uncinate convolution. DisscLtioii. Dissection. To e.xamine more i'ully the hipi)Ocanipus, the hinder portions of the corpus callosiun and fornix should be divided in the juiddle line, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away from the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippocamj)us, and this projection has been cut across, its structure will be seen. Stnip.turo The hippocampus is co\'ered on the ventricular surface by a '"WO- ti^in medullary layer, with which the toenia blends. On its opposite surface is the hollow of the hippocampal, or dentate, fissure of the exterior of the brain, which is lined by grey substance. Beneath the taenia hippocampi the grey matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata, or deiitate convohdion, which is external to the cavity of the ventricle (p. 755). Collateral The EMINENTIA COLLATERALIS (fig. 275, Ic), is the triangular, eminence, giig^tly convex surface occupying the floor of the posterior and descending cornua of the lateral ventricle to the outer side of the formed by hippocampi. It lies over the collateral fissure of the under surface fissiSe.™^ of tlie hemisphere, and its extent varies greatly in different subjects. Amygdaloid The AMYGDALOID TUBERCLE is a variable eminence due to a col- tubercle and iggj^jQj^ fjf gpey mdttev, aimjgdaloid nucleus (fig. 279, p. 768), on luicieus. ^^^^^^ side'of the uncus, with the cortical layer of which it i.s continuous. Great trans. TRANSVERSE FISSURE OP THE CEREBRUM. By drawing the verse fissure ggpamted part of the right hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the optic thalamus, and replacing it, the dissector will com- prehend the position and boundaries, on one side, of the great cleft of the brain. is beneath This fissure lies beneath the fornix and splenium of the corpus reaciies"'base callosum, and above the optic thalami and corpora quadrigemnia oTbrain. (fig. 274, p. 757) ; and in the dissected brain it opens into the lateral ventricle along the edge of the fornix on each side, from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. The slit opening into the lateral ventricle {choroidal fissure) is bounded by the edge of the fornix with the tajnia hippocampi above and by the optic thalamus and crus cerebri below. A fold of Pia n.ater pia mater (velum interpositum) projects into the transverse fissure beneath the fornix (fig. 276, cj), and forms lateral fringes—the choroid plexuses, which appear in tlie ventricles along the margin.s of the slit. In the natural state the fissure is separated from the cavity of the ventricle bv the epithelium of the ependyma being continued over the choroid j.lexns, and therefore does not exist as a complete fissure except in the dissected .specimen. Parts in ti,e The student is now (.. return to the examination of Ihe parts m ;fthe centre of the luain, vi/., the fold of pia mater and it-s vesse s, with the third ventricle. Afterwards the corpus striatum and optic thalamus will be studied.TTTR VKLUM INTBRrOSITUM. Tlie VELDir IXTKEPOSITDM (fig. 276, <j) is tlie folil of i>i.'i malcr J^il;';;;,^'?;; entering tlio great transverse fissure. Triangular in sliaiic, it lias mnWv the same extent as tlie body of tlie fornix, and reaches in front, to the foramen of Monro. Tlie u]iiier surfaee is in contact with llie fornix, to wliich it supjilies vessels. The lower siirfa<'e, looking to the third ventricle, covers the pineal body and a ]iart of each optic '"^ '' thalamus : on it, close to the middle line, are the two choroid Fn;. '270.—Second Vikw of the Disshotkin of the Biiain, the Fornix BHINO CUT through IN FlUlNT AND IIAISHI) BaOKWAKDS. a. Fiii'Tiix. r. Optic tliiilanius. 6. Hipijociuiipiis major. /. Olioroid jilcxus. c. Tiuiiia liiiiiiiicmiiii. <]. Velum interposituni. d. Cauiliite nucleus. plexuses of the third ventricle ; and along each side is tlie choroid ami carrii's plexus of the lateral ventricle. jiioxuVos. The CHOROID I'LEXUS OF THK LATKUAL VKNTRICLE (fig. 27G,/) Cliornid is the red, somewhat rounded and fringe<l margin of the velum inter- ''.'''""i; ' ... " " , , Mil- latnral posilum, which ])rojects into the lateral ventricle, extending from vcnliicli'. the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. Its lower part is hirger than the n]i])er. The e])itludium lining the ventricle is continued over the choroid plexus, but it loses its cilia in this situation. The rigiit and left choroid plexuses are continuousDISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. 701 Vessels of the veUiiii ; arteries ; with veins (if Galeii. Dissection. Choroid plexuses of third ventricle. Third ventricle is near base of brain. Roof. Floor. Parts on the sides, in front and behind. at the anterior extremity of the velum interpositum, where they are similarly excluded iVoui the foramina of Monro by the epithelial lining.* Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to the velum and the choroid plexus i'roni the cerebral and cerebellar arteries (pp. 720, 721 and 724). There are two main ones on each side, anterior and joosterior choroid, and they supplj' the sur- rounding cerebral sulistance. The veins of the choroid plexus receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following:— Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two large veins Avith this name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane, thej- are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and through this they pass out beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum and enter the straight sinus. Dissection. When the velum interpositiuu has been raised and thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be opened (fig. 277). In reflecting the velum the student must be careful not to detach the pineal body behind, which is surrounded Ijy the membrane and rests on the fore part of the anterior quadrigeminal bodies (fig. 277, g). On the under surface of the velum are seen the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The CHOROID PLEXUSES OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE are two short and narrow fringed bodies below the velum, which resemble the like structures in the lateral ventricle. The THIRD VENTRICLE Is the narrow interval between the optic thalami (fig. 277). Its situation is in the median plane of the cerebrum, l.)elow the level of the lateral ventricles, with which it comnnuiicates; and it reaches to the base of the brain. Its boundaries and communications are the following :— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum with the choroid plexuses, above which is the fornix. Tlie floor (fig. 274) is very oblique from beliind forwards, so that the depth of the wivity is about three-quarters of an inch in front and half as much behind : its hinder part is formed by the uuited tegmenta of the crura cerebri; and in front of these it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, Mdiich lie between the crura cerebri, viz., the posterior perforated space, the corpora albicantia, the tuber cinereum with the infundibulum, and the optic commi.ssure. On the sides of the cavity are situate the optic thalami and the anterior pillars of the fornix (fig. 274). In front of the space are the anterior com- missure and the lamina cinerea. Behind are the post<>rior com- mi.ssure and the pineal body. Cros,siug the centre of the ventricle, from one optic thalamus to the other, is a band of grey matter— the middle or soft commi.ssure ; and aire .should be t^aken that this is not torn through in exposing the ventricle. ♦ Particles of br-ain-.-^and, likotli.at in llie pineal body, are sometimes present in tlie choroid plexus.765 THE THIRD VENTRICLE. This .space comiuuuicate.s in front, with each hiteral ventricle through the foramen of Monro; and behind is a passage beneath ventricles. Fig. 277.—Vikw uf tuk Thikd and Fourth Vii.NTiucLKb : the former BEING Exposed by the Removai, op the Velum Interx'ositum ; and the LAiTBii BT Dividing tiik Oekbbellum Vertically in the Middle Line. The Third Ventricle is the Interval in the Middle Line between the Optic Thalami. «. Caudate nucleus. b. Optic thalamus. c. Auterioi- commissure, .seen be- tween tlie anterior jjillais of ihe fornix. d. Middle or soft commissure. e. Posterior commissure. /. Pineal stria. y. Pineal liody. h and i. Corpora qnadrigoinina. The fourth ventricle, n, is on the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata. k. Valve of V'iou.ssens. I. Upper peduncle of the cere- bellum. 0. Fasciculus teres, p. Superior fovea. J'. Inferior fovea. . .s. Clava. 4. Fourth nerve arising from the valve of Vious.sens. the corpora quadrigeinina into tlie fourth ventricle, which is named the aqueduct of Sylvius. In the floor, in front, there is aDISSECTION OP THEi BRAIN. 76fi Lining ot cavity. Grey matter of the ventricle. Corpus striatum, structure. Dissection. Caudate nucleus shows in lateral ventricle : veins on surface. Lenticular nucleus is only seen in sections; surrounded by white capsule. (lepl'e.^sioll opposite the infundibulum, where the cavity at an early period of foetal life was prolonged into the pituitary body. The cpendyma lining the ventricle is continued into the neigh- bouring cavities through the different apertures of communication, and its epithelium is continued over the choroid plexuses in the roof. Grey matter of the ventricle. A stratum of grey matter forms the lower part of the wall of the ventricle. Portions of this layer appearing at the base of the brain constitute the posterior per- forated space, the tuber cinereum and the lamina cinerea. It also extends into the corpus albicans, foi'ming the nucleus of that body. At the fore part of each optic thalamus it covers the pillar of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the middle or soft commissure {d). The CORPUS STRIATUM is the large grey body a part of which has been seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle. The grey matter composing it is incompletely divided into two masses—catidate and lenticular nuclei, by a layer of white fibres, named the internal capsule ; and it has received its name from the striated appearance of this layer. The caudate nucleus, as already seen (fig. 275, e), is intraventricular in jjosition, whilst the lenticular is extraveiitricular and requires further dissection to expose it. Dissection. To show the composition of the corjjus striatum, the upper part of that body and of the optic thalamus should be sliced oft" horizontally on the right side, until a view resembling that in fig. 278 is obtained. The superficial anatomy of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus may be studied on the left side at the same time by comparison. The caudate or intraventricular nucleus (fig. 277, a) is a long pyriforni mass of reddish-grey substance which projects into the lateral ventricle. Its larger extremity or head (fig. 278, cn) is turned forwards, and forms the fioor and outer wall of the anterior cornu of the ventricle. The middle tapering portion is directed backwards and outwards, along the outer side of the optic thalamus, beneath the body of the ventricle, and ends in the tail {fig. 278, cn'), which bends downwards and is prolonged in the roof of the descend- ing cornu of-the cavity nearly to its anterior extremity. Numerous veins run over the surface of the caudate nucleus, and they may be seen to join a larger vessel (vein of the corpus striatum) which lies along the groove between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus. The lenticular or &ctraventricular nucleus is entirely surrounded by white matter, and is placed opposite the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, corresponding to the Island of Reil on the exterior. It appears lens-shaped in horizontal section (fig. 278, In), but triangular, with the base turned outwards, when cut transversely (fig. 279, p. 768). Internally, it is separated from the caudate nucleus and optic thalamus by the internal capsule (fig. 278, im to i^p); and externally and below, it is bounded by a thinner white layer- named the external capsule (ec).767 THE CORPUS STRIATUM. When the sections are carried to a little lower level than has so far been clone (and this should now be done by removing thin slices parUs:'' Fig. 278.—Middle Pakt ok a IIurizontal Section iiirooou tub Chkubkum AT THE Level of the Dotted Link in tub Small Fiouhe di' a He.misi'iiere in the Top Left-hand Cokneh of the Figure (after Dalton). caj. Genu, and cc spl. Spleiiiuiii of corpu.s callosum. /. Fonii.x ; the septum luciiluiii, containing the fifth ventricle lielwcen its layers, unites the fornix witli the corpus callosum. Im. Anterior, and Ivi. De.soending cornu of the lateral ventricle. cn. Caudate nucleus, head, and cil', tail. ts. Taenia semicircularis. 0 Ui. Optic fhalaniiis. Ih. Tsnia hippocampi. ll. Hippocampus major. ica. Anterior limb, ir.g. Genu, and icp. Posterior limb of the internal capsule. In. Lenticular nucleus. ec. External capsule. cl. Claustrum. I. Island of Keil. Sy. Deep part of fi.ssure of Sylvius. of tlie lenticular nucleus only by horizontal .sections) it will be putamcn, found that the nucleus consists of three parts : an outer larger and more deeply coloured portion—the lyutamen—and two inner, palerDISSECTION OF THE BUAIN. 768 globus luillicUis major uiid iiuiior. Intoriiiil CttpSlllO, imrts, source of fibres ; parts—the globm pallidus major and minor. The three parts are uoiicentrically disposed from without inwards, and faint white lines indicate the separation lietwuen them. The INTERNAL CAPSULE (figs. 278 and 279) is a thick laj'er of white fibres, which is seen in the horizontal section to form a bend, or genu, (fig. 278, icg), opposite the groove between the optic thalamus and the head of the caudate nucleus. The part in front of tlie genu is named the anterior limh (ica), and the longer part behind is the posterior limb (icp) of the cjipsule. The internal capsule is formed in large part by the fibres of the crusla of the crus cerebri coursing upwards to the medullary centre of the hemi- sphere, but many fibres are added from the nuclei on each side. pyramidal tract. corp. call.- lafc. ucnt. st jjt. lu-c. caud. nucl. taenia.aemie. opt. tlial. anb. comm. int. caps, opt. tract.- coi'p.alt cluuatrunv arwif^d. nucl. Fig. 279.—Coronal Section of tde Cerebrum, passing through the Fore Part of the Third Ventricle. The Antebiok Position is Kepre- SBNTED (after MeRKEl). The pyramidal filjres, which have been traced from the medulla oblongata through the pons, and crusta, occupy the anterior two- thirds of the posterior limb. The posterior third of the posterior limb contains a few fil>res that pa.ss directly from the tegmentum, others which pass from the grey matter of the thalamus and, most posteriorly, fibres radiating the optic radiation to the anmilar and cuneate convolutions from the lower visual centres contained in the pulvinar of the optic thalamus, the external geniculate bodv and the anterior corpus (luadrigemmum. The anterior limb contains fibres which are connected with the grey matter of tlie head of the aiudale nucleus and the cortex of the frontal lobe. The fibres of the capsule are collected intoTHE OPTIC THALAMUS. 760 separate buudles, between which the grey matter is continued fioni the caudate to the lenticular nucleus. On the outer side of the external aqmde, separating it from the Claualrui... niedulhuy substance of the convolutions of the insula, is a third portion of grey matter, which appears, in sections, as a slightly wavy grey line: this is named the daiistrum (fig. 278, cl; and fig. 279), and it represents an enlarged and well-defined fifth layer of the cerebral cortex. The T/EXiA SEMiciRCDLARis (fig. 275, /) is a narrow whitish Ta>iiia sm.ii- haml of longitudinal hbres, which lies along the groove between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus. In front, the baud becomes broader and joins the pillar of the fornix ; hehind, it is continued with the tail of the caudate nucleus into the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, at the lower end of which it joins the amygdaloid nucleus. Dissection. The anterior commissure is next to be exposed in Anterior ■ , , , , , -1 • 1 -r. it.- ii, commissure: Its course through the cerebral hemisphere, lor this purjMse the ^.^^^^^1^1^ remaining fore part of the caudate nucleus, the white fibres, and to sUow it; the lenticular nucleus, on the right side, must be successively scrajied away with the liandle of the scalpel, and the rounded Viand traced outwards from the spot where it is seen at the front of the third ventricle to the medullary centre of the tempore-sphenoidal lolie. The ANTERIOR COMMISSURE is a round bundle of white fibres its form, about as large as a crow-quill, which is free only for about an eighth of an inch in the middle of its extent, where it lies in front of the position, pillars of the foniix (fig. 279). Laterally, it passes outwards beneath the corpus striatum, lying between the lenticular nucleus comse, mid and the grey matter of the anterior perforated space, and curving backwards, spreads out in the white substance of the temporal lobe eiirliiiK. above the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The OPTIC THALAMUS (fig. 277, 6) is an bval-shaped body which optic takes part in hounding the lateral and third ventricles. Its upper surface is marked by a shallow ohlique groove, which corresponds iipppr to the edge of the fornix. The part of the surface inside the ' groove is in contact with the velum intei-positum ; but the nan-ower outer part is free in the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is covered by the ependyma of that cavity : at its anterior end it forms a slight prominence known as the tuhercle of the optic thalamus. Externally this surface is bounded by the taenia semi- circularis, which separates it from the caudate nucleus. The inner inm-r surface is for the most part free, forming the lateral wall of the : third ventricle, but near the middle it is united to the one of the opposite side liy the middle commissure (ci). Along the line of junction of the upper and internal surfaces is a narrow white streak—the -pineal stria (/), which springs behind from the stalk of the pineal body, and ends in front by joining the anterior piHar of the fornix. The under surface is concealed, except at its hindmost part, by the crus cerebri, the tegmentum of which joins the thalamus ; and surfaces; D.A. 3 D770 niitcrior luul jtosterior emls ; piilvinar; external geniculate lioily ; structure. Dissection of fornix. Origin of fornix. Dissection Midbmin. DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. on the outer side it is separated from the lenticular nucleus by the posterior limb of the internal capsule (fig. 278, wp). The anterior end of the optic thalamus bounds the foramen ol ilonro The posterior end is much larger, and projects above the superior quadrigeminal body (fig. 277, h) and crius cerebri, being covered by the pia mater : Ijehind and internally it forms a con- siderable prominence called the imlvinar ; and below and outside, appearing at present as if it were a part of the optic thalamus, there is a smaller oval elevation named the evAernal geniculate body (fig. the 'section that has been made on the right side (fig. 278), the optic thalamus is seen to be composed of dark grey matter ; but it appears white on the upper surface, the grey subsUnce beinc^ here covered by a thin medullary layer. A faint white line, whicdi bifurcates in front, divides the grey mass into three portions —a small anterior, a larger internal and an external nucleus. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus may now be followed out. As a preparatory step the anterior commissure, the front of the corpus callosum, and the commissure of the optic nerves should be cut along the middle line, so that the fore parts of the hemispheres can be separated from one another. On the left hemisphere the anterior pillar of the fornix is to be traced do^rawards through the grey matter of the third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and thence upwards into the optic thalamus. This can readily be done by following do^ni the pillar of the fornix and scraping away the overlying soft grey sul^stance The ANTERIOR PILLAR OF THE FORNIX is jomed below the foramen of Monro by the fibres of the taenia semicirciilaris and pineal stria, and then curves downwards and backwards in front ot ihe optic thalamus, through the grey matter of the third vent_r.e e, to the corpus albicans. Here it makes a turn like half of be fiaure 8, furnishing a white envelope to the grey matter of that body Finally it ascends to the fore part of the optic thalamus, m the anterior nucleus of which its fibres end. The ascending band from the corpus albicans into the optic thalamus is commonly named the bundle of Vicq d'Aeir. The bodies lying behind the third ventricle, viz., the coipoia .padrigemina, the pineal body, and the posterior commissure may be next examined. , „ . Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefvilly removed fi^m the surface of the auadrigeminal bodies^ especially on tbe right side on which they are to be seen. The posterior part of the hemispJere of the same side may be taken a.^ay if this has not been done already. . .i .,i„,,,: The constricted portion of the brain between the optic th ila above and the pons and cerebellum below is known as ^^ ^fT, cerebri or „phalon, and occupies, when W - skull, the aperture of the tentorium cerebelh. The <^oi.^^l pa^t o the me.sencephalon is formed by a layer which is marked on the .surface by four eminences-the corpora quadi-^germna, an<l,i.THE COKl'OKA QUAIM!I(iKMIXA. 771 lliorefoiv nameil the lamina qniidri(iemiiia. The veiitml pari f)f tin- l.iiniiiia mid-brain is much larger, ami constitutes the crura cereliri. The lamina quadrigemina is separated from the crura in tlie niiddU- liy a canal—the aqueduct of Siilrius; but on each side it is united with Aiiiii-iinct < the tegmentum. fSyiMns. The CORVORA QUADRIGEKINA (fig. 277) are four jiromiiient bodies, Qimdn- an npper and lower jjaii-, which are separated by a ci-ucial groo\-e. fiol'i'j'l.l,''.' The .sujierior, or anterior, eminence (h) is the larger, and is rather oval antcrioi-, in shape. The inferior, ovpnstcrior, (/) is smaller, but moi'c ]ironiinent, pnstorior. and rounded ; it is also whiter in colour than the upper one. From the outer side of each ([uadrigeininal body a white band, hrachium Hmcliin. (fig. 281) is continued outwards and forwards : the npper hrachium pa.s?es into the optic tract; while the lower band sinks beneath a intMiml small but well defined o\'al prominence, which i.s placed between boliy."'"''" the cms cerebri and the optic thalamus, and is named the internal ijeiiicxdatc body (tig. 281). The qnadrigeminal bodies are small masses of grey substance, inf. ((iiocl. bodtj aqiicduct of Sylvius lamina ijuadngcmina greij matter of "-y^ aqueduct—^iciiffltS " fillet Ll tetanic ritu m sup.neJ.of /^\ fes^SS) / u i t- / -./Jl,rll„m / f^S=Si / J V-8">"'f'>'''ia( CPU8 nic)ra ) cerebri cruatci Fio. 280.—Transverse Section of the Lower P.\ht op the Midbrain. covered by a white layer. From the grey matter of the upper one fibres of the optic tract take origin. Behind the qnadrigeminal bodies are seen the superior peduncles of the cerebellum (fig. 277, I); with the valve of Vieu.ssens, or superior medullary velum (k), between them. Issuing from beneath the transverse filn-es of ])ons, and arcliing over the cerebellar peduncle, is an oblique, slightly raised band named the fillet liolow (fig. 286 /, p. 782), which disai>pcars under Die lower qua<l-r^^'T,'"''., rigeminal body and its Ijrachium. " ' '' The FILLET is a white fibrous tract which appears in .sections of '■''""t: the pons between the recticular formation and tlie deep transverse ' fibres (fig. 267 A and fig. 280). It is formed niainlv bv fibres ; continued upwards from the anterior and lateral columns of the same side of the .spinal cord, by other.s from the nuclei of the posterior columns (cuneate and gracile) of the opposite side of the bulb, and, in its lateral portion, by fibres connected with the cochlear portion of the eighth nerve. At the upper edge of the pons the outer part of the fillet becomes superficial, and curving round the ending ..f tegmentmn (fig. 280), passes to the qnadrigeminal bodies, particularly , to the posterior, in which many of the fibres are lost, while others part ,1',',^ 3 D 2DISSKCTION OF THE BRATN. 772 inner or deep part. Optic tract arises from aiiterinr qundrige- iiiinal and external genicnlate bodies, and tlialamns. decussate in the lamina quadrigemina, above the aqueduct of Sylvius, with those of the opposite side. The inner filn-es of the fillet main- tain their deep position, and are continued upwards with the tegmentum to the cerebral hemisphere. The ORIGIN OF THE OPTIC TRACT Can now be seen (fig. 281). At the outer side of the crus cerebri the optic tract forms a bend (genu), and theii divides into two parts. Tlie inner and smaller of these springs from beneath the internal geniculate body ; while the outer is continned into the external geniculate body and the optic thalamus, receiving also the brachium of the anterior quadrigeminal body. The proper ^-isual fibres pass to the grey matter (1) of thepulvinar of the optic tlialamus (2) of the external geniculate body, and (3) of the anterior corpus quadrigeminnm. The fibres passing to the imI .Mf II. ii. Slip. hrncU Posterior I'oniniissure Pineal gland; nj^. hmch . sup. cpiati. b. inf. quac^. h. lanicL scmir. opt. Intel wiAr.perjz 3p. post.^cr^. sp. corp. alb. Irib.cin. op(;. U(rvc Fio 281.—Origin of the Optic Tract. The Mesencephalon is divided CLOSE ABOVE THE PoNS. internal geniculate body, the most posterior fibres of the tract (see p 728) are, apparently, not associated with vision. The POSTERIOR COMMISSURE (fig. 277, e) is the thin foremost part of the lamina quadrigemina, which is folded back so as to present a rounded margin in front towards the third ventricle, above he open- ing of the aqueduct of Sylvius (fig. 274, p. 757). On each side iofns the optic thalamus, and to its upper part the stalk of the pnicil body is attached. It consists mainly of decussating fibres con- tinnous with those of the fillet; but some are .said to be commis- sural, uniting the tegmentix of the two sides. The PINEAL BOD? (coiiarium ; fig. 274) is ovoidal m shape, like the cone of a pine, and about a quarter of an inch m length It lies with its base turned forwards in the groove between the anterior quadrigeminal bodies. It is surrounded by pia mater; a d blse is attached by a hollow white sUilk below to the ^ottllv commissure, and above t« the optic thalamus on each773 THE AQUEDUCT OP SYLVIUf!. side, along which it sends forwards the thin lnuid already described as the pineal stria. This body is of a red colour and very vascular. It is not com- structure, posed of nervous substance, but consists of small follicles lined by epithelium, and containing minute granular masses of calcareous matter (brain-sand) : similar concretions are often found on its surface, and adhering to its stalk. The AQUEDUCT OF Sylviu.s (iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum ; A^ufdiict of fig. 274) is a narrow passage, about five-eighths of an inch long, uniting the third and fourth ventricles and passing beneath Fig. 282.— Pusteiuor View ov the Conxbotions betwke.n tue Oerebiium, Medulla Oblongata and Cerebellum. 1. Siiperior : 2, Middle : and 3, optic thalamus. Inferior peduncle of the cei'ebelhun. 7. Lamina quadrigemina. i. Fillet. 8. Optic thalamus. 5. Funiculus gracilis. 9. Candate nucleus. (5. Tegmentum passing into the 10. Corpus callosum. the qnadrigeminal bodies and over the united tegmenta of the crura cerebri. It is lined by ependj'ma, external to which is a laj-er of grey matter continuoiLS with that of the floor of the two cavities. Fibres of the Cerebrum. In the cerebral hemispneres three Tinee.sets .systems of fibres arc distinguished, viz., ascending, transverse, and cerebral longitudinal. The ascending are derived in large part from theP''^'''-'- spinal cord and the lower portions of the eucephalon; the transverse and longitudinal connect together parts of the cerebrum. Asccndhuj or 'pedimmlar fibres (fig. 282). The longitudinal fibres Ascending entering the midbrain from the pons are collected into two sets, '774 t)lSSECTION OP THE BRAlK. which aie coutaiued respectively iu the enista and the tegmentum. ilii!ir uiiKiii. In this region they are reinforced liy tlie superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and by fibres derived from the cor])ora quadrigemina, as well as Ijy others springing from tlie grey nuclei of the crura. Fibres of Tlie fibres of the crusta enter the internal capsule ; and while some crustii, (including tbe pyramidal tract) are coutinued without interruption tlirough this into the niedidlary centi'e of the bemisphere, others pass into the lenticular and caudate nuclei, and fresh fil)re8 are and of added from those bodies. The longitudinal fibres of the tegmentum tegmentum. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^.^^.^ j^j^^ „|.^^^^. gf ^y^g optj^ thalamus, from the outer side of which also numerous filjres are given ofl" to the capsule; but one tract of tegmenUil fibres, ]n-olonged frcjni the fillet, passes Ijeneatli the thalamus into the hinder part of the internal capsule, some of the outer fibres inclining to the side and traversing tlie inner part of the lenticular nucleus as they course upwards. Dis.sectioii Dissection. A complete systematic view of the ascending fibres of them cannot now be obtained on the imperfect brain. At this stage the chief purpose is to show the pa.ssage of the radiating fibres from the cms through the large cerebral ganglia, in tlie corpus To trace the ascending fibres through the corpus striatum, the .striatum. ca^idats nucleus of this body should be scraped away (fig. 282); and the dissection should be made on the lelt side, on which the striate Ijody and the oplic thalamus remain uncut. In this pro- ceeding the internal capsule comes into view, consisting of white fibres with intervening grey matter of the corpus striatum, gi\ ing the appearance of the teeth of a comb (pecten of Reil). On taking away completely the hinder part of the caudate nucleus, others of the same set of til.ires will lie seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and radiating to the posterior and inferior portions of the hemisphere. Ascending Arranqeweiit of the ascending fibres. The fibres of the internal out hi'^'""^ capsule diverge as they pass through the grey matter of the corpus hemisphere, striatum, and at the outer margin of that body they enter the medullary centre of the hemisphere, where they decussate with the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum, and radiate to all parts of the liemisphere. The ascending fibres thus form in the hemisphere formin.' a part of a hollow cone, named the corona radiata, the apex of corona" ^^^^^^^^i is towards the crus cerebri, and the concavity turned down- wards. The base of the cone is at the surface of the hemisphere, where the fibres pass into the grey cortex of the convolutions. From the foregoing description it will be evident that the fibres constituting the corona radiata are of two kinds viz., those extend- in.' without interruption from the cortex to the crus cerebri, and tliose uniting tbe cortex with the corpus striatum and optic thalannis. Transverse The tramvcrsc or commissural fibres connect the hemispheres of the cerebrum across the median plane. They give rise to tlie great commissure of the corpus callosum, and to the anterior commissure. Tliese bodies have already been examined. ,„.,«itu. Lo„!,itudinal ov collateral fibres. These are connecting fibres dinat fibres,775 FIBRES OF THE UERKBUUM. wliich pass I'rom Ijefore backwarils, uniting together parts of tbi same hemisphere. The chief bands of this system which the student can recognise are the following : The fornix, the ttcnia semicircularis, the pineal stria, the longitudinal stria of the corpus callosum, and the cingulum. Other fibres pass in the medullary centre between adjoining and more distant convolutions, describing arches beneath tlie sulci: these are known as the association-fibrci. uu-ux. Dissection. The dLssectur may now make a trans\-erse section of the remains of the left hemisphere at the fore part of the optic i'ei'ltilmiar thalamus, when the form and relations of the lenticular nucleus imcleiis, and the claustrum, together with tlie position of the anterior commissure, will be apparent (fig. 279). Cuts should also be made into the geniculate bodies to show the yiiieuiatc . bodies, grey nuclei witliin them. Bv dividing transversely the left half of the midbi'ain through ami mesen- J o ■ uuplialoii. Fig. 283.—Tu.vnsvkrse Section ok thk Ui'i'nu Paiit of tuk Miuuiiain ( A FTK It () HHRSTEIN KK). the superior (juadrigeniinal body, there will be seen the grey matter of that eminence, the crusta and tegmentum separated by the sub- .stantia nigra, the red nucleus of the tegmentum, and the grey matter of the Sylvian a(|Ueduct (fig. 283). Finally, if the student has been working with two brains, he should make a longitudinal section through the remains of the Loiinitmli- pons, medulla and crus, passing a shade to the left of the middle line, and on exanimiiig the cut surface below the floor of the fourth ami \n<m; ventricle and below the grey matter in the Hoor of the remains of the Sylvian aqueduct he will see a small, longitudinally ruiniing, band of white fibres coming wp from the deeper parts of the meduUii. This is the posterior longitudinal bundle, which chiefly posterior consists of fibres runnin" between the motor nuclei of the medulla, i""o'i;"i'i"' pons and midbrain.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 776 Preparo cerebellum. Parts to be separated Section V. THE CEKEBELLUM. Dissection. The cerebellum is to be separated from the remains of the cerebrum by carrying the knife through tlie optic thalamus, so that the small brain, the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata may remain imited together. Any remaining pia mater is to be carefully removed from the Pons. Oulmen. Teguieula cut. Lobus centralis. Declive Post ceutral sulcus. Pre-clival sulcus. Post- , clival / sulcus. from one another. Form ami position of cerebelluni Uivision into two. Folium cacuniinis. Fio. 284.—The Upper Scrfaoe of the Cerebsllum. Tlie chief sulci are represented by thick lines. median groove ou the under surface ; and the differeut bodies in that hollow are to be separated from one another. Lastly, the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a deep sulcus (the horizontal fissure) at the circumference of the cerebellum, between the upper and under surfaces. The CEREBELLUJI or small brain (figs. 284 and 285) is oval in sliape, and flattened from above down. Its longest diameter, which is directed transversely, measures about four inches. This part of the encephalon is situate in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incompletely divided into two hemispheres ; the division being marked by a wide median groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior border into which the falx cerebelli pro- jects. The narrower part along the middle line uniting the two hemispheres is known as the worm (vermis).777 THE CEREBELLUM —LAMIN.K AND SUr.CL Upper Surface. On the upijev aspect tlie cerebellum is rai.sed in the centre, and sloped towards the sides (fig. 284). There is not any median sulcus on this surface ; and the hemispheres are united by a median part—the siqierior vermiform process. Separat- ing the upper from the under surface, at tlie circumference, is the horizontal /ksiire, which extends from the middle, or jMiiiline, peduncle in front to the median notch behind. The UNDER SURFACE of the cerebellum is convex on each side, where it is received into the lower fossre of the occipital bone ; and the hemispheres are separated by a median ho]\o\v—vallecula (fig. 285), which is widest in front where it lodges the upper end of the medulla oblongata ; the hinder end of the vallecula is con- No iifWVH ou llic uppi'i- .siirliico; halves joined by upper worni. Horizontal llssiire. A hollow below, which is called valley, Flocculus. KlocouUis. Pre-graciii! sulcus. Inter-gracile sulcus. Posl-Kracile sulcus. Horizontal fissure. Back part ciftlie vallecula. Fig. 285.—The Under Surface of thk Ckrkbkli.u.m with tuk Mkdulla Removed. The cliief sulci are distinguished as in lig. 284. tinned into the notch at the posterior liorder, and receives the fal.K cerebelli. At the bottom of the groove is an elongated mass named the inferior vermiform process, which corresponds to the central part uniting the hemispheres above. The two vermiform processes constitute the general conimi.ssure of the halves of the cerebellum. Lajiin/E and Sulci. The superficial part of tlie cerebellum is coniposed of grey sukstance, and is marked by concentric laniiiuu or folia, which have their free edges towards the surface, and run in a curved direction with the concavity turned forwards. The laniinaj are separated by sulci, which are lined liy pia mater, and are of variable depth. Only a small number of the lamiuaj appear ou the surface, for many others are placed on the sides of the larger processes, and are concealed within the deeper sulci. The and contains lower worm. Surface loliated. Uetweeu folia are sulci. Many folia are hidden.778 DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. iiieut ill worm. Upper lobes are from beliiiid forwards, lobus caeii- miuis, lubusclivus, lobus culminis, lobus cen- tralis, liiiL'ula. Lower lobe.- are inferior semilunar, gmcile, biveiili'iil, amygdaloid; mill the flocculus. lainiiitu, especially the siimller ones, are frequently iiiteiTupted liv the junction of neighhouring sulci. On tlie upper aspect many of the lainintB pass continuously from one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight Lending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; hut those of the under surface of the two hemispheres are connected by means of tlie special commissural bodies composing the inferior vermiform process. The deepest sulci of the hemisphere divide the laniinoa into groups which are known as the lobes of the cerebellum. Lobes of the upper surface (iig. 284). On the upper surface the hemisphere is divided into four lobes by deep sulci which arch outwards and forwards from the superior vermiform proces'S. Only thi-ee of these lobes, however, are wholly seen on the surface. Tracing them from behind forwards they are :— 1. The lohas cacuminis is semilunar in shape, and has its two lateral parts connected across the middle line by a single lamina {folium cacuminis), which is deeply placed at the bottom of the median notch. 2. The lobus cUnis, crescentic in shape, and with its two lateral parts connected across the middle Hue by the slope {dcclirc) of the superior worm. 3. The lobus culminis, similar in shape to and somewhat more massive than the preceding ; its median portion forming the highest part (culmen) of the upper vermiform process ; and 4. The lobus centralis, composed of about eight lamina), which overlap the superior peduncle. Its lateral parts (ate) are concealed by the most anterior portions of the lobus culminis. On a mesial section of the cerebellum a small amount of grey matter (lingitla) may be seen on the upper surface of the superior medullary velum (valve of Vieussens), in front of the central lobe (fig. 274, p. 757), and this may be considered as the most anterior representative of the grey matter of the upper surface of the cerebellum. The LOBES OE THE UNDER SURFACE of the hemisphere (fig. 285) are five iu number. Beginning l.iehiud, and tracing them forwards, they are :— 1. The inferior semilunar lobe, which is separated from the lobus cacuminis of the xipper surface by the horizontal fissure. 2. The gracile lobe, composed of four or five pai-allel laminaj, and often divisible into anterior and posterior parts. 3. The bivcntral lobe, triangular in shape, and subdivided into two main parts. It reaches as far forwards as the flocculus, and is external to the following. 4. The amygdaloid lobe, or, the tonsil, which lies to the inner side of the biventral, and projects into the vallecula, toucliing the medulla oblongata, and concealing a part of the inferior vermiform process (the uvula), which is its representative iu the middle line. 5. The flocculus, or sub-peduncular lobe, is placed in front of the biventral lobe, and curves upwards round the lower border of the crus cerebelli, being attaclied lo the general ma.s.s of the small brain only by a narrow white stalk.779 1'HK INFRKIOR VEltMIFOKM tROCESS. Parts oh- the inferior vermiform process (fig. 285). On Low.^v m>vm tliu inferior vurniiforni process there are seen, from Ijeliiud forwards ""' —first, 11 small eminence, comprising seven or eight narrow trans- \-erse huninao whi('h unite the posterior inferior and gracile lobes ol' the two sides and is named the tuhei- valvuhe : next, a larger, tongue- sha]ied ])r()jection, which serves as a commissure to the biventral ' lobes, and is called the pijramid; and then a narrow elongated l>y|'ijj^"''l part,—the nvulu,at tlie anterior extremity of which is the rounded noiini^, prominence of the nodule. The uvula Ls connected to the amj'gdaloid lobe on each side by a grey strip named the farrowed band, and the nodule to the flocculus by a thin while lamina—the inferior medullary velum, but inf,.,-;,,,. to see these jiarts the following dissection must be made. veUim'"'^ Dissection. The biventral and gracile lobes are to be sliced off pi^^^.Jiio„_ on the left side, so that the amygdaloid lobe may be everted from the valley. By this proceeding the strtlk of the flocculus is expo.sed, and is seen to be continued into the thin and .soft while layer of the inferior medullary velum, which joius the nodule internally. The furrowed band is also exposed on the side of the uvula. The inferior inedullarij reluia is a thin white layer which forms a infoiior comnii-ssure to the flocculi, and is connected to the upper surface of ""j;',',',!''"^' the nodule in the nnddle. Its exposed part on each side, between the liocculus and the nodule, is semilunar in shape, and the anterior edge is free ; but behind, it is continued into the medullary centre of the cerebellum (tig. 274). The furrowed band is a narrow ridge of grey matter, notched on i.'unowcil the surface, which pa.sses from the side of the uvula to the con- .stiicted base of the amygdaloid lobe. It lies along the attached posterior margin of the inferior medullary velum. Structure of the Cerebellum. The interior of the cerebellum Curuboiiuni consists of a large white mass—the niedullary centre, from which !;"v)','i't,e'' offsets i)roceed to the lamina) and to other parts of the encephalon. niecluliury centre The medullary centre is surrounded, except in front, where the processes to other parts of the brain (peduncles of the cerebellum) issue from it, by a supei'licial layer of grey substance—the cortex of am! gi-ey the cerebellum; and other small masses of grey matter are embedded in it. Structure of the lamince.. The laminie are seen, in the section that Laniiii;u has been made of the separate cerebellum or of the under part of "xUM-'mliv the left hemisphere, to consist of a grey external portion envelo])ing a white centre (fig. 27V, j). 765). The grey nuitter is subdivided int(j two hiyers, the siiperficial of which is lighter and clear, while the deeper stratum is darker and of a rust colour. The white part is deri\-ed from the medullary centre, which sends off numerous processes to the lobes and the bodies composing the worm, and these, dividing like the branches of a tree, end in small offsets which enter llie .several laminse. Dissection. For the purpo.se of .seeing the medullary centre, Hi-iJicution. with its contained corpus dentatuni, remove all the lamina) from780 INTERNAL STRUCTURES, White centre consists of radiating, commis- sural, aiitl collateral libres. Dentate body: situation, anil structure. Other yrey masses. Superior peainicle: origin. and destination the ui^pcr suifact' on the left side. This dissection may he accomplished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference', and carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the anterior and po.s- terior lobes of tlie upper a.«pect. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices may be made anteriorly till it is reached. The iiiedullary centre of the cerebellum forms a large oval ma.ss in each hemisphere, but is flattened and narrow in the ndddle between tlie vermiform processes. The lateral part contains the grey corpus dentatum, and is continued in front into a large stalk-like pro6e.ss, which becomes divided into the three peduncles. From its surface, as already stated, oflsets are furnished to the diUerent lobes and lamince. The white centre is composed mainly of the fibres of the peduncles radiating to the cortical grey matter ; but there are in addition, as in the cerebrum, commissural fibres between the two hemispheres, which are most developed at the fore part of the superior vermiform proces.s, and at the back close to the median notch, as well as a system of association-fibres uniting the landnfE beneath the sulci. The cor2}ns dmtatum is situate in tlie inner part of the whilt? mass of the lieniispliere, and resembles the nucleus in the olivary body of the medulla oblongata. It measures about three-quarters of an inch from before back, and consists of a plicated cap.side, which when cut across by <i sagittal section about a third of the vay across the cerebeilum from the middle line outwards, appears as a thin, wavy, greyi.sh-yelloM- line: it is open at the fore and inner part, and encloses a core of white substance. Through its aperture issue a band of fibres to join the superior peduncle. Between the two dentate bodies, embedded in the central white matter, are some smaller portions of grey substance, the chief of which is an oval mass on each side, nearly half an inch long, lying close to the middle line in the fore part of the superior vermiform process, and known as the roof-nucleus from its relation to the foiu-th ventricle (fig. 274). Peduncles of the ceeebellum (fig. 282, p. 773). These are three in number on each side, an upper C) passing to the cere- brum, a middle (") to the pons, and an inferior (") to the medulla oblongata. _ _ The superior pedimcle {inoce&ms ad cerehvmn ; hg. 2/< <, p. .bo) directed forwards, and disappears beneath the corpora quadri- "emina. It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The processes of the two .sides are united by the superior medullary velum, or the valve ol ^ leus- sens (k). Its "fibres are derived mainly from the interior of t he dentate body, but a few are added from the white centre of the hemisphere and the worm. Beneath the corpora quadrigennna the superior peduncle enters the tegmentum of the cms cerebri, and crosses the middle line decussating with the one ot the isTHE FOURTH VENTRICLE. 781 opposite side. The fibres are then connected with the red nucleus of the tegmentum, and are continued with the longi- tudinal tegmental fibres to the optic thalamus. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medidlary velum, is a thin translucent wliite layer whicli enters into the roof of the upper part of the fourth ventricle (fi<,'. -217, k). It is narrow in front, but widens behind, wliere it is continued into the medullary centre of the worm. On each side it joins the superior pedimule. Near tlie lamina quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to the valve : covered i).v and its upper surface is covered liy four or five smaU transverse grey ridges, constituting the lingula. The middle peduncle (proce.ssus ad pontem), commonly named Jii.uiio the crus cerebclli, is the largest of the three processes. Its fibres l"'''"'"''''- begin in the lateral part of the hemisphere, and are directed forward to the pons, of which they form the ti-ansverse fibres. The inferior 2Jeduncle (processus ad medullam) passes dovrawards inferior to the medulla oblongata, where it is known as the restiform body. JJfg',,™^,!^ Its fibres begin chiefly in the laminae of the upper surface of the hemisphere. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Dissection. One other section (fig. 277) must be made to Dissectimi. expose the fourth ventricle. The cerebellum still resting on its under surface, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes ; and then the structure of the worm, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be oljserved on separating the lateral portions of the cerebellum. Structure of the Wm-m (fig. 274). The upper and lower vermi- Vennifonn form processes of the cerebellum are united in one central piece [j'^f ot],^,- which connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this parts, connecting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz., a central white portion and investing laminaj. Here the branching appearance .of a tree (arbor vitce) is best seen, in con- se(iuence of the laminte being more divided, and the white central stalk being thinner and more ramified. The FOURTH VENTRICLE (fossa rhoml(oidalis) is a space between Fourth the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata = and jjons (Kg. 274). It has the form of a lozenge, with the points placed upwards and downwai'ds. The upper angle reaches as high form nnd as the ujiper border of the pons ; and the lower, nearly to the level • of the lower end of the olivary body. Its greatest breadth is lu-eadth: opposite the lower edge of the pons ; and a transverse line in this situation would divide the hollow into two triangular portions— upper and lower. The lower half has been named calamvK scrip- calamus torius from its resemblance to a writing pen. scnptonus. The lateral hoxmdaries are more marked above than Ijelow. For Boundaries about half way down the cavity is limited on each side by the™*'"'''' superior peduncle of the cerebellum, which, projecting over it, forms part of the roof ; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body, with the clava of the funiculus gracilis (fig. 286, cl) at the inferior extremity. At the lower border of the lateral782 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. itoor. Floor; objects ill it. are a median groo\'e, fasciculus teres, aiiditDiy striii', middle peduncle of the cerebellum a lateral process of the cavity extends outwards over the surface of the restiform hody. The roof of the space is formed above by the valve of Vieussens mth the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and by the inferior medullary velum and nodule of the inferior vermiform pro- cess ; below by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the medulla oblon- c;ata. Between the valve of Vieussens and the inferior medullary velum the ven- tricle forms an angular recess, the apex of which is directed towards the medullary centre of the worm. The floor of the ventricle (tig. 286) is constituted by the posterior surface of the meduUa oblongata and pons, and is greyish in colour. Along the centre is a median groove, which ends below, near the point of the calamus, in a minute hole—the aper- ture of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres {ft). This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and well defined below, but less distinct above. Its widest part is opposite the centre of the ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, at the lower border of the pons, are some white lines — the auditory stricc (a st), which vary much in their arrangement: they issue Fig. 286.—Back of Medulla Oblon- gata AND Pons, showing the floor OP THE FOURTH VlCNTEIOLE. /. Fillet. sp. Superior. vip. Middle, and i]). Inferior peduncle of tlie cerebellum; attached to tbe superior peduncle on the left side is the half of the superior me- dullary vehiin, covered hy the lingnla. ; //.. Fasciculus tei'cs. fs. Superior fovea. Ji. Inferior fovea, rt st. Auditory striu.-. rh. Resliforin body. cL Clava. Crossing the restiform body of the right side, below the auditory stria;, is the lingula. from the median groove, and pass outwards to the auditory nerve. The fasciculus teres is limited externally by two small depi-essions the sujjerior and inferior fovea, separated by the auditory strias. superior an.i The superior{ fs) is the broader, and is connected to the lower one inferior by a faint groove. The inferior foveas (fi) is well marked, and has the form of the letter V inverted. Tlie triangular portion between the two branches is of a darker colour than the surface on each side, fdVna,NUChKI OK THIO CKANIAI, NMCItVKS. and is named tin- ala rinrmi (fig. 287, ar) nucleus of the vagus uorvo. On tlie outei surface is elevated over the principal nucleu; forming the auditor]! tuberch (at), whieli is crossed liv tlie audiloiy strim. In tlie upper half of tlie Moor of the ventricle there may he s(^en, on the inner side of the sujierior fovea, a rounded elevation of the fasciculus teres, produced by the nucleus of the sixth nerve. And lastly, above llie superior fovea is a narrow, slightly depressed area of a bluish colour (locus cairuleus), caused by a dejiosit of verj' dark grey substance (subsl,ant,ia ferru- ginea) beneath the thin surface-layer. The fourth ventricle communicates above with the third ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and with the sul)arachnoid space below tljrough an aperture (/orameji of Majendie) in the pia mater lietween the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Below, also, it opens into the central canal of the cord. It is lined by ependyma, the epithe- lium of which is continued over the pia mater in the roof, and prolonged upwards and downwards into the canals leading from the ventricle. Projecting into the lower half of the ventricle is a vascular fold on each side, the choroid plexus, similar to the body of the same name in the lateral and third ventri(des. It is attaclied to the inner surface <il' the pia mater which closes the ventricle between the nu>dulla and the cere- bellum, and extends from the ])oiMt of the calamus scriptorius to the ex- tremity of the lateral recess of the cavity. It receives branches From the inferior cerebellar artery. it corresponds to the mI.-i fiinTcn, side of the fovea the of the auditory nerve, iUKlitoiy liit)nrcl<', niicl(Mis of sixtli nerve, .■uicl locus cmruliius. Via. 287.—Diagram showing THE POSITION OF THE NeRVE- NUCIiEI NEAR THE FLOOR OF THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. The Roman numbers indicate THE Nuclei op the corre- sponding Nerves. Vrf. Nucleus of the descend- ing root. V»i. Motor nucleus, and V.S'. Sensory i\ncleus of the liflli nerve. VIIIo. Outer, and Villi. Inner audilory nucleus. XI. Upper part of tlie spinal acces.sory nucleus. On llie left side : cq. Position of the corpora f(uadrigeiiiinit. ril.. Auditory tubercle. at: Ala cinerea. Choroid Iilcxus of (■avit\". The floor of tlie fourth ventricle is covered by a layer of grey matter, wdiich is continuous below with the grey commissure of tlie cord, and above with the gn^y substiince of the aqueduct. Nuclei of cranial xervks (fig. 287). In the dorsal portion of the medulla oblongata and pons are situate the collections of ner.ve-cells from whicli many of the cranial nerves lake their origin. Grey Inver of floor. Nnrv(? nuclei ill ;ui(l ni'iir78-t lloor of fourth ventricle. Ill lower hiiirof Hoor, four nuclei, viz., of twelfth. tenth, ninth, and eighth nerves. Beneath upper half are five nuclei, viz., of sixth, seventh, two of fifth, In midbrain three nuclei; viz., of third, fourth, and fifth nerves. DlSSEcrnON OF 'I'HE CEREBKLLUM. Some of tlie.se appear in the floor of the fourth ventricle, while others are placed a little below the surface. Beneath the calamus scriptorius, and in the portion of the floor of the cavity formed by the medulla oblongata, are the nuclei of the twelfth, tentli, ninth and eighth nerves. The hypoglossal nucleus (XII) extends through nearly the whole length of the medulla oblongata; its lower part is hidden, lying in front of the central canal below the level of the fourth ventricle, but its upper half approaches the surface in the lower portion of the fasciculus teres. The main nucleus of the vagus (X) corresponds to the ala cinerea, and is continued above into the chief cjlosso-plmryngeal nucleus (IX) which lies beneath the inferior fovea. The position of the inner or principal nucleus of the vestibular division of the auditory nerve (Villi) is indicated by the area acustica ; and the dorsal nucleus of the cochlear division (VIIIo) by an enlargement just above the acoustic strife. In the hinder part of the pons, and beneath the upper half of the floor of the ventricle, are nuclei of the fifth (two), sixth, seventh and eighth nerves, but only that of the sixth is indicated by a superficial prominence. The nucleus of the sixth (VI) lies beneath the elevation of the fasciculus teres above the auditory striaj. The facial nucleus (VII) is placed external to and deeper than the last; and the motor nucleus of the fifth nerve (Vm) is above that of the facial. The sensory nucleus of the fifth (Vs) lies external to the foregoing, and just beyond the lateral margin of the ventricle. Above the fourth ventricle, in the grey matter surrounding the aqueduct of Sylvius, are the nuclei of the fourth {lY) and third (III) nerves in the floor, and the nucleus of the descending root of the fifth (Vd) on the side of the canal. Further details of these nuclei are given on pages 728 to 730.AKTEKIBS OF THK HBAU AND NECK. 785 TABLE (,)F THE CHIEF AllTERIEH OF THE UEAU I. Tlic In- / nominate'. 1. Kiffl.t coinninn ciirutiil . . Exti-nial cjirotid . 1. Inli^niid cJii'olid . /I. SupBiior llij'ioid 3. facial 4. occipital 5. iiostcrior aiu ii'Ular 0. asci' 7. siipei'licial teiiiiioral. A\ll XECK. I Ird'm-liyoid braiicli (thyroid. Hiiiu-a-liyoid Ijraiicli dorsal lingual sublingual raniiif. / Ascoudin^' [lalatiUB Uraucli tonsillar glandular submental interior labial coronary . J ■' I sujierior lateral nasal V angular ( 8terno-mastoid branch I mastoid i)rinci'])s (■i'r\'icis meningeal V \cranial ( Htylo-niastoid branch , auricular istylo-iuastoid. , I rharVH'4eal bramdies •ndni;; liliaryngeal- prevertebral I meningeal. / Auricidar parotid transverse facial I middle temporal anterior superlicial teni- I poral postei'ior sui)tMlicial ti^ni- \ jjoral. / Iiderior dental tyni|ianic and auricular middle anil small men- ingeal I posterior dental , muscular \ infraorbital j spheiio-palatine J descending palatini! I Vidian Vliterygo-pal.atiue. / 1. Ai teria.' receptaculi Central of the letina ciliary lachrymal .sujjraorbital nniscular ethmoidal (anterior and posterior) palpebral frontal nasal. ;l. ]iiisterior cnmmunicaling 4. anliuior cerebral t>. niidille cerebral U. anterior choroid. \8. internal niaxillaiy i. ophthalmic. Itight subcla- vian . Left common carotiil. '3. Left subclavian. / Posterior meningeal Vertebi-al Po^tT'or spinal fwahbasi J",) mfmor cerebellai ■J. internal mammary terior and po.sterior) transver.se basilar sujierior cerebellar posterior cendjral. (an- .. thyroid ( t''y<"'" axis .... suprascapular 4. superior intercostal i transverse cervical I Deep cervical. I Ascending cer\'ical J tracheal, lesophagcal ' 'I inferior laryngeal Uhyroid. J .'iuporllcial cervical II osterior scapulai-.VEINS OP THE HEAD AND NECK. 786 TABLE OF THE CHIEF VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. [ 1. Luteral sinus , Internal ju- gular Innominate / i» joined by /Superior longitudinal -sinus (on right side) i Inferior longitudinal straight sinus (on left side) J. sinus occipital sinus I. veins of Galen 2. inferior petrosal sinus. superior petrosal sinus ernous sinus and ophthalmic veins. S, ijharyngeal . 4. lingual . C Meningeal branches .i prevertebral I. pharyngeal. C Superficial dorsal A lingual venffi comites \.ranine. / Angular . inferior palpebral lateral nasal facial Supraorbital frontal palpebral nasal I Nasal veins , •> vidian anterior internal maxil- I g^pg^j^j, paiajjy^ lary . ' ' intraorbital \ posterior dental labial submental inferior palatine tonsillar glandular anterior part of teiuporo- maxillary (The trunk formed as shown below). I Thyroid 6. superior thyroid . \ larjnigeaL ■7. middle thyi'oid, subclavian . External jugular Anterior /1 Posterior part of tem- posterior ' poro-maxillarj- vein, J middle temporal formed by temporal . ) parotid I anterior auricular V transverse facial (Middle meningeal inferior dental deep temporal pterygoid masseteric. vertebral Internal mammary ' inferior V thyroid. Si)iiiHl deep cervical . . anterior vertebral highest intercostal. and internal maxillary 2. posterior auricular 5. transverse cenical 4. suprascapular 6. anterior jugular. Occipital. J Superficial ccrrical ■ i posterior scapular.CRANIAL NERVKS OF THK IIRAO AND NKCK. 787 TABLK OK TlllC CRANIAL NEUVICS. 1. Kirsl iicrvi' . "2. Si'foiid iHirVf :i. 'I'liinI Tifi-vf . ■1. Fijurlh iit'r\i' . FilaiiiL'iits to tin! nose. . To retiiiii of tho oytjbiill. (To ciliury imiscli; iiTiil sijliinctur iriilis and nmsflus of tin- ()rljit, exct'itt 1 external rectus ami superior rjblinue. To superior ol)li<iue nuisele. / IlecuiTeiit] Iiiclirvnial frontal / Oplithaluiii- oplitlialniie lenticular t!angliou . luisal in- j CoiinectiiiK lJranclH■^ • i slioi't ciliary nerves. Orbital branch sujierior inaxil- lury Meckel's L'lion spheno-palatine posterior dental niirtille dental anterior dental infraorbital. Internal branches ascending; descendiuL' posterior ' anterior [)ai'l I Laelirynial 1 palpebral. j Supraorbital ' i supratrochlear. To lenticular f!angUou long ciliary nerves infratrochlear internal nasal, external nasal, anterior na.sal. f Tti nasal nerve lo third nerve i to sympathetic. ( Malar 1 temporal. I Upper lateral nasal ' 1 naso-palatine. . To the orbit. ( Large palatine . • small palatine I external palatine. ( Vidian . inferior maxil- lary (pharyngeal. Deep temporal I masseteric ', buccal [ pterygoid. Auriculo-teuiporal jMistei-ior )iart nerve to internal ptery- goid. lingual otic ganglion .submaxillary ganglion . ( Connecting branchei branches for muscles / Connecting branches I branches to glands ami nntcous membrane of [ mouth. ^inferior dental .To trunk of inferior I maxillary - to Jacobson's nerve i to aui'iculo-temporal to synipatlietic. I To tensor palati I lo tensor tyniiiani. (■To the lingual, chorda - tympani, and sympa- thetic. I To facial nerve ' 1 to sympathetic ( Articular to meatus .- parotid j auricular temporal. (To submaxillary J ganglion ■ j to hypoglos.sal (to the tongue. I Mylo-hyoid J dental ■ I mental \ incisor. 3 E 2CRANIAL NERVKS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 788 TABLE OP THE CRANIAL NERVES—con(ini(«f. 6. Sixth nerve To exti'rnul recliis. / Cuiimictiiig ' brandies T. Seventh nerve, or facial ./ /To.join auditory I to Meckel's ganglion I to tympanic and syni- . 1 pathetic nerves I chorda tynijjani to auriculo-temporal /Posterior anricularj digastric branch stylo-hyoid branch branches for dis- tribution S. Eighth nerve, or auditory 9. Ninth nerve pharyngeal or glosso- / Connecting bi'anches branches for dis tribution /Connecting branches 10. Tenth nerve, or pneuino-1 gastric . • • • branches for dis- \ tribution tempoi'o-facial I cervico-facial , To the facial upper part . lower part . To vagus to sympathetic ^Jacobson's nerve. (To the i)haryux I tousillitic branches 1 to stylo-pharyngeus Uingual. I To glosso-phaiyugeal to sympathetic , -1 auricular nerve to hypo-glossal and;cer- \ vical nerves. / Pharyngeal superior laryngeal cardiac ucrve-s I Temporal - malar I infraorbital. I Buccal • supraniaxillary t inframaxillarj', / To the utricle I to the superipj- and cx- 1 temal senji - circular ^ canals. (To the cochlea I to the saccule ■ I to the posterior .semicir- V cular canal. I To sympathetic I to otic ganglion, ulti- mately to the parotid 1 gland \ supplies tympanum. 11 I Connecting Eleventh nerve, or spinal ' branches accessory inferior laryngeal . gastric and intestinal j To pnenmo-gastric . t to the cervical plexus. branches for dis- J To sterno-niastoid and [ tribution (External laryngeal ' J. 1 to the ; ascending \,„„^q„^ descending , ,„e„ii,ra„e Vto joiu inferior larynge;il. I Cai-diac I (esophageal, tracheal - to inferior coiisti ictor I and muscles of laiyiix I to .join superior laryngeal. 12..Twelfth nerve or hypo- glossal . ■ • • /Connecting branches briuiches for dis- Irihiition t trapezius To pueumo-gastric nerve to synipatlietio to loop on atlas to lingual of llftli. Descending branch thyro-liyoid nerxc to genio-liyoid ,to lingual muscles.SPINAL AND SYMPATHHTIC NKlfVKS. 7R0 TAB(,E OF THE SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NEKVKS OF THE HEAD AND NEf'K. Spinal Nerves. 'The first four form the Cervical Plexus, wliicli Antorior / ' hranchi'S \ The cerviciil spinal ncrvp.s divide into / Sui>orlicial ascoinlinii suiierlleial drsceiidin" deep internal deep external The last four and ]]art of lirst dor- sal fonn the Brachial Plex IS, whieh L'ives . / Are distributed to posterior 1 the muscles of the branches i hack, and Kive olf > cutaiuous nerves. ■ Branches abovi the clavicle liranches below (Small occipital nerve - ;;reat auricular ' I siiperlicial cervical. f Acromial - clavicular i sternal. / To piieumo-gastric j to h.vpoglossal J to sympathetic "1 to aiis.'i h.vpoglossi j to prevertebral muscles ■ to ilia]diragm. I To stenio-iuastoid I to levator anguli scapulae , - to scalenus medius I to tnipeziiis I to join spinal accessory. Tlie rhomboid nerve ( to iihi eide nerve I suprascapular nerve; , "j to subclavius ])osterior Uiora(tic ^ to scaleni muscles. (Are dissected with the iii)per '( limb. SymjJathetir. Nerve. 1. Superior cervical ganglion has . ■St I! S 2 . Middle cervical ganglion 3. Inferior \ ganglion Ascending branches, which unite in plexuses / external branches internal branches branches to vessels External branches internal . (■External . iinternal , Carotid ploxu.s,which j ^° vld"an ner'vlf''^*' gives branches . (^^ ^j^^^ fiftj, cranial nerves. CTo third cranial nerve I to fourth cranial nerve - to ophthalmic nerve . I to lenticular ganglion I to carotid artery and branches. Cavernous plexus, which gives branches I To .join pneumo-gastric and hyjioglossal nerves (to spinal nerves. (Pharyngeal brunches (superllcial cardiac nerve. Nervi molles. To spinal nerves. Middle cardiac neive to supply thyroid body and .join external laryngeal loop over subclavian artery f To spinal nerves I vertebral ph'xns. Inferior cardiac nerve.790 CHAPTER XT. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of the eyeball; suiTomidinK slieath. Parts in front of it. The disseo- tion to be made on the eye of the ox. Detach the miiPclp.s. Form of the ball. Position of optic nerve. Diameter. Composi- tion ; number of coats, and central parts. Dissection. The ej'eball is the organ of vision, and is lodged in the orbit. Sitpported in that hollow on a mass of fat, it is surrounded by muscles which imjjart movement to it; and a thin membrane (tunica vaginalis oculi or cajjsvJc of Tenon) isolates the liall, so a.'' to allow free movement. Two lids jirotect the eye from external injury, and regulate the amoimt of light admitted into the interior ; and the anterior or exposed surface is covered by a mucous membrane {conjunctim). Directions. In the absence of specimens of the human eye, the structure may be learnt on the eye of the pig or ox. Let the student procure half a dozen eyes of the ox for the purpose of dissection. One or two shallow basins will be needed ; and some wax or tallow in the bottom of one, or in a deep plate, will be useful. Dissection. To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attachments of the different muscles are to be taken away ; and the loose mucous membrane is to be removed from the front. The hall of the eye (fig. 288) consists of two parts, which differ in appearance, viz., an opaque white posterior portion (sclerotic), form- ing about five-sixths of the whole, and a smaller tran-sparent piece (cornea) in front; these two parts are segments of different sized spheres, the anterior belonging to the smaller spliL-re. To the back of the eye the optic nerve is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball ; and around it ciliary ve.ssels and nerves enter. The antero-posterior diauieter of the ball amounts to nearly an inch (i^ths), but the transverse measures an inch. i The organ of \ ision is composed of central transparent parts, with enclosing memln-anes or coal.s. The coats, placed one within another, are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent media in the interior are lilcewise three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour, and the vitreous body. Dissection. To obt.ain a general idea of the structures to be di.«secto(l, the student may destroy one eyeball by cutting through it circularly ; he will then be able to recognise the arrangement of the parts inentioued above, with their strength and appearance, and will be better ]ire]iared to follow the directions that ai-e after- wards given.791 SCLEROTIC COAT. Fibrous Coat of the Eyeball. Tlie outer casing of the eyu Fibrous consists of an opaque hinder jiart called sclerotic, and of an anterior transparent portion, the cornea. The SCLEROTIC is the firm, whili.sh, opaque portion of the outer Sclerotic coat of the eyehall, which supports the more delicate .structures within. Dissection. To e.vamine the inner and outer .surfaces of this layei', uissection it will he necessary to cut circularly with scissors through the ["^^"lor'" Fro. 28S.—DiACRAM of a Horizontai/ Seotiox of the Eyebali,. a. Sclerotic coat. b. Choroid. c. Ketina, continuous with the optic nerve behind, with a dark layer outside it. (/. Cornea. Ciliary nuisolc. Iris. Lens. Vitreous body. Posterior cliam her of the aqueous. /■ h. I. Optic nerve. ■III. Circular fibres of the ciliary nuiscle. II. Hyaloid membrane. 0. Canal of Petit. r. Canal of Schlemm. s. Ciliary process. 1. Suspensory ligament of lens. The dotted line through the centre is the longitudinal a.\is of the ball. cornea close to the sclerotic, and U> remove the cornea from the front of the eyeball; on piercing the cornea the aqueous Huid escapes from the containing chamber. The other .structures may be tben abstracted from the interior of the sclerotic covering, and may be set aside in water with the cornea for subsequent use. The sclerotic tunic of the eye (fig. 288, a) extends from the Extent of entrance of the optic nerve to the margin of the cornea, forming'*'^'''"''"'' above five-si.xths of the ball. At its back, and a little to tbe inner side of the centre (one-tenth a])Rrtures beliind,792 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. ending in front; onter and inner sur- faces ; thickness; of an inch), the optic nerve (l) is transmitted through an aperture in it; this opening decreases in size from without inwards, and is oriliriform when the nerve is drawn out,—the lattice-like condition being due to the Inindles of fibrous .tissue between the funiculi of nnd before; the nerve. Small apertures for the passage of vessels and ner^'es are situate around the optic nerve ; and there are others for vessels at the front and the centre of the ball. Anteriorly the sclerotic is continuous with the transparent cornea. On the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are attached : on the inner aspect it is of a dark colour, with flocculi of fine areolar tissue (membrana fusca) uniting it to the next coat, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the ej'el)all, but it becomes thinner and whiter about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye." Towards the junction with the cornea it is again somewhat thickened. In its substance, near the union with the cornea, is a small flattened venous space, the canal of Schlemm (sinus circularis iridis ; fig. 288, r). Structure. The sclerotic consists of bundles of fibrous tissue, which interlace with one another, but run for the most part longi- tudinally and transversely. Its vessels are very scanty. ]\Iinute filaments of the ciliary ner\^es have l)een described, entering the deep surface of the menibrane. Cornea (fig. 288, d). This firm transparent membrane forms aljout one-sixth of the eye-ball, and measures about half an inch across. Its shape is circular, though when viewed from the front it appears larger in the transverse direction, in consequence of the opaque sclerotic structure encroaching farther on it above and below than on the sides. It is convex in front and concave behind ; and its thickness is nearly uniform (from -^th to -^^th of an inch), except near the circumference, where it is somewhat thicker at the junction with the sclerotic. The anterior surface of the cornea is slightly less extensive thau the posterior, owing to its being overlapped by tlie sclerotic. Supported by the aqueous humour, it is ten.se and nearly spherical during life; but its radius of curvature varies in different individuals, and in the same person at difl'erent ages, being shorter in the young. After death it becomes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour ; or if the eye is immersed in water, it is rendered o])a(|Ue by infiltration of the tissues by that fluid. Sfriicture. The substance of the cornea is composed of a .'ijiecial kind of connective tissue, arranged in irregular layers. Over the front the conjunctiva (which is here reduced to its eiiitlielium) is continued ; and covering the l)ack of the cornea proper is a very thin elastic stratum known as the membrane of Dcscemct. The lallcr may l)e peeled off, after a cut has been made through it, in .shreds which curl uji with the attached .surface innermost. At the circumference of the cornea the membrane of Desceniet breaks u]> circular sinus; composed of librous tissue ; vessels and nerves. Cornea: extent and size; form; thickness; surfaces; curve; condition after death. It consists of laminar lil)rons tissue, with conjunctiva in front, and an elastic nifinibi*ane behind ;CHOROID COAT. 793 into processes {■prllari< iif the iris in- lixjami'nltim '/wcHnatiuii iridts) wliich are j)artly reflected on lo llie front of tlie iris, und juirtly join the sclerotic and clioroid coats. In the liealtliy condition the hlood-vessels do not permeate the no vessels; cornea, but cease in cajiilhary h)0])s at the circumference. Numerous immy tine brandies of tlie ciliary nerves ramify in its substance. nerves. VASCuixiR Coat of the Eyeball (fig. 289). The ne.xt cover- Viiscuiar ing is situate within the sclerotic, and is formed in large part^ of lav'i.'ont''^" blood-vessels ; the muscles of the interior of the ball also belong to this coat. It is constructed of three jiarts,—a jiost erior (choroid) correspond- Conipo- ing with the sclerotic, an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea, and an intermediate ring (ciliary muscle) on a le\X'l with the union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection. Siijiposing the cornea of an eye cut through circidarly Disseciiou a.s before directed, it will be necessary to take away the sclerotic to choroia'" lay bare the choroid coat. With the point of the scalpel or with portion, a shut scissors, detach the fore part of the sclerotic from the front of the choroid by breaking through a soft whitish structure uniting them. Then, the eye being put into -water, the outer coat is to be removed by cutting it away piecemeal with the scissors ; in taking it off, the slender vessels and nerves beneath are to be preserved. The white ring round the eye in front, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle. For the jiurpose of obtaining a front view of the ciliary pro- To sliow cesses, which are connected with the anterior termination of the "rocMs"? choroid coat, let the cornea be removed as before on another eyeball. Detach next the fore part of the sclerotic fi'om the choroid ; and after three or four cuts have been made in it toward.s the oi)tic nerve, the resulting llaps may be pinned out, so as to support the eye in an upright position (fig. 289). On removing with care the by an iris, taking it away from the centre towards the circumference, the ""''•'"'"r ciliary i)rocesses beneath will bo disi)layed. A posterior view of nw\ a jios- the processes may be prepared on another ball by cutting through it circularly with scissors, about one-third of an inch behind the cornea, so that the anterior can be removed from the posterior half; on taking away the portion of the vitreous ma.ss adherent to the anterior part of the ball, and washing oft" the pigment from the back of the iris, the small processes will lie made manifest. By means of the last dis.section the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. If a vertical sagittal section is made of another eyeball (fig. 290), To make a it will show the ciliary pi-ocesses in their natural ].osition, and will ^'^fi™' demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. This section, which is made with ditticulty, should be attempted in water with a large .sharp knife, and on a surface of wax or wood, after the cornea and sclerotic have been cut with scissors. When the eye has been divided, the halves should remain in water. The CHOROID COAT (fig. 288, /)) is a thin membrane of a dai'k Cimrohi: colour, and extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the ^'xti'i't;DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 794 ftuterior eyeball. When viewed ou the eye in which tlie ciliary muscle is termination, gjj^.jj,(,^ appears to terminate there; but it may be seen in the other dissections to pass inwards behind the muscle, and to end in a series of projections (ciliary processes) at the back of the iris, i-fiiriiioiis of This covering is rather thiclier and stronger behind than in snrfacp, front. Its outer surface is for the most part only slightly attached to the sclerotic by delicate bands of areolar tissue, and has a floccu- lent appearance when detached ; but in front the ciliary muscle unites the two coats more firmly: on this surface may be seen small veins arranged in arches, and the ciliary arteries and nerves of innor; (fig, 289). The inner sitrface is smooth, and is lined by the thin npeninK behinil. Ciliniy jn'ocessos nrrangi!- nicnt; Fig. 28P.—View of the Front of the Choroid Coat and Iris—External SuRFACF, (Zinn). a. Sclerotic, cut ami reflected. /. Ciliary nerves, and g, ciliary /). Choroid. arteries, between the two outer c. Iris. coats. d. Circular. h. A'eins of the choroid coat (yasa c. Radiating fibres of ciliary vorticosa). muscle. dark i)iguientary layer of the retina (fig. 288). Tosteriorly it is pierced by a round aperture for the ]iassage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly it joins the iris. The ciliary processes (fig. 290, h) are solid projections on the inner surface of the choroid coat, disposed radially, and forming a circle lieneath the ciliary muscle and tlie outer margin of the iri.'s. About .seventy in number, they compri.se larger and smaller two kinds; eminence.":, the former being the more uumerons, and having a lengtli of al)out one-tenth of an inch. They increa.se in depth from wiUiout inwards; and at their inner ends they are united by transverse ridges.CILIARY MUSf'Ll^ AS\) TRTS. By their free extremities tlie jiruccsses Ijouiul ijerfpherally the luiaiions space (posterior chamber; fig. 291, 7, p. V96) behind the iris; in around!^ front, thej' correspond to the ciliary muscle, and at their inner ends to the back of the iris ; while behind, they are closely applied to the membrane on the front of the vitreous l)ody (suspensory ligament of the lens ; fig. 291, t), and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that structure. Structure. The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are composed Structiiri! of of blood vessels supported by pigmented areolar tissue. INIost' ' ' ' externally is a delicate stratum of connective ti.ssue known as the liimina suprachoroidea, similar to the membrana fusca of the sclerotic, s>ipra- 1(1 which it is connected; next to this is a layer containing tlie larger ramifications of the aiteries and veins ; and in the deepest part the vessels form a very fine and close capillary network (tunica Ruyschiana). In the ciliary proce?.ses the meshes of the capillary net- work are larger, and the inter- stitial pigment disfippears to- wards the free ends of the larger jirocesses. Ciliary muscle (fig. 289, d, e). In the eye from which the sclerotic coat has been re- moved, the white ring of the ciliary muscle may be seen covering the front of tlie choroid coat. The muscle forms a circular band, of a greyi.sh white colour, and about one-tenth of an inch wide, on the surface of the choroid coat close to the outer margin of the iris. It consists of imstriated fibres, which are in two sets, radiating and circular :— The radiating fibres (fig. 291, e) arise in front from the sclerotic consists of coat close to the junction with the cornea (beneath r), and are ""' " directed backwards, spreading out, to be inserted into the choroid coat opposite to, and a little behind, the ciliary processes. Some of the deeper fibres Ijecome transverse, and pass gradually into the following set. The circular fibres are beneath the radiating, and form a narrow and rirculnr liundle (fig. 291, m) surrounding the edge of the iris, opposite the inner part of the ciliary processes. Action. The ciliary muscle draws forwards the fore part of the use. choroid coat and the ciliary processes, and relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens, thereby allowing the lens to l)econK' more layer, Fig. 290.—Posterior View op the Fore Part op the Choroid Coat WITH ITS Ciliary Processes, and THE Back of the Iris. a. Anterior piece of the clioroid coat. ])osition; b. Ciliary processes. c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil. c. Bundles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil, represented diagram- matical ly.DTSSEOTION OP THE EYE. Iris is vas- cular and muscular; situation ; form; attaclimeiit anterior siu-face; posterior surface. The pupil. convex, as required for vision at near distances. Tliu ciliaiy muscle is therefore the mmdc of acmmmodation. The IRIS (fig. 289, c) is avascular and muscular structure, about half an inch in diameter, tlie vessels of which are continuous with those of the choroid coat. Its position and relations may be observed in the different dissections that have been prepared. Placed -within the ling of the ciliary muscle, it is suspended in Front of the len.s (fig. 288, /), and is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of the light. It is circular in form, is varionsly coloured in different persons, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. . By its circmnference, it is connected with the choroid coat, and by the ligamentum pectinatum with the cornea. The anterior sirrface is free in the aqueous humour, and is marked by lines converging to- wards the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with a thick layer of pigment (fig. 291), to which the tenn uvea has been applied. The aperture in it (fig. 289) is the pu'pil of the ej-e; this is slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly circular in form ; but its size is constantly varying (from -sLth to ^rd of an inch) by the contraction of the mus- cular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the retina. Fig. Membrane of the pupil in the foetus: 291.—Enlargbp Representation op the Parts of the Eyeball on One Side Opposite the Lens : the Letters refer TO THE Same Parts as in Fig. 288. d. Cornea. e. Ciliary muscle, radiating fibres. /. Iris. Lens. Posterior chamber. Ciliary part of the retina. Circular bundle of the ciliary muscle. Front of vitreous body. Canal of-Petit. Canal of Scbleram. Inner end of ciliary process. Suspensory ligauient of the lens. 9- i. 3- m n. o. r. s. t. Membrane of the pupil. ]n the foetus the aper- ture of the pupil is closed situation; time of dis- appearance. Component structures. Sphincter ami dilator of pupil. by a vascular transparent membrane, which is attaclicil to tlie edge of the iris and divides into two distinct chambers the space ni which the u-is is suspended. The vessels iu it are continuous behind witli those of the ins and the case of the lens. About the eighth mouth the vessels become impervious, and at the time of birth only fragments of the structure remain. Structure. The stroma of the iris is composed of connective ti,s.sue, the fibres of which are directed for the most part radially towards the pupil. In it are involuntary muscular fibres both circular and radiating, together with pigment-cells ; and vessels and nerve.'^ ramify through the tissue. • n i\ ■ Muscular fibres. The sphincter of the pupil (fig- 290, d) i.s a narrow band about i^th of an inch wide, which is close to the pupil, on the posterior aspect of the iris. The diMor of the puptl (e)707 CILIARY VKSSELS AND NKHVES. consists of Inuulk's of fibres which hc^iii at the outer bonhT of l-he iris, and <'n(l iiituniiiliy in the si)hineter. Action. Eiilavgeinout of the i)upil is ud'ected by shortening of the riidiuting fibres ; mid diminution, by eontraetion of the circular ring. The niovenients of the iris are involuntary, and regulate the admis- sion of liglit into the ball. The 7«(/""'"' "1 l''^" "''^ ■'^ paitly interspersed in Ihe substance of the membrane, and partly collccteil into a thick layer on the pos- terior aspect, the above-mentioned uvea, which is conlinuous witli the pigmentary stratum of the retina. The colour of the iris depends upon the nature and quantity of tlie interspersed pigment. Tlie arteries of llie iris (fig. 292, B) have a looped arrange- ment ; they are derived chielly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches (d), but some come from the vessels of the ciliary proce.s.ses. On arriving at the ciliary mu.scle, the long and anterior ciliary arteries form a circle (e) round the margin of the iris ; from this ring other anasto7notic iiranehes are directed towards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the edge of the pupil, and end in veins. The veins resemble the ar- teries in their arrangements in the iris, and terminate in the veins of the choroid coat. The nerves of the iris are the terminal branches of the How Ihi^y .ict. pigment.. I<'l(i.2y2. —DlSTKIliUTION OV TUK NkRVKS .\Ni) Vhsskt.s ok tue litis. A. Half of the ii is showing the nerves. {I. Nerves entering tlie membrane, anil uniting in a plexus. //. Within it. (Kolliker.) I). Half of the iri.s with a plan .of the Vuins, vessels. <l. Ciliary arterie.s. (•. Arch of vessels at tlie onter edge of the iri.s. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iri.s. I/. Sphincter of the pupil. Nervi;s of Uie iris. ciliary nerves ; they divide into liranches which accompany the blood vessels, and commiiiiii ale with one another so as to form a ]ile.\us which gets gradually liner towards the jiupil (fig. 292, a). Ciliary vesssels and nerves (fig. 2S+9). The ciliary arteries are offsets of the ophthalmic, and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. Tliey are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliary ; but the}' will not hv. seen witliout a special injection of the ves,sels of the eye. ThQ posterior ciliarij arteries {tj) pierce tlie schn-otic coat around and close to the oj)tic nerve, and running tVn'wards on the Arlei'irs of the niidilli^ coat: posterior ciliary,DISSECTION OP THE BYE. 798 two of them iiiiiued long ciliary, iintentjr ciliiiry. Veins are posterior cilinrv. and anterior ciliary. Ciliary nerves end in iris and ciliary muscle. Space con- taining aqueous humour is partly divided into two by the anterior part; poBl(!rior, its bound- aries. Helina is in two l)art.s. choroid, divide into branches which enter its substance at different points. Two of this set {long ciliary) are directed forwards between the sclerotic and choroid, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a circle round the iris in the ciliary niascle, as before explained. In the ball the unter one lies rather above, and the inner, rather V)elow the middle. Tlie anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in numVjer, are smaller than the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit from muscular branches ; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, supjily the ciliary processes ; and join the circle of the long ciliary vessels. In inflaiunuition of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and offsets of them form a ring roimd the cornea. The iMsterior ciliary veins have a ditt'erent arrangement from the arteries. The branches form arches (vasa vorticosa ; fig. 289, h) in the superficial part of the choroid coat, external to the arteries, and converge to four or five trunks, which perforate the sclerotic coat aljout midway between tlie cornea and the optic nerve to end in the ophthalmic veins. The anterior ciliary veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, receiving tributaries from the iris and the ciliary processe.s, and accompany the arteries through the sclerotic to end in the ophthalmic tnmks : they communicate with the venous space of the canal of Schlemm. The ciliary nerves (fig. 289, /) are derived from the lenticular ganglion, and the nasal nerve. Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued \\-ith the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid as far as the ciliary muscle : at this spot the nerves send offsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibre,s of the ciliary muscle, enter the iiis. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and the choroid, and fine twigs enter the sclerotic. Chamber op the Aqueous Humour (fig. 288, p. 791). The space between the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is suspended, contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the foetus before the seventh month this interval is separated into two by the iris and the pupillary membrane ; but in the adult it is only partly divided, for the two communicate through the pupil. The boundaries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on which a vertical section has been made. The anterior chimber is the larger of the two ; it is limited in front by the cornea, and behind by the iiis. The 2'osterior chamber (i) is a narrow interval behind the iris at the circumference, which is bounded in front by the iris ; behind by the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspeiusory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour; and al the circumference hy the ciliary processes. The Retina (fig. 288, c). This layer is the innermost and most delicate of the coats of the eyeball, and is situate between the choroid coat and the transparent mass (vitreotis) in the interior. It consists of t wo parts, viz., a thin membrane internally, continuous709 NERVOUS PORTION OF THE RETINA. with the optic nerve, and a pigiueiit;iry layer outside, \vhich adheres to the choroid coat. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an eye which is obtiiined within forty-eight hours after death. To bring it into view on the eyeball in which the -middle coat was dissected, the choroid must be torn away carefully with two pairs of forceps, while the eye is immersed in lluid. In this dissection the pigmentary layer separates from the nervous portion of the retina, and is removed with the choroid coat. The pigmenlary portion of the retina is a very thin, dark layer, which lines closely the inner surface of the choroid coat, and is continued over the ciliary processes into the uvea on the ])osterior surface of the iris (ttg. 291). The nei"Oous portion of the retina is a soft membrane of a ]jinkish grey tint and semitransparent when fresh ; but it soon loses this trans- lucency, and is moreover rendered opaque by the action of water and other substances. In the living state, however, the retina is characterised by the existence of a jjurplish red colour, which is discharged under the influence of simlight. This part of the retina extends over about the posterior two- thirds of the eyeball, reaching from the entrance of the ojDtic nerve to the outer extremities of the ciliary pro- cesses, where it ends in an irregular wavy border—the ora .serrata. Its thickness diminishes from behind for- wards. The outer surface of the. dissected retina is slightly tlocculent, owing to the tearing away of the pigmentary layer. The inner surface is smooth : it is covered with folds in a prepara- tion of the eye cut in two, but these are accidental, in conse- quence of the menibrane having lost its proper support. At the spot where the optic nerve expands {porus opticus, optic dine ; fig. 293) the surface is slightly elevated {papilla optica) ; but in the centre of this is a slight excavation where the c-enlral \-essL'ls appear. In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of tlie l)all, is a slightly elliptical yellow area (fig. 293), one-twelfth of an inch in diameter, which is named the yellow spot (macula lutea). Almost in the centre of this .spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which appears black in consequence of the thinness of the wall allowing the dark pigment outside to be seen. From the ora serrata a very thin layer is continued on as far as the tips of the ciliary, processes ; it is called the ciliary part of the Dissection to see tlu! rtitinu. PigiiiiMitary membrane. Nervous retina; eNteut: Fig 293.—OliJEOTS ON THE Inner Surface of the Retina (Sikm.mbrring). hi the centre of the hall is the yellow sjjot, here rein-e- .senteil hy sli:iiHiiy : and in its iniiUlle the fovea centralis. To liie inner side is the optic tli.sc witli the branching of the artery. tliickness; outer snrfiice ; iinier .sur- face presents oi)tic disc, central vessels, yellow spot, anil central fovea. Ciliary part of retina.800 DISSECTION OK THE EYE. Artery of retina liiis four chief Ijrjmcln's; ■iiiotlier ill ftetiis. Vitreous lioily. To obtain .1 view of it, unci of it« front. Form uiul position of vitreous: it consists of .jelly, witli n central canal; .■villi of the hyiiloiil niembianu: I«jth are without vessels. Suspensory linanient: retina, !nit dou.s not eoii.si.st of iR-n'ou.s suUstaiice. It is not \'isible to the naked eye. .For a de.sciiption of the structuit of the retina, the student is referred to a work dealing with micrascoisic anatomy. Vesi^els of the retina. The ccnlral artery of the retina, acftoni- panied Lv its vein.s, enter.s tlie eyeball through the optic nerve. In tlte central depre.ssion of the optic pajiilla the artery divides into four primary liranches,-—two inner or nasal (upper and lower), and tw o outer or temporal (also upper and lower). Tlie outer branches are the larger, and follow an arched course aboA-e and below the yellow spot: all ramify in the innermost part of the nervous coat. No ve.ssels enter the pigmentary layer. The veins have a similar arrangement. In the foetus a branch of the artery passes through the centre of the vitreous mass to supply the lens-capsule. Vitreous Body. This is a soft transparent mass wliich fills the greater part of the space within the coats of the eyeball (fig. 288, h). Dissection. The vitreous body may be seen on the eve on which the retina was di.ssected, by taking away the retiiia, the iris, and the ciliary muscle and processes. To obtain a view of its anterior part, with the lens in situation, an eyeball should be fi.xed itjiright, and the sclerotic and choroid coats cut through about a quarter of an inch behind the cornea ; then on removing carefully the cornea, the dliar\- muscle and pro- cesses, and the iris, the vitreous body will be apparent. The vitreous body (tig. 288, h) is globular in form, and iiUs about four-fifths of the ball, supporting the retina. In front it is slightly hollowed, and receives the lens ((/), with its capsule to wluch it is closely united. It is composed of a thin watery jelly, contained in a transparent membrane named hyaloid. The jelly consists in great part of fluid, which drains away when the ^•itreous body is exposed 011 a ilat surface, or placed on a filter, and only a very small amount of solid matter remains. In the central part of the vitreous body, however, there is a canal filled with fluid {hyaloid canal), which extends from the optic papilla of the retina to the back of the len.s-capsule, and serxed in the foetus for the trans- mission of the capsular branch of the central artery of the retina : but this canal is not visible without special preparation. The hyaloid membrane (n) is the thin, glas.sy, structureless layer enclosing the vitreous body, except at the fore part where the lens is placed. At the bottom of the ball, around the ojitic jiapilla, the membrane is closely connected with tlie retina ; and it sends a prolongation forwards to line the canal of the vitreous. In front, the membrane becomes thicker as it approaches tlie ciliary proce.sses, and is continued into the suspensory ligament of the lens. The vitreous mass and the hyaloid membrane are extravascular, and receive their nutritive in.ilcrial from the vessels of the ciliary processes and retina. Suspensory ligamknt of the lens (Zonule of Zinn). This is a lran,s])arent membranous structure (lig. 291, t), placed around801 LKKS AND ITS CAJ'SI.'LK. tlifcl<;ii8-<yt]>»ul<:, vyjii<;li yAw viiUininUy th<; byulgid jjifcinl^i tiiK-ojjj><^»it<i the a.iit«;)iyi' lifj uiiualivu <<jin seiJUta; o) tin; ietjiia. A)'U:i- tin; ""xVint ; •■iliiicy piwcsjiia; of tli<: cliwoid wat a.J'<j 4i5tit<;ijK3<J fiQui it, dai'k Jiiuss of pjgiui?ut wvi;r this Biu'lkw ; aud whejj tli»«i<; aii; wjusLisfj away, u iiuii-ju>d pLaiUi 'ciliary j/roouiSM} wuu: iuU; vinw, wbi<;b ai<; li;)** j^ronjjiw-iil ''•> au'J loiigi-j- than tin; j^io<;i;>>h«;(! of th«; diojoi'i <yM, ljut do uol <^LUt<- tLi; li;Uf:-<;ajjliuli; ijjti;| JialJy. 'J"Il<- two bnUi of plouiilJ<;Ji<;<5i- an; dov<;tail»sd t<jg«thBr,- -tlj.«; jU'ojwtioJUi of oue lx;iiig nnynivtifi iuVij liollowfi Ix'lwei;!! till; lAiu-r ; aud iu tlu; /V««1j btali; tli« two «ti'U<;tui<a- iniinr ai»; <;loi><;ly adiii;l»;lit. 'J'lu; iiiuiiil^iaut- >y^jjtaiiJJS muiieiouu „ijif radialiii;; libn-ji, wiiirlj ij)U;nially ljt<;<^jii<' <mj11i;i;U-^1 )ijt<^ biuidUa*, aud aie atta<;li<5d t<^ tin- niaigiii, and llu; a'lja'ieut j^ait of th<; anterior Bui-liu^; of thi; i<;jjK-<:aj«uli;. Tli«; teuueiicjiK in iiiil ueiiced by couditioii the wtati; of lli<; ciliary Uiuw;]*, foj- duj'iu;^ itJS wiitiaotioii tjj,,"'<*'«<'• Jiit;ijibjaii<; iii rc'iidtrud kx l^y Ilut dj'awiug forwards of the ciliaiy prwfjiw*. lJuioijd of J'vt/U. A round the uiHrj^iu of the h;a8-<aij>8ule is a Jiai'row '^aiial <rf M]ya<;e dig. Si«X, <*; alx^iut oiie-teuth of aji ijich a<;i osis, which in «itua.te U-twiy-jj the nai!]A:ii>ii)ry Jigaiueut aud the frout of the viti'e<.<ui5 «itu»tiou; buiuou)-. When the <::aixal Jiaii )>een oj^ejiefi, aud fiJled with air by aiiierior jue^aJjh of a blow-pij>e, it iu sa«<;uhtt<?«i at regulai' iutervali^, like the uTuJd"^'^ kige iijt<y4tiiie, by the ijjAatioii of the pkite of the auteiior bouudiijy. 'J'he maigiii of the capsule of tjie leus Ix^uuds the 8pa«e iuttfi'/iaily. J^KK« ANJ> JTK Caj>8i;lk. 'J'he htue in situate l>ebind the pupiJ of X.«i«orthe the eyi; Ctig. <j), aud to a fwus on the J'etiua the rays of light euteiiug tbiough tliat apei-lure. 'J'he aynuLK in a lirjii aud very ehwtic trausjjareut case, which Capsule of cl<>sely BUJTOujids the leus projx;r. The anterior BUj-la<;e is free, ' aud j^rojexts U^waids the j^upiJ, around which it t<.>uche» the iris ;'»l»tip»>« of but ext.;i'iially the two aje sej^aiated l..y a siiiaJl int<;rval—the "JL^lj^' jxjst<;iior '•bauilj<;r d) ; dose Uj the margin of the leus it is joined by the susj>euw.(ry liganient (I). 'J'he jwsteiior sujlace is i-eceived ]MU,nor ini/j a hollow on tlie frout of the viti-eous Ijody, Uj which it is inwjj^arabJy uuiu^d. 'J'he circumferen';e of the case gives attachment aud cir- Uj the j>oKt.;iio)- fibres of the suspensory Jiganieut, and l.«hiiid this Ix^iuud* the ';aiial of J-'etit (o), 'J'he, <;aj;sule is a «tru<AureJjea« glassy membrane, much thicker i»«I'^oo- ovej- llie IVout of the Jens, as Jar out as the attachment of the i^ilXlne: susjxjimry Jiganieut, tlian over the 1/ack, when; it is very thin in the ofutre, Jn the a/Jult human eye the caj^sule ol' the lens is not j;Jovided with blood-vessels; but in the foitue a biauch of the vessel* ooly •M^ntral ai-U;ry of the retina supjjlies it, DiesectioiL 'i'lie lens will U obtaine<l by cutting across the Open c»p- thin meml^ranoiiK <i»pKuie in which it is enclose'L »uJ«yfieii«. 'J'he ;-KKB is a sfJid and traiusparent doubly cjnvex bviv ; but »"= the curveji a/e un<;<jiial on the two 6urfa<;es, the ]>f>»terio'r being ^^y"'" greater tlian tlie anterior. Its Hiar«in is somewhat njunded ; aud the measurement from side to side is one-thirl of an inch, l;ut <iin)Mi«ioiui from lx;l'ore back al>fyut one-fifth of an inch. 'J'lie density iuciea^es "J^u'itx ;DISSECTION OF THE EYIC 802 lineH on tlio surruces; atructure is laminar and fibrous, Change in form of lens in colour and con- sistence, with age. from the circumference to the centre ; for while the superficial layers may he ruhbed oft' with the finger, the deeper portion is firm, and is named the nucleus. On eacli surface are three lines diverging from the centre, and reaching towards the margin ; they are the edges of planes or " septa," where the ends of the lens-fibres meet, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, because they bifurcate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Structure. After the lens has been hardened by spirit or by boiling, it may be demonstrated to consi.st of a series of layers (fig. 294) arranged one within another, like those of an onion. The laminse of each surface have their apices in the centre, where the septa meet; they may be detached from one another at that spot, and turned outwards to- wards the equator of the lens. The laminse are composed of fine parallel fibres which run between two septa on opposite aspects of the lens. Ghanges in the lens with age. The form of the lens is nearly spherical in the fojtus ; but its convexity decreases with age, particularly on the anterior surface, until it becomes flattened in the adult. In the foetus it is soft, rather reddish in colour, and not quite transparent; in mature age it is firm and clear ; and in old age it becomes flatter on both surfaces, denser, and of a yellowish colour. Fig. 294.—A Representa- tion OP TUB LAlIINiB IN A Hardened Lens. (I. The nucleus. b. Superlioial laminae.803 CHAPTER XIT. DISSECTION OF THE EAE. The organ of hearing is made up of complex bodies, which are Suiidivision lodged in, and attached to the surface of, the temporal bone. It is of''"'''to'T commonly divided into three parts, known as the external ear, the middle ear, and the internal ear. Of these, the last is the essential portion, containing the terminal expansion of the auditory nerve ; and the others are to be regarded as accessory, serving to convey to it the vibrations produced by the sonorous undulations of the air. External Eak. This includes the pinna or auricle and the Parts of auditory canal : the former has been noticed at p. 569 et seq., and the latter remains to be described. The EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL (meatus auditorius externUS ; Auditory fig. 295) is the passage which leads from the pinna towards the*^""'"'' tympanic cavity (a part of the middle ear), from which it is separated in the recent state by the tympanic membrane. Dissection. To obtain a view of this canal, a recent temporal imw to bone is to be taken, to which the cartilaginous pinna remains "few "nt • attached. After the removal of the soft parts, the squamous piece of the bone in front of the Glaserian fissure is to be sawn off; and the front of the meatus, except a ring at the inner end which gives support to the thin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a pair of bone-forceps. The canal is about one inch and a quarter in length, and is length ; formed partly by bone and partly by cartilage. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely, and describes a slight vertical curve direction; with the convexity upwards. In shape it is rather flattened from size and before backwards ; and it is narrowest in the osseous portion. The "''"''^ '< outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. The carlilaginom imrt (a) is largest. It is about half an inch in cartiin^i- length, and is formed chieHy by the pinna of the outer ear, which is attached to the margin of the osseous meatus; but at the upper is deficient and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed ■ by fibrous tissue. One or two fissures (fissures of Santorini) ci'oss the cartUage (p. 571). The osseous part (b) is about three-quarters of an inch long in the osseous adult, and is slightly constricted about the middle. Its outer P*'''^' extremity is dilated, and the posterior edge projects farther than outer end the anterior; the greater portion of the margin is rough, and gives 3 F 2DTS.SRCTION OF THK EAR. 804 inner end. attachment to the cartilage of the pinna. The inner end i.s .smaller, and is marked in the dry bone, e.\ce])t at the upper part where there is a notch in the osseous margin, hy a groove for the insertion of the membrane of the tympanum ; it is so sloped that the anterior * wall and the floor extend inwards beyond the hinder wall and the roof for nearly a quarter of an inch. Condition in In the fostus the osseous part of the meatus is very imperfect, the fcetus. ^^^^ ^^^^ anterior wall being composed of fibrous tissue. After birth the osseous wall is completed by an outgrowth from the ring (tympanic bone) which supports the membrana tympani. Fio. 295.—Veutical Section of tue Meatus Aoditorics and Tympanum (Scarpa). a. Cartilaginous part of the meatus. 6. Osseous portion. c. Membrana tympani. d. Cavity of the tympanum. e. Eustachian tube. Lining of the meatus. A prolongation of the integument lines the auditory pa.ssage, and is united more closely to the osseous than to the cartilaginous portion ; it is continued over the membrane ot the tympnnum in the form of a thin pellicle. At the entrance of the meatus are a few hairs. In the subcutaneous tissue over the Ceruminou. cartilage of the meatus lie some ceruminous glands of a yellow- s'^'""- brown colour, resembling in form and arrangement the sweat-glands of the skin ; these secrete the ear-wax, and open on the surface by separate orifices ; they are absent in the osseous jiart, and are most abundant in that small portion of the tube which is formed by fibrous tissue. . . ■ e Vessels and nerves. The meatus receives ite aHencs from the posterior auricular, the internal maxillary, and the superhcml Lining membrane of the skin Vassels.BOUNIJAIUKS 0\-' TlIK TVMl'ANrM. 806 teiuiJoral branches uf the exlernal carotid. Its nerrr.s are ik-rive<l Nerves, from the auriculo-temporal branch of the filth iicrve, and enter llie auditory pa.s?age between tliu Ijone and tiie cartihi aw. Middle Ear. The chief ])artof the iui(klie ear is tlie tympamini Miiiaic ran- or dnun, a cavity containing air, which is interposed Ijetween the fyll,'','^,,',,',',,, e.Kternal auditory canal and tlu' laliyrintb or internal ear. The space is traversed by a cliain ol' small bones, with which s])ecial muscles and ligaments arc connected. It communicates in i'ront with the pharynx by a canal named the Eustachian tube ; and Eustacliian behind, it is prolouLred into a scries of excavations in the mastoid 1 11 1 -111 1. 11 1 1 'I'l'' iniisLoid part ol the temporal bone—the mastoul ceils. Small vessels and cells, nerves ramify in tlie'cavity. Dissection. The tympanic cavity .should be examined in b(.ith a Uissectioii dried and a recent bone. On the dry temjxjral bone, after removing most of the s(juamous to ojien it in portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw through the root of bone,'^ the zygoma and the Glaserian fi.ssure, the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone-forceps some of the ujijjcr surface of the petrous portion, and the anterior part of the meatus auditorius. In the recent bone prepare the ilissection as above, but without f'" 1 . . . 1 .,11 • rneont uoiic. doing injury to the meinbrana tympaiu, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. The TYMPANUM has the form of a very short cylinder, which is Tympamim: placed oliliquely, so that its end-surfaces (the inner and outer walls f"''"' of the tympanum) are nearer to the median pdaue in front than behind. The circumference of the cylinder is somewhat irregular, and interrupted at jxirts ; in it a roof, a tloor, and an anterior and a posterior wall are distinguished. The cavity measures about half 'i""'f'3ions. an inch from above down and from before back. Its breadth may be given as one-sixth of an inch ; but it is wider above and behind than at the lower and fore parts ; and it is narrowest in the centre, owing to the projection towards the cavity of the promontory on the inner wall, and of the tympanic mendirane externally. The Miner boimdary of the tympanum (tig. 29G) is formed by the imiei'wall outer wall of the o?seous labyrinth, by the parts of which the con- formation of this surface is maiidy determined. Occu]iyiiig the greater part of the inner wall is a rounded eminence called the is markoil by promontury {pr) -, this becomes narrow behind, and its surface is l"'o'"°"''°''y marked by two or three minute grooves which lodge the nerves of and grooves; the tympanic plexus. Above and below the narrowed eiul of the promontory is an aperture : both lead into the labyrinth. The upper aperture (/o) is semicircular in shape, with the con- enostra vexity upwards, and is named fcuedm oi-alis: it oi)ens into the"™''"' vestibule, and into it the inner bone (stapes) of the chain i.-> fixed. The lower ajierture, fenestra rotunda (fr), is rather triangular in fenestni form, and is situate within a funnel-shaped hollow : in the macerated ' bone it leads into the cochlea ; but in the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane—the secondary membrane of the tympanum. Arching above the fenestra ovalis on this wall is a ridge of "f ^ atiueducl uf806 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Fallopius; Ijoiie (e/*) wliicli marks the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and contains the facial nerve. Lastly, in front of this ridge, and close to the roof of the fore part of the cavity, is the ending of the niul canal of canal for the tensor tym.iMni muscle (cU). The canal is sejiarated from tyniiiaiii. the Eustachian tube (et) below it by a thin plate of bone named tlie cochlear iform process {cp); this becomes expanded on reaching the Fig. 296.—Inner Wall op the Left Ttmpandm Natdbal Size. Three Times the pr. Promontory. fo. Fenestra ovali.s. /?'. Fenestra rotunda. py. Pyramid. cf. Canal of tLe facial nerve (aque- duct of Fallopius), cut obliquely. cf*. Ridge formed by the canal of the facial nerve. am. Antrum mastoideum. tl. Teginen tympani. clt. Canal of the tensor tympani. cp. Cochleariform process. cl. Eustachian tube. cc. Carotid canal. cly. Canal of tympanic nerve. jf. Jugular fossa. tympanic cavity, and being bent upwards, prolongs the canal beyond the end of the Eustachian tube. In most cases the outer wall of the tympanic portion of the canal is partly fonned by fibrous tissue. The aperture by which the tendon of the muscle escapes is placed a little above and in front of the fenestra ovalis. Tlie outer boundary of the cavity is formed by the niembrana tympani (fig. 295, c), and the surrounding bone. Above and in tympani'a'^ul front of tlie membrane is the upper opening of the Glmerian fissure, iiBsure"" which is occupied in the fresli condition by the long process of one of the small hones (malleus) and some fibres of its anterior ligament, On outer bouii'lary, menibrana807 MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANDM. cand l)y tlie anterior tympanic vessels. Crossing tlie membrane towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which issues through a special aperture close to the Glaseriau fissure. The roof (tegmen tympani ; fig. 296, tt) is a thin plate of bone Jije ™of is separating the tympanic cavity from the cranium. It occasionally perforated, presents one or more apertures, ^^•here the mucous lining of the tympanum comes into contact with the dura mater. " The floor separates the tympanum from the jugular fossa (//), Floor is and is more or less excavated by small cells, which are extensions of the tympanic cavity, and lined by a prolongation of its mucous meml)rane. An anterior wall is present only in the lower half of the .space, in fr|'i'_t is^ which it separates from the carotid canal (fc) ; in the upper half is E'|,''st,".'i°ia„ the tympanic orifice of the Eustachian tube. The fosterior wall is similarly deficient in the upper half, where Beiiind are there is a large aperture leading into a space Ciilled the antrum "^^^^^^ mastoideum (am), from which the mastoid cells are given off'. Below deum this opening, but near the inner wall, and on a level with the narrow part of the promontory, is the small conical projection of the pyramid (ptj). At the summit of the pyramid is a small pyramid, orifice, from which a canal leads backwards and downwards to the aqueduct of Fallopius: the canal lodges the stapedius muscle, witl^canal^ Sometimes there is a slender round bar of bone connecting the ° " pyramid to the promontory. Some objects that have been referred to above, viz., the mem- brana tympani, the Eustachian tube, the mastoid cells, and the secondary tympanic membrane, retjuire separate notice. The MEMBRANA TYMPANI (fig. 297) is a thin tran.sliicent '^^i^'^ ^^^'i^^^'^^^,. between the external auditory canal and the ca\dty of the tym- panum. It is rather elliptical in .shape, and its longest diameter, fo™."'"! which is directed from above down, measures al)out two-fifths of an inch. By its circumference it is attached to a groove at the inner end of the auditory passage. In the foetus it is supported attachment; by a separate osseous ring—the tympanic bone (/). The mem- brane is placed very obliquely, so that it forms an angle of about i>'«itiori ; 45° with both a horizontal and a .sagittal plane, the outer surface looking downwards and forwards. It is concave towards the J.* ^^J,'"" auditory canal, being sloped inwards from the circumference to the simped ; centre; and it projects into the cavity of the tympanum. Theni^neus^^ handle of the malleus (one of the ossicles; 6) is attached to the inner side of the membrane from tlie centre to the upper margin. Slrudure. The meuibraiie is formed of tliree strata,—externiil, internal, It consists and middle. The outer one is continuous with the integuments of the nie.itus [J,,^,,^^,"''''' auditorius ; and the inner is derived from the mucous membrane of the ,i nmc'ous, tympanum. The middle layer is formed of librous tissue, and is fixed to the andalibroua groove in the bone. From its centre, where it is Krmly united to the '">'"'• extremity of the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circum- ference ; and near the margin, at the inner aspect, lies a band of stronger circular fibres (fig. 297, c), which bridges across the notch at the upper part of the tyrapaDic bone.808 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. A thin part of the mombraue in notoli. Eustachian tnbe : osseous part, situation and termi- nation : cartilagi- nous part. Mastoid cells:' position and extent: open into mastoid antrum; may approacli surface ; develop- ment. Membrane in fenestra rotunda : construc- tion Occupying tlie notch above-mentioned in the upper part of the osseous margin (notch of liivinus), there is a small piece of the nrenibrane which is softer and looser than the rest (membrana flaccida), being formed only by lax connective tissue between the skin and the mucous membrane. The Eustachian tube (fig. 295, e) is the channel through which the tympanic cavity communicates witli the external air. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is directed forwards and inwards, as well as somewhat downwards, to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and is narrowest at its anterior end. Its course in the temporal bone is along the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, outside the passage for the carotid artery. Anteriorly it ends in a somewhat oval opening, with an irregular margin, which gives attach- ment to the cartilage. The cartilaginous part of the tube is nearly an inch in length, and extends from the tempioral bone to the interior of the phaiynx. Through this tube the mucous mem- brane of the drum of the ear is con- tinuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it the mucus escapes. The MASTOID CELLS are air-spaces occu- pying the interior of the temporal bone behind the t3^mj)anum and the external auditory meatus. They reach downwards into the mastoid process, and upwards for a short distance into the adjoining region of the squamous portion of the bone. In front they communicate, with the tym- panum through a chamber named the antrum mastoideum, (fig. 296, am). Above the tympanic membrane is a small recess communicating with the mastoid antrum, which is called the mastoid attic. The size and extent of the cells vary greatly in different individuals ; and in some cases thej' are sepa- rated only by a very thin layer of bone from the exterior of the skidl on the one side, and from the lateral sinus on the other. In tlie infant the mastoid antrum is present, but the cells are not formed ; the latter are developed at, or a little before, the period of puberty. The SECONDARY MEMBRANE OF THE TYMPANUM is placed iu the fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite side of the cavity, viz., an external or mucous, derived from the Fig. 297.—Inner View op THE Mbmbhana Tym- PANI IN THE FcETtJS, WITH THE Malleus Attached. a. Membrane of the tympanum. b. Malleus. c. Band of circular fibres at the circumference of the memljrane. d. Anterior, and e, pos- terior tympanic artery. /. Tympanic bone.809 ()SS1C'I,KS OK ■rilK TYMI'ANUiVr. liiiini' of tlio tviai);uuuii; ;m iiitcnial, coiiliiiuous with tliut lining ofUuen o 'I , . layers. the cochlea ; and a central layer ot hbrous tis.sne. OssiCLKS OF THK Tymi'anum (fi"?. 298 and 299, p. 811). Three ossicles uC _ , . ,. 1 J • -4- till! tyinim- in nunibei-, they are placed m a line across the tynipaiiic cavity. ,„„„,ii-,, The outer one is named malleus from its resemlilance to a mallet ; the iie.xt, incus, being comiiared to an anvil ; and the last, sta]ies, from its likeness to a stirruji. For their examination the student should be provided with some separate ossicles. The lIALLKUS (tig. 298) is the longe.st bone, and is twisted and MiUl.-us 1ms bent. It is large at the upper part (head ; a) and small and pointed below (handle ; c) ; and it has two jn'ocesses, with a narrowed jiart or neck. The head or capituluin (a) is free in the iK'.id, cavity, is club-shaped, and at the back has a depression tor articula- tion with the ne.vt bone. The neck (h) i.s the constricted part lietween the head and the processes. The handle or manubrium (c) imiKlic, Fig. 2t)8.—The Tuuee Ty.mi'anic Ossicles of the Right Side : the Central Bone is the M.illeus, the Left-hanh one the Incus, and the Right- hand ONE THE Stapes. Incus: Malleus: a. Articular suifacc f. Head. for malleus. h. Body. e. Short process. d. Long jiroeess. e. Orbicular process. Neck. Handle. Long, and Short ijroccss. Stupes : Head. Neck. Anterior crus. Base. decreases in size towards the tip, and is compressed from before backwards ; but at the e.vtremity it is llattened from within out- wards : to its outer niiirgin the special fibrous stratum of the inembrana tympani is connected. The short process (e) sjn-ings from tlie root of the handle on the sliori outer side, and is attaclied to the upper border of the tympanic membrane where it bridges acro.ss the notch of Hivinus. The long ami long process (processus gracilis ; d) (commonly lirokeii olf in removal) is I'™'-' during infancy a slender llattened piece of bone, which projects from the neck of the malleus at the anterior aspect, and extends into the Glaserian fissure ; in the adult this process is most frerpiently converted into a fibrous band ; and in cases where the osseous ])ro- cess jiersists, it is joined with the surrounding bmic, and cannot be separated. The INCUS is a flattened bone (fig. 298), and consists of a body incu*: and two processes. The budi/ (h) is hollowed at the fore i)art («) to I'O'l.v ;810 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. processes, short and long. Stapes: base; lieiul neck ; crura. and articulate with the malleus. The short process (c) is somewhat conical, and projects backwards nearly horizontally ; its extremity rests against the lower and inner j^art of the margin bounding the opening into tlie mastoid antrum. The long process (d) is almost vertical, and descends parallel to the handle of the malleus, behind and internal to which it lies : it diminishes towards the extremity, where it is bent inwards, and ends in a small flattened knob—the orbicular process (e), for articulation Avith the stapes. The STAPES (tig. 298) has a base or wider portion, and a head with two sides or crura, like a stirrup. The base (d) is directed inwards, and is a thin osseous plate, convex at the upper margin and nearly straight at the lower, corresponding with the shape of the fenestra ovalis, into which it is received : the surfiice turned to the vestibule is convex, while the opposite is excavated. The head (a) is marked at the extremity by a superficial depression which articulates with the orbicular process of the incus ; and it is supported on a slightly constricted part, the neck (b). The crura extend horizontally from the neck to the base, and are grooved on the surface towards the enclosed aperture ; the anterior crus (c) is shorter and straighter than the posterior. Ligaments of the ossicles. The small bones of the tympanic cavity are united into one chain by joints, and are farther kept in position by ligaments fixing them to the surrounding '-vail. Joints nf the bones. Where the ossicles touch, they are connected together by articulations corresponding with the joints of larger bones ; for the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, are surrounded l)y a thin capsular liga- ment of fibrous tissue, and lubricated by a synovial sac. One articulation of this nature exists between the head of the malleus and the incus, and a second between the orbicular process of the incus and the head of the stapes. U7non of the bones to the wall. The bones are kept in place by the reflec- tion of the mucous membrane over them, and by the following ligaments, three being connected with the malleus, and one each with the incus and stapes :— Lif/aments of the malleus. The superior or sus2)cnsorij ligament is a slender band which descends from the roof of the tympanum to the head of tlie malleus. The anterior ligament is the strongest of all : it passes from the fore part of the neck of the nialleus to a projection at the anterior margin of the notch of Kivinns, and to the sides of the Glaserian fissure. A part of this ligament entering the fissure has been described as a mu.scle under the name of laxator tympani. The external ligament is short and fan-sliaped : its fibres radiate fiom the outer and posterior parts of the neck of the malleus to tlie edge of the notch. The Z/(7rtmc?i« 0///ic iKCMS attaches the extremity of the short process of that bone to the tympanic wall at the lower part of the orifice of the antrum raastoideum. The annular ligament of the stapes is composed of very short fibres, which unite the circumference of the base of the stirrup to the margin of the fenestra ovalis. SjKcial ligament of the stapes. Closing the interval between the crura ol tlie stapes there is a very thin membrane which is attached to the groove of the bone. It is covered above and below by the mucous membrane. Two MUSCLE.S OF THE OSSICLES (fig. 299). Two iiiuscles are connected mu.sclc.s to ^yjtji the chain of bones, one being attached to the malleus, the the ossicles. , , i ^ other to the stapes. The bones have two sets of liga- ments ; either to unite one to another by joints, or to fix them to the tympanic wall. Ligaments of malleus are superior, anterior, and external. One band to incus. and one to .stapes. Membrane ill apoftiirc of stiipes.811 MUSCLES OF THE OSSICLES. insertion ; Thi! TENSoii TYMPANi (fig. 29<J, h) i.s the lar},'iT of ^1'*^. . muscles of the tynipanuiu, and takes the shqie of its contauiiiif,' J"'"!"""- lube, which must l e hiiil ojieii to see it completely. The mu.scle arises in front from the cartilage of the Euslachiau tube and the (niiiin : posterior e.\tremily of the great wing of the si)hen(ii(l bone, and it also receives tibres from the surface of its liony canal. Posteriorly it ends in .a tendon which is retlected over the end of the corhleari- form process, and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the malleus near its base. Action. The muscle draws in- wards the handle of the malleus towards the inner wall of the tympanic cavity, and tightens the mendirane of the lymiianum ; and as the long ])rocess of the incus is moved inwards witli the malleus, the base of the stapes will be pressed into the fenestra oralis. The STAPEDIUS (fig. 299, i) is lodged in the canal hollowed in the interior of the pyramid. Arising inside the tube, the muscle ends in a small temlon, which issues at the ajiex of the pyramid, and is inserted into the back of the head of the stapes. Action. By directing the neck of the stapes backwards, the muscle raises the fore part of the base out of the fenestra ovalis, diminishing the ])ressure on llie tiuid in the vestibule ; and sup- po.sing it to contract simul- taneously with the tensor, it would prevent the sudden jar of the stapes on that fluid. Mucous SIEJlIiRANlC 01'' THE TYMPANUM. The mucous lining of the tympanic cavity adheres clo.sely to the wall ; it is continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and is prolonged into the nia.stoid cells through the antrum. It forms part of the membrana tympani, and of the secondary armTii;!;- niendjrane in the fenestra rotunda; it is reliected also over theenvity; chain of bones, the muscles, ligaments, and chorda tymi>ani nerve. In the tyinpanum the membrane is thin, not very vascular, and secretes a watery fluid ; but in tlie lower end of the Eu.stachian tube it is thick and more vascnlar, and is provided with numerous glands. Slaimilius contaiimil ill Ijyraiiiicl; Fio. 299.—Plan of the Ossicles of „se. THE TyMI'ANUM in POSITION, WITH Til El a Muscles. ((,. Ciivily of tlie tympanum. b. Membrana tympani. c. Eustachian tube. d. iMalleu-i. e. Incus. /. Stapes. </. Laxator tympani iiiiiscle, some- times described. /(. Tensor tymjiaiii. i. Stapedius. Lining r,f tymiHinnni:DISSECTION OP THE EAB. 812 Arteries are branches of carotids. From internal maxillary, middle meningeal, posterior auricular, ascending pharyngeal. internal carotid. Nerves from several sources. Dissection to prepare the nerves: outside tympanic cavity, and inside cavity. Tympanic nerve Blood-vessels. The arteries of the tynipanuiu are furnished from the following branches of the e.\terual carotid, viz., internal maxillary, middle meningeal, posterior auricular, and ascending pharyngeal; and some offsets come from the internal carotid in the temporal bone. The vews join the pterygoid plexus, and the large meningeal and pharyngeal branches. The internal maxillary artery su|)plies an anterior tym})anic bratich (tig. 297, d), which enters the cavity through the Gla-serian fissure, and gives an offset to the membrane of the tympanum. The middle meningeal artery also sends fine twigs to the upj)er part of the tympanum through small apertures in the roof of the cavity. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricidar artery, entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, posterior tympanic (fig. 297, e), anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary arter}', and forms a circle around the membrana tympani, from which offsets are directed inwards. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from the inferior j)alatine artery, enter the fore part of the space by the Eustachian tube. One or two minute branches of the internal carotid artery reach the anterior wall of the tympanum from the carotid canal. Nerves. The lining membrane of the tymi^anum is supplied from the plexus (tympanic) between Jacobson's and the sympathetic nerve ; but the muscles derive their nerves from other sources. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Dissection (fig. 300). The preparation of the tympanic plexus will require a separate fresh temporal bone, which has been softened in diluted hydrochloric acid, and in which the nerves have been hardened afterwards in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-i^haryngeal is first to be sought close to the skull ; and the fine auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric may be looked for at the same time (p. 633). Supposing the nerve to be found, the student should place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, and carry it back- wards through the vaginal and styloid processes of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but without opening the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to be followed in its canal ; and the branches in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be jiursued ;—two ol' these, arching forwards, pass to the sympathetic on the carotid artery and to the Eustachian tube ; and two others are directed upwards beneath the tensor tympani muscle. The course of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the preparation used for the muscles. The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngkal nerve (fig. 300,^; nerve of Jacobson) enters a special aperture in theNERVES OF THE TYMPANUM. 813 temporal bone (fig. 296, ciy), to reacli the inner wall of the tj;m- -Pi;!'- paniini. In this cavity the nerve supplies filaments to the lining ,„embrane, membrane, to the fenestra rotunda and fenestra ovalis, and to the Eustachian tube ; and it terminates in the three under-mentioned and^other branches, which are contained in grooves on tlie promontory, and connect this nerve with others. , , , , i n„P to svm- Bmnches. One branch is arched forwards and downwards, and ^^^^^^^ FiQ. 300.—Jaoobson's Nbrve in the Tympanum (Bresohet). . a. Carotiil artery, i. Tensor tympani muscle. c. Inferior iua.\illary trunk of the fifth nerve. d. Otic ganglion. Kerves: 1. Petrosal ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal. 2. Nerve of Jacobson. 3. Sympathetic on the carotid. 4. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 5. Small deep petrosal nerve. 6. Branch to Eustachian tube. 7. Facial nerve. 8. Chorda tympani. 9. Nerve of the otic ganglion to the tensor tympani muscle. enters the carotid canal to communicate with the sympathetic (') on the artery. The second C) is the small (kep petrosal nerve, which i.s directed ^'J.'^J^'^P forwards through a canal beneath the cochleariiorm process, to join „erve, the carotid plexus of the symjiatlietic (sometimes also the large superficial petrosal nerve) in the foramen lacerum. And the third C) has the following course :—It ascends in front and small of the fenestra ovalis, and near the gangliform enlargement on tne ^01^3^1 facial nerve, to which it is connected by filaments. Beyond the union with the facial, the nerve is named small superficial petrosal, and is continued forwards through the substance of the temporal8U DISSECTION OF THE EAR. to otic gnnylion. Nerves for the muscles. Clionia tyinpiiiii crosses cavity. Brancli of vagus to tlie outer ear. bone, to end in the otic gcanglion, and eventually, in great part, to enter the auriculo-temijoral nerve and be distributed to the parotid gland. Nerves to Mdscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion (fig. 300, ; and the stapedius receives an ofl'shoot from the facial trunk. The CHORDA TYMPANI (fig. 300, is a branch of the facial nerve. Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana tympani, lying on the inner side of the handle of the malleus, and issues from the space by an aperture internal to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the lingual nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at p. 688. The AURICULAR BRANCH OP THE VAGUS, though not a nerve of the tympanum, may now be traced in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. 633), the nerve enters the special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the ear. Labyrinth formed of osseous and mem- branous parts. Constitu- ents of the osseous part. Vestibule; dissection to see it; form and dimensions apertures before and behind ; in outer wall; INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. The inner portion of the organ of hearing consists of a complex chamber surrounded by dense bone, within which are included sacs containing fluid, for the terminal expansion of the auditory nerve. The Osseous Labyrinth comprises the vestibule, the semi- circular canals, and the cochlea: in the macerated bone these communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally through the meatus auditorius internus with the cranial cavity. The vestibule (tig. 301), or the central cavity of the osseous labyrinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in front of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has been used for the preijaration of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. B}' enlarging the fenestra ovalis a verj' little in a direction upwards and forwards, the vestibvilar space will appear ; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be o^jened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in dift'erent directions, according to the opportunities and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 301) is ovoidal in form, and the ex- tremities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the under-part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part or roof. It measures about one-fifth of an inch in length; but it is narrower from witliout inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture (g) leading into the cochlea; and behind are five round openings of the three semicircular canals {d, e,f). The outer wall corresponds with the tympanum, and in it is the aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On the inner wall, nearer the front815 THE OSSEOUS LABYRINTH. than the back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crest (b). In ;-r|«t o,, front of the crest is a circular depression, fovea hemisplierica (a), ^itii fossa' which is pierced hy minute apertures for nerves and vessels, and f™"'. corresponds with the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. Behind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two of the semicircular canals, is the aperture of the aqueduct of the vestibule (c), and ai|iii>- a narrow canal which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous ''"cii"''""' portion of the temporal bone : it contains a process of the mem- branous labyrinth called the ductus endolyin.pliaticus, and a small vein. Thereof is occupied by a slight transversely oval depre.ssion, fossa in roc Fig. 301.—View of tuk Vkstibule of AWAY THE Outer Boundaky in a a. Fovea heniispherica. b. Crest of the vestibule. c. Aperture of aqueduct of the vestibule. d. Common opening of two semi- circular canals. THE Right Side, obtainhd by cutting F(ETUS, ENLARGED Til REE TiMES. e. Upper semicircular canal, partly laid open. /. Horizontal semicircular canal, partly opened. f/. Opening of the scala vestibuli of the cochlea. fovea heviielliptica ; this is separated from the fovea hemisphei'ica by u prolongation of the crest (6) on the inner wall. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS (fig. 302) are three osseous tubes, Thrue .semi- which are situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their ca^nal's" form. Dissection. These small canals will be brought into view bv preparation the removal of the surrounding bone! by means of a file or bone " ' forceps. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the posterior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are unequal in length, and each forms more than half'ont'th; an ellipse. They communicate at each end with the vestibule, buts\r, DI15SECTI0N OF THE EAE. termination by live openiuKS; one end dilated ; form and size ; they are named superior vertical, posterior vertical, hy the ampulla, wtile inner is joined wth the Tibrous membrane lines the labyrinth. and contains a flnid. Cochlea: dissection for it in dry the contiguous ends of two are blended together so as to give only- five openings into that cavity. Each is marked Ijy one dilated extremity, called the ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about -^th of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large ngain. From a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and horizonttil. The superior vertical canal (a) crosses the upper liorder of the petrous part of the temporal Ijone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked the following. Tlie posterior vertical canal(b) is directed backwards from its junction with the preceding towards the posterior surface of the temj)oral bone ; it is the longest of all, and has its ampulla at the lower end. The horizontal canal (c) has sej)arate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovaUs ; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Lining memhram of the osseous labyrinth. A thin fibrous peri- osteal membrane lines the vesti- bule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous with the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the vestibule. On the outer wall of the ca^dty it stretches over the fenestra ovalis ; and in front it is prolonged into the cochlea through the aperture of the scali vestibuli (fig. 301, g). The space between the periosteum and the membranous labyrinth is occupied by a thin fluid—liquor Cotunnii or perilymph, which also fills the scaloe of the cochlea. Cochlea. This part of the osseous labyrinth has a position anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a spiral shell. Dissection. To obtfiin a view of the cochlea it will be needful to cut or file away the lione between the promontory of the tympanum and the internal auditory canal on the prejiaration before used for displaying the vestibule ; or this section may be made on another temporal bone in which the semicii-cular canals are not laid bare. Fio. 302.—Representation op the Semioircular Canals, enlarged. and of the two a. Upper vertical. b. Posterior vertical c. Horizontal canal. d. Common opening vertical canals. e. Part of the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule.THE OSSEOUS COCHLEA. 817 For the like dissection in the recent state, a softened bone should >«<-eni ' bone; be used. The coc/iZea (fig. 303) is conical in form, and is placed alnicst form and horizontally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this body ' is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by small apertures ; while the apex is directed to the inner wall of the tympanum, opposite the canal for the tensor muscle. Its length is size ; about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the base is about the same. Eesembling a spiral shell, the cochlea consists of a tube resvnibies« wound round a central \mYt or a.xia ; but it differs from the shell in fii'somH"" having its tube subdivided by a ]>artition. respects. The cmis or modiolus (fig. 303, a) is the central stem which Central supports the windings of the spiral tube. Conical in shape, its size ax's^"^ Fio. 303.—Section through thk Cochlea (Bkeschkt). a. Branches of the auditory nerve, /. Hiatus or lielicotreina. containeil iu the canals of the axi.s. s.t. Scahi tynipani. b. Enlarged upper enil of the axis. s.v. Scala vestibuli. c. Septum of the cochlea. s.m. Scala media or canal of the c. Membrane of lleissnor. cochlea. diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the tube, but it is conical, enlarges at the tip of the cochlea, forming a second small cone (b), which is bent. The axis is perforated by canals as far as the con- and porous, tracted part of the last half-turn, and the central one is larger than the others ; these transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state. The spiral tube forms two turns and a half round the stem, and a spirnl terminates above in a closed extremity named the cupola. AVhen ,'"ono'i,',°fi*''' measured along the outer side, it is about one and a half inch long, forms2J Its dianu^ter at the beginning is about one-tenth of an inch, but it diminishes gradually to half that size towards the opposite end. ment; Of tlie coils that the tube makes, the first is much the largest ; coils, this projects towards the tympanum, and gives ri.se to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that ca\-ity. The second tu rn is included within the first coil. Tlie last half-turn Ijends sharply round, and presents a free margin (6)—the edge of the axis. D.A. 3 G818 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Tube divided into two. Septum bony and membra- nous. Osseous part In the recent bone the tube is divided into two main passages (scalffi) by the septum (fis. 303). In the dry bone a remnant of this partition is seen in the form of a thin osseous plate—lamina sjnralis, projecting from the axis. Septum of the spiral tube (fig. 304). The partition in the recent state dividing the tube of the cochlea into two passage.s, consists of an osseous and a membranous portion :— The osseous farl ('), formed by the lamina spiralis, extends about half-way across the tube. Inferiorly it begins in the vestibule, ends above in a point over an aperture. Lamina spiralis has limbu.s on upper surface. Fig. 304. -A Diagram of a Section of thb Tube of the Coohlka, ENLAKGED (MODIFIED FROM HeNLE). SV. Scala veistibuli. ST. Sciila tynipani. CG. Canal of the cochlea. 1. Membrane of lleissuer. 2. Cochlear branch of the auditory nerve. 3. Lamina spiralis ossea. 4. Ligamentum spirale. a. Limbus laminiB spiralis. h. Sulcus spiralis. c. Tympanic lip of the sulcus spiralis. mb. Alerabrana basilaris. The remaining letters refer to parts of the organ of Corti. where it is wide, and is attached to the outer waU so as to shut out the fenestra rotunda from that cavity ; and diminishing in size, it ends above in a point—the hamulus, opposite the hist baU-tuni_^of the cochlea. Between the hamulus and the axis is a space, which is converted by the membranous piece of the septum into a foramen {hiatus, hclicolrema; fig. 303,/), and allows the intercommunication of the two chief passiiges of the cochlear tube. The lamina spiralis is formed by two plates of l)one, which enclose canals for vessels and nerves, and are separated farthest from each other at the axis. The upper surface of the lamina is covered in the outer fourth of its extent by a border or hmbu^ otTHK COCHLEAR PASSAGES. 819 fibrous structure (a), which ends in wedge-shaped teeth near the margin of the bony plate. Between the teeth and the underlying bone is a channel (/;) spiral which is called sulcus sjnraiis: its edges are named vestibular (a) and tympanic (c). The iiu-mhntnous jiarl of the scptnin {membrana InwsUaris; Unm- fig. 304, ?)t/>) reaches from the lower (tympanic) edge (<•) of the {j^^""" lamina .spiralis to the outer wall of the cochlear tube, where it is iucUuie.s li.xed by a fibrous band—litjanwiittmi spirale (■*). Its width varies, nfu,',['^,','.m,e for near the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across imii spiral the tube ; but at the ape.x, where the lamina spiralis is wanting, it 'iS'i"'**'"" constructs the septum altogether. ScaXjE of the cochlea (tig. 303). The tube of the cochlea is .scaiie oi divided by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is tlj^uT'^''''''" the scala tympani (s <), and the other scakt, vestibuli (s v) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by a third canal being cut off from it by membrane. The passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli position ; (s v) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above, they com- extent; municate through the aperture named helicotrema (/). Below, tliey end differently, a.s the names express:—the scala vestibuli above; opens into the front of the vestibule (fig. 301, g) ; but the scala separate tympani is shut out from the vestil)ular cavity by the lamina spiralis below of the septum cochleae, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tympanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestilnilar scala extends into theydmer the apex of the cochlea ; while the tympanic scala is hirgest near g^"^'™' the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, ^vhich begins at an opening close to the lower end of the ope„jng j,, .scala, and ends at the lower Viorder of the petrous portion of the lower; temporal bone : it transmits a small vein from the cochlea. The scalsB are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous unin" with that in the vestibtile : in the scala tympani it helps to close memWne, the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joins the librous process in the and con- aqueduct of the cochlea. The perilymph fills both scala). Canal op the cochlea. In the upper division of the cochlear Cochlear tube a fine membrane (fig. 304,1) extends obliquely across from the upper surface of the lamina spiralis, at the inner border of the between limbus, to the outer wall of the cavity a little above the spiral membrane ligament. This is called the membrane of Reissner, and separates a n,^,,,. small cavity named the canal or duct of the cochlea (c c) from the scala brnne or vestibuli (s v). The canal thus formed extends from apex to base of = the cochlea, and contfiins a Huid—endolymph. Above, it reaches into the cupola and is closed. Below, it is connected by a very small tube -culct'rrom (canalis reuniens; fig. 305, c) with the saccule in the vestibule. Within the canal of the cochlea, resting on the basilar membrane, is " the complicated structure known as the orcjan of Oorti (fig. 304), in ™''^'of which the cochlear branches of the auditory nerve end. Corti'." 3 Li 2820 DISSECTION OF THE KAR. The moin- braiious labyiiiiUi consists of utricle, saccule, seniiciiciihiv canals, and coclilear canal. Dissection of them in i fresh bone. Utricle: .situation, and form ; macula. and otoliths. Semicircular canals : not free in cavity; have ampul lie, which receive the nerves. Membranous Labyrinth (fig. 305). Lodged in the vestibule are two meiubrauous sacs, the utricle and saccule from the former of which tubular olfsets are continued into the semicircular canals. These, together with the canal of the cochlea and the organ of Corti, which have been referred to aliove, make up the membranous labyrinth. Tlie sacs and their prohuigations are immersed in the perilymph, and are them.selves filled with a fluid called the endolym'ph. In thein the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. Dissection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with their nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal Iwne which has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous instruc- tions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be re- moved with great care. The UTRICLE (fig. 305, d), or the common sinus, is the larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea hemiellip- tica in the roof. It is trans- ■^•ersely oval in form, and con- nected with it posteriorly are three looped tubes, which occupy the seniicii'cular canals. At the fore part of the sac is a thickened and more opaque part of its wall—macula aciw- tica (e), where the nerves enter; and opposite this, in the interior, is a small mass of calcareous granules or otoliths. The MEMBRANOUS SEMICIRCULAR CANALS ((/) are about one-third of the diameter of the osseous tubes, along the convex border of which they lie, being closely attached to the periosteal lining of the bony wall ; and the remaining space is filled l>y perilymph. Each is marked at one end by an ampulla, which is relatively of large size and nearly fills the osseous wise. Two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy, so that they comnumicite with tlie utricle by five openings. At each ampullary enlargement there is a transverse projection {crista acudica) into the anterior of the tube ; and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the wall. Fia. 305.—Petroos Bonk partly re- moved TO SHOW THE MeMDUANOUS Labyrinth of the Left Side in PLAGE (BrESOHET). a. Saccule. 6.. Its macula. c. Ductus i-euniens. d. Utricle. e. Its macula. /. Ampullary enlargement of the ex- ternal semiciicular canal, g.821 THE AUniTORY NRRVK. The SACCULE (fig. 305, «) is a smaller and rounder cyat than the utricle, in front of which it is placed, in the hollow of the fovea heniispherica. It communicates with the utricle through the ductus endolymphaticus, and is continuous below liy a short and small passage {canaiis reuniens; c) with the canal of the cochlea. Like the other .s<ie, it ])0.s.seBses a macula (h) and otoliths whore the nerves enter. The dudm endolym2)haticus is a fine tubular offset of the mem- branous labyrinth, which occupies the aqueduct of the vestibule, and ends in a dilated blind extremity (sacciis endolymphaticus), embedded in the dura mater on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In the vestibule the duct divides into two small liranches, one of which joins the saccule, and the other the utricle. For an account of the minute structure of the membranous labyrinth, reference must be made to a work on microscopic anatomy. Nerve of the Labyrinth. A special nerve, the eighth cranial or auditory, is distributed to the labyrinth. Entering the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger piece, each of which again subdivides into three branches. At the bottom of the meatus, the upper piece is marked by a ganglionic swelling—the intiimescentia (jan- (jlioformis of Scarpa. The upper division of the nerve sends its Ijranches to the macula of the utricle (fig. 306, c), to the aiiipidla of the superior vertical semicircular canal, and to the ampulla of the external pemicircular canal. From the loii:er division of the nerve proceed an oft'set to the saccule (a) and a slender branch to the ampulla of the posterior vertical semicircular canal (b) ; but the greater part is destined for the cochlea. Each of the branches of the auditory nei-ve breaks ip into a bundle of filaments, which pass through minute apertures of the lamina cribrosa, to reach their special part of the membranous labyrinth. The nerves of the semicircular canals enter the ampulla) on their outer flattened side, and end in the crista acustica ; while those of the sacs end in the respective macula). Saccule has coni- munications with utricle aud cochlea; macula anil otolilhs. Endo- lymphatic duet auil sac ; it ojjHns into saccule and utricle. Fig. 306.—DiSTiiincTiON op Neiives TO THE MkmBRANOUS LaBYRINTH (Huesohet). (/. Nerve to the saccule. b. Nerve entering the aini)ullary enlargement on the posterior serai- circular canal. c. Nerve entering tlie utricle. The nerve to the coolilea is not repre- sented. Auditory nerve divides into two parts; upper lia.s i;au;^lio:i, and .fuiiplies utricle, superioraud external canals ; lower gives branches to saccule, poslerinr canal, and cochlea; cndiu); of vestibiilnr branches :822 DTSSROTION OF TF^R RAH. cochlear nervB has a spiral ganglion, and ends in organ of Oorti. Vessels of labyrinth. Auditor.v artery from basilar, has a vestibular. and a cochlear branch. Veins to petrosal .sinuses and internal jugular. The cochlear nerves traver.se the canals of the modiolus, and bend outwards in the passages of the lamina spiralis (fig. 304, As they enter the latter, they join a ganglion (yanglion spirale) which occupies a winding canal at the junction of the liimina spiralis with the modiolu.s ; and from thi.s they are continued a.s fine branches, forming a close plexus, to the organ of Corti. Blood Vessels. The membranes of the labyrinth are suijplied by an artery which enters the internal auditory meatus with the auditory nerve. The veins are more numerous. The INTERNAL AUDITORY ARTERY arises from the basilar trunk within the skull, and divides in the internal auditory meatus into two branches,—one for tlie vestibule, and the other for the cochlea. The vestibular artery subdivides into small offsets which enter the cavity with the branches of the auditory nerve, and ramify over the sacs and the semicircular canals. The cochlear branch breaks up into numerous fine twigs which enter the modiolus and the canals in the lamina spiralis. Ofifsets supply the nerve and the parts in the neighbourhood of the limbus laminse spiralis, and others ramify in the periosteal lining of the scales ; but there are no \'essels in the outer part of the membrana hasilaris. Veins. The internal auditory vein accompanies the artery, and ends in the inferior petrosal sinus in the base of the skull. The vein of the aqueduct of the cochlea joins the internal jugular ; and the vein of the aqueduct of the vestibule opens into the superior petrosal sinus.INDEX. The letter (o) refers to the origin, (c) to the course, and (d) to the distribution of a nerve or vessel which is described in different pages. Abdomen, cavity of, 296. surface of, 260. Abdominal aorta, 362. hernia, 285. regions, 297. ring, external, 266, 288. internal, 275, 288. Abducent nerve. Sec Nerve. Abductor. See Muscle. Aberrant ducts of liver, 350. Accessorius. See Muscle. Accessory nerve of the obturator, 163. pudic artery. See Artery, spleens, 343. thyroid glands, 587. Acromial cutaneous nerves, 31. Acromio-clavicular articulation, 37. thoracic artery. See Artery. Adductor. See Muscle. Agger nasi, 671. Agminated glands. Sen Glands. Air-cells of the lung, 478. Ala cineren, 783. of nose, 565. Alar ligaments of the knee, 216. thoracic artery. See Artery. Alveolar plexus. See Plexus. AmpuUte, of the semicircular canals, 816. membranous, 820. Amygdaloid lobe of cerebellum, 778. nucleus, 762. tubercle, 762. Anal canal, 387. fascia. See Fascia. Anastomotic artery. See Artery. Anconeus muscle, 87. Angular artery. See Artery, convolution, 751. vein. See Vein. Ankle-joint, 222. Annectant convolutions, 751. Annular ligament. See Ligament. Annulus ovalis, s. Vieussenii, 458. Ansa hypoglossi, 599, 602. Vieussenii, 638. Anterior commissure, 769. Antihelix, 569. Antitragus, 569. muscle of. See Muscle. Antrum mastoideum, 807. pylori, 839. of superior maxilla, 670. Anus, 237. Aorta, 465. abdominal, 362. arch of, 466. ascending, 465. descending thoracic, 480. Aortic opening in diaphragm, 361. orifice of heart, 473. plexus. See Plexus, sinus, 466. Aperture, of the aorta, 478. for the femoral artery, 167. of the larynx, 660. of the pulmonary artery, 461. of the thorax, 639. Apertures, of the cavse, 459. of the heart, 464. of the pulmonary veins, 462. Aponeurosis, epicranial, 502. of external oblique, 265. over femoral artery, 154. intercostal, anterior, 438. posterior, 488. of internal oblique, 269. lumbar, 272, 521. palmar, 70. perineal, deep, 248. of the pharynx, 655. of the soft palate, 662. temporal, 506. over tibialis posticus, 194. of the transversalis muscle, 272. vertebral, 524. Appendages of the eye, 31. Appendices epiploicce, 301, 812. Appendix auriculas, 455. vermiformis, 302, 324. Aqueduct of the cochlea, 819. of Fallopius, 806. of Sylvius, 773. of the vestibule, 815. Aqueous humour, 798. Arachnoid membrane of the brain, 716. of the cord, 540. Arantii, corpus, 462.824 INDEX. Arbor vitre cerebelli, 781. uterimis, 421. Arch, of aorta, 4GG. crural or femoral, deep, 14/). superficial, 143. of diaphragm, 360. pahiiar, deep, 80. superficial, 71. plantar, !207. of soft palate, G61. Arciform fibres, 733, 730. nuclei, 738. Areola of the mamma, 14. Arm, dissection of, 39. Arnold's ganglion, 681. nerve. See Nerve. Arteria comes nervi ischiadici, 118. phrenici, 365, 441, 470. pancreatica magna, 332. thyroidea ima, 587. ArteriDB receptaculi, 518. Arterial duct, 465. Artery or Arlieries :— acromio-thoracic, 23. anastomotic of brachial, 48. of femoral, 154. of profunda, 166. of sciatic, 119. angular, 559. aorta, abdominal, 320. thoracic, 480. articular of knee, azygos, 129. inferior, 128. superior, 127. auricular, anterior, 606. deep, 614. posterior, 503, 606. auditory, 720, 822. axillary, 22. basilar, 719. brachial, 46. brachio-cephalic, 467. bronchial, 480, 481. buccal, 615. of bulb, 251, 417. calcaneal, internal, 208. capsular, inferior, 358, 364. middle, 358, 364. superior, 358, 365. carotid, common, left, 468. right, 599. external, 602. internal, 518, 626, 627, 682, 722. carpal, radial, anterior, 63. posterior, 90. ulnar, anterior, 66. posterior, 66. central of retina, 646, 800. cerebellar, anterior, 720. inferior, 718. superior, 720. cerebral, anterior, 722. middle, 723. posterior, 719, 720. cervical, ascending, 594. deep, 532, 595. superficial, 622. Artei-y or Arteries :— cervical, transverse, 9, 522. choroid of brain, 721, 7^1, 764. ciliary, anterior, 647, 798. long, ()4G, 798. posterior, 646, 797. circumflex, anterior, 24, 34. external, 1.59. iliac, deep, 284. superficial, 138, 264. internal, 123, 166. posterior, 24, 34. coccygeal, 118. cochlear, 822. coeliac, 331. colic, left, 317. middle, 316. right, 316. communicating, anterior, 722. plantar, 184. posterior, 722. of posterior tibial, 195. coronary, of heart, 455. of lips, 559. of stomach, 332. of corpus cavernosuni, 251, 416. cremasteric, 277, 284. crico-thyroid, 604, 697. cystic, 333. deep femoral, 149, 164. deferential, 277. dental, anterior, 653. inferior, 614, 618. posterior, 615. diaphragmatic, 365. digital, of foot, 202, 209, 210. of hand, 71, 80. dorsal, of clitoris, 259. of foot, 182, 210. of index finger, 91, of penis, 251, 253. scapular, 24. of thumb, 91. of tongue, 623. epigastric, deep, 284. superficial, 138, 264. superior, 283. ethmoidal, anterior, 648. jjosterior, 647. facial, 556, 605. transverse, 559. femoral, 148, 154. deep, 149, 164. frontal, 503, 648. gastric, 332. gastro-duodeual, 332. epiploic, left, 332. right, 333. gluteal, 116, 398. hajmorrhoidal, inferior, 242. middle, 398. superior, 318, 400. hepatic, 332. hyoid of lingual, 623. of tliyroid, 604. hypogastric, 396.825 INDEX. Artery or Arteries :— iliac, coinnion, 365. external, 3(Ui. in tenia!, ileo-colic, 31(i. ilio-lnmbar, 39G. incisor, (ilH. infniorbitnl, (i53. infrascapnlar, '2-i, 31. innominate, -1(57. intercostal, anterior, 439, 441, 538. aortic, anterior brandies, SHH, 439,482. aortic, ]3osterior branches, 482, 532. snperior, 439, 483, 595. interosseous, of foot, 184. of forearm, GO. anterior, 08. posterior, 90. of hand, 80, 91. intestinal, 315. inti-aspinal, 549. labial, inferior, 559. lachrynnil, 509, 047. laryngeal, inferior, 594, 097. sujierior, 004, 097. lingual, 023. lumbar, 283, 374. anterior branches, 283. posterior branches, 533. malleolar, 182, 195. nuimmary, external, 24. internal, 283, 440, 470, 594. masseteric, 015. maxillary, internal, 014, 677. median, 09. mediastinal, 441, 482. medullary, of femur, 100. of fibula, 196. of humerus, 48. of radius, 09. of tibia, 195. of ulna, 09. meningeal, anterior, 514. of ascending [iharyngeal, 514. large, 514. middle, 514, 014. of occijjital, 514, 004. posterior, 514, 718. snnill, 514, 015. of vertebi-al, 514. mental, G18. mesenteric, inferior, 317. superior, 314. metacarpal, radial, 91. ulnar, 00. metatarsal, 184. niusculo-pbrenic, 305, 441. mylo-hyoid, 014. misal, external, 048. internal, ()48. of intermil maxillary, 078. lateral, 659. of septum nasi, 078. naso-palatiue, 073, 078. Artery or Arteries :— obturator, 1()8, 284, .398. occipital, 503, 532, 005. o'sojihageal, 332, 482. oi>hthalmic, 518, 04(). (U'bital (of tcm|ioral), 000. ovarian, 305, 400. palatine, inferior, 005. superior, ()77. palpebral, 559, 048. pancreatic, 332. pancreatico-duodenal, 315, 333. parotid, 000. perforating of femoral, 133, 100. of foot, 184, 208. of baud, 80. of internal nuunniary, 441. pericardial, 482. perineal, superficial, 245. transverse, 245. peroneal, 190. anterior, 196. petrosal, 514. pharyngeal, ascending, 629. phrenic, inferior, 365. superior, 365, 441, 470. plantar, external, 202. internal, 202. popliteal, 120. prevertebral, 029. profunda of arm, inferior, 48. superior, 48, 53. of palm, 71. of thigh, 149, 104. pterygoid, 015, 678. pterygo-palatine, 678. pubic, 398. pudic, accessory, 399. external, 138, 264. internal, 119, 242, 2.50, 2.58, 399. pulmonary, 464, 479. ]iyloric, 333. radial, 02, 80, 90. ranine, ()23. recurrent, interosseous, posterior, 90. ])alniar, 80. radial, 03. tibial, 182. ulnar, anterior, (i5. posterior, 00. renal, 350, 304. sacral, lateral, 397, 537. middle, 400. scapular, dorsal, 38. posterior, 38, 522. sciatic, 118, 399. sigmoid, 318. spernuitic, 277, 282, 301. spheno-i>alatine, 078. spinal, anterior, 545, 718. X^osterior, 545, 18. splenic, 332. sternal, 441. stemo-raastoid of tbyro of occipij^al, G05. stylo-niastoid, COG.INDEX. 82G Artery or Arteries :— subclavian, left, 468, 593. right, 591. sublingual, 023. submental, 605. subscapular, 24. sui^erficial cervical, 9, 522. perineal, 245. volar, 63. superior fibular, 182. supraacromial, 9. supraorbital, 503, 647. suprarenal, 364. supi'asoapular, 9, 38, 522, 594. sural, 127. tarsal, 183. temporal, anterior, 503. deep, 615. middle, 606. posterior, 503. superficial, 503, 606. thoracic, alar, 24. long, 24. superior, 23. thyroid, inferior, 587, 594. lowest, 587. Bui^erior, 587, 604. tibial, anterior, 181. posterior, 195. tonsillar, 605, 665. transverse, cei'vical, 9, 522, 594. facial, 559, 606. perineal, 245. of pons, 720. tympanic, 614. ulnar, 64. umbilical, 396. utei'ine, 399. vaginal, 398. vertebral, 532, 593, 707, 718. vesical, inferior, 398. superior, 398. vestibular, 822. Vidian, 678. volar, superficial, 63. Articular popliteal arteries, 127, 128. nerves, 129, 130. Articulation, acromio-clavicular, 37. astragalo-calcanean, 224. astragalo-navicula;;, 226. atlanto-ajtial, 712. of bones of the tympanum, 809. calcaneo-cuboid, 227. of carpal bones, 100. carpo-metacarpal, 103. of cervical vertebrie, 707. clirondo-costal, 492. sternal, 491. of coccygeal bones, 427. of costal cartilages, 492. costo-vertebral, 489. crioo-arytenoid, 702. thyroid, 702. of cuneiform bones, 229. cuneiform to cuboid, 229. cuneiform to navicular, 228. femoro-tibial or knee, 213. Articulation, of hip, 160. huraero-cubital or elbow, 95. interchondral, 492. of lower jaw, 611. lumbo-sacral, 427. of metacarpal bones, 102. metacarpo-phalangeal, 104. metatarsal, 229. metatarso-phalangeal, 232. of navicular bone, 228. occipito-atlantal, 712. phalangeal of fingers, 105. of toes, 232. of pubic symphysis, 429. radio-cai-pal or ^vi-ist, 98. ulnar, inferior, 100. superior, 97. sacro-coccygeal, 427. iliac, 429. scapulo-limneral or shoulder, 92 sterno-clavicular, 712. sternum, pieces of, 492. tarsal, transverse, 228. tarso-metatarsal, 230. temporo-maxiUary, 611. of the thumb, 103. tibio-fibular, 221. tibio-tarsal or ankle, 222. of vertebroe, 492. Aryteno-epiglottideau folds, 696, 701. muscles, 691. Arytenoid cartilages, 700. glauds, 696. muscle, 690. Ascenduig aorta. See Aorta. . cava, 320, 367, 409. cervical artery, 594. colon, 302. pharyngeal artery^ 629. Association-fibres of brain, 775. Atlanto-axial articulations, 712. ligaments, 712. Atrium of heart, 457. of middle meatus, 671. Attollens aurem. See Muscle. Attrahens aurem. See Muscle. Auditory arteiy. See Artery. canal or meatus, external, 803. nerve. See Nerve, nuclei, 784. stria?, 782. tubercle, 783. Auricle of the ear, 569. Auricles of the heart, 455. left, 462. right, 457. structure of, 474. Auricular appendages, 455. arteries. See Artery, vein, posterior. Sec Vein, nerves. See Nerve. Auriculo-temporal nerve. See Nerve. ventricular aperture, left, 463. right, 461. Aurioulo-ventricular groove, 454. rings, 463. Axilla, 16.827 INDEX. Axillary artery, 22. glandsi, 18. sheath, 20. vein, 17, 24. Axis, of cochlea, 817. coeliac, of artery. See Artery, thyroid of artery, 594. Azygos, artery, 129. uvula; muscle. See Muscle. veins. See Veins. Back, dissection of, 1. Bartholin's duct, 258. glands. See Glands. Base of bladder, 388, 395. brain, 725. the skull, arteries of, 514, 518. dissection of, 612. nerves of, 515. Basilar artery. See Artery, membrane, 819. plexus. See Plexus. Basilic vein, 41. Biceps. See Muscle. Bile-ducts, 335. structure of, 341. Biventer cervieis muscle. See Muscle. Biventral lobe, 778. Bladder, gall, 351. urinary, interior of, 410, 425. ligaments of, 378. relations of, 387, 394. structure of, 409. Bodies, geniculate, 770. Pacchionian, 507. quadrigeminal, 771. suprarenal, 357. Bones of the ear, 809. ligaments of, 810. muscles of, 810. Brachia of corpora quadrigemina, 771. Brachial aponeurosis, 43. artery, 46. plexus, 25, 590. veins, 48. Brachialis anlicus, .50. Brachio-cephalic artery. See Artei'y. veins. See Veins. Brain, base of, 725. membranes of, 716. origin of nerves, 726. preservation of, 510, 715. removal of, 509. vessels of, 718. Breast, 13. Broad ligament of uterus, 391. Bronchial arteries, 479. glands. See Glands. tubes, 479. veins, 479. Bronchi, 477. Bronchia, 479. Brunner's glands. See Glands. Buccal artery. See Artery. Buccal nerves. See Nerve. Buccinator muscle. See Muscle. Bulb, of corpus cavernosum, 252. spongiosum, 252. olfactory, 744. of spinal cord, 731. of the uretlira, 2.52. artery of. See Artery, nerve of. See Nerve, of the'vestibule, 257. Bulbo-cavernosus muscle. See Muscle. Bulbous'part of the urethra, 413. Buttock, dissection of. See Dissection. Crecum coli, 302. relations of, 324. Calamus scriptorius, 781. Calcaneal arteries. »SVc Artery. Calcaneo-plantar nerve. See Nerve. Calcar avis, 761. Calcarine fissure, 753. Cttlices of the ureter, 357. Callosal convolution, 754. sulcus, 754. Calloso-marginal sulcus, 752. Canal, anal, 387. auditory, external, 803. of cochlea, 819. crural, 145. Hunter's, 154. hyaloid, 800. inguinal, 286. lachrymal, .566. of Nuck, 270. of Petit, 801. of Schlemm, 792. semicircular, 816. membranous, 820. of spinal cord, 548. of the tensor tympani, 806. of Wirsung, 342. Canalis reunions, 819, 821. Canthus of eyelids, 566. Cajiitula laryngis, 700. Capsular arteries. See Artery. ligament. See Ligament. Capsule, of crystalline lens, 801. external, of cerebrum, 760. of Glisson, 849. internal, of cerebrum, 708. of kidney, 356. suprarenal, 357. of Tenon, 644, 790. Caput coecum coli, 507. gallinaginis, 412. Cardia of stomach, 338. Cardiac nerves. See Nerve. plexus. See Plexus, veins. See Veins. Carotid arteries. See Artery. plexus. Sec Plexus. Carpal arteries. See Artery. articulations, 100. Carpo-metacarpal articulation. See Arti- culation. Cartilage, arytenoid, 700. cricoid, 699. cuneiform, 700.INDEX. 828 Cartilage, of the ear, 571. septal of the nose, 565, 669. thyroid, 698. Cartilages, of the nose, 565. of Santorini, 700. of trachea, 703. Cartilagines quadratte, 565. Cartilago triticea, 701. Caruncula lachrymalis, 568. Carunculns myrtiformes, 255. Cauda equina, 544. Caudate lobe, 347. nucleus, 766. Cava, inferior. Sec Vena Cava. superior. See Vena Cava. Cavernous body, 252. artery of. See Artery. ple.Kus, 518. sinus. Sec Sinus. Central artery of the retina, (o) 646, (d). 800. branches of cerebral arteries. See Artery, ligament of cord, 541. lobe of cerebellum, 778. of cerebrum, 748, 752. pillar of cochlea, 817. point of the perineum, 246. sulcus, 747. tendon, 359. Centrum ovale cerebri, 756. Cephalic vein, 16, 42. Cerebellar arteries. See Artery. Cerebellum, form of, 776. lobes of, 777. structure of, 779. Cerebral arteries. See Artery. Cerebro-spinal fluid, 717. Cerebrum, convolutions of, 745. fibres of, 773. form of, 740. interior of, 755. lobes of, 749. Ceruniinous glands, 804. Cervical arteries. <See Artery, fascia. See Fascia, ganglion, inferior. See Ganglion. middle. Sec Ganglion, superior. Sec Ganglion, glands, 579. nerves. See Nerve, plexus of nerves, deep branches, 598. superficial b ranch es, 578. Cervicalis ascendens muscle. Sec Muscle. Cerv'ico-faoial nerve. See Nerve. Cei-vix uteri, 393. vesiciE, 388. Chamber of the aqueous, 798. Check ligaments. See Ligaments. Cheeks, 666. Chiasma of the optic nerves, 727. Choanne, 660. Chondro-costal articulations. See Articu- lation. gloBSUs muscle. See Muscle. Chondro-stemal articnlationB. See Articu- lation. Chorda tympani nerve, 625. Chordae tendiueoe, 461. Willisii, 508. Choroid arteries of the brain. See Artery. coat of the eye, 793. I)lexuses of tlie brain. See Plexus. veins of the eye. See Vein. brain. See Vein. Choroidal fissure. See Fissure. Cilia, 554. Ciliary arteries, 797. muscle, 795. part of retina, 799. processes of the choroid, 794. of the suspensory liga- ment, 801. nerves, 797. veins. See Veins. Cingulum, 756. Circle of Willis, 725. Circular sinus, 513. Circumflex artery. See Artery. nerve, 17, 34. Circumvallate papillse, 683. Claustrum, 769. Clava, 733. Clavicular cutaneous nerves. See Nerves. Clitoris, 255, 257. Coccygeal artery. See Artery. muscle. See Muscle, nerve. See Nerve. Cochlea, 816. aqueduct of, 819. canal of, 819. nerve of. See Nerve, vessels of, 822. Cochleariform process, 806. Cceliac arteiy or axis. See Abteev. glands, 371. I^lexus. See Plexus. Colic arteries. See Artery. impression on liver, 347. Collateral eminence, 754, 760. fibres of cerebrum, 774. fissure. See Fissure. Colles, fascia of, 244. Colon, 301, 302. structure of, 326. Columna nasi, 565. ColumntB camese, 460. Columns, of the rectum, 418. of the spinal cord, 547. of the vagina, 420. Comes nei'vi ischiadici artery, 118. phrenici artery, 441. Commissure, anterior of cerebrum, 769. of the cord, 548. optic, 727. posterior of cerebrum, 772. soft of cerebrum, 766. of vulva, 255. Commissural fibres of the cerebellum, 780. of the cerebrum, 774. Common sinus, 820. Communicating arteries. Sec Artery. peroneal nerve. See Nerve.INDEX. 829 Communicating tibial nerve. See Ner Complexus muscle. Seir Muscle. Compressoi- naris muscle. See Muscle. Conarium, 772. Concba, 5G9. Congenital hernia, 289. Coni vasculosi, 280. Conical papillie, 083. Conjoined tendon, 272. Conjunctiva, 568. Conoid ligament, 30. Constrictor. Sec Muscle. Conus arteriosus, 400. medullaris, 545. Convolutions of the brain, 745. Coraco-acromial ligament, 37. brachialis muscle, 45. clavicular ligament, 30. humeral ligament, 92. Cord, spernuitic, 276. Cordiform tendon, 359. Cords on the abdominal wall, 292. vocal, 095. Cornea, 792. Cornicula laryngis, 700. Comua of grey crescent, 548. of lateral ventricle, 758. Corona glandis, 253. radiata, 774. Coronary arteries. See Artery. ligament of the liver. Sec Liga- ment. plexus of the stoma oh. See Plexus. plexuses of the heart. See Plexus, sinus, 450. vein of the stomach. Sec Vein. Corpora albicantia, 720, 743. Arantii, 402. cavernosa, 2.52, 415. geniculata, 770, 771. mamillaria, 743. quadrigemina, 771. Corpus calloBum, 720, 744, 756. dentatum cerebelli, 780. medullas, 737. fimbriatum, 394. Highmorianum, 279. luteum, 424. Morgagni. See Hydatid. spongiosum urethrte, 252, 253, 416. striatum, 700. Corpuscles of Malpighi, 356. Corrugator. Set Muscle. Cortex, of cerebellum, 755. of cerebrum, 745. of tongue, 686. Corti, organ of, 819. Cortical branches of cerebral arteries. See Artei-y. substance of the kidney. See Kidney Structure. Costo-clavicular ligament. Sec Ligament, colic fold, 312. coracoid membrane, 20. transverse ligaments. See Ligament. Cotunnius. fluid of, 816. Cotyloid ligament, 171. Covered band of Reil, 756. Cowper's glands, 250, 413. Cranial nerves, 514. [ nuclei of, 783. I Crenmster muscle. Sec Muscle. Cremasteric artery. See Artery. fascia, 270. Crest of the urethra, 412. vestibule, 815. Cribriform fascia, 138. Crico-arytenoid articulation. Sec Articu- lation. muscle, lateral. See Muscle. i posterior. See i Muscle. I tliyroid artery. Sec .\rtery. articulation. See Articu- I lation. membrane. See Membrane, muscle. iS'ce Muscle, tracheal ligament. See Ligament. Cricoid cartilage, 699. Crista acustica, 820. Crucial ligaments. Sec Ligament. Crura cerebelli, 780. cerebri, 725, 741. of the clitoris, 257. of the diaphragm, 359. of the fornix, 700. of the penis, 252, 415. Crural arch, 143. deep, 145, W6. canal, 145. hernia, 146. nerve, 144. ring, 146. septum, 146. sheath, 145. Crusta of cerebral peduncle, 742. Crypts of Lieberkiihn, 323. of tongue, 687. Crystalline lens, 801. Cuneate funiculus and tubercle, 733. lobule, 754. Cuneiform cartilages, 700. Cupola cochleie, 817. Curve of the urethra, 390. Cutaneous nerves of the abdomen, 262. of the arm, 42. of the back, 3, 4. of the buttock, 110. of the face, 564. of the foot, back, 176. sole, 197. of the forearm, 42, 56. of the hand, back, 57, 58. palm, 70. of the head, 504. of the leg, back, 187. front, 176. of the neck, back, 579. front, 578. of the perineum, 240,243. of the shoulder, 31. of tlio thigh, front, 140.830 INDEX. Cutaneous nerves of the thorax, 13. Cystic artery. See Artery, duct, 352. plexus of nerves. See Plexus, vein. See Vein. Dartoid tissue, 252. Decussation of the pyramids, 731, 735. Deep cervical artery. See Artery, crural arch, 145. transverse muscle of perineum. See Muscle. Deferential artery. See Artery. Deltoid ligament. iS'ee Ligament. muscle, 31. Dental arteries. See Artery. nerves. See Nerve. Dentate body of cerebellum, 780. of medulla oblongata, 737. fascia, 755. fissure, 754. ligament. <See Ligament. Depressor. See Muscle. Descendens cervicis nerve. See Nerve. Descending cava, 468. colon, 303. thoracic aorta, 481. Diaphragm, 358, 489. arteries of, 365. plexus of, 337. Digastric muscle. See Muscle. nerve. See Nerve. Digital arteries. See Artery, nerves. See Nerve, sheaths, 71. Dilator. See Muscle. Disc, interpubic, 430. intervertebral, 494. optic, 799. Dissection of the abdominal cavity, 296. waU, 260. of the arm, 39. of the axilla, 11. of the back, 1, 519. of the base of the skull, 512. of the brain, 715. of the buttock, 109. of the cardiac plexus, 472. of the carotid artery, internal, 627. of the carotid plexus, 518. of the cerebellum, 776. of the cerebrum, 740. of the coeliac axis, 331. of the corpus callosura, 756. of the corpus striatum, 766. of the cranial nerves in the neck, 630. of the crus cerebri, 742. of the deep vessels and nerves of the neck, 626. of the diaphragm, 358. of the ear, 803. of the eye, 790. of the eyelids, 556. of the face, 550. of the facial nerve, 679. Dissection of the fascia lumbormn, 271, 272. of femoral hernia, 143. of the foot, back, 184. sole, 197. of the forearm, back, 83. front, 55. of the fourth ventricle, 781. of the hand, back, 90. Ijalm, 69. of the head, external parts, 499. internal parts, 507. of the heart, 457. of the hollow before the elbow, 59. of the hypogastric plexus, 318. of inferior maxillary nerve, 613. of inguinal hernia, 285. of Jacobson's nerve, 812. of the labyrinth, 814. of the larynx, 688. cartilages, 698. muscles, 689. nerves, 696. of the leg, back, 186. front, 175. of the ligaments of atlas and axis, 707. of the ligaments of atlas and occiput, 707. of the ligaments of axis and occiput, 710. of the ligaments of clavicle and scapula, 36, 707. of the ligaments of the hip- joint, 169. of the ligaments of the jaw, 612. of the ligaments of the lower limb, 212. of the ligaments of pelvis, 427. of the ligaments of ribs, 490. of the ligaments of the upper limb, 92. of the ligaments of the vertebrie, 492, 707. of the lower limb, 109. of Meckel's ganglion, 674. of the neck, 572. anterior triangle, 581. posterior triangle, 575. of the nose, 667. of the ophthalmic of the fifth nerve, 516. of the orbit, 639. of the otic ganglion, 680. parotid gland, 559. of the pelvis, 376. side ■s'iew, female, 390. male, 376. of the perineum, female, 255. male, 236. of the pharynx, 654. of the poHs, 739.831 INDEX. Dissection of the popliteal space, 12-1. of the prevertebnil muscles, 70-1. of the pterygoid region, (307. of the siicral plexus, 400. of the shoulder, 28. of the soft piilate, (iUl. of the solar plexus, 336. of the spinal cord, 539. of the subclavian artery, .588. of the subnuixillary region, 619. of the superior maxillary nerve, 652. of the testis, 277. of the thigh, back, 130. front, 136. of the thorax, -136. of the tongue, 682. of the triangular space of the thigh, 146. I of the tympanum, 805. vessels and nerves, 811 of the upper liinb, 1. Dorsal artery. See Artery. nerves. Sec Nerve. Dorsalis scapulie artery, 2-1. Douglas, fold of, 274. pouch of, 376, 391. Drum of the ear, 805. Duct, of Bartholin, 258. bile, common, 335, 341. of cochlea, 819. cystic, 352. ejaculatory, 408. hepatic, 335. lactiferous, 14. lymphatic, right, 486. nasal, 567. pancreatic, 342. parotid, 560. of Rivinus, 625. seminal, common, 389. of Stenson, 560. thoracic, 371, 485, 595. of Wharton, 625. Ductus arteriosus, 465. communis choledochus, 335, 341. endolympluiticns, 815, 821. Stenonis, 560. venosus, 348. Duodenal impression on liver, 347. Duodeno-jejunal flexure, 301, 328. fossa, 313. Duodenum, characters of, 321. peritoneum of, 312. relations of, 301, 327. Dura mater, cranial, 507, 510. spiinil, 539. nerves of, 514. Tessels of, 514. Ear, external, 569, 803. internal, 814. middle, 805. Eighth nerve. See Auditory Nerve. Ejaculator urinie. bee Muscle. Elbow-joint, 95. I Eleventh nerve. See Nerve, Spinal Accessory. Eminentia collateralis, 762. teres, 782. Encephalon, 715. Encysted hernia, 289. Endocardium, 477. Endolympli, 819. Ependyma, 758. Epididymis, 281. Epigastric artery. Sec Artery, fossa, 260. plexus. See Plexus, region of the abdomen, 298. veins. See Vein. Epiglottis, 700. Epoophoron, -124. Erector. Sec Muscle. Ethmoidal arteries, 647. bulla, 670. cells, 670. Eustachian tube, cartilaginous part, 660, 808. osseous part, 808. valve, 459. Eversion of foot, 186. Extensor. See Muscle. External cutaneous nerves. See Nerve. Extraventricular nucleus, 766. Eyeball, 790. brows, 556. lashes, 556. lids, 556. muscles of, 553. nerves of, 569. structure, 567. vessels, 569. Face, dissection of, 550. Facial artery. See Artery. nerve. See Nerve. nucleus, 729. vein. See Vein. Falciform border of saphenous opening, 143. ligament of the liver, 305, 313. Fallopian tube, 394, 424. Fallopius, aqueduct of, 806. Falx cerebelli, 511. cerebri, 508. Fascia, anal, 383. axillary, 12. brachial, 43. bucco-pbaryngeal, 655. cervical, deep, 574, 580. of Colles, 244. cremasteric, 270. cribriform, 138. dentala, 755, 762. of the forearm, 58. iliac, 293, 370. infundibuliform, 275. inlercolnninar, 267. lata, 125, 141. of the leg, 177, 187, 188. lumborum, 272, 521. obturator, 380.INDEX. 832 Fascia, palmar, 70. palpebral, 568. parotid, 5G0. pelvic, 376, 378. perineal, deep, 248. superficial, Q.ii. _ plantar, 198. of psoas, 370. of pyriformis, 380. of quadratus, 370. recto-vesioal, 380, 388. of Scarpa, 262. spermatic, 267. temporal, 506. transversalie, 275. triangular, 268. Fasciculus teres, 782. Fauces, 661. Femoral artery, 148, 154. heruia, 146, 292. ligament, 143. vein, 149. Fenestra ovalis, 805. rotunda, 805. Fibres of the cerebrum, 774. of the cerebellum, 780. Fibro-oartilage. See Interarticular. of heart, 474, 477. Fibrous coat of eye. See Sclerotic Coat. Fifth nerve. See Nerve Trigeminal, nuclei of, 784. ^ventricle of brain. See Ventricle. Filiform papilloe, 683. Fillet of the pons and mid-brain, 743, 771. Filum terminale, 641. Fimbria of brain, 762. Fimbrice of the Falloi)iau tube, 424. First nerves, 726. Fissure, calcarine, 753. choroidal, 762. collateral, 754. dentate, 754. Glaserian, 806. hippocampal, 754. longitudinal, of cerebrum, 745. of liver, 348. parieto-occipital, 747, 751. portal, 347. of Sylvius, 745. transverse of cerebrum, 762. of liver, 347. Fissures, of the cerebrum, 745. of the cord, 546. of Santorini, 571. Flexor. See Muscle. Flexure, duodeno-jejunal, 301, 328. hepatic, 302. splenic, 302. Flocculus cerebelli, 778. Fold of Douglas, 274. Folia of cerebellum, 777. Folium cacuminis, 778. Foot, dorsum, 184. sole, 197. Foramen coecum of medulla oblongata, 731. of tongue, 682. of Monro, 761. ovale, 458, 463. Foramen quadratum, 361. for vena cava, 362, 489. of Winslow, 309, 311. Foramina Thebesii, 459. Forearm, dissection of, 55, 83. Formatio reticularis, 737, 740. Fornix, 760. conjunctivOB, 568. Fossa, duodeno-jejunal, 313. ischio-rectal, 238. navicular of the urethra, 413. of the vulva, 255. ovalis, 458. rhomboidalis, 781. FossDB of abdominal wall, 292. Fourchette, 255. Fourth nerve. See Nerve Trochlear, nucleus of, 784. ventricle. See Ventricle. Fovea, centralis, 799. hemielliptica, 815. hemispherica, 815. Foveee of fourth ventricle, 782. Frsenulum clitoridis, 255. labii, 666. pudendi, s. vulvne, 255. Frcenum epiglottidis, 687. of ileo-cEecal valve, 325. lingua;, 683. preeputii, 252 Frontal artery. See Artery. lobe of cerebrum, 747, 749. nerve. See Nerve, sinus. See Sinus, vein. See Vein. Fundus of bladder, 387. of stomach, 338. of uterus, 393, 420. Fungiform papillee, 683. Funiculus cuneatus, 732. gracilis, 732. of Eolando, 732. Furrow of Rolando, 747. Furrowed band, 779. Furrows of cerebrum. See Fissures. of spinal cord. See Fissures. Galactophorus ducts, 14. Galen, veins of. See Veins. Gall-bladder, 351. Ganglia, of glosso-pharjTigeal, 682. lumbar, 374. sacral, 404. semilunar, 337. of spinal nerves, 542. thoracic, 470. of vagus, 633. Ganglion, cervical, inferior, 638. middle, 638. superior, 637. Gasserian, 516. geniculate, 679. inipiir, 404. intervertebi'al, 543. jugular, 632. lenticular, 646. Meckel's, 673.833 INDEX. fiiinglioii, opUtluiliuic, 6-1(1. otic, 673, 6H0. lietrosal, G3'2. splieiio-palatine, 67:!. spinile, 8'2'2. Kubmiixillavy, 624. thyroid, 638. Gastric arteries. Sec Artery. impression on liver, 347. veins. Sec Veins. Gastro-colic omentum, 311. dtioilenal artery. See Artery, epiploic artei-ies. See Artery. veins. See Veins, hepatic omentum, 310. splenic omentum, 311. Gastrocnemius mu.scle. See Muscle. Gelatinous substance, 737. Gemellus. See Muscle. Generative organs, 419. Geniculate bodies, 770. ganglion. Sec Ganglion. Genio-glossus or Genio-hyo-glossus. See Muscle. hyoid muscle. Sec Muscle. Genital organs, 419. Genito-crural nerve, 110. Genu, of corpus callosum, 744. of internal capsule, 768. of optic tract, 772. Gimbeniat's ligament, 144. Giraldi's, organ of, 282. Gland of Havers, 172. lachrymal, 641. parotid, 559, 584. pineal, 772. prostate, 406. sublingual, 625. submaxillary, 619. thymus, 446. thyroid, 586. Glands, agminated, 323. arytenoid, 696. Bartholin's, 2,58. Brunner's, 341. ceruminous, 804. Cowper's, 250. labial, 606. laryngeal, 696. Liebci'kiibn's, 323. lingual, 683. lymphatic, axillary, 18. bronchial, 485. cardiac, 485. cervical, superficial, 579. deep, 579. cceliac, 371. concatenate, 579. inguinal, 138, 264. intercostal, 485. lingual, 688. lumbar, 371. mastoid, .579, mediastinal, 485. mesenteric, 316. meso-colic, 316. parotid, ,559. Glands, lyn\|)hatic, pelvic, 405. popliteal, 130. sternal, 485. subnnvxillary, ,58-1. suboccipital, 579. nniinmary, 13, 16. Meibomian, 568. molar, .561. of Pacchioni, 507. Peyers, 323. solitary, 323. tarsal, 568. of trachea, 703, GlanduliB concatenatiB, 579. odoriferie, 252, Glans of the clitoris, 257. of tlie penis, 253. Glaserian fissure, 806. Glenoid ligament, 93. Glisson's capsule, 349. Globus major epididymis, 281. minor eiiididymis, 281. Glosso-epiglottidean folds, 687. Ijluiryngeal nerve. See Nerve, nucleus, 784. Glottis, 693. Gluteal artery, 116. nerve, inferior, 119. superior, 117. muscles. See Muscle. Graafian vesicles, 423. Gracilis muscle, 161. Grey commissure of the cord, 548. crescent of the cord, 548. substance of medulla oblongata, 737. of the third ventricle, 766. tubercle of Rolando, 732. Gullet, 484. Gustatory nerve. See Lingual. Gyri breves, 752. of cerebrum, 745, 748, 752. longi, 7.52. Gyrus fornicatus, 754. Hiemorrhoidal arteries. See Artery. nerve, inferior. See Nerve, plexus of nerves. See Plexus. veins. >S'fie Veins. Ham, 130. Hamulus, laminic spiralis, 818. Hand, dissection of, (iO. Havers, gland of. See Gland. Head, movements of, 712. Heart, 4.52. constituents, 4.54. dissection of, 456. ])osition, 453. structure of, 473. Helicotrenui, 818. Helix, 569. fossa of, 569. muscles of, 570. Hemispheres of cerebellum, 776. of cerebrum, 745. Hepatic artery. See Artery, ducts, 335.INDEX. M Hepatic flexure of colon, 302. jilexus. See Plexus, veins. See Veins. Hernia, crural or femoral, 140. inguinal, external, 286. internal, 290. umbilical, 291. Hesselbacli's triangle, 290. Hiatus coclileiB, 818. semilunaris, 670. Higlimore, bodj^ of, 279. Hilum of kidney, 353. of lung, 447. of ovary, 423. of spleen, 343. of suprarenal body, 357. Hip-joiat, 169. Hippocampal fissure, 754. Hippocampus major, 761. minor, 761. Hollow before elbow, 59. Hunter's canal, 154. Hyaloid canal, 800. membrane, 800. Hymen, 255. Hyo-epiglottidean ligament, 700. glossal membrane, 684. glossus muscle. See Muscle. Hyoid artery. See Artery, bone, 698. Hypochondriac region of abdomen, 298. Hypogastric artery. See Artery. plexus of nerves. See Plexus. region of tlie abdomen, 297. Hypoglossal nerve. See Nerve. nucleus, 730, 784. Ileo-otecal fold, 314. valve, 325. colic artery. See Ai'tery. fold, 314. valve, 325. Ileum, relations of, 301. structure of, 321. Hiac arteries. See Artery, colon, 304. fascia, 293, 370. part of fascia lata, 142. region of the abdomen, 298. veins. See Vein. Iliacus muscle, 167. Ilio-costalis. See Muscle, femoral ligament, 170. hypogastric nerve. See Nerve, inguinal nerve, 140. lumbar artery. See Artery. ligament. See Ligament, vein. See Vein, psoas, 370. tibial band, 142. Incisor branch of nerve. See Nerve. Incus, 809. Indicator muscle. See Muscle. Infantile hernia, 289. inframarginal convolution, 752. Inframaxillary nerve. See Nerve. Infraorbital artery. See Artery. Infraorbital nerves. See Nerve. plexus. See Plexus, vein. See Vein. Infrascapular artery. See Artery. Infraspinatus muscle, 34. Infrastemal fossa, 260. Infratrochlear nerve. See Nerve. Infundibula of the lung, 479. of the ureter, 307. Infundibuliform fascia, 275. Infundibulum of the brain, 726, 743. of the heart, 460. of the nose, 670. Inguinal canal, 286. fossa;, 292. furrow, 260. glands, 138, 264. hernia, external, 286. internal, 290. region of the abdomen, 298. Iimominate artei-y. See Artery. veins. See Veins. Inscriptiones teudineoe, 273. Insula, 748. Interarticular fibro-cartilage of the jaw, 612. of the knee, 218. stemo-clavi- cular, 714. of the wrist, 100. ligament. See Ligament. Interclavicular ligament. See Ligament. Intercoluranar fascia and fibres, 267. Intercostal aponeuroses, 438. arteries. See Artery, muscles. See Muscles, nerves. See Nerves, veins. See Vein. Intercosto-humeral nerve, 43. Intermediate process, 548. Intermuscular septa of the arm, 52. of the foot, 198. of the leg, 177, 185, 188, 192. of the thigh, 159. Internal cutaneous nerve. See Nerve. Interosseous arteries. See Artery. ligaments or membrane. See Ligament, muscles. See Muscle, nen es. See Nerve. Literpeduncular space, 742. Interpubic disc, 430. Interspinal nuiscles. See Muscles. Intertransverse muscles. See Muscles. Intervertebral disc or substance, 494. ganglia, 543. Intestinal arteries. See Artei-j'. canal divisions, 301. structure of, 321, 324. Intestine, large, 324. small, 301, 321. Intraparietal sulcus, 750. Intraspinal vessels, 549. Intraventricular nucleus, 76G. Intumesceutia ganglioformis, 821.835 Inversion of foot, 194. Iris, 79G. nerves of, 797. structure of, 796. vessels of, 797. Ischio-cavei-nosus muscle. See Muscle. rectal fossa, 238. Island of Reil, 748. IsUanius cerebri, 770. faucium, GUO. of the thyroid body, S8C. (4 the uterus, 421. Iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculitni, 773. Jacobson's nerve. See Nerve. Jejunum,'relations of, 301. sti'ucture of, 821. Joint, ankle, 222. elbow, 95. great toe, 230. hip, 169. Imee, 213. lower jaw, 611. shoulder, 92. thumb, 103. wrist, 98. Jugular ganglion. See Ganglion, veins. See Vein. Kei'ato-cricoid muscle. See Muscle. Kidney, 306. relations of, 307, 353. structure of, 355. vessels of, 356. Knee-joint. See Articulation. Labia pudendi externa n. majora, 255. intenia s. minora, 255. Labial artery, inferior. Sec Artery, glands, 60G. nerves. See Nerves. Labyrinth, 814. lining of, 816. membranous, 820. osseous, 814. Lachrymal artery. See Artery, canals, 566. gland. See Gland, nerve. See Nerve, papilla, 566. point, 566. sac, 567. Lacteals, 324. Lactiferous ducts, 14. Lacunaj of the urethra, 413. Lamina cinei'ea, 726, 744. quadrigemina, 770. spiralis cochlena, 818. suprachoroidea, 795. Lamina; of cerebellum, 777, 779. of the lens, 802. Large intestine, relations of, 301. structure and form of, 324. I Laryngeal Arl^Sries, See Artery. ner\'«8. See Nerve. pouch, 694. Lai'yn.x, 688. apertures of, 661, 693. cartilages of, 698. interior of, 693. ligaments of, 701. muscles of, 689. nerves of, 697. ventricle of, 694. vessels of, 697. Lateral column of the cord, 547. cutaneous nerves. See Nerves, nucleus, 737. recess of the pharynx, 665 sinus, 511. tract, 731, 736. ventricles, 758. Latissimus dorsi, 7, 27. Leg, dissection of the back, 186. front, 175. Lens of the eye, 801. Lenticular ganglion. See Ganglion. nucleus, 766. Levator. See Muscle. Lieberkiihn's crypts, 323. Lieno-renal ligament, 306. Ligament or Ligaments :— acromio-clavicular, 37. alar of the knee, 216. annular, anterior of ankle, 178. extenial of ankle, 178. internal of ankle, 197. of radius, 97. of stapes, 810. anterior of wrist, 82, 91. jiosterior of wrist, 83. anterior, of ankle-joint, 223. of elbow-joint, 96. of knee-joint, 215. of wrist-joint, 99. of carpus, 101. arched, of diaphragm, 360. of arterial duct, 465. astragalo-calcanean, 225. astragalo-navicular, 226. atlanto-axial, accessory, 712.. anterior, 708. posterior, 710. transverse, 711. of bladder, 378, 384, 392. broad, of uterus, 391. calcaneo-cuboid, 227. navicular, 226. capsular of the hip, 169. of the knee, 213. of the shoulder, 92. of the thumb, 103. carpal, dorsal, 101. palmar, 101. carpo-metacarpal, 103. central, of the cord, 541. check, 711. chondro-sternal, 491. of the coccyx, 427. common, anterior of vortebrm, 427, 493, 707. n 2INDEX. 83fi Ligament or Ligivraents :— I I^'S coramon, vosterior, 427, 493, 707. couoid, '36. conico-acromial, 3(5. claviculiir, 30. liLinienil, 92. coronary of liver, 305, 313. coBto-central, 490. clavicular, 713. coracoicl, 20. transverse, middle, 491. posterior, 491. superior, 491. vertebral, 490. xiphoid, 492. cotyloid, 171. crico-arytenoid, 702. thyroid, 701. tracheal, 701. crucial, 217. of cuneiform bones, 229. deltoid, 223. dentate, 541. falcifonn of liver, 305, 313. femoral, 143. of Gimbernat, 144, 267. glenoid, 93. hyo-epiglottidean, 703. ilio-femoral, 170. lumbar, 42S. of incus, 810. interarticular of the hip, 172. of the ribs, 490. of sacrum and coccyx, 427. interclavicular, 703. interosseous of astragalus and os calois, 225. of carpus, 101. of cuneiform bones, . 229. of metacarpal bones, 102. of metatarsal bones, 229. radio-ulnar, 97. . naviculo-cuboid, 229. tibio-fibular, ^kfrr^tSB^ interspinous, 496. intertransverse, 496. lateral, of ankle-joint, 223. of carpus, 101. of elbow, 95. lurabo-sacral, 427. phalangeal of foot, 232. ^ of hand, 104,105. of jaw, 611. of knee, 213, 214. of liver, 305, 313. of lung, 442. of wrist, 98, 99. of larynx, 698. lieno-reunl, 306. of liver, 313. lumbo-sacral, 427. of malleus, 810. metacarpal, 102. metatarsal, 229, 232. ;ament or Ligaments: — mucous)i"216. naviculo-cuboid, 229. cuneiform, 228. oblique, 98. • occipito-atlantal, anterior, 708. posterior, 709. occipito-axial, 710. odontoid, 711. orbicular of the radius, 97. ovario-pelvic, 392. of the ovary, 392. palpebral, 568. of the patella, 158, 215. of the pinna, 571. plantar, long, 227. short, 227. of Poupart, 143, 267. posterior of ankle-joint, 228. of carpus, 101. of elbow, 96. of knee, 214. of wrist, 82, 99. pterygo-maxillary, 658. pubic, anterior, 429. superior, 480. pubo-femoral, 170. recto-uterine, 391. of rectum, 386. rhomboid, 713. round, of the hip, 172. of the liver, 348. of the uterus, 277, 892, 394, 422. sacro-ooccygeal, 427. iliac, 429. sciatic, large, 124, 428. small, 124, 428. of sacrum, 427. of scapula, 87. of staiies, 810. stellate, 490. sterno-clavicular, 713. stylo-hyoid, 626. maxillary, 580, 612. subpubic, 430. suprascapular, 37. supraspinous, 496. suspensory of axis, 711. ■ of clitoris, 257. of lens, 800. of liver, 318. of penis, 252. of uterus, 392, 894, 422. tarsal of eyelids, 568. tarso-metatarsal, 230. thyro-arytenoid, 695, 696, (02. epiglottidean, 703. hyoid, 701. tibio-ilbiilar, 221.^ transverse of the atlas, 711. of the fingers, 71. of the hip, 171. of the knee, 218. of metacarpus, 81. of metatarsus, 210. of the toes, 199. trapezoid, 36.INDEX. 837 Ligameut or Lignmeuts:— triiuiguUn- of the ureVhrii, 248, 258. of the ntcvus, 392. vesico-uterine, 391. Ligiimentii subflavii, 49G. suspeiisoria of niamnia, 14. Ligiinientum arciiatum, 3G0. deiiticulatum, 541. latum jiulmoiiis, 442. michiB, G, 520. jiatellte, 215. pectinatum iridis, 793. spirale, 819. teres of hip, 172. of liver, 313. of uterus, 394. Limb, lower, 109. upper, 1. Limbus cochlena, 818. Linea alba, 266. semilunaris, 266, 274. splendens, 541. Liiieas transversa;, 266, 274. Lingual artery. See Artery. glands. See Glands, nerve. See Nerve, veins. See Vein. Linguales muscles. See Muscle. Lingula, 781. Lips, 666. Liquor Cotunnii, 816. Lithotomy, parts cut, 253. Liver, 304. ligaments of, 313. lobes of, 347. relations of, 304. structure of, 349. vessels of, 348, 349. Lobes of the cerebellum, 778. of the cerebrum, 749. of the liver, 347. of the lungs, 447. of the prostate, 406. of the testis, 280. Lobule, cuneate, 754. of ear, 569. • occipital, 754. orbital, 750. oval, or paracentral, 754. parietal, 7.51. quadrate, 754. Lobules of the liver, 349. Locus cosruleus, 783. Longissimus dorsi. See Muscle. Longitudinal fibres of cerebrum, 774. fissure of tlie cerebrum. See Fissure, of the liver, 347, 348. sinus, inferior. See Sinus, superior. See Sinus. Longus colli muscle. Sec Muscle. Lower, tubercle of, 4.57. Lumbar aponeurosis, 272. arteries. See Artery, ganglia, 374. glands. Sec Glands, nerves. See Nerve, plexus, 110, 371. Lumbar region of the abdomen, 298. veins. See Veins. Lumbo-sacral articulation, 427. cord or nerve, 372. Lumbricales, of the foot, 205. of the hand, 75. Lung, 446. •physical characters of, 447, 478. relations of, 446. roots of, 448. structure of, 478. vessels and nerves of, 449, 479, 480. Lunula, 462. Lymphatic duct, right, 486. glands. See Glands. Lympliatics of the arm, 42. of the axilla, 18. of the bladder, 411. of the gall bladder', 353. of the intestine, 324. of the kidney, 356. of the liver, 351. of the lungs, 480. of the mamma, 15. of the neck, 584. of the pelvis, 405. of the penis, 417. of the popliteal space, 130. of the prostate, 407. of the rectum, 418. of the !-pleen, 344. of the stomach, 341. of the suprarenal body, 358. of the testicle, 277, 282. of the thorax, 485. of the tongue, 688. of the tonsil, 605. of the uterus, 422. of the vagina, 420. Lyra, 761. Macula acustica, 820. lutea, 799. Mular nerves. See Nerves. Malleolar arteries. See Artery. Malleus, 809. Malpighian corpuscles of spleen, 844. of kidney, 356. Mamilla. See Nipple. Mamillre of the kidney, 355. Mamma, 13—16. Mamnuiry artery, external. See Artery. internal. See Artery, gland, 13—16. Marginal convolution, 754. Masseter muscle. Sec Muscle. Masseteric artery. See Artery. nerve. See Nerve. Mastoid antrum, 808. cells, 808. lymphatic glands, 579. Maxillary artery, internal. See Artery, nerves. See Nerve, veins. See Vein. Meatus auditorius externus, 803. nerves of, 804iINDEX. Meatus auditorius, vessels of, 804. uriiiariiiB, 255. Meatuses of the nose, 671. Meckel's ganglion, 673. Bleiliim-basilic vein. See Vein. cephalic vein. See Vein, nerve, 17, 48, 67, 73. vein, 41, 56. Mediastinal arteries. See Artery. Mediastinum of thorax, 443. testis, 279. Medulla oblongata, 731. spinalis, 538. Medullary arteries. See Artery. centre of cerebellum, 780. of cerebrum, 755. portion of tongue, 687. velum, inferior, 779. suiierior, 781. Meibomian glands, 568. Membrana basillaris, 819. flacoida, 808. pupillaris, 796. tympani, 807. secundaria, 808. Membrane, costo-coracoid, 20. crieo-thp-oid, 701. of Descemet, 791. hyaloid, 800. hyo-glossal, 684. obturator, 431. pituitary, 671. of the pupil, 796. of Reissner, 819. Schneiderian, 671. thyro-hyoid, 701. Membranes of the brain, 716. of spinal cord, 539. Membranous labyrinth, 820. part of the cochlea, 820. part of the urethra, 389, 413. Meningeal arteries. See Artery. nerves. See Nerves. Meninges, 716. Mental nerve. See Nerve. Mesencephalon, 770. Mesenteric artery, inferior. See Artery. superior. Sec Artery, glands. See Glands, plexuses. See Plexus, vein, inferior. See Veins, superior, See Veins. Mesentery, 312. Meso-ciEcum, 302. colon, left, 312. right, 312. pelvic, 312.^ transverse, 312. ovarium, 392. rectum, 386. salpinx, 392. Metacarpal arteries. See Artery. articulations. See Articulation. Metatarsal artery See Artery. Mid-brain, 770. Mitral valve, 463. Modiolus of the cochlea, 817. Monro, foramen of, 761. Molar glands, 561. Mens Veneris, 260. Monticulus, 778. Morgagni, body of, 278. columns of, 418. Mouth, cavity of, 665. Mucous ligament. See Ligament. Multifidus spinoe muscle. See Muscle. Muscle or Musculus :— abductor hallucis, 199. indicis, 81. minimi digiti maniis, 79. pedis, 201. pollicis, 76. accessoriuB pedis, 205. ad sacro-lumbalem, 526. adductor brevis, 163. hallucis obliquus, 207. transversuB, 207. longus, 162. magnus, 133, 167, 214. pollicis obliquus, 79. transversus, 79. anconeus, 87. of antitragus, 570. aryteno-epiglottidean, 691. arytenoid, 690. attoUens aurem, 500. attrahens aurem, 500. azygos uvuIbe, 664. biceps of arm, 43. of thigh, 131, 214. biventer cervicis, 601. brachialis anticus, 50. buccinator, 556. bulbo-cavernosus, 247, 256. cervicalis ascendens, 526. chondro-glossus, 621, 685. ciliary, 795. circumtlexus palati, 663. coccygeus, 381, 426. comi^lexus, 528. compressor naris, 552. constrictor inferior, 657. isthmi faucium, 633. medius, 657. sui^erior, 657. uretlirre, 249. coraco-brachialis, 45. corrugator cutis ani, 240. supercilii, 554. cremaster, 269. crico-arytenoid, lateral, 691. posterior, 690. thyroid, 689. crureus, 157. deltoid, 31. depressor ate nasi, 553. anguli oris, 555. epiglottidis, 692. labii inferioris, 555. detrusor urinse, 409. diaphragm, 358, 489. digastric, GOl. dilatator naris, 552. pupilliB, 796. ejaculafor urinre, 247. erector clitoridis, 257.839 INDEX. Muscle or Musculus :— erector i)eiiis, 2-10.. gpiiifc, 526. extensor carpi radiiilis brevior, 85. longior, 84. ulnaris, 8(5. brevia digitoruni pedis, 18-1. poUicis, 88. communis digitorum, 85. indicis, 89. longus digitorum pedis, 180. poUicis, 88. minimi digiti, 8G. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 87. prirai internodii pollicis, 88. proprius liallucis, 179. secundi internodii pollicis, 88. flexor accessorius, 205. brevis minimi digiti mani'is,79. brevis minimi digiti pedis, 207. carpi radialis, 61, 82. ulnaris, 62. digitorum brevis pedis, 199. longus pedis, 191, 206. profundus, 67, 71. sublimis, 61, 71. hallucis brevis, 206. longus, 193, 205. perforans, 67, 191. perforatus, 64, 199. pollicis brevis, 78. longus, 68, 76. gastrocnemius, 189. gemellus interior, 121. superior, 121. genio-glossus, or genio-hyo-glossus, 622, 686. hyoid, 622. gluteus maximus, 112. medius, 116. minimus, 117. gracilis, 161. of helix, 570. hj'o-glossus, 621, 685. iliacus, 167, 369. ilio-costalis, 526. incisive, 557. indicator, 89. infraspinatus, 34. intercostals, 438, 488, 538. interosseus of foot, 211. of hand, 81. interspinales, 536. intertransversales, 536, 706. ischio-cavernosus, 216, 257. kerato-cricoid, 690. labii proprius, 557. latissimus dorsi, 7, 27. levator anguli oris, 5.55. scapulee, 6, 522. ani, 210, 382. glanduUc thyroidete, 586. labii inferioris, 557. superioris, 555. alteque nasi, 552. menti, 557. Muscle or Musculus:— levator palati, 662. palpebriE, 568, 613. levatores costarum, 538. linguales, 687. longissimus dorsi, 526. longus colli, 701. lumbricales of foot, 205. of hand, 75. masseter, 607. multifidus spinoe, 531. mylo-hyoid, 619. naso-labial, 557. obliquus abdominis extemus, 265. internus, 269. capitis inferior, 535. superior, 535. oculi, inferior, 650. superior, 613. obturator externus, 123, 168. internus, 121, 426. occiiiito-frontalis, 502. omo-hyoid, 9, 29, 522, 585. opponens minimi digiti, 80. pollicis, 77. orbicularis oris, 556. palpebrarum, 553. orbitalis, 6.52. palato-glossus, 663, 685. pharyngeus, 658, 661. palmaris brevis, 70. longus, 62. pectineus, 162. liectoralis major, 18. minor, 20. lieroneus brevis, 186. longus, 185, 212. tertius, 180. periJendicular of tongue, 687. pbaiyngeo-glossus, 686. plautaris, 190. platysma myoides, 573, 579. jiopliteus, 193, 211. pronator quadratus, 68. radii teres, 60. psoas magnus, 167, 368. parvus, 369. pterygoid, external, 610. internal, 610. pyramidalis abdominis, 271. nasi, 552. pyriformis, 118, 426. quadratus feraoris, 123. lumborum, 370. quadriceps extensor cruris, 155. rectus abdominis, 272. capitis anticus major, 705. minor, 706. lateralis, 636. posticus major, .531. minor, 535. femoris, 117, 155. ocuH externus, 619. inferior, 619. internns, 649. superior, 643. rctrahcns aurem, 500. rhomboideus major, 8.INDEX, 8-10 I Muscle or MusculuB :— rhomboideus minor, 8. risorius, 550. rotiilores dovsi, 535. sacro-lumliiilis, 526. sal pingo-phavy 11 gens, . Biirtorius, 152. Bcaleni, 589. BeniiniembranoBUB, 132, 214. Beraispinalis colli, 533. dorsi, 533. Beiiiitendinosus, 132. BerrixtuB miignus, 27. posticus inferior, 523. superior, 523. soleus, 190. sphincter ani externus, 2-10. internus, 240. pupillie, 79(). vagina;, 256. spinalis dorsi, 527. siilenius cai^itis, 524. colli, 524. stapedius, 811. stemo-cleido-mastoid, 584. hyoid, 585. thyroid, 585. stylo-glossus, 621, 685. hyoid, 602. Ijharyngeus, 626, 658. snbclaviua, 21. subcostal, 488. subcrureus, 159. subscapularis, 30. supinator radii brevis, 89. longus, 83. supraspinatus, 37. temporal, 506, 608. tensor fasciie femoris, 155. palati, 663. tarsi, 553, 651. tyiiipaiii, 811. teres major, 35. minor, 35. tliyro-arytenoid, 091. epiglottideaii, 692. hyoid, 586. tibialis aiiticus, 178. posticus, 194, 212. traclielo-iiiastoid, 526. of tragus, 570. transversalis abdominis, 271. colli, 526. lingual, (>86. transverse of auricle, 570. transverso-spinales, 533. transversus pedis, 207. periuei, 247, 2.57. alter, 247. profundus, 250, 258. trapezius, 4. triangularis stcrni, 440. triceps of arm, 51. vastus extoriius, 156. internus, 150. zygomaticus nuvjor, 556. minor, 556. Musculi papillares, 401, 403. pectinati, 458. Musculo-cutaneous nerve. See Nerve, phrenic artery. See Artery, spiral nerve, 17, 53. Mylo-hyoid artery. Sec Artery. muscle. See Muscle, nerve. See Nen'C. Nares, 068. Nasal arteries. See Artery. cartilages, 565. duct, 671. fossBB, 607. nerves. See Nen'e. Naso-palatine artery. See Artery. nerve. See Nerve. Nates, of brain, 773. Neck, anterior triangle of, 580. posterior, 574. dissection of, 572. Nerve or Nerves :— abducent, 517, (o) 729. accessory, 103, 374. spinal, 517, (c) 578, 635 (d), (o) 730. acromial cutaneous, 31, 579. Arnold's, 033. articular of popliteal, 129, 130. auditory, 517, 680, (o) 729, 821 (d). auricular anterior, 504. great, 505, 578. inferior, 617. posterior, 504, 503. superior, 104, of vagus, 814. auriculo-teniporal, 504, 617. buccal of facial, 564. of inferior maxillary, 617. calcaneo-plantar, 197. cardiac inferior, (d) 473, 638. middle, (d) 473, 638. superior, (d) 473, 638. of vagus, 471, 034. cavernous, 417. cervical, anterior branches, 596, 036, 705. posterior branches, 520, 529, 705. branch of facial, 580. superficial, 579. cervico-facial, 504. chorda tynipani, 618, 625, 680, 814. ciliary, long, 045, 798. short, 646, 798. circumflex, 17, 25 (o), 31, 34 (c) (d). clavicular, cutaneous, 13, 578. coccvgeal, 402, 537. cochlear, 821, 822. communicating to descendens cei-- vieis, 599 fibular or peroneal, 130. iihial, 129. crural, anterior, 160, 373. cutaneous, anterior, 13, 203.IN'DICX. Nerve or Nerves :— cutaneous external, oT arm. Srt: Jlnsculo- cutaneoUH. of leg, 17(;. of nuiKi ulo- spinil, 5-1, 57. of thigh, 110, 140, dTd. inleriml of arm, large, 17, -12, 49, 50. of arm, small, 13, l(i, 17, 42, 49. of miiHCulo- spinil, 43, 54. of tliigh, 141, KiO, 187. lateral, 13, 202. middle, of thigh, 141, 100. palmar, 00, 07. plantar, 197. radial, 57. dental, anterior, 053. inferior, 018. middle, 053. posterior, 052. descendens cervicis, 002. to digastric, 503. digital, dorsal of toes, 170. of median, 73. palmar, 73. plantar, 204. of radial, 57. of ulnar, 73. dorsal, anterior branches, 274, 439, 488. 1 o.-4terior branches, 538. of clitoris, 259. last, 110, 2()3, 274, 374. of penis, 243, 251, 253. of ulnar, 58, 07. facial, 517, 501, 078, (o) 729. frontal, 517. geiiito-crural, 140, 277, 372. glosso-pharyngoal, 517, 025, 031,088. gluteal, inferior, 119, 403. superior, 117, 403. gustatory. Sec Lingual, luemorrhoidal, inferior, 242. Rujicrior, 319. of fourth sacral, 402. hypoglcssal, 517, 002, 003, 025, 035, (;8H, (o) 730. ilio-hypogastric, 110, 203, 275, 372. inguinal, 140, 204, 275, 372. incisor, ()18. inframaxillary of facial, 504, 580. infraorbital of facial, 5()3. of Ofth, 504, 052. infratrochlear, 045. intercostal, 274, 439, 4,H8. inlercosto-humcral, 43. interosseiis, anterior, 09. posterior, 90. of Jacobson, 032, 812. labial, inferior, 504. superior, 504. Nerve or Nerves :— lachrymal, 517, 042. laryngeal, external, 034. inferior or recurrent, 471, ()34, 097. superior, 034, 097. lingual, 018, 023, 088. lumbar, anterior branches, 372. posterior branches, 110, 531. lumbo-sacral, 372. malar of facial, 503. of superior nuixillary, 051. uuisseteric, 017. ma.xillary, inferior, 517, 010. superior, 510, 052. median, 17, 25 (o), 48 (o, c), 07 (c), 73 (dj. meningeal, 514. mental, 504, 0!8. musculo-cutaneous of arm, 25 (o), 42, 50(c, o,d), 50 (c, d). of leg, 170, 185. spiral, 17,25(o),42, 53(o,c). niylo-hyoid, 018. nasal, ,517, 042, 044, 04G, 070, 077. lateral, 504. of Mecliel's ganglion, 070. naso-palatine, 073, (170. obturator, 103, (o) 104, 374. accessory, 103, 374. to obturator internus, 118, 404. occipital, great, 500, 520, 530. small, 500, 578. oculomotor, 10, 044, 048, (o) 728. oesophageal, 472, 035. olfactory, (o) 515, (d) 073, (o) 720. ophthalmic, 510, 041. optic, 515, 048, (o) 727. orbital, of Mecltel's ganglion, 070. palatine, external, 070. large, 070. small, 070. palmar, cutaneous, 70. ))alpebral, 504, 504. parotid, 017. patellar, 141, 101. to pectnieus, 100. perforating cutaneous, 112, 243,404. perineal, 242, 248. of fourth sacral, 243. superficial, 240. peroneal, 130. communicating, 130. petrosal, deep, large, 077. sunill, 813. superficial, external, 080. large, 518, 077. small, 518, 080, 813. pharyngeal, 032, 034, 005, 070. phrenic, 450, 470, 599. plantar, external, 204, 210. internal, 204. pneumo-gastric, (d) 338, (c) 471,517, 032, (o) 730. popliteal, external, 130. internal, 129.INDEX. 8i2 I Nerve or Nerves:— pi'ostatic, 88-1. pterygoid, external, 617. internal, 619, 681. pudendal, inferior, (o) 119, (c) 246. pudic, (c, d) 121, (o) 242, 258, 404. pulmonary, 471. to pyriforrais, 121, 404. to quadratus femoriH, 121, 404. radial, 57, 63, 67. recurrent, articular, 185. laryngeal, 471, 634. meningeal, 514. to rhomboids, 10, 522, 598. sacral, anterior branches, 401. posterior branches, 110, 116, 536. saphenous, external, 177, 187. internal, 141, 161, 177, 187. to Boaleni, 598. sciatic, great, 120, 133, 402. small. 111, 119,133,187,403. to serratus, 27, 596. spermatic, 282, 319. spheno-palatine, 652. spinal, 529, 542. accessory, 517, (o) 578,685 (d), (o) 730. splanchnic, large, 338. 371, 487. small, 338, 371, 488. smallest, 338, 371, 488. splenic, 337. to stapedius, 680, 814. sternal cutaneous, 13, 578. to stylo-hyoid, 563. to subclaviuB, 598. suboccipital, anterior branch, 636. posterior branch, 530. subscapular, 27. supra-acromial, 31, 579. supraclavicular, 31, 578. supramaxillary of facial, 564. supraorbital, 504, 641. suprascapular, 9, 38, 522, 598. supratrochlear, 504, 641. sympathetic, in abdomen, 318, 336, 374. in head, 518. in neck, 636. in pelvis, 404. in thorax, 472, 486. temporal, deep, 617. of facial, 504, 563. superficial, 504. of superior maxillary, 504, 651. temporo-facial, 563. malar, 651. to tensor palati, 681. tymi)ani, 681, 814. vagime femoris, 117. to teres major, 27. minor, 34. thoracic, anterior, 25. posterior, 27, 530. thyroid, 638. tibial, anterior 177, 185. Nerve or Nerves ;— tibial, communicating, 129. posterior, 196. tonsillar, 632, 665. trifacial or trigeminal, 516, (o) 728. trochlear, 516, 641, (o) 728. tympanic, 632, 812. ulnar, 17, 25 (o), 49 (c), 58 (d), 66 (o, d), 73 (d), 81 (d). uterine, 405. vaginal, 405. vagus, (d) 338, (c) 471, 517, 632, (o) 730. vesical, 405. vestibular, 729. Vidian, 676. of Wrisberg, 13, 16, 17, 42, 49. Nervi molles, 638. Ninth nei-ve. See Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve. Nipple of the breast, 14. Nodule of cerebellmn, 779. Nose, cartilages of, 565. cavity of, 667. external, 565. meatuses of, 671. muscles of, 552. nerves and muscles of, 673, 678, regions of, 672. Nostril, 565. Notch of Rivinus, 808. Nuck, canal of, 276. Nuclei arciformes, 738. of cranial nerves, 783. of medulla oblongata, 737. of optic thalamus, 770. pontis, 740. Nucleus, amygdaloid, 762. caudate, 766. of funiculus cuneatus, 737. gracilis, 737. lateral, 737. of lens, 802. lenticular, 766. olivary, 737. superior, 740. red, of tegmentum, 743. NymphsB, 255. Oblique ligament. See Ligament, muscles. See Muscle, vein of heart. See Vein. Obturator artery, 168. fascia. See Fascia, membrane, 431. muscles. See Muscles, nerve, (o) 164. Occipital artery. See Artery. lobe of cerebrum, 748, 751. lobule, 754. nerves. See Nerve, sinus. See Sinus, veins. See Veins. Occipito-atlantal articulations. See Articu- lation. ligaments. See Liga- ment. axial ligaments. See Ligament, frontalis muscle. See Muscle.843 INDEX. ■Occipito-temporal convolutions, 755. ■Oculomotor uerve. See Nerve. Odontoid ligaments. See Ligaments. Qisophagus, relations of, 484, 1)07. structure of, 484, 665. ffisophageal arteries. See Artery. groove in liver, 347. nerves. See Nerves, opening of diaphragm, Olfactory bnlb, 744. cleft, 0G7. lobe, 7'26, 744. nerves, 7'2(i, 744. region of nose, 672. striiB, 744. sulcus, 744, 750. tract, 744. tubercle, 745. Olivary body, 725, 73'2, 737. nucleus, 737. superior, 740. peduncle, 737. Omental tuberosity of liver, 347. of pancreas, 330. Omentum, gastro-colic or great, 311. hepatic or small, 304. 310. . splenic, 306, 311. Omo-hyoid muscle, 9. Operculum, 748. Ophthalmic artery. Sec Artery. ganglion, 646. nerve. See Nerve. veins. See Vein. Opponens. See Muscle. Opposition of thumb, 103. Optic commissure, 7'27. disc, 799. nerve. See Nerve, papilla, 799. thalamus, 769. tract, 725, 727, 772. Ora serrata, 799. Orbicular ligament of the radius. See Ligament. Orbicularis oris. Sec Muscle. palpebrarum. See Muscle. Orbit, 639. muscles of, 643. nerves, 640. periosteum of, 640. vessels, 646. Orbital branch of artery. See Artery. branches of nerve. Sec Nerve, lobule, 747, 750. sulcus, 7.50. Orbitalis muscle. See Muscle. Organ of Corti, 819. of Girald'cs, 282. of RosenmiiUer, 42'1. Orifice, of the urethra, 410. of the uterus, 420. of the vagina, 255. Orifices, auriculo-vcntricular, 46), 463. of the stomach, 339. Ossicles of the tympanum, 809. Os tinciB, 420. uteri e.xtcrnuni, 420. Otic ganglion. See Ganglion. Otoliths, 820. Oval lobule, 754. Ovarian artery. Sec Artery. plexus of nerves. Sea Plexus, vein. See Vein. Ovary, 394, 423. ajjpendage to, 424. vessels of, 424. Ovisacs, 423. Pacchionian bodies, 507. Palate (soft), 661. Palatine arteries. See Artery. nerves. See Nerve. Palato-glossus. See Muscle. pharyngeus. Sec Muscle. Palm of the hand, 69. Palmar arch, deep, 80. superficial, 71. cutaneous nerves, 66, 67. fascia, 70. Palmaris. See Muscle. Palpebrte, 566. Palpebral arteries. Sec Artery. fascia or ligament, 568. fissure, .566. nerves. See Nerve. veins. See Vein. Pampiniform plexus, 282, 424. Pancreas, 329. relations of, 327. structure of, 342. Pancreatic arteries. Sec Artery. duct, 342. veins. See Veins. Pancreatico - duodenal arteries. See Artei-y. Papilla lachrymalis, 566. optica, 799. Pai)ill(B of the kidney, 355. of the tongue, 683. Paracentral lobule, 754, Paradidymis, 282. Parallel sulcus, 752. Para-rectal fossa, 377. vesical fossa, 378. Parietal lobe, 747, 7.50. lobules, 750. Parieto-occipital fissure, 747, 753. Parotid arteries, 606. fascia. See Fascia. gland, 559. lymphatic glands, 561. nerves. Sec Nerves. Parovarium, 424. Passage, anal, 387. Patellar nerve, 141, 161. plexus, 141. Pecten of Reil, 774. Pectineus muscle, 162. Pectoralis. See Muscle. Peduncle of the cerebellum, interior, 725, 781. middle, 781. superior, 771, 780.INDEX. I Peduncle of the ceiebriiiii, 7"25, 74J. of the corpus callosura, 74-1. olivary, 737. Peduueular fibres, 773. Pelvic colon, 304. Pelvis, dissection of, 376. muscles and ligaments of, 42.5. of ureter, 3.57- vessels and nerves of, 895. viscera of, female, 390, 418. male, 384. Pelvic cavity, 370. diaphragm, 381. fascia, 376. plexus, 404, Penis, 253. integument of, 252. structure of, 415. vessels of, 416. Perforated space, anterior, 726, 744. posterior, 725, 743. Perforating arteries. See Artery. cutaneous nerve, 112. Pericardium, 449. Perilymph, 816. Perineum, female, 255. male, 236. . Perineal artery, superficial. See Artery. transverse. See Artery, fascia, deep. See Fascia. superficial. See Fascia, nerves. See Nerves. Periosteum of the orbit, 640. Peritoneal prolongation on the cord, 276. Peritoneum, 276, 293, 307. of female pelvis, 390. of male pelvis, 376. Peroneal artery. See Artery. nerve. See Nerve. Peroneus. See Muscle. Peroneo-tibial articulations. See Articula- tion. Pei-pendicular fissure. See Fissure. muscle of tongue. See Muscle. Pes hippocampi, 761. Petit, canal of, 801. Petrosal ganglion. Sec Ganglion, nerves. See Nerve, sinuses. See Sinus. Peyer's glands. See Glands. Pharynx, 654. interior of, 658, 661. muscles of, 655. openings of, 658. Pharyngeal, ascending, artery. See Artery. nerves. See Nerves, tonsil, 665. veins. See Veins. Pharyngeo-glossus muscle. See Muscle. Phrenic arteries. See Artery, nerve. See Nerve, plexus. Sec Plexus. Pia mater of the brain, 717. of the cord, 541. Pigmentary layer of retina, 799. ^ Pillars of the abdominal ring, 267. Pillars of diaphragm, 359. of the fornix, 760, 770. of the iris, 793. of the soft palate, 661. Pineal body, 772. stria, 769. Pinna, or auricle of the ear, 569. Pituitary body, 743. membrane. See Membrane. Plantar aponeurosis or fascia, 198. arch of artery. See Arterj". arteries. See Artery, ligament. See Ligament, nerves. See Nerves. Plantaris muscle. Sec Muscle. Platysma myoides muscle. See Muscle. Pleura, 442. Pleuro-colic fold, 312. Plexus of nerves ;— aortic, 319. brachial, 25, 596, cardiac, deei^, 472. superficial, 457. carotid, 518. cavernous, 518. cervical, 578, 598. coeliac, 337. coronarj' of heart, 457. of stomach, 337. cystic, 338. diaphragmatic, 837. epigastric, 336. gulee, 472. hsemorrhoidal, 404. hepatic, 337. hypogastric, 319, 395, 404. infraorbital, 563. lumbar, 110, 371, 372. mesenteric, inferior, 319. superior, 318. ovarian, 405. pancreatico-duodenal, 838. patellar, 141. pelvic, 404. pharyngeal. See Nerves, phrenic, 337. prostatic, 405. pulmonary, 472. pyloric, 337. renal, 337. sacral, 402. solar, 336. spennatic, 282, 319. splenic, 337. suprarenal, 337. tympanic, 812. uterine, 405. vesical, 405. vertebral, 639, 707. Plexus of veins:— alveolar, 616. basilar, 514. choroid, 717, 763, 783. dorsal, of hand, 56. htemorrhoidal, 400. ovarian, 367. pampinif<n-m. Sec Spermatic, prostatic, 384.INDEX. 845 Plexus of veins :— pterygoid, OlS. spermaUc, 277, 2h2, 'MU . uterine, -400. vaginal, -100. vesical, -400. Plica fimbriata, OK^. semilunaris, uU!). Pneunio-gastric nerve. Sre Nerve. Pomum Adauii, 572. Pons Varolii, 725, 731, 73S. Popliteal arterj', 12G. glands, 130. nerves, 129. space, 125. vein, 129. Popliteus muscle. .See Muscle. Portal fissure, 347. vein. Sre Veins. Portio dura, 729. intermedia, 729. mollis, 729. Porus opticus, 799. Posterior column of cord, 647. commissure, 772. pyramid, 733. triangle of the neck. Se<' Triangle. Postcentral sulcus. Sue Sulci Cerebrum. Poupart's ligament, 143, 2fi7. Pouch, laryngeal, 694. recto-uterine, 371). vesical, 376. vesico-uterine, 391. Prtecentral sulcus, 749. Prteputium clitoridis, 255. Prepuce, 252. Prevertebral muscles, 704. Processus vaginalis, 289. Profunda artery. See Artery. Promontory, 805. Pronator. Si-e Muscle. Prostate gland, 388, 406. relations, 388. sheath of, 389. structure, 406. Prostatic part of urethra, 389, 412. plexus, of nerves, 405. of veins, 384. sinus, 413. Psoas magnus muscle, 167, 368. Psoas parvus muscle, 369. Pterygoid arteries. See Arteries. muscles. See Muscle, nerves. Scr Nerve, plexus of veins, 615. Pterygo-niaxillary ligament. See Liga- ment. region, G07. palatine artery. See Artery. Pubes, 260. Pubic part of fascia lata, 142. region of the abdomen, 298. symphysis, 429. Pubo femoral ligament, 170. Pudendal, inferior, nerve. See Nerve. Pudendum, 2.55. Pudic arteries. Sec Artery. Pudic nerve. See Nerve. Pulmonary artery. See Artery. nerves. See Nerve, orifice and valve, 461. veins. See Veins. Pulvinar, 770. Puncta lacbrymalia, 566. Pupil, 796. Pylorus, 340. ' Pyloric artery. See Artery, orifice, 339. plexus, 337. vein. See Vein. Pyramid, anterior, 725, 731. decussation of, 731. of the cerebellum, 779. of the thyroid body, 580. of the tympanum, 807. Pyramidal masses of kidney, 355. tract, 734, 740. Pyramidalis. See Muscle. Pyramids of Malpighi, 355. Pyriformis muscle, 118. fascia of. See Fascia. Quadrate lobe of cerebellum, 777. of liver, 347. lobule of cerebrum, 754. Quadratus. See Muscle. Quadriceps extensor cruris, 155. Quadrigeminal bodies, 771. Quadrilateral space, 35. Eadial artery, 62, 80, 90. nerve, 57, 03, 07. veins, 63. veins, cutaneous, 56. Radio-carpal articulation, 98. ulnar articulations, 97, 100. Eanine artery. See Artery. vein. See Vein. Baphe of the corpus callosum, 750. of the medulla oblongata, 737. of the palate, 060. of the perineum, 237. of the pons, 740. of the to igue, 682. Receptaculum chyli, 371. Recto-uterine ligaments, 391. pouch, 370. vaginal pouch, 370. vesical fascia, 380, 383. pouch, 376. Rectus. See Muscle. Rectum, relations of, in the female, 892. in the male, 304, 386. structure, 417. Recuri-ent arteries. See Artery. nerve. See Nerve. Red nucleus, 743. Regions, of abdomen, 297. Eeil, covered band of, 750. island of, 748, 752. pecten of, 774. sulci of, 748. Reissner, membrane of, 879. Renal artery. See Artery.816 INDEX. Beiial iifipresBioh oil liver, S47. plexuB. See Plexus. vein. Sep Vein. Respiriitoty glottis, 693. region of nose, 672. Restiform body, 725, 733. Eete testis, 280. Reticular formation, 737, 740. Retina, 798. Retinacula of ileo-cajcal valve, 325. Retraliens aurem. See Muscle. Retro-colic fold, 313. Rhomboid ligament. See Ligament. Rliomboidei muscles, 8. Rima glottidis, 693. of the vulva, 255. Bine, abdominal, external, 266, 288. internal, 275, 288. crural or femoral, 146. Risorius muscle. See Muscles. Biviuus, ducts of. See Ducts. notch of, 808. Rolando, funiculus of. See Funiculus, sulcus of, 747. tubercle of, 732. Roof-nucleus of cerebellum, 780. Root of the lung, 448. Roots of the nerves, 542. Rosenraiiller, organ of, 424. Rostrum of corpus callosum, 744. Rotatores dorsi. See Muscle. Bound ligament. See Ligament. Saccule of the ear, 821. Sacculus lai-yngis, 694. Saccus endolymphaticus, 821. Sacral arteries. See Artery, ganglia, 404. nerves. See Nerve, plexus. See Plexus. Sacro-coccygeal articulation, 427. genital fold, 377. iliac articulation, 429. lumbalis muscle. See Muscle, sciatic ligaments, 124. Salpingo-phai-yngeus muscle. See Muscle, Santorini, cartilages of, 700. Saphenous nerves. See Nerve, opening, 142. veins. See Vein. Sartorius muscle, 152. Scala tympani, 819. vestibuli, 819. Soaleni muscles. See Muscles. Scapular arteries. See Artery, ligaments, 37. muscles, 34, 37. Scapulo-hunieral articulation, 92. Scarpa, fascia of, 146. triangle of, 146. Schneiderian membrane, 671. Sciatic artery, 118. ner\'es. See Nei-ve. • Sclerotic coat of the eye, 791. Scrotum, 2.52. Second nerve. Sec Nerve. Secondary inembraiie of tlie tympanum, 808. Semicircular canals, 815. membranonB, 820. Semilunar cartilages, 218. fold of Douglas, 274. ganglia, 337. Semi-bulbs of vestibule, 257. Semimembranosus muscle, 132. Seminal ducts, 389. Seminiferous tubes, 280. Semispiualis muscle. See Muscle. Semitendinosus muscle, 132. Septum cochleee, 818. crurale, 14C, 293. intermuscular, of the arm, 52. of the leg, 177,185, 188, 192. of the sole, 198. of the thigh, 159. lucidimi, 760. narium, 668. nasi, 668. pectiniforme, 416. posterior median of spinal cord, 546. intermediate, 549. posticvun of arachnoid, 541. scroti, 252. of the tongue, 683. Serratus. Sec Muscle. Seventh nerve. See Nerve. nucleus of, 729, 784. Sheath, axillary, 20. crural, 143. of the fingers, 71. of the prostate, 406. of the rectus, 273. of the toes, 199. Shoulder-joint, 92. Sigmoid artery. Sec Artery. Sinus, of the aorta, 466. basilar, 514. of the bulb, 413. cavernous, 513. circular, 513. circularis iridis, 792. coronary, 456. frontal, 670. intercavernous, 513. of the kidney, 353. lateral, 511. longitudinal, inferior, 511. superior, 508. occipital, 511. petrosal, inferior, 513, 629. superior, 513. pocularis, 412. prostatic, 413. sphenoidal, 671. straight, 511. of Valsalva, 462. venosus, 457. Sixth nerve. See Nerve. nucleus of. See Nucleus^ Slender lobe of cerebellum, 777. Small intestine, 321. omentum, 310.INDEX. 847 Socia parotidis, 560. SoBiumeriiig's enumeration of the cranial nerves, 726. Soft commissure, 766. palate, 661. muscles of, 662. Solar plexus, 318. Sole of the foot, dissection of, 197. Soleus muscle. See Muscle. Solitary glands, 323. Spermatic artery. See Artery. cord, 276. fascia, 267. plexus of nerves. See Plexus, veins. See Veins. Sphenoidal sinus. See Sinus. Spheno-ethmoidal recess, 671. palatine artery. See Artery. ganglion. See Ganglion, nerves. Sec Nerves. Sphincter. See Muscle. Spigelian lobe, 347. Spinal accessory nerve. See Nerve. nucleus, 730. arteries. See Artery, column, movements of, 497. g, cord, 588, 545. membranes of, 539. structure of, 547. vessels of, 545. nerves. Sec Nerves. posterior branches of. See Nerves. roots of. See Root, veins. See Vein. Spinalis dorsi muscle. See Muscle. Spiral ganglion. See Ganglion, ligament. See Ligament, tnbe of the cochlea, 817. Splanchnic nerves. See Nerve. Spleen, 806. relations of, 306. structure of, 343. Spleniculi, 343. Splenic artery, 332. flexure of colon, 302. plexus of nerves. See Nerves. vein. See Vein. Splenium of corpus callosum, 756. Splenius muscle. See Muscle. Spongy bones, 669. part of the urethra, 390, 413. Stapedius muscle. See Muscle. Stapes bone, 810. Stellate ligament. See Ligament. Stenson's duct, 560. Sternal arteries. 'See Arteries. cutaneous nerves. See Nerves. Stemo-clavicular articulation. See Articu- lation. cleido-mastoid muscle. Sec Muscle, hyoid muscle. See Muscle, mastoid artery. See Artery, thyroid muscle. See Muscle. Stomacli, form and divisions of, 338. relations of, 300, 330. structure of, 339. Straight sinus. See Sinus. Striate body, 766. Strim longitudinales of corpus callosum, 756. Stylo-gloBSUs muscle. Sec Muscle. hyoid ligament. See Ligament, muscle. See Muscle, nerve. See Nerve, mastoid artery. See Artery, maxillary ligament. See Ligament, pliaryngeus muscle. See Muscle. Subarachnoid space of the brain, 716. of the cord, 541. Subclavian artery, left. See Artery. right. See Artery, vein. See Vein, Subclavius muscle, 21. Subcostal muscles, 488. Subcrureus, 159. Subdural space, 508, 716. Sublingual artery. See Artery. gland, 625. Submaxillary ganglion, 624. gland, 619. lymphatic glands. See Glands. region, 619. Submental artery See Artery. Suboccipital lymphatic glands. See Glands. nerve. See Nerve, triangle, 535. Subpeduncular lobe, 778. Subperitoneal fat, 276, 293. Subpubic ligament. See Ligament. Subscapular artery, 24. nerves, 27. Subscapularis muscle, 36. Substantia ferruginea, 783. gelatinosa, 737. nigra, 742. Sulci of cerebrum, 745. of spinal cord, 546. Sulcus spiralis, 819. Superficial cervical artery. See Artery. fascia of the abdomen, 261. of the perineum, 244. of the thigh, 136. volar artery. See Artery. Supinator. See Muscle. Supra-acromial nerves, 31. Supraclavicular fossa, 572. nerves. See Nerves. Supramarginal convolution, 751. Supramaxillary nerves. See Nerves. Supraorbital artery. See Artery. nerve. See Nerve. Suprarenal capsule, 357. impression on liver, 347. plexus, 337. Suprascapular artery, 9, 38. ligament, 37. nerve, 9, 38. vein. See Vein. Supraspinatus muscle, 37. Suprasternal fossa, 572. Supratrochlear nerve. See Nerve. Suspensory ligament. See Ligament. Sylvius, aqueduct of 773INDEX. 8^8 Sylvius, fissure of, 745. valley of, 744. Sympathetic nerve. See Nerve. Symphysis pubis, 429. Ttenia hippocampi, 761. semicircularis, 769 Tarsal artery. See Artery. articulations. See Articulations. fibrous plates, 568. glauds. See Glands. ligaments of eyelids, 568. Tarso-metatarsal articulations. See Articu- lation. Tarsus of eyelid, 568. Teeth, 666. Tegmen tympani, 807. Tegmentum, 742. Temporal aponeurosis, 506. arteries. See Artery, fascia, 506. muscle. See Muscle, nerves. .See Nerve, veins. See Vein. Temporo-facial nerve. See Nerve. malar nerve. See Nerve, maxillary articulation. See Articulation, vein. See Vein, sphenoidal lobe, 748, 752. Tendo Achillis, 190 palpebrarum, 668. Tendon, infrapatellar, 158. supraj)atellar, 157. Tensor. See Muscle. Tenth nerve. See Nerve. Tentorium cerebelli, 510. Teres muscles, 35. Testes, 277. of brain, 771. Thebesian foramina, 459. valve, 459. Thigh, dissection of, back, 130. front, 136. Third nerve. See Nerve. nucleus of, 728. ventricle, 764. Thoracic arteries. See Artery, duct, 371, 485, 595. ganglia, 470. nerves. See Nerve. Thorax, boundaries of, 437. parietes of, 436, 488. upper aperture of, 639. . Thymus body, 446. Thyro-arytenoid ligaments. See Ligament. muscle. See Muscle, epiglottidean ligament. See Ligament, muscle. See Muscle, hyoid membrane. See Membrane, muscle. See Muscle. Thyroid arteries. See Artery, axis, 594. body, 58C. cartilage, 698. veins. See Vein. Tibial arteries. See Artery, nerves. See Nerve, veins. See Vein. Tibialis. See Muscle. Tibio-tarsal articulation, 222. Tongue, 682. muscles of, 684. nerves of, 688. structure of, 683. vessels of, 688. Tonsil, 665. Tonsillar artery. See Artery. nerves, 665. Torcular Herophili, 508. Trabeculte caruett!, 460. Trabecular structure of penis, 415. of spleen, 843. Trachea, relations of, 477, 606. structure of, 703. Tracheal nerves, 704. Trachelo-mastoid muscle. See Muscle. Tract, direct cerebellar, 736. lateral, 732, 736. olfactory, 744. optic, 727, 772. pyramidal, 734, 740. Tragus, 569. muscle of, 570. Transverse articles of pois. See Artery, carpal articulation, 101. cervical artery, 9. colon, 302. facial artery. See Artery, fissure of the cerebrum, 762. of the liver, 347. ligament. See Ligament, muscle. See Muscle, perineal artery. See Artery, tarsal articulation, 228. vesical fold, 378. Transversalis or transversus muscle. Sec Muscle. fascia, 275. Transverso-spinales muscles. See Muscle. Trapezius muscle, 4. Trapezoid ligament, 36. Triangle of Hesselbach, 290. of the neck, anterior, 580. posterior, 574. of Scarpa, 146. suboccipital, 535. Triangular fascia, 268. fibro-cartilage of wrist, 100. ligament of the urethra, 24*^ space of the thigh. 146. surface of the bladder, 389. Triangularis sterni muscle. See Muscle. Triceps extensor cubiti, 51. Tricuspid valve, 461. Trifacial or trigeminal nerve. See Nerve. Trigonum vesica}, 411. Trochlea, 643. Trochlear nerve. See Nerve. Tube, of the cochlea, 817. Eustachian, 660, 808. Fallopian, 394, 424. Tuber cinereum, 726, 743. valvuliB, 779.INDEX. Tubercle, amygdaloid, 762. of epiglottis, 700. of Lower, 4.57. olfactory, 745. of optic thalamus, 709. of Eolaudo, 732. Tuberculum cinereum, 726. cuneatum, Td'S. Tubnli recti, 280. seminiferi, 280. Tunica albuginea testis, 279. propria of spleen, 343. Euyschiana, 795. vaginalis, 278. oculi, 790. vasculosa testis, 279. Turbinate bones, 669. Twelftli cranial nerve. Sec Nerve. dorsal nerve. See Nerve. Tympanic artery. Sec Artery. membrane. St:c Membrane, nerve. See Nerve. Tympanum, 805. arteries of, 812. lining membrane of, 811. nerves of, 812. ossicles of, 809. Ulnar artery, 64, 71. nerve, 17, 49, 58, 65, 66, 73. veins, 65. cutaneous, 56. Umbilical hernia, 291. region of the abdomen, 298. vein. See Vein. Umbilicus, 260. Uncinate convolution, 755. Uncus, 755. Ureter, 356, 395. Urethra, female, orifice of, 895. relations of, 395. structure of, 425. male, interior of, 425. relations of, 389. structure of, 390, 411. Uterine arteries. See Artery. ple.xus of nerves. Sec Plexus, veins and sinuses, 400. Uterus, 392. interior of, 421. ligaments of, 392. relations of, 392. structure of, 421. Utricle of the ear, 820. of the urethra, 412. Uvea iridis, 796, Uvula cerebelli, 778. palati, 661. vesictB, 411. Vagina, relations, 394. structure and form, 419. Vaginal arteries. See Artery. ligaments, 71. nerves, 405. veins, 400. D.A. Vagus nerve. See Nerve. nucleus, 730, 784. Vallecula of cerebellum, 777. Sylvii, 726, 744. Valsalva, sinuses of. See Sinuses. Valve, aortic, 473. Eustachian, 459. ileo-colic, 325. mitral, 463. pulmonary, 461. of Thebesius, 459. tricuspid, 461. of Vieussens, 771, 781. Valvulre conniventes, 322. Vas aberrans, 282. deferens, 277, 281, 389, 408. Vasa aberrantia, 47. brevia, 332. efferentia testis, 280. recta testis, 280. vorticosa, 798. Vastus extemus muscle, 1.5G. iutenius muscle, 156. Vein or Veins :— alveolar, 616. angular, 503. ascending lumbar, 483. auditory, 822. auricular, posterior, 503, 606. axillary, 17, 24. azygos, large, 371, 375, 483. small, 371, 375. suiierior, left, 488. basilic, 41. brachial, 48. bracliio-cephalic, 469. bronchial, 480, 483. cardiac, 456. cava, inferior, 320, 367, 469. sujierior, 468. cephalic, 16, 42. cerebellar, 724. cerebral, 724. choroid, 764. ciliary, anterior, 798. posterior, 798. circumflex iliac, 139, 285. coronai'y of the heart, 456. of the stomach, 33J. of the corpus caveniosum, 416. striatum, 766. cystic, 333. deep cervical, 583. diaiihragmatic, iuferior, 368. dorsal, of the penis, 253, 400. dorsal spinal, 533. emissai-y, 503. emulgent, 367. epigastric, deep, 284. supei-ficial, 189. facial, 559, 605, 629. deep, 5.59, 605, 616. femoral, 149. frontal, 503. of Galen, 764. gastro-epiploic, left, 335. right, 333. hteraorrhoidal, 400.850 INDEX. Vein or Veins :— liepiitic, ;i50, 368. iliac, common, 367. external, 306 internal, 399. ilio-lumbar, 397. infraorbital, 653. iniioniinate, 469. intercostal, 483. bigliest, 484. superior, 484. interlobular, 350. intralobular, 350. intrasijinal, 5.50. jugular, anterior, 584. external, 574. internal, left, 629. right, 600, 629. laryngeal, 697. lingual, 623, 629. longitudinal, of the spine, 550. lumbar, 368, 375, 533. mammary, internal, 441. maxillary, internal, 616. anterior, internal, 559. median, of the forearm, 41, 50. basilic, 41. cephalic, 41. mesenteric, interior, 318. superior, 316. oblique, of heart, 45(3. occipital, 503, 533, 605. ophthalmic, 648. ovarian, 367. jjalpebral, 559. l^aucreatic, 335. perineal, sujierficial, 245. pharyngeal, 630, 665. phrenic, inferior, 368. popliteal, 129. portal, 335. profunda of the thigh, 166. pterygoid jilexus, 615. pubic, 399. pudic, external, 139. internal, 119, 251, 400. pulmonary, 469, 480. pyloric, 335. radial, 03. cutaneous, 56. ranine, 623. renal, 356, 307. sacral, middle, 400. saphenous, external, 176, 187. internal, 139, 170, 187. spermatic, 277, 282, 307. spinal, posterior, 550. of the spinal cord, 545. si)lenic, 335, 313. subclavian, 595. sublingual, 623. sublobular, 350. supraorbital, 503. suprarenal, 308. suprascapular, 38, 522. temporal, 503, 605. temporo-maxillary, 561, 003, 000. thyroid, inferior, 587. Vein or Veins thyi-oid, middle, 587, 029. superior, 587, 604, 629. tibial, anterior, 184. posterior, 190. transverse cervical, 522. ulnar, 05. cutaneous, 56. umbilical, 348. uterine, 400. vaginal, 400. vertebral, 533, 594, 707. anterior, 707. of the vertebrse, 550. vesical, 400. Velum interpositum, 717, 767. j)endulum palati, 001. Vena cava, inferior, 320, 307,469. superior, 468. portse, 335. Vense cavte bepaticse, 350, 368. Venous arch of the foot, 176. Ventricles of the brain, 758. fifth, 760. fourth, 781. lateral, 758. third, 764. of the heart, 455. left, 468. right, 459. structure cf, 473. of the larynx, 694. Vermiform appendix, 302, 324. processes, 776, 779, 781. Vermis, 776. Vertebral aponeurosis, 524. artery. See Artery, plexus, 707. veins, 707. Verumontanum, 412. Vesica urinaria. See Bladder. Vesical arteries. See Artery. plexus of nerves. See Plexus, veins. .See Veins. Vesico-uterine ligaments, 391. pouch, 391. Vesicula j)rostalica, 412. VesiculiB seminales, relations of, 389. structure of, 407. Vestibule of the ear, 814. artery of. See Artery, nerves of. See Nerves, of the mouth, 666. of the nose, 671. of the vulva, 255. Vestigial fold of pericardium, 451. Vibrissa, 672. Vidian artery. See Artery. nerve. See Nerve. Vieussens, anuulus or isthmus of, 458. ansa of, 638. valve of. See Valve. Villi, intestinal, 321. Vincula accessoria, 75. Vitreous body, 800. Vocal cords, 695. glottis, 693. Vulva, 265.INDEX. Wharton's duct, 6!2o. White commissure of the coi-d, 548. line of pelvic fascia, 383. Willis, circle of, 72'1. Windpipe. Sec Trachea. Winslow, foramen of, 309, 311. Wirsung, canal of, 312. Worm of cerebellum, 776. Wrisberg, nerve of, 13, Ki, 17, 42, 40. Wrist-joint, 98. Yellow spot of eyeball, 799. Zonule of Zinn, 800. Zygomatic muscles. See Muscles. THE END. URADBURy, AnNKW, & CO. Ln., PRINTER,'! LONDON AND TONIUIIDOK.I