Joint J\ ^untfb.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21304439_0002J • 117 COMPENDIUM ANATOMY. v. - ‘ .A ICo' COMPENDIUM OF THE A N A T O OF THE HUMAN BODY. • > / INTENDED PRINCIPALLY FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS. IN THREE VOLUMES, WITH PLATES. FIFTH EDITION, ENLARGED AND IMPROVED. TO WHICH IS NOW ADDED, A FOURTH VOLUME, CONTAINING OUTLINES OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY By ANDREW FYFE. VOL. II. EDINBURGH : Printed by J. Pillans & Sens, FOR ADAM BLACK, SOUTH BRIDGE STREET, EDINBURGH; AND THOMAS UNDERWOOD, 32. FLEET STREET,-AND 40. WEST SMITHFIELD, LONDON, 1812.*7WJOZ '• sf;n^4A&> \ iCONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUM E* PART IV. OF THE VISCERA, AND ORGANS OF THE SENSES. Of the Common Integuments, Appendages of the Shin, Of the Brain, Membranes and Principal Sinuses, Cerebrum, - - - Cerebellum, <$r. Origin of the Nerves, Of the Eye, - Orbits, - - - Eye-lids, c/ad Lacrymal Organs, Ball of the Eye, Coats, « Pag- 3 8 15 ib. 22 33 38 41 ib. 42 47 ib. Humours,CONTENTS. Pag. 58 66 TO 71 73 ib. 74 79 ib. 86 97 Humours, - Muscles, - Vessels, - Nerves, - Of the Ear, - External Ear, ~ Muscles of the External Ear, Internal Ear, - - Tympanum, - Labyrinth, - Of the Nose, - Or the Mouth and Throat, with their Ap- pendages, - - - - 105 Mouth, - - - ib. Tongue, - - - 108 Salivary Glands, - - - 111 - - - 115 Structure of the Teeth in the Adult, ib. Temporary Teeth, - - 123 Origin of the Permanent Teeth, 128 Appearing of the Temporary Teeth, 129 Formation of the Permanent Teeth, 130 Shedding of the Temporary, and the Appearing of the Permanent Teeth, 131 Growth of the Jaws, - - 133 Throat, - - - - 134 Pharynx, - - - - 135 Larynx, - - - 137 Of the Thoiiax, - - - - 145 External Parts of the Thorax, - - ib. Mamni(e, - - - - 146 InternalCONTENTS. Internal Parts of the Thorax, Pleura, - - _ Mediastinum, - „ Pericardium, Hearty - Lungs, - Trachea, . Esophagus, » Thoracic Duct, Of the Abdomen, Peritoneum, Stomachy Intestinesy Small Intestinesy Great Intestinesy Mesentery, Omentum, * Structure of the Intestines, Liver, Spleen, - Pancreas, Of the Organs of Urine and Generation the Male, Kidneys, Penal Glands, V?sica JJrinaria, Testes, IN / esiculce Seminales and Prostate Gland Penis, Via Pag. 151 ib. 152 154 1 56 173 176 184 185 187 189 191 197 19S 200 203 205 208 216 227 230 235 ib. 241 243 248 256 259 OfCONTENTS. viii I Pag. Of the Organs of Urine, and of the Unim- pregnated Parts of Generation, in the Female, - 269 Internal Parts, - - - - 270 Uterus, - - ib. Appendages of the Uterus, - - 272 External Parts, - - - 279 Of the Gravid Uterus, - - 28l< Of the Ovum, - - - - ib. Changes produced in the Uterine System by Im- pregnation, - 288 Contents of the Utc?ms about the end of Preg- nancy, - 293 Pccidiarities of the Foetus, - - 299 Position of the Foetus, - - 307 Circulation of Blood in the Foetus, - ib.I PART IV. OF THE VISCERA, AND ORGANS OF TIIE SENSES.. . .OF THE VISCERA, AND ORGANS OF THE SENSES. OF THE COMMON INTEGUMENTS. Cuticle. THE Cuticle, Epidermis, or SJcctrf-skin, is a thin semi- transparent insensible Membrane, which covers the Skin, and adheres to it by small Vascular Filaments. The Cuticle is readily separated from the Cutis by boiling water, or by putrefaction, and, in the living Body, by the application of blisters. It is not every where of the same density, being, even in the Foetus, thickest in the Palms and Soles; in which parts, the thickness is afterwards much increased by pressure. 'Phe External Surface is marked by Furrows, which correspond with those in the Cutis Vera. Upon the Surface of the Body it is perforated by the terminations of the Exhalent Vessels, which throw out A 2 the4 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. The the Perspirable Matter; and this Matter, when increas- ed in quantity, is considered by most of the modern Physiologists as forming the Sweat. It is perforated also by the ends of the Excretory Ducts, which are found only in particular parts of the Skin j by the be- ginning of the Absorbents, which take in certain Sub- stances applied to the Surface of the Skin; and by the different hairs. The Perforations, or Pores, are most evident upon the Palms and Soles, and upon the Nose, Ears, and external parts of Generation. The Cuticle covers the Skin through its whole extent, excepting under the Nails. From the external Surface of the Body, it is reflect- ed inwards, to line the large passages; as the Nose, Mouth, Alimentary Canal, the Trachea, Urethra, Va- gina, &c. In these Passages, however, the Cuticle becomes less uniform in its texture ; and in some of them, as in the Stomach, it is either wanting, or is so much changed in structure, as to have the appearance of being so. From the Surface of the Cuticle, certain Processes are sent into the Skin, which line the passages by which the Cutis is perforated. Many opinions have been advanced concerning the Origin of the Cuticle. The latest and most probable is, that it is formed by a condensation of the Corpus Mu- cosum, or by the extremities of Excretory Vessels ;— its density, however, is such, that no Vessels can be traced in it, cither by the eye, or by the assistance of glasses.I Part IV.] OF THE INTEGUMENTS. 5 The Cuticle serves to protect the sensible parts under it, and to regulate the proportion of the Fluids thrown out, or taken in, by the Surface of the Skin ;—particu- larly, to prevent too great a degree of evaporation. Corpus Mucosum. The Corpus Mucosum has been commonly called Rete Mucosum, from the supposition that it is formed of a Mucous Net-work. It is situated under the Cuticle, which it connects to the Cutis Vera. It is composed of the terminations of extremely minute Vessels passing between the Cutis and Cuticle, which are surrounded by a Mucilaginous or Viscid Substance, properly called Corpus Mucosum. It is the chief cause of that variety of colour, which characterises the natives of different climates, and dif- ferent people of the same climate, being white, or ra- ther of a light grey semi-transparent colour in the Eu- ropean, black in the Ethiopian, brown in the Asiatic, &c. It is thicker and stronger in the Negro than in the White Person, and in the former can be separated into two Layers. It covers every part of the Surface of the Cutis, ex- cepting below the Nails, where it is wanting; and is of such a light colour in the Palms and Soles of the Negro, as to have been supposed by some Authors to be deficient there also. Its Origin has not yet been sufficiently ascertained, A 3 nor6 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. nor is it fully determined what particular purposes it serves. Among other purposes, however, it contributes to preserve the structure of the tender Vessels, Ducts, and Papillae, placed between the Cutis and Cuticle *, and in the Negro, it is supposed to serve as a defence against the heat of the climate, by preventing the rays of the Sun from penetrating the Skin. Cutis Vera. The Cutis Vera, or Skin, properly so called, lies im- mediately under the Corpus Mucosum, and gives a ge- neral covering to the whole Body. It is formed of Fibres intimately interwoven, and run- ning in every direction, like the hairs in the felt of a hat, and is so plentifully supplied with Nerves and Blood-vessels, that the smallest puncture cannot be made in any part of it, without occasioning pain and a dis- charge of blood. The Blood-vessels of the Cutis are so numerous, as to appear to form almost the whole of its Substance, and arc of such a size as to be injected with facility. It is strong and elastic, and may be elongated in eve- ry direction, after which it recovers its former dimen- sions. It forms the Body of the Skin, or Dermis, and is that part in Quadrupeds of which Leather is made. The outer part of it is dense and firm, the inner loose, and gradually degenerating into the common Cellular Substance. ItPart IV.] OF THE INTEGUMENTS. It is thicker and looser on the posterior than on the anterior part of the Body, and thicker and firmer in the Palms and Soles than in the other parts of the extre- mities. The colour of the Cutis also differs in different parts of the Body, in proportion to the quantity of Blood in the extreme Vessels, and to the thinness of the Cuticle. At the edge of the Eye-lids, the redpai t of the Laps, and margin of the Anns, the Cutis becomes so imme- diately and remarkably thin, as to appear to be lost. Upon the Surface of the Cutis, and produced chiefly by the extremities of the Cutaneous Nerves, small Eminences are observed, called Papillcc, Papilla: Nervosa, and Pa- pilla IJyramidalcs :—the term being borrowed from the Papillae of the Tongue, which were first discovered, and to which the name is most applicable. They are considered as forming the Organ of Touch, from their being extremely sensible; and from their be- ing very Vascular, they are also regarded as furnishing a passage to part of the Perspirable Matter. The Papilla are most evident on the Tongue and edge of the Lips, and in the Palms and Soles, where they are placed in double rows upon the Ridges, which, on the points of the Fingers and Toes, generally run in a somewhat spiral and parallel direction, The Ridges are supposed to defend the Papilla?, and to increase the Surface for Perspiration. In some places, as in the red part of the Lips, the Pa- pillae, from their resemblance to the pile of Velvet, are termed Villi. N arious kinds of Folds are observed in the Skin ; some A 4 dependings OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. They depending upon the form of the Cellular Substance, a*; in the Hips ; others on Muscular Contraction, as in the Fore-Head ; and others on Articular Motion, as at the Joints of the Extremities,—particularly those of the Fingers and Toes;—and these Folds, to allow easy mo- tion, are thinner than the rest of the Skin. A sort of Cutis, as well as a Cuticle, is attempted to be traced from the external parts of the Body along the great passages; but in its course through these, it be- comes softer and looser, changing into a fine Cellular Substance. In an inflamed Skin, as in the case of Small-pox, a Reticular Texture of Vessels is observed, which can be easily injected, and has been considered by some as the Corpus Mucosum, and by others as an additional Cu- ticle ;—but no such appearance is to be met with in the sound Skin. The Cutis Vera serves to cover and give form to the Body ; unites the different parts, and defends them from injury; forms the External Organs of Sensation or of Touch ; and gives passage to the Fluids which are per- spired or absorbed. APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. Nails. The Nails were formerly regarded as a continuation of the Papillae of the Cutis, but are now more general- ly considered as a continuation of the Cuticle.§ Part IV.] OF THE INTEGUMENTS. They are removed along with it by boiling water, or by maceration. Like the Cuticle, they are insensible, are renewable after having been separated, and have no evident Ves- sels. They differ from it, however, in structure; being formed of Plates, and the Plates of Longitudinal Fibres, which are closely compacted, as may be seen when they are thoroughly dried, or in a diseased state. They begin by a square root, a little before the last Joints of the Fingers and Toes. When separated from the Skin, they are transparent like Horn, but are coloured in the living Body by the Vessels of the Cutis, to which they adhere, and from which they derive their nourishment. They are fixed at their roots to a semilunar Fold of the Cutis, and are there covered by a reflection of the Cuticle, which firmly adheres to them. They grow from the roots, and not from the points; and begin to be formed about the third month of Con- ception. The Nails strengthen, and defend the ends of the Fingers and Toes, and thereby serve as Buttresses. In the Fingers they increase the power of apprehen- sion, being useful in laying hold of minute objects. Hairs. The Hairs arise by Roots or Bulbs, which arc si- tuated in the Skin, or in the Cellular Sub?' ince un r the Skin. \ T.eOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 10 The Bulbs are of various shapes in different parts of the Body, and have Blood-vessels dispersed upon them for their nourishment. Each of the Bulbs has two Membranes, or Capsules, containing an Oily Fluid between them, which gives colour to the Hair, and for want of which, as in ad- vanced life, when the Capsule shrivels, or in certain diseases, the Flair is supposed to change its colour, and become white. It may be remarked, however, that the Flair, after being cut off, continues uniformly to pre- serve its colour. The colour of the Hair has some relation to the Cor- pus Mucosum, since in the Negro the tint of the Hair corresponds with that of the Skin, and in a Person with red or with dark-coloured Flair, there is a rosy or a dark complexion. The Flairs, in passing from the Skin, carry with them Processes of the Epidermis, which serve them as Sheaths, and which are so thin and transparent, as to allow the colour of the Hairs to appear through them. In the Human Body, the Flairs are so slender, that it is difficult to trace their structure; but in the strong Hairs of certain Quadrupeds, this becomes apparent. By the assistance of a good glass, these large Hairs are observed to be composed of a bundle of smaller Flairs, among which are one or two Canals for containing their nourishing fluid, termed the Medulla. By desiccation, the Hairs separate at their points into thin constituent Filaments, The Flairs, like the Nails, grow from their bases, in consequence of which, when they are cut short, they seemFart III.] OF THE INTEGUMENTS. 11 seem to increase in number, though it is only in dia- meter. The Hairs serve in general for the ornament, warmth, or protection of the different parts on or near which they are placed. Sebaceous Ducts or Follicles, and Miliary Glands. The Sebaceous Follicles derive their name from the Fluid they contain, becoming like Suet, after acquiring a certain degree of consistency, or being inspissated by stagnation. They are seated under the Cutis, and are found in greatest abundance in those parts which are exposed to the air, or to attrition; as in the Nose, Ears, Nipples, Groins, and external Parts of Generation. The Sebaceous, or Miliary Glands, are so called from their Contents, and from their resemblance to Millet Seeds, and are seated in the Axilla. Other Miliary Glands are described by Authors as being placed under the Skin over the whole Surface of the Body, and as serving for the Secretion of Perspi- rable Matter ;—but they are not demonstrable to such a general extent, and the Sweat is considered as being derived from the Exhalents, as already observed. These Follicles and Glands secrete a Fluid which serves to lubricate the Skin, and defend it from the inclemency of the weather, or from the effects of fric- tion. MembranaOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 22 Membrana Cellulauis, or Tela Cellulosa, or Re- ticular, or Cellular Substance. This is generally considered as one of the Integu- ments, though common to these and to the other parts of the Body. It is composed of a fine Web, formed of many Mem- branes joined irregularly together, and these made up of Cells, which communicate freely with each other wherever they are found. It is very elastic, may be drawn out to a considerable extent, after which it suddenly recoils, and may be con- densed or compacted to a great degree. It lines the Skin, covers the Muscles in general, and insinuates itself between their different Fibres ;—is an universal covering to all the other parts, and even enters into the composition of almost every one of them. It is thickest where the parts are most exposed to pressure, as in the Flips, Palms, and Soles. The different Cells of which it is composed are con- stantly moistened by an Interstitial Fluid, and in many parts of the Body are filled with Fat. It has little or no Sensibility, can be handled freely, or cut, or punctured, without giving pain. It serves to connect parts to*each other, but so as to prevent them from growing together :—it covers them, supplies them with Sheaths to move in, and contains •»he Fat. CorpusPart IV.] OF THE INTEGUMENTS. IS Corpus Adiposum, Adeps, Pinguedo, or Fat. I The Fat is lodged in the common Cellular Substance, and is made up of Masses composed of small Vesicles, and these arc surrounded by a net-work of Blood-ves- sels, from which the oily matter composing the Fat is supposed to be secreted, without the intervention of Glands. The Vesicles are not found to have any communica- tion with the Cellular Substance, or with each other, nor have any Excretory Ducts yet been perceived in them,—the Fat being supposed to transude from the Cells. It is of different consistency in different parts of the Body : In the living Body it is generally fluid, though in some parts it approaches to a solid, and is altogether of this nature in the dead Body. In the Bones, it forms the Marrow, which has been already described. The Fat is chiefly situated immediately under the Skin, and covers almost the whole Surface of the Body. It is also found between the different Muscles and Fibres of Muscles,—within the Orbits, and in the Cheeks,—in the Substance of the Mamma;, and about the Heart. 11 abounds in the Abdomen, about the Kidneys, Loins, Omentum, and Mesentery ;—and in the Joints it forms the Substances called Glands off the Joints, already men- tioned. The Fat is wanting in the Scrotum, Penis, and Eye- lids, and is found only in small quantity in the Fore- Head,OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV. 14< Head, or about the Joints, where, from its bulk, it would have been inconvenient.—It is also wanting in the Substance of the Viscera situated in the great Cavi- ties of the Body; as the Brain, Lungs, Liver, Spleen, Kidneys, &c. The Fat serves to lubricate every part of the Body to which it is connected, and facilitates the action of the Muscles. It fills the Interstices, so as to give form and smoothness, and guard against pressure. It serves also as a reservoir of nourishment, to be occasionally re-ab- sorbed and carried into the constitution. Panniculus Carnosus, vel Tunica Carnosa. This is a general Covering found in the Quadruped, and formed by a thin Subcutaneous Muscle, which serves to agitate the Skin. It exists only in certain parts of the Human Body -, as in the Fore-Head, where it is formed by the Occipi- to-Frontalis; and in the Neck, where it is formed by the Platysma Myoides. The Ancients described this as an additional Cover-Part IV,] OF THE BRAIN, 15 OF THE BRAIN. The term Brain is applied to the whole of that Mass which, with its surrounding Membranes, fills the Cavity of the Cranium *, and is larger in Man, in pro- portion to the size of the Body, than in any other Ani- mal. The Membranes of the Brain were called Meninges and Matres by the Ancients, from an idea that they gave birth or origin to all the other Membranes of the Body. They consist of the Dura Mater, Tunica Aracknoi- deay and Pia Mater. The Dura Mater, named from its being of a firmer texture than the other two Membranes, incloses the Brain with all its Appendages, and lines the different parts of the Cranium. It is composed of one Membrane, which, in several parts, is divisible by maceration into two or even more layers of Fibres. The Texture of the Dura Mater is very dense. It is theOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. i6 the thickest and strongest Membrane of the Body, and is composed of Tendinous-like Fibres, which have a shining appearance, particularly in its inner Surface. In many parts these Fibres run in a variety of direc- tions, and decussate each other at different Angles. The Dura Mater adheres every where to the Surface of the Cranium, in the same manner as the Periosteum adheres to the Bones in the other parts of the Body; but it is more firmly connected at the Sutures and Fo- ramina than elsewhere; and so much more firmly in Children than in Adults, that, in separating it from the Cranium, it is apt to bring along with it some of the Fibres of the Bone to which it is attached.—In the Adult, the separation of the Bone from the Membrane is less difficult, in consequence of many of the Fibres being obliterated. The inner Surface of the Dura Mater, which is re- markably smooth, is in close contact with the Brain, but adheres only where the Veins go into the Sinuses ;—and is lubricated by a Fluid discharged through its Vessels, which guards the Brain from danger, according as it may be affected by the different states of Respiration. The Dura Mater serves as a defence to the Brain, and supplies the place of a Periosteum to the inside of the Bones of the Cranium, giving nourishment to them,— as is evident from the numerous drops of Blood which appear after removing the Skull-cap. From the inner side of the Dura Mater, Processes arc sent off’, which divide the Brain into certain parts, and serve to keep it steady ; viz. I. The17 Part IV.] OF THE BE.AIN. I. The Falx, Septum Cerebri, ox* Superior Longitu- dinal Process, which is formed by a doubling of the Dura Mater, and is situated between the Hemispheres of the Brain. It begins at the middle of the Sphenoid Bone, arid Crista Galli of the Ethmoid Bone, and runs along the upper and middle part of the Head, adhering first to the Frontal, then to the joining of the Parietal, and afterwards to the middle of the Occipital Bone. In its passage, it becomes gradually broader, extends from the Cranium to near the Corpus Callosum, and terminates behind in the middle of the Tentorium. It runs from behind forwards in a straight direction, and has some resemblance in shape to a Sickle or Scythe, from which circumstance it has obtained the name of Falx. Between the under edge of the Falx and Base of the Cranium, there is a large space of an ovalform, occu- pied by that part of the Brain which is common to the two Hemispheres. The Falx supports the Tentorium, and is considered as preventing the two sides of the Brain from pressing upon each other, though there have been instances where part, or even the whole, of this Process has been wanting. II. The Tentorium Cerebelli, or Transverse Sep- tum, or Lateral Processes of the Dura Mater. I he Tentorium is continued laterally from the Falx, is connected behind to the inner Transverse Ridges and Grooves of the Occipital Bone, and at the fore and Vol. II. B outer18 OF THE VISCERA, &c. JTart IV. The outer edges to the Ridges and great Angles of the Tem- poral Bones, and terminates at the posterior Clinoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone. Between the middle and inner edges of the Tentorium and posterior Clinoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone, there is a large Notch, or Foramen Ovale, where the Cerebrum and Cerebellum are united, or where the Tuber Annulare is chiefly situated. The Tentorium keeps the Falx tense, and forms a Floor or Vault over the Cerebellum, which prevents the Cerebrum from pressing upon it. III. The F a lx Minor, or Septum Cerehelli, which is placed between the Lobes of the Cerebellum. It de- scends from the under and back part of the Falx and middle of the Tentorium, adheres to the inferior Lon- gitudinal Spine of the Os Occipitis, and terminates in- sensibly at the edge of the Foramen Magnum of that Bone. Besides the Processes of the Dura Mater already de- scribed, there are four of inferior consideration, two of which are situated at the sides of the Sella Turcica, and two at the edges of the Foramina Lacera. Several other Processes pass out at the different open- ings of the Cranium, to be connected to the Pericra- nium, or to accompany the Spinal Marrow and Nerves. —These of the last description shall be afterwards taken notice of. The Arteries of the Dura Mater are derived chiefly from the External Carotids, and partly from the Inter- nal Carotids and Vertcbrals.V Part IV.] OF THE BRAIN. 19 The Veins of this Membrane are of two kinds. One set of them, like the Veins in other parts of the Body, accompany the Arteries ;—the others are termed Sinuses, and differ from Veins only in this, that their Transverse Sections are of a triangular Figure, and that they are inclosed in a doubling of the Dura Mater, which is so tense over them, as to be little affected by the pressure of the surrounding parts. In the bottom of the Sinuses are small Transverse Cords, termed Chordae Willisii, which may add a little to their strength, and assist in preventing them from being too much distended. The Sinuses serve to carry the Blood from the Brain, and convey it to the Veins of the Neck ; for which pur- pose they are properly fitted, their Covering from the Dura Mater giving them strength, and their frequent communications preventing congestion. The Principal Sinuses are, I. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus, which begins at the Crista Galli of the Ethmoid Bone, runs along the upper edge of the Falx, becomes gradually larger in its progress, and terminates in the lateral Sinuses. II. The Torcular Herophili, or Fourth Sinus of the An- cients ;—the term Torcular applied from a supposition that the blood is squeezed in this Sinus as in a Wine- press.—It is chiefly formed of the Vena Galeni, runs be- tween the Falx and Tentorium, and terminates with the former Sinus in the beginning of the lateral Sinuses. B 2 HI. The20 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. III. The two Lateral Sinuses, which are formed by the Longitudinal and Torcular Sinuses. They run in depressions of the Occipital and Temporal Bones, first transversely, then in a winding direction downwards, and terminate at the Base of the Cranium, in the be- ginnings of the Internal Jugular Veins. Besides the Sinuses mentioned above, several others of less consideration will be pointed out in the particular description of the Veins. The Nerves of the Dura Mater are so very minute, that they have not as yet been distinctly traced; and it is found to possess very little sensibility in the sound state. Upon the side of the Superior Longitudinal Sinus, and parts of the Brain contiguous to it, there are nume- rous small Granulations^ of a whitish colour, called Gian- dulec Pacchioni. Besides these Granulations, there arc others of the same name, of a Fleshy colour, situated on certain parts of the outer Surface of the Dura Mater, and frequently projecting so much as to form deep Pits in the Skull. The nature of these Granulations is still unknown.— By some they have been supposed to belong to the Lym- phatic System. The Tunica Auachnoidea, named from its cobweb appearance, is an exceedingly thin, tender, and trans- parent Membrane, in which no Vessels have been hither- to observed. It is spread uniformly over the Surface of the Brain, inclosingPart IV.] OF THE BRAIN. 21 inclosing all its convolutions, without insinuating itself between any of them. At the upper part of the Brain, it adheres so closely to the subjacent Coat by fine Cellular Substance, that it can scarcely be separated from it; but in different parts of the Base of the Brain, particularly about the Tuber Annulare and Medulla Oblongata, it is merely in con- tact with the Membrane under it, and may readily be raised from it by the assistance of the Blow-pipe. The Tunica Arachnoidea, like the Cuticle, covers and defends the parts under it. The Pia Mater, named from its tenderness, is some- what of the nature of the former Covering, but is ex- tremely Vascular. It envelopes the Brain in general, enters double be- tween all its Convolutions, and lines the different Cavi- ties called Ventricles. It serves to contain and support the Vessels of the Brain, and allows them to divide into such minute parts, as to prevent the Blood from entering the tender Sub- stance of this Viscus with too great force. The Arteries of the Pia Mater are the same with those of the Brain, and are derived from the Internal Caro- tids and Vertebrals. The Veins differ in no respects from those of the other Viscera, excepting in this, that they do not accompany the Arteries. The Brain is divided into Cerebrum> Cerebellumy Tu- ber Annulare, and Medulla Oblongata. B S Cerebrum.22 OF THE VISCERA, See. [Part IV. t Cerebrum. The Cerebrum, or Brain, properly so called, is si- tuated in the upper part of the Cranium, which it com- pletely fills. It is divided into two halves, termed Hemispheres, which are separated from each other by the Falx. Each of the Hemispheres is of an oval form, or they somewhat resemble an Egg cut longitudinally into two equal parts. The inner sides arc fiat, and closely ap- plied to the Falx, the upper and outer parts convex, and the under Surface irregular. The under Surface is divided into two Anterior, two Lateral, and two Posterior Lobes, or Processes. The Anterior Lobes are situated in the fore part of the Base of the Cranium. The Lateral or Middle Lobes are lodged in the Fossae formed by the Temporal and Sphenoid Bones. The Posterior Lobes are placed over the Cerebellum, and are separated from it by the Tentorium. Between the Anterior and Lateral Lobes, there is a Furrow formed by the Anterior Clinoid Processes of the Sphenoid Bone, which has been termed Fossa, or Fis- sura Magna Sylvii. The Surface of the Brain is divided by deep Fissures, into many turnings or windings, termed Circumvolutions, which run in various directions, and are of different sizes and lengths on different parts of the Brain. The Circumvolutions are every where connected to the Pia Mater by an infinite number of small Vessels,— called23 OF THE BRAIN. Part IV.] called by Ruysch, Tomentum Cerebri,—which run into the Substance of the Brain ; as may be readily seen, upon separating the Circumvolutions a little from each other. Between the Hemispheres, a white Substance is ob- served, called Corpus Callosum, from its being a little firmer than the rest of the Brain. It goes across the Brain, under the Falx, and is merely a continuation of the Medullary Substance, running horizontally, and joining the two sides of the Hemispheres to each other. In the middle of the Corpus Callosum there is a lon- gitudinal Raphe with a Medullary Cord on each side, from which many Transverse Streaks issue. These Cords, like the Corpus Callosum itself, become gradual- ly broader towards the Posterior Extremity. An horizontal Section, a little above the middle height of the Brain, or upon a level with the Corpus Callosum, shews the division of the Substance of the Brain into outer and inner, or Coiiical and Medullary parts. The outer Substance is termed Cineritioiis, from its being of a greyish or ash colour,—though a little tinged with brown ;—and Cortical, from its surrounding the in- ner part of the Brain, as the Bark does the inner parts of a Tree. It is termed by some Authors Glandular, and by others Secretoiy, from a supposition that a Fluid was secreted in it. The Cinentious Substance covers the Brain in general, and enters deep between its Convolutions, is of a soft consistence, and composed of numerous small Vessels, B 4 carryingOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 24 carrying red Blood ; but it is uniform, and without any appearance of a Fibrous Texture. The inner Substance is termed While or Medullary, and is considered as giving origin to the different Nerves. It has been by some called Excretory, having been supposed to be formed of hollow Tubes continued from the Vessels of the Cortical part; but no Cavities have ever been observed in the soft Fibres of which it is composed. It is greater in quantity, and somewhat firmer in tex- ture, than the Cineritious Substance, with which it is so intimately connected, as to appear to be a continuation of it.—The soft Fibres or Streaks of the Medullary Matter, run in general in a parallel and transverse di- rection. In many parts of the Cineritious Substance, Medul- lary Matter appears; and, on the contrary, in different parts of the Medullary Substance, Cineritious Matter is found ; the two being frequently blended together in the form of Streaks. See Monro on the Nervous System. The Centrum Ovale of Vieussens. This is the Me- dullary Substance of the Brain, forming a kind of Nu- cleus, which is seen after removing the Cineritious Sub- stance, and all the Medullary parts mixed with it, which lie between the Cortical Convolutions. To obtain a proper view of the Centrum Ovale, the Nucleus ought to be cut in such a manner as to preserve the Corpus Callosum, and the same convexity with that pf the general convexity of the Brain. The Centrum Ovale forms an Arch or Hoof ov.er the two ri ■ ,Part IV.] OF THE BRAIN. 25 two Lateral Ventricles ; and the under part of this roof, which is smooth and uniform, constitutes the upper part of these Ventricles. Vieussens considered the Centrum Ovale as the Great Dispensatory of the Animal Spmls. The Ventricles of the Bi’ain are four in number, two of which are called Lateral. The four Ventricles have their sides contiguous to each other, are chiefly formed of Medullary Matter, and are lined with a continuation of the Pia Mater, which differs, however, from that part of the Membrane cover- ing the exterior Surface of the Brain, in having fewer Vessels dispersed upon it. They are constantly moistened by a Fluid, which prevents their opposite sides from adhering to each other. The Use of the Ventricles, as of many other parts of the Brain, is still unknown. The Lateral, formerly called Supeiior Ventricles, are situated in the Hemispheres, one in each, and run aL first horizontally in the same direction w ith the Hemi- spheres themselves. They are of an irregular form, lying under the Cen- trum Ovale, and have each three winding Corners, compared to Rams Horns, which are therefore called Cornua. The Anterior Cornua are separated from each other only by the Septum Lucidum. The Posterior Cornua, called also Digital Cavities, are at a considerable distance from each other, but ap- proach nearer at their pointed extremities; while the InferiorOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 26 Inferior Cornua run downwards and forwards, and ter- minate in the Lateral Lobes of the Brain. In each of the Posterior Cornua there is an Elonga- tion, which terminates in a point, and which is called Ergot by the French, from its resemblance to the Spur of a Cock; or Hippocampus Minor, from its similarity to, and connection with, the Substance termed Hippo- campus Major. In the fore part of the bottom of the Lateral Ven- tricles, are two large Eminences, called Corpora Striata, which become gradually narrower, and recede from each other at their posterior extremities.- The Structure of these is Cineritious externally, and mixed with Medullary Striae within, some of which form large Transverse Medullary Arches, and others run more in a straight direction. Between the posterior parts of the Corpora Striata, are situated the Thalami Nervorum Opticonim, which have a roundish form and Medullary Surface, and are of a Striated appearance within; but the Striae are less distinct than in the Corpora Striata. Upon the Surface of these Bodies, there are small Eminences or Tubercles, some of which are placed upon their superior, and others upon their inferior extremi- ties. The inner parts of the Thalami are flat and conti- guous ; and above, they are so closely connected as to form one continued Surface, called Commisstira Mollis of the Optic Thalami. The posterior parts of the Thalami turn downwards andPaut IV.] OF THE BRAIN. 27 t and outwards, after which they are elongated, to form the two white Cords, termed Tractus Optici. In the Groove between the Corpora Striata and Tha- lami, there is a Medullary Band on each side, called Centrum Semicirculare Geminum of\ieussens, or Tee- ilia Semicircularis of Haller, or simply Taenia. Over the Thalami is placed the Choroid Plexust nam- ed from its being composed of a Chorus of Vessels and Membranes. It is a fine Vascular Web, consisting of small ramifications of Arteries and Veins, connected by the Pia Mater, and spread upon the Surface of the Thalami, and some of the adjacent parts. The Choroid Plexus frequently contains numerous round Globules, resembling Hydatids, which have been considered by some Authors as Lymphatic Glands. Under the Raphe of the Corpus Callosum is placed the Septum Lucidum, which, when viewed laterally, is observed to be broad before, curved at its edge, and to become gradually narrower towards its posterior extre- mity. 1 It is connected above to the Corpus Callosum, below to the Fornix, and forms a distinct Partition between the Lateral Ventricles. It is composed of two Cineritious and Medullary La- mince, more or less separated from each other at their fore part, by a small Cavity, called Fissure, or Fossa of Sylvius, or Sinus of the Septum Lucidum. This Ca- vity is considered by some as a fifth Ventricle. It does not, however, communicate with the other Ventricles, though in some subjects it reaches a considerable way backwards, and, as well as the other Cavities of the Brain,28 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Brain, has been found full of water in cases of Hydro- cephalus. Under the Septum Luc.idum is placed the Substance which has been compared in shape to a Vault by the Ancients, and from that has obtained the name of Fornix. The Fornix is merely a continuation of the Corpus Callosum, and forms a sort of hollow Ceiling, with four Pillars, called Crura, or Cornua, from their winding direction, of which there are two anterior, and two pos- terior. The two Anterior Crura are short, run close together, and become enlarged at their inferior parts. The two Posterior Crura are long, at a considerable distance from each other, and form Curvatures which correspond with the course of the Inferior Cornua of the Lateral Ventricles. That part of the Crura Fornicis lying in the Inferior Cornua of these Ventricles, forms thin Borders getting the name of Corpora Fimbriata;—but, according to Vic D’Azyr, they are more properly termed Tcenia Plippocampi, from being united with the great Hippo- campus. The Body of the Fornix is narrow anteriorly, and becomes considerably broader behind, where it is incor- porated with the Corpus Callosum. The under Surface of the posterior part of the Body of the Fornix is impressed with numerous transverse and oblique Lines, which have been called Psalterium, or Lyra, from some resemblance they bear to the ancient musical instruments of these names. The29 Part IV.] OF THE BRAIN. The Body of the Fornix is joined above to the Septum Lucidum ; and below, it is connected to the Thalanii Optici by a Vascular Membrane, called Tela Clv>roideay which spreads over the Thalami, and unites the Choroid Plexus of the Lateral Ventricles. The Pedes Hippocampi, Cornua Ammonis, or Great Hippocampus,—named from a supposed resem- blance to these parts,—are two Medullary Eminences, which arise from the sides of the posterior extremity of the Corpus Callosum, and are situated in the inferior Prolongations of the Lateral Ventricles. They run through the whole extent of the Prolonga- tions, first behind, then at the outer part of the Poste- rior Pillars of the Fornix, and are so intimately con- nected with them, that they have been considered by some Authors as forming part of the Pillars themselves. They are small at their Origin, from which they con- tinue to increase to their farther extremity. Like the greater part of the Ventricles, they are co- vered externally with a Medullary Lamina-,—internally, they are found to consist of Medullary and Cineritious Laminae, which have a convoluted appearance. At the inner edge of the Pedes Hippocampi, there is a plaited, serrated, or indented Margin, which, in the generality of Quadrupeds, is much larger, in propor- tion to the size of the Brain, than it is in Man. The resemblance, however, to the human kind, in the struc- ture of this particular part of the Brain, is more strik- ing in the Ape than in any other Quadruped. In the bottom of the Lateral Ventricles, behind the anterior Crura of the Fornix, and before the meeting ofOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 50 of the Choroid Plexuses of these Ventricles, below the anterior part of the Body of the Fornix, and over the fore part of the Third Ventricle, there is a Hole of an oval form, by which the Lateral Ventricles communicate freely with each other. See Monro’s Obs. on Nerv. Syst. 1783, and Treatise on the Brain, 1797. After dividing hnd turning back the Fornix, another communication from the above passage is found, called Foramen Commune Anterius, Vulva, or Iter ad Infundi- bulum : but properly, Iter ad Tertium Ventriculum, or Passage to the Third Ventricle. Between the Commissura Mollis of the Optic Thala- mi and Substance called Pineal Glajid, there is a small Passage termed Anus, or Foramen Commune Posteriusy which has been supposed by some Authors to form a communication between the back part of the Third Ventricle and Lateral Ventricles ; but it is completely closed up by the Tela Choroidea, and also by the For- nix, which is intimately connected to this Membrane. The Third Ventricle is in form of a deep Fissure, placed between the inner ends of the Thalami Optici, having the Commissura Mollis of these Thalami situated above, the Crura Cerebri below, and the Bodies of the Thalami on each side. The Ini-undibulum, formed ofa Cineritious and Me- dullary Substance, is a Passage of considerable size, which leads downwards and forwards, from the anterior part of the Third Ventricle; gradually contracting, and becom- ing solid at its under end, where it terminates in the GlandulaPart IV.] 31 OF THE BRAIN. Glandiila Pituitaria, and thus, contrary to the opinion of the Ancients, preventing the passage of any Pituitous Fluid from it to the Nose. The Glandula Pituitaria is of an oval form, about the size of a field-bean, lodged in the Sella Turcica, and surrounded by a doubling of the Dura Mater. On the outside, it is of a brownish colour, being formed of Cineritious Matter : It is whiter within, where it is mixed with Medullary Substance. The Glandula Pituitaria was formerly supposed to absorb a Fluid from the Infundibulum, and transmit it to the Nose. It has been already mentioned, however, that the Infundibulum is impervious; and the real use of this Gland, as well as of the other Tubercles of the Brain, seems still unknown. At the fore part of the third Ventricle, and imme- diately before the Anterior Crura of the Fornix, there is a white Medullary Cord, which runs transversely through the Corpora Striata, uniting these together, and having the name of Commissura Cerebri Ante- rior. At the back part of the third Ventricle, and under the root of the Pineal Gland, there is another Cord similar to the former, but shorter, called Commissura Cerebri Posterior. The Commissura Cerebri assist in uniting the two sides of the Brain to which they are fixed. From the under and back part of the third Ventricle, there is a Passage which leads to the fourth, under the name ol Iter ad Quartum Ventriculum, Canalis Medius, vel Aqua duct us Sylvii. AfterOF THE VISCERA, ixc. [Part IV. 32 After the posterior part of the Fornix, and the Tela Choroidea to which it adheres, have been removed, there appear at the back part of the third Ventricle, behind the Thalami, and over the Iter a Tertio ad Quartum Vcntriculum, the Nates and Testes, or Tubercula Quadrigemina, and the Pineal Gland. The Nates, or Tubercula Quadrigemina Anleriortt, are placed uppermost, and are of a rounder form than the Testes, or Tubercula Quadrigemina Posteriora, which lie immediately under the former. The Testes are a little whiter in their colour than the Nates, and broader from one side to the other. A Longitudinal Section shews the Tubercula to be covered externally with a thin Medullary Lamina, and to be Cineritious within. In Man they arc more nearly of an equal size and colour than in Quadrupeds, as in the Ox, Sheep, See. in which the Nates are large, round, and of a brown colour, and the Testes small and long, and have a white appearance. Over the Nates, and under the back part of the For- nix, is placed the Glandula Pinealis, which is of a Cineritious nature, about the size of a Garden-pea, and of a Conoid Figure ; obtaining its name from its resem- blance in shape to a Pine or Fir Cone. In consequence of its being always present, and sel- dom found in a diseased state, it has been celebrated by Des Cartes as the Seat of the Soul. The Pineal Gland is fixed at its root to the Commis- sura Cerebri Posterior, and sends out two long Mcdul- lanj33 Part IV.] OF THE BRAIN. larij Peduncles, or Foot-Stalks, to be fixed to the upper and inner side of the Thalami, and to the Anterior Crura of the Fornix. Near, or in the Substance of the Pineal Gland, small Calcareous Concretions are frequently found, called by Soemmerring, Acervulus Cerebri, from their being ge- nerally found collected in a heap. They do not appear to be the effects of disease ; nor are they met with till after the age of Puberty. Cerebellum. i The Cerebellum is situated in the Inferior Fossce of the Occipital Bone, under the posterior Lobes of the Brain, and is separated from these Lobes by the Tentorium. It is somewhat of a roundish form, though a little broader from one side to the other than from before backwards. It is only about a fifth or sixth part of the size of the Cerebrum, and less complex. It is divided behind by the Falx Minor into two Lobes or Hemispheres, but has no separation above like that of the Brain. Its Surface is divided into numerous Circumvolutions, which form Arches in many parts, decussating each other at sharp angles. The Circumvolutions run chiefly in a lateral direction, and are formed of Laminae, with deep Sulci between them, into which, as in the Brain, the Pia Mater insi- nuates itself. This may be readily seen by making a Puncture into the Arachnoid Coat, and blowing in Air, Vol. IL C till34- OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. till it distend the Cellular Substance, and separate the Coats from each other. It has two middle Eminences, called Appendices Ver- miformes, from their resemblance to Earth-worms, one of which is situated anteriorly and superiorly, the other inferiorly and posteriorly. Each of the Lobes of the Cerebellum is again divided into Monticuli or Lobules, which have different names according to their relative situations, connections with other parts, &c. They vary a little in different Sub- jects, but are easily distinguished from the direction of their Convolutions. The Substance of the Cerebellum consists in Cineri- tious and Medullary Matter, as in the Cerebrum; but the Cineritious bears a greater proportion to the Me- dullary in the former than in the latter. When the Cerebellum is cut in a vertical direction, the Medullary part is then found to bear a striking re- semblance to the branching of the Shrub called Arbor Vilce : from which circumstance it has obtained the name of this Shrub. When cut in slices nearly parallel to the Base of the Brain, the Medullary Substance appears in Laminae corresponding to those of the Surface of the Cerebel- lum ; and when cut to a considerable depth, there is, as in the Cerebrum, a Centrum Medullare uniting the La- teral Lobes. Between the Cerebellum, the under part of the Tu- ber Annulare, and upper part of the Medulla Oblon- gata, the Fourth Ventricle is situated, which extends fromPart IV.] 55 OF THE BRAIN. from the Eminences^ called Testes to the posterior-infe- rior Notch of the Cerebellum. A little lower than the Testes, the Ventricle becomes wider, and forms an Angle behind, from which again it contracts, and becoming narrower and pointed below like a writing-pen, has got the name of Calamus Scrip- torius. Over the under end of the Aqumductus Sylvii, and upper part of the Fourth Ventricle, there is a thin Medullary Lamina, called Valvula, but properly Velum VIEUSSENII. At the sides of the Velum Vieussenii there are two . Medullary Tracts, called Processus ad Testes, or Colum- nce Valvidce Vieussenii. The under end of the Ventricle is found to be shut up by its Choroid Plexus, which prevents any communica- tion between this Cavity and that of the Spine. UNDER SURFACE OF THE BRAIN. Near the middle of the Base of the Brain, and be- tween its Lateral Lobes, there are two small, round, white Bodies, termed Eminentice Mammillares, or Cor- pora Albicantia, Medullary without, and Cineritious within, mistaken by some Authors for Glands. In the Corpora Albicantia, various Medullary Strata • terminate, which come from different parts of the Brain. Immediately before the Corpora Albicantia, is seen the Infundibulum, leading from the Third Ventricle. On the outside of the Corpora Albicantia, two large white Cord? are observed, called Cmra, or Peduncidi C 2 Cerebriy36 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. * Cerebri, or Crura Anteriora Medulla Oblongata: t which arise from the Medullary Substance of the Brain, and gradually approach each other in their course, till they unite with the Tuber Annulare. Their Surface is flat, and composed of distinct Me- dullary Fibres. Internally they are composed of a mix- ture of Cineritious and Medullary Matter, the former of which being of a darker colour at one particular part than in any other of the Brain, has been termed Locus Niger Crurum Cerebri. Between the Crura Cerebri, and likewise between the Corpora Albicantia, there is a Cineritious Substance, called Pons Tarini, which joins these Bodies of the opposite sides together, and assists in forming the bot- tom of the Third Ventricle. From the Medullary part of the Cerebellum, which forms the Trunk of the Arbor Vitce, two white Cords arise under the name of Crura Cercbelli, or Crura Postc- riora, or Peduncidi Cerebelli, which unite w'ith the Crura Cerebri, to compose the Tuber Annulare, or Pons Va- rolii, so named from forming a Ring or Bridge over the Crura. This Ring is intimately incorporated with, and formed by, these Crura. The Tuber Annulare is situated over the back part of the Body of the Sphenoid and Cuneiform Process of the Occipital Bone. Many Transverse Streaks run on its Surface, and it is divided into two lateral parts by a longitudinal Depression, occasioned by the situation of the Vertebral Artery. At the fore and back parts of the Tuber, are the Fo- ramina idaeca> Anterius et Poslerius, the former placed betweenPart IV.] S7 OF THE BRAIN. C 3 and between the Third, and the latter between the Sixth Pair of Nerves. These two Foramina penetrate only a little way at the edges of the Tuber, and receive a Plexus of Vessels. The Substance of the Tuber is intermixed with a con- siderable quantity of Cortical Matter, formed into Stria running in different directions. Continued from the Tuber, there is a large Substance in form of an inverted Cone, which extends to the Fo- ramen Magnum of the Occipital Bone, under the name of Medulla Oblongata. Upon the Surface of the Medulla Oblongata, two small Eminences appear, which run longitudinally, and contiguous to each other, and, from their shape, have the name of Corpora Pyramidalia, or Eminentia Pyra- midales. Between the Corpora Pyramidalia, there is a deep Fissure, into which the Pia Mater penetrates, and where Blood-vessels pass into the interior part of the Medulla. At the outside of the former Eminences, are two others, somewhat of the figure of Olives, from which they are termed Coipora Olivaria, or Eminentia Oli- vares. More externally than these, are other two Eminen- ces, less evident than the last, which have been describ- ed by some Authors under the name of Corpora Pyra- midalia Lateralia. The Medulla Oblongata is divided into two lateral Portions, by an anterior and posterior Fissure. These two Portions are formed of Medullary- Matter without,3S OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. and a large proportion of Cineritious Matter within, joined together by Medullary Fibres. The Brain is the Grand and Primary Organ of Sense 'with which the Mind is supposed to be most imme- diately and intimately connected, and from which the Ner- vous Influence is found, by experiment, to be communicated to all the other parts of the Body. Origin of the Nerves. The Nerves arise from the Medullary parts of the Brain, some in solid Cords, others in separate Threads, which afterwards unite into Cords, and have their names in numerical succession, according to their situations,— beginning anteriorly. The First, or Olfactory Pair of Nerves, arise from the back part of the anterior Lobes of the Brain, and run towards the Crista Galli of the Ethmoid Bone, over which each forms a brownish-coloured Bulb, from whence numerous small Nerves are sent off. The Second Pair, or Optic Nerves, are the continua- tion of the Thalami Optici. They are united imme- diately before the Infundibulum, and form an intimate intermixture of parts, and again separate, previous to their passing into the Orbits. The Third Pair arise by numerous Threads, which are soon collected into Trunks. The Fourth Pair, which are the smallest Nerves of the Body, arise behind the Testes, and have a long winding course. The Fifth Pair, which are the largest Nerves in the. Brain,OF THE BRAIN. Part IV.] 39 Brain, have each an anterior small, and a posterior large Fasciculus, arising from the sides of the Tuber Annulare. The Sixth Pair arise from the beginning of the Me- dulla Oblongata, where it joins the Tuber Annulare. Each of the Nerves of this Pair has a small Thread at its inner part. The Seventh Pair arise from the beginning of the la- teral parts of the Medulla Oblongata, and are divided on each side into a Portio Mollis, and Portio Dura. The Eighth Pair arise by small Fasciculi from the Corpora Olivaria. The Ninth Pair of Nerves also arise by small Fasciculi a little below the former, from the Corpora Pyrami- dalia. The Origin of the Nerves is described at greater length in Vol. III. C 4 T A B L EIPart IV.] OF THE EYE. 41 OF THE EYE. The Eyes, which constitute the Organ of Vision, are situated in the Cavities of the Orbits, and are sur- rounded by several parts, some of which protect them from injury, and others assist in the performance of their various motions. The Orbits are of a conical figure, situated in the fore part of the Cranium, with their Apices behind, their Axes in an horizontal direction, and their Bases turned obliquely outwards. They are formed of different Processes of the follow- ing Bones, viz. The upper part of each Orbit, by the Orbitar Plate of the Frontal Bone;—the inferior, by the Orbitar Plates of the superior Maxillary and Malar Bones ;—the internal, chiefly by the Orbitar part of the Os Unguis and Pars Plana of the Ethmoid Bone ;—the external, by the Or- bitar Plates of the Sphenoid and Malar Bones ;—the posterior, by the Sphenoid and Palate Bones ;—and the anteriorOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 42 anterior edge of the Orbit, by the Frontal, Superior Maxillary, and Malar Bones. The Cavities of the Orbits are lined with Productions of the Dura Mater, which pass through the Foramina Optica and Lacera; and at the anterior edges of the Orbits, join the Periosteum of the Face, where they supply the place of Ligaments to the Palpebrae. SUFERCILIA. The Supercilia, or Eye-Brows, which are peculiar to the Human Species, are the Arches of Hair situated upon the Superciliary Ridges of the Frontal Bone. The Hairs are placed obliquely, with their roots towards the Nose, and the Arches elevated a little above the rest of the Fore-FIcad, by a considerable quantity of Cellular Substance lying under the Skin. They are moved in different directions by the action of the Occipito-frontalis, Corrugator Supcrcilii, and Orbicularis Palpebrarum. They are intended partly for Ornament, and partly as Shades over the Eyes, thereby preventing them from being injured by extraneous matter, or by too great a degree of light. They also assist in expressing the Pas- sions of the Mind. Palpebrje. The Palpebrcc, or Eye-lids, are chiefly composed of a Doubling of the Skin inclosing part of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum, and of the Cartilages called Tarsi; and form ¥ Hi k! tit E k k D B il 1 c a ilOF THE EYE. Part IV.] 43 . form Angles at their outer and inner extremities, term- ed Cant hi, or Corners of the Eye. (• The Upper Eye-lid is the one which moves principal- ly in closing or opening the Eye. The under Eye-lid moves only when the Eye-lids are shut with more than usual force, being then raised by that part of the Muscle belonging to it. It is depressed by its own elasticity. The Motions of the Eye-lids are performed by the ac- : tions of the Orbicularis and Levator Palpebrarum. The Eye-lids serve as Curtains or Veils, to defend the lEyes during Sleep. They likewise prevent them from : being injured by extraneous objects, or by too much i light. In certain situations, they assist vision by di- ; minishing the rays of light when they are too strong. By their frequent motion, they increase the secretion of i the Tears, apply them properly to the Surface of the Eye, and conduct what remains, after washing the Eye, i to the Puncta Lacrymalia. Tarsus. This is a thin Cartilaginous Arch, situated in the edge of each Eye-lid ; that in the upper one being consider- ably broader than the one below', and each broader at its middle than towards its extremities. They terminate at a little distance from the inner Angle of the Eye.—Their edges are so placed, that when the Eye-lids are shut, a Groove is left next the Eye, by which the Tears are conveyed towards the Nose. The Tarsi serve to keep the Eye-lids extended, allow them44- OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. them to be accurately applied to each other, and prevent them from being collected into Folds. Glandule Sebaceje, Ciliares, or Meibomianje. The last term is obtained from these substances being described by Meibomius. They are placed between the Tarsus and lining of the Eye-lids, and are formed of a series of white Lines or Follicles, running in ser- pentine directions, which, when viewed through a Mag- nifier, appear like Rows of Pearls. From their Sub- stance an Oily or Sebaceous Matter, resembling little Worms, may be readily squeezed out through the Fo- ramina or Puncta Ciliaria, placed upon the edges of the Eye* lids. The Matter of the Sebaceous Glands anoints the edges, and facilitates the motions of the Eye-lids ; they likewise prevent their Accretion, or the Tears from pass- ing over them during Sleep. Cilia. The Cilia, or Eye-lashes, are stiff Hairs placed in the edges of the Eyc-lids. Those of the Upper Eye-lid are bent upwards, and are considerably longer than those of the Under Eye-lid, which are bent in the opposite direction. In both Eye-lids they are wanting near the inner Angle. The Cilia prevent dust, insects, &c. from getting into the Eye, assist in moderating the quantity of light sent into it, and add to the beauty of the Face. GlandulaOF THE EYE. 45 Fart IV. j Glandula Lacrymalis. « The Glandula Lacrymalis, called, till of late years, 1 the Glandula Innominata Galeni, is situated within the ' Orbit, upon the upper and outer part of the Eye, in a 1 hollow behind the outer end of the Superciliary Ridge < of the Frontal Bone.—It is a Gland of the Conglome- ; rate kind, of a yellowish white colour, of an oblong I form, and a little flattened, with one end pointing to the Nose, the other to the outer Angle of the Eye. Besides the Glandula Lacrymalis, there is a chain of mailer Glands, lying between it and the upper Eye-lid, and connecting them together. In the direction of the smaller Glands, there are six or seven Excretory Ducts,-—described by Dr Monro, 1758,—which run nearly parallel to, but do not com- municate with each other. The Excretory Ducts, on account of their smallness, are not often seen, and are injecfed with difficulty. They terminate on the inner side of the upper Eye-lid, near the outer Angle of the Eye and upper edge of the Tar- sus. The use of the Lacrymal Gland is to secrete the Tears, which are spread over the Surface of the Eye by their own weight, and by the motion of the Eye-lids, for the purpose of preserving the delicacy of the Eye, and particularly the transparency of the Cornea. Puncta Lacrymalia. The Puncta Lacrymalia are two small Orifices placed near[Part IV. 46 OF THE VISCERA, &c. near the inner Angle of the Eye, one in the upper, the other in the under Eye-lid, at the extremity of the Tar- sus, and opposite to each other. Each Function is seated obliquely upon a little Emi- nence, and is surrounded with a Cartilaginous Circle, which keeps it constantly open. The Puncta Lacrymalia are the Orifices of two small Canals, which run in the direction of the edges of the Eye-lids towards the side of the Nose, where they ap- proach each other, and terminate together in the Lacry- mal Sac. \ The Tears which remain after moistening the Eye are absorbed by the Puncta, in the manner of Capillary attraction, and are conveyed through their Ducts into the Lacrymal Sac by the impulse of the Eye-lids. Caruncula Lacrymalis. The Caruncula Lacrymalis is a small Gland of a red- dish colour, of the Conglomerate kind, situated between the inner Angle of the Eye-lids and Ball of the Eye ; supplying Sebaceous Matter to this part of the Eye-lids; and serving in particular to separate the Puncta Lacry- malia, and to keep them open, and direct the Tears to them while the Eye-lids are shut. Minute Hairs are found upon the Surface of this body, serving to entangle small objects which get into the Eye. Valyula Semilunaris. The Valvula Semilunaris is a small doubling of the TunicaOF THE EYE. 4-7 Part IV.] Tunica Conjunctiva, and lies between the Caruncula Lacrymalis and Ball of the Eye. It is larger in the Ape and other Quadrupeds than in the Human Species, and still larger in Birds, in which, as well as in Quadrupeds, it is called Membrana Nicti- tans. It is in form of a Crescent, the Horns of which are turned towai'ds the Puncta Lacrymalia, and assists the Caruncula in conducting the Tears to the Puncta. BALL OF THE EYE. The Ball, Globe, or Bulb of the Eye, is of a sphe- rical form, to collect the rays of light into a proper Focus, and is surrounded behind by a quantity of soft Fat, to allow the Eye and its Muscles to move with fa- cility. It is composed of Coats, Humours, Vessels, and Nerves, to be next described. Coats. Tunica Adnata. The Tunica Adnata, or Conjunctiva, named from its connecting the Eye to the Orbit, is a reflection of the Skin continued from the Eye-lids over the whole fore part of the Ball of the Eye. It adheres slightly by means of Cellular Substance to the48 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV. the white of the Eye, but so firmly to the Cornea, as to be separated from it with difficulty till after macera- tion. It is so remarkably thin, that the colour of the sub- jacent parts appears readily through it. Between this Coat and the white part of the Eye, there is a quantity of loose Cellular Substance, which is very Vascular, and is the common seat of Ophthalmia. The Tunica Adnata supports the Ball of the Eye, prevents extraneous Bodies from getting to the back part of it, and forms a smooth covering to lessen the friction between the Eye and Eye-lids. Cornea. The Cornea, so called from its resemblance to Horn, is termed by many Authors Cornea Lucida, to distin- guish it from the Sclerotica, which these Authors called Cornea Opaca. It forms the anterior Pellucid Covering of the Eye, is more convex than the rest of the Ball, and is joined to the Tunica Sclerotica, like the Segment of a small Sphere to that of a larger one. The convexity, how- ever, varies in different persons, so as to form a short or long sighted Eye, according as the Cornea is more or less prominent. It is found also to become more convex when we look at near objects, and the reverse when we view those at a distance. In a recent Subject, it is hard, dense, and transpa- rent ; but after maceration in water, it becomes soft and opake, and may be readily separated, especially in youngPart IV.] 49 OF THE EYE. L young Animals, into different Lamellae, the anterior of which is the continuation of the Tunica Adnata. By a slight degree of putrefaction, it may also be se- parated from the Tunica Sclerotica. In the Whale, the edge of the Cornea is received into a distinct Groove, formed by the Sclerotica. In a sound state, the Cornea has no Vessels which carry red Blood, though such are frequently seen on ir when the Eye is inflamed. Its Nerves arc too small to be traced j yet it possesses exquisite sensibility. It collects the rays of light, and transmits them to the Eye, protects the tender parts within it, and contains the Aqueous Humour. Iius. The Iris, so named from being in some persons of different colours, is the only Coat of the Eye which pos- sesses motion. It was considered as a continuation of the Choroid Coat, until described by Zinn, who shews that it is only connected to this Coat by the medium of the Ciliary Circle. It is placed at a little distance from the Cornea, be- gins a small way behind the junction of that Coat with the Sclerotica, and, running across, it forms a Septum, a little convex anteriorly, and perforated in the middle by a Hole, called the Pupil, or Sight of the Eye ; the former term applied, because it represents objects no larger than a Pupilla or Puppet. In the Foetus, the Pupil is occupied by a Vascular Vol. II. D Membrane, %OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 50 Tunica Membrane, termed Membrana Pupillaris, which gene- rally disappears between the seventh and ninth month of gestation. Upon the back part of the Iris, there is a dark-colour- ed Pigment or Varnish, considered by the Ancients as a posterior Layer of the Iris, and called by them Uveay from its resemblance in colour to the Grape. When the Paint is washed off, the Iris exhibits two sets of Fibres, concerning which Authors have enter- tained various opinions; one set in the form of Radii, the different colours of which give the diversity of colour to the Eye-, the other Circular, surrounding the inner edge of the Iris, and considered by Dr Monro as the Sphincter Muscle of the Pupil. The colour of the Iris corresponds in general with that of the Hair, being blue or grey where the Hair is light, and brown or black where the Hair and Com- plexion are of a dark colour. The Iris has also many Blood-vessels, which are ren- dered evident by Injection ; and is furnished with a greater proportion of Nerves than almost any other part of the Body. It floats in the Aqueous Humour, and is of such a nature, that upon exposure to a strong light, or when the Eye looks upon a near object, the diameter of the Pupil is diminished ; and vice versa. The different motions of the Iris are supposed to be excited by the sensibility of the Retina, and by the quantity of light which falls upon that Nerve. The Iris serves to regulate the quantity of light sent to the bottom of the Eye.Part IV.] 51- OF THE EYE. i Tunica Sclerotica. The Tunica Sclerotica, which is named from its hard- ness, is the largest and strongest Coat of the Eye, cover- ing the whole Ball, excepting the parts occupied by the entrance of the Optic Nerve behind, and by the Cornea before. It is so firmly fixed to the edge of the Cornea, that it has been considered by many Anatomists as a continua- tion of the same substance ; but it differs from the Cor- nea in the following particulars :—it is of a pure white colour ; is formed of Fibres running in every direction, and closely interwoven with each other, and is not divi- sible into Layers. It is thicker in its posterior than anterior part, and receives a little tinge, on the inner Surface, from the Choroid Coat, with which it is in contact. It gives form and strength to the Eye, attachment to its Muscles, and protects and supports the tender parts it incloses. It has also been conjectured, and Blumen- bach thinks he has ascertained, from comparative Ana- tomy, the truth of the conjecture, that this Coat, by its structure, is so affected by the action of the Muscles, as to influence what are called the Internal Changes of the Eye: by which the form of the Eye-ball, conse- quently the length of its Axis, and the respective situa- tion oi the Lens, are adjusted according to the proxi- mity or remoteness of the object. I he lendons of the four Recti Muscles of the Eye D 2 are52 Of THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. are fixed to the fore part of the Tunica Sclerotica. These, or the Cellular Vaginae covering them, have been supposed to give an additional whiteness to the Eye, and the part giving this whiteness has been termed Tu- nica Albuginea:—But the Sclerotic Coat is every where of a pure white, and can receive little additional bright- ness from any such covering. Tunica Choroides. The Choroides lies under the Sclerotica, and is con- nected to it by the Trunks of Vessels and Nerves which pass from the one Coat to the other, and also by a ten- der Cellular Substance, of a brown colour, which tinges the inner Surface of the Sclerotica. It begins at the entrance of the Optic Nerve into the Eye, runs between the Sclerotica and Retina, nearly to the Crystalline Lens, where it is more firmly connected to the Sclerotic Coat than it is elsewhere, by means of the Ciliary Circle. The Ciliary Circle, or Ciliary Ligament as it is called, is composed of a quantity of condensed shining Cellular Substance, which forms a white Ring connecting the fore part of the Choroides, and the root or outer margin of the Iris, to the Sclerotica. The Choroid Coat is much thinner and more tender than the Sclerotic, and is one of the most Vascular parts of the Body, seeming at first sight to be entirely composed of Vessels.—The greater number of those on the outside run in whirls j while those on the inside, taking a direction nearly parallel to each other, gave riseOF THE EYE. 5S Part IV.] D 3 sels rise to the supposed existence of the Membrana Ruys- chiana. It is also furnished with numerous Nerves, which are united with its Vessels by a fine Cellular Texture. In the Human Eye, the Choroides is of a dusky brown colour, both externally and internally; but the colour varies considerably in the Eyes of different Ani- mals. The inner Surface of this Coat, which is Villous, was described by Ruysch as a distinct Lamina, and has been termed by many Anatomists Tunica Ruyschiana.—Hal- ler, however, Zinn, and many others who follow- ed them, have demonstrated this Coat to consist of only one Lamina; though in Sheep, and in some of the larger Animals, it appears to be double. • Upon the inner side of the Choroides, there is a Mu- cus, the colour of which, in different Animals, is found to have some connection with the general colour of the Hair and Skin, though commonly, in the Human Body, it is of a blackish brown, and termed Pigmmt'im Ni- grum ; the darkness of the shade, however, still corre- sponding with that of the Hair. It is supposed to be produced from the Vessels of this Coat, and is blackest and thickest at the fore part of the Eye, where it ad- heres so tenaciously as to be removed with difficulty but behind it is thinner, more fluid, and more easily re- moved -, becoming gradually less evident towards the Optic Nerve, round which it almost disappears. In advanced age, the Pigmentum Nigrum becomes more diluted, and of a lighter colour, so that the Ves-■54- OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. sels of the Choroid Coat may be seen shining through the Vitreous Humour. 1 hough Haller denies that the Membrtna Ruyschi- ana can ever be separated, in the Human Eye, from the Choroides,—he retains the name, to denote tiie black Surface of this Coat. In Gramenivorous Animals, in Fishes, and in those Animals which go in quest of prey in the night, the Paint is of a light and shining colour in the bottom of the Eye, and is called Tapetum. In some entirely white Animals, as the white Rabbit, the Paint is wanting, or transparent, and the Eye has a red colour, from the Vessels of the Choroid Coat be- ing seen in the bottom of the Eye; but the redness disappears when the Animal is dead. In the Albinos also, and white Person born of Negro Parents, the Pig- mentum Nigrum is entirely or nearly deficient, and a red colour appears in the bottom of the Eye. At the fore part of the Choroid Coat, and opposite to the Ciliary Circle, there is a black radiated Ring, called Coipus Ciliare, which is about the sixth part of . an inch in breadth towards the Temple, but somewhat narrower towards the Nose. In the posterior portion of the Corpus Ciliare, there are numerous pale radiated Ciliary Striae, but so cover- ed with the Pigmentum Nigrum, as not to be distinctly seen till the Paint is removed. Near the connection of the Corpus Ciliare with the root of the Iris, these Striae become gradually broader and more elevated, and form white Plicae or Folds, a- bout seventy in number, termed Processus Ciliares, the intervalsOF THE EYE. Part IV.] intervals of which are also covered with the Pigmentum Nigrum. The Processus Ciliares are commonly formed each of two or more Striae. They are not all of an equal size, and many of them are forked at their extremities. The Corpus Ciliare, formed of the Ciliary Striae and Ciliary Processes, has no appearance of Muscularity, though the contrary has been supposed by some Authors. A fine Injection shews it to be chiefly formed of a con- tinuation of the Blood-vessels of the Choroid Coat, the Branches of which divide into such minute parts, as to give the whole a Villous appearance. The Corpus Ciliare is glued to the Retina, at the fore part of the Vitreous Plumour, and a little behind the edge of the Crystalline Lens ; but the Ciliary Pro- cesses float in the Aqueous Humour in the Posterior Chamber of the Eye, at the inner side of the root of the Iris, and may be readily turned back behind the edge of the Lens, to which they are contiguous, but do not adhere. The Choroid Coat, with its dark paint, serves to suf- focate the rays of light which pass through the Retina, thereby allowing a distinct image to be formed upon the bottom of the Eye, and preventing the rays from being reflected so as to form a second image. In those Animals in which this Coat, or its paint, is of a bright colour, it acts as a mirror to reflect light, and make the impression stronger. D 4 Opticr,r> OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Optic Nerve and Retina. The Optic Nen>e, in its passage through the Orbi‘, is covered by a continuation of the Membranes which surround the Brain. At the Foramen Opticum, the Dura Mater is divided into two Lamina, one of which assists in forming the Periosteum of the Orbit; the other, which is again divided into two Laminae, furnishes a Sheath to the Nerve, and accompanies it to the Tunica Sclerotica, to which it is so firmly connected by Cellular Substance, ns to have induced some Authors to describe the Sclero- tica as a continuation of the Dura Mater. The Body of the Nerve is still more closely invested by the Pia Mater, which also forms Sheaths round the Nervous Fasciculi, and accompanies the Nerve into the Eye. At the back part of the Ball of the Eye, and a little removed from the Axis, towards the Nose, the Fasciculi of the Optic Nerve pass through a Cribriform part of the Sclerotic and Choroid Coats. The Nerve is contracted at its entrance through the Sclerotic Coat, but immediately after its ingress, it ex- pands to form the Retina,—so called from its supposed Reticular appearance. In the centre of the Optic Nerve, where it enters the Eye, the Artery of the Retina is seen dividing into Branches, which are dispersed upon its inner Surface. The Retina advances between the Choroid Coat and Capsule of the Vitreous Humour, to the fore part of the57 - OF THE EYE. Part IV.] the Eye, and terminates or disappears upon the ante- rior part of the edge, or greatest diameter of the Cap- sule of the Crystalline Lens. The Retina is contiguous to the Choroid Coat and Capsule of the Vitreous Humour, but docs not, by Blood-vessels or otherwise, adhere to either, till it reach the Corpus Ciliare. Under the Corpus Ciliare, the Retina is so covered externally with the Pigmentum Nigrum, and adheres internally so closely to the Capsule of the Vitreous Hu- mour, as to be prevented from being seen till the black Paint be washed off’, or till all the Coats be removed posteriorly, and the Eye viewed through the medium of the Vitreous Humour. In the back part of the Retina, and on the side next the Choroid Coat, directly in the Axis of the Eye, there is a transparent Spot, which appears like a Foramen, sur- rounded with a yellow Border, which becomes paler to- wards the Circumference. This was first discovered by Soemmerring, and is termed Foramen Cent rale, but its nature is not yet understood. It is said to be peculiar to the Human Species and Ape. According to Blumen- bach, it may serve as a kind of Pupil through which concentric rays may pass, and be absorbed by the Pig- mentum Nigrum of the Choroides, in those Animals which have the Axis of the Eyes parallel to each other, and thereby see objects with both Eyes at once, but are in danger from this of being dazzled by strong light. The Retina is composed of a tender and Pulpy-like Substance, is semi-transparent, and of a light grey co- lour.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 58 lour, resembling that of ground glass, but becoming a little firmer and more opake in Spirit of Wine. From the entrance of the Optic Nerve to the edge of the Corpus Ciliare, the Retina is of an equal and uni- form Substance, and is so easily torn and separated from the edge of that Body, as to be described by many Au- thors as terminating there. Under the Striae and Processes of the Corpus Ciliare, the Retina is thinner than in the posterior part of the Eye, and is so compressed by these Bodies, as also to have the appearance of Striae terminating in numerous minute Fibres, like Nerves in other parts of the Body. The Retina is one of the most sensible parts of the Body. It is the seat of Vision, and therefore the pri- mary part of the Eye, to which all the other parts within the Orbit are subservient. HUMOURS. Aqueous Humour. The Aqueous Hwnour is lodged in the space between the Cornea and Crystalline Lens. This space is divided into two Cavities, called Cham- bers ; the anterior of which is situated between the Cor- nea and Iris, and is the larger of the two. The posterior is placed between the Iris and Crystal- line Lens, and is so much smaller than the former, that its existence has been denied by some Authors, though it is a distinct Cavity, demonstrable, not only in the Adult,Part IV.] OF THE EYE. 59 Adult, where the Pupil is open, but in the Foetus be- fore the Pupil is formed. The Aqueous Humour is as clear as the purest water, but is somewhat heavier, possesses a small degree of vis- cidity, contains a little Salt, and is about five grains in weight. In the Foetus, and for the first month after Birth, it is reddish and turbid. When evacuated, it is quickly renewed; for within forty-eight hours after it has been discharged by punc- ture, the Cornea is observed to be again perfectly dis- tended. It is supposed to be secreted from the neighbouring Arteries, particularly from those on the fore part of the Iris and Ciliary Processes. It serves to keep the Cornea distended, and, by its roundish form and pellucidity, it collects and transmits the rays of light to the inner parts of the Eye. It like- wise guards the Iris and Lens, and admits of the mo- tions of the former. Crystalline Lens. The Crystalline Lens, which has its name from its re- semblance to Crystal, and from its Lenticular form,— though a solid Body, which may be moulded into va- rious shapes,—has always been classed among the Hu- mours of the Eye. It is situated behind the Aqueous Humour, opposite to the Pupil, and the whole of its posterior part is re- ceivedW> OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. ccivcd into a Depression on the fore part of the Vitreous Humour. Like a common Lens, or magnifying Glass, it has two convex Surfaces, the anterior of which is in general less convex than the posterior; the two being formed of segments of spheres of unequal size. The anterior Surface, according to the experiments of Petit, forms the segment of a sphere, the diameter of which is between seven and eight lines, or twelfths of an inch ; while the posterior Surface is only equal to the segment of a sphere of about five linos in diameter. It has been observed by Zinn,—that the figure of the Lens varies at different periods, being in the Foetus al- most of a spherical form, but becoming gradually flat- ter on the anterior and posterior Surfaces, till about the age of thirty, after which its form docs not appear to vary. As the figure, so also the colour and consistency, are found to change at different times of life.—In the Foetus, not only a Capsule, which covers it, but^the Lens also, is of a reddish colour; but immediately after Birth, they become perfectly transparent.—-In a Person consi- derably advanced in years, the Lens is observed to ac- quire a yellow tinge, which appears first in the centre, and afterwards extends gradually to the circumference j and in extreme old age, this yellow tinge becomes so deep as to resemble Amber. An Aqueous Fluid is described as being situated be- tween the Crystalline Lamellae^ which is supposed to decrease in quantity, and to become somewhat yellow; the Lens at the same time increasing in solidity as the PersonOF THE EYE. 61 Part IV.] Person advances in life.—This difference, however, of convexity, colour, and consistence, according to the dif- ference of age, is not met with uniformly. The Lens becomes opake soon after death, and ac- quires an additional opacity when put into Spirit of Wine. It is composed of concentric Lamella?, laid over each other like the coats of an Onion. These Lamellae are connected by fine Cellular Substance, and are more closely compacted the nearer they are to the centre. This Lamellated structure may be readily observed in the Eye of an Ox, or any other large Animal, but is most evident when the Lens has been macerated in Water or Vinegar. When the maceration is continued for some time, the Lamellae put on a radiated appearance, the Radii run- ning in a vertical manner, or issuing from the centre to the circumference, dividing the Surface into Isosceles Triangles, or like the Meridian lines running between the two poles of a Geographical Globe. The Lamellae were discovered by Leuwenhof.ck. to be of a Fibrous structure. By some Authors these Fi- bres have been considered as Muscular, and capable of varying the convexity of the Lens according to the dis- tance of the objects we look at; but it is observed, that the Eyes from which the Lens has been removed, are, by the assistance of Glasses, enabled to form distinct vision. The substance of the Lens somewhat resembles half- melted Gum, is very soft and tender on the outside, but becomes62 OF TIIE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. becomes gradually firmer and tougher towards the centre, where it forms a Nucleus. The Lens is surrounded by a very pellucid proper Capsule, called Tunica Aranea, or Crjstallina, which is much thicker and more clastic than the Capsule of the Vitreous Humour, but adheres so slightly, and is so easily lacerated, that after a small puncture is made iti it, the Lens starts out, upon applying gentle pressure to the Capsule. The posterior part of the Capsule is much thinner, softer, and weaker, than the anterior ; but is quite a distinct Membrane from the Tunica Vitrea ; yet so firmly connected to it by Cellular Substance, that it is difficult to separate them, without lacerating both the Vitreous Coat and its Humour. Some Authors describe an Aqueous Humour as seated between the Lens and its Capsule *, while others, of no small respectability, deny the existence of this Humour, as well as of that which is said to be situated between the Lamellae of the Lens. The Vessels of the Lens are not to be seen in the Eye of the Adult; but in that of a Foetus, Petit found Ves- sels passing from the Corpus Ciliare over the fore part of the Capsule of the Lens. Winslow afterwards observed, that in the Foetus, and in new-born Children, a fine Injection succeeded so well, as to discover the Vessels of the Membrana Crystallina and Vitrea;—and in a Foetus of about six months, the injected liquor seemed to him to have pe- netrated a part of the Crystalline and Vitreous Hu- mours. Alb in usPart IV.] 63 OF THE EYE. Albinus derives these Vessels from a double source. —In the Eye of a Whale, he demonstrated Vessels passing from the Ciliary Processes to the substance of the Lens; and, at a later period, he injected in the Human Eye a small Branch arising from the Central Artery of the Retina, which proceeded in a straight direction through the Vitreous Humour, and divided in the posterior part of the Capsule into numerous Branches, many twigs of which plunged into the sub- stance of the Lens. This Artery and its Branches have been frequently and successfully injected by succeeding Anatomists. Vitreous Humour. The Vitreous Humour is situated in the back part of the Cavity of the Eye, which it occupies from the in- sertion of the Optic Nerve to the Surface of the Crys- talline Lens. It is round at the back part and sides, where it is covered by the Retina; but is concave before, where it forms a bed for the Crystalline Lens. It is by much the largest of the three Humours, oc- cupying upwards of nine-tenths of the whole Eye, and has a Gelatinous appearance,—or is somewhat like the Glaire of an Egg. In an Adult, it is always very transparent; and in an Old Person, it docs not, like the Lens, degenerate into a yellow, or any other colour. In the Foetus, like the Aqueous Humour, it is of a reddish colour. TheOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 6* The liquor of which the Vitreous Humour is composed, is similar to the Aqueous,—very fluid, transpires readily through the Capsule, though that Coat be entire, and, like the Aqueous Humour, is somewhat thicker, heavier, and more viscid than Water. When this Humour is evacuated by puncture, in the living Body, it is very seldom, though sometimes re- newed. i Upon the Surface of this Humour there is a Cout, termed Vitrea, or Hyaloidea, from its resemblance to Glass, as transparent as the Humour itself, and so thin and Cobweb-like, as to have also the name of Aranea. The Tunica Vitrea is remarkably smooth on its outer Surface ; excepting at its fore part, where it is impress- ed by the Corpus Ciliare and Pigmcntum Nigrum ; but within, it sends Processes into the Body of the Humour, of the same nature with the external Membrane. Some Authors, and among these Winslow, have described this Coat as consisting of two Lamina;; but Sabatiuu, and other late Writers, seem sufficiently satisfied that it is a single Layer $ and even this single Layer cannot be raised but with difficulty, though it is demonstrable by making a puncture to allow the Hu- mour to escape, and by afterwards distending the part with air. The structure of the Humour consists of a set of de- licate Cells, which contain the Liquor within them, as may be seen by the assistance of Acids, or by boiling Water, or by Congelation. The Cells of the Humour communicate freely with each65 OF THE EYE. ?ART IV.] each other, as appears from the Liquor oozing out by the smallest puncture made in the general Capsule. Under the Corpus Ciliare, the Capsule of the Vi- treous Humour sends off an external Lamina, which accompanies the Retina, and is inserted with it into the fore part of the Capsule of the Lens, a little before its anterior edge. It is termed Membranula Corona C?- Haris, or Zonula Ciliaris, from its striated appearance and Circular form. This Membrane, though extremely thin, assists in fixing the Lens to the Vitreous Humour. After sending off the Ciliary Zone, the Coat of the Vitreous Humour goes behind the Capsule of the Lens, with which it is intimately connected. Between the Ciliary Zone and part where the Capsule of the Vitreous Humour adheres to that of the Lens, —which is at the same distance behind the edge of the Lens with the distance of the insertion of the Ciliary Zone before it,—a passage is formed, named Canalis Petitianus, after Petit, who discovered it. The Membranes forming this Passage are pervaded by transverse Fibres, in such a manner, that when Air is introduced, it goes freely round the edge of the Lens; but the Passage has a Cellular appearance, being con- tracted and dilated alternately. The Canal of Petit is nearly of the same breadth with the Corpus Ciliare, is always empty, and has no communication with the Capsules of the Vitreous or Crystalline Humours. No Vessels are to be seen in the Vitreous Humour of an Adult; but in the Eye of a Foetus, an Artery is ob- served to arise from the Central one of the Retina, Vol. II. E which06 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. which passes through the middle of the Vitreous Hu- mour, sending Twigs to the Cellular Texture of this Humour, while the principal Trunk is continued to the Capsule of the Crystalline Lens, as has been already observed. The Vitreous Humour sei’ves to give shape to the Eye, to keep the Coats properly expanded, to preserve the due distance of the Lens, and direct the rays of light, to the Retina. MUSCLES OF THE BALL OF THE EYE. The Ball of the Eye is moved by Six Muscles, which are divided, on account of their direction, into four straight and two oblique Muscles, obtaining their re- spective names from their size, situation, direction, or use. Of the straight Muscles, one is situated above the Eye, another below it, and one on each side. Of the oblique, one is placed at the upper and inner, and the other at the under and outer part of the Eye. The Recti are not straight, as the name implies; for, on account of the situation of the Eye and shape of the Orbit, all except the internal, or that next the Noser have somewhat of a curved direction. Neither are they all equally long, the internal being the shortest, the external the longest. The other two are nearly of the same length with each other. The lour straight Muscles, which bear a strong re- semblance to one another, arise by a narrow beginning, a little Tendinous and Fleshy, from the edge of the Fo- ramen67 pArtT IV.] OF THE EYE. ramen Opticum, where they embrace the Optic Nerve at its entrance into the Orbit. In their passage forwards, they form Fleshy Bellies, which send off broad and very thin Tendons, to be in- serted into the Sclerotic Coat, under the Tunica Adna- ta, about a quarter of an inch behind the edge of the Cornea, and at equal distances from each other. At the place of their insertion, they are so intimately connected with the Sclerotica, that they cannot be se- parated from it, or be brought as far as the Cornea, without evident laceration. The different Muscles of the Ball of the Eye, where they lie upon the Ball, are covered with a Cellular Sheath, which afterwards degenerates into that Cellular Substance which is interposed between the Sclerotica and Conjunctiva. Levator Ochli, Vel Rectus Attollens, vel Superbus. Origin: From the upper part of the Foramen Optw cum below the Levator Palpebrae Superioris. Insertion : Into the upper and fore part of the Tunica Sclerotica. Action: To raise the fore part of the Ball of the Eye. Depressor Oculi, Vel Rectus Deprimens, vel Humilis. Origin : From the inferior part of the Foramen Op-* ticurp. E2 Insertion iOF THE VISCERA, &c. 6* [Part IV. Insertion : Opposite to the former. Action : To pull the fore part of the Eye downwards. Adductor Oculi, Vcl Rectus Adduces, vel Bi bit or ins. Origin: From the Foramen Opticum, between the Obliquus Superior and Depressor. Insertion: Opposite to the inner Angle of the Eye. Action: To turn the fore part of the Eye towards the Nose. Abductor Oculi, Vcl Rectus Abduccns, vel Indignabundus. Origin : From the Bony Partition between the Fora- men Opticum and Lacerum. Insertion: Into the Ball of the Eye, opposite to the outer Angle. Action: To turn the fore part of the Eye towards the Temple. When two of the opposite Recti, or all of them, act together, they draw the Eye into the Orbit. When two of the adjacent Recti act, they turn the fore part of the Eye obliquely in a direction towards their Origins. Obliquus Superior, Vel Obliquus Major, vel Trochlearis. Origin: Like the straight Muscles, from the edge ot thePart IV.] OF THE EYE. 69 the Foramen Opticum, between the Levator and Ad- ductor Oculi. From thence it runs directly forwards, sends off a long round Tendon, which passes through a Cartilaginous Pulley fixed behind the Internal Angu- lar Process of the Os Frontis, and is here inclosed in a Bursa Mucosa. From this it goes a little downwards, and returns backwards and outwards, passing under the Levator Oculi. Insertion : By a broad thin Tendon, into the Tunica Sclerotica, about half-way between the insertion of the Levator Oculi and entrance of the Optic Nerve. Action: To roll the Ball of the Eye, by turning the Pupil downwards and outwards. Obliquus Inferior, Vel Obliquus Minor. Origin: By a narrow beginning, from the anterior edge of the Orbitar Process of the Superior Maxillary Bone, near the Lacrymal Groove, from which it passes obliquely outwards, backwards, and upwards, round the Ball of the Eye. Insertion : By a broad thin Tendon, into the Sclero- tic Coat, between the entrance of the Optic Nerve and insertion of the Abductor Oculi, and opposite to the insertion of the Obliquus Superior. Action : To roll the Ball of the Eye, by turning the Pupil upwards and inwards, and, with the assistance of the Obliquus Superior, to pull the Eye forwards j there- by becoming an Antagonist to the Recti. The two oblique Muscles, on account of rolling the E 3 Eye,10 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Eye, and assisting it in the expression of certain Pas- sions, have been called Rotatores, and Amalorcs. VESSELS OF THE EYE. The Frontal, Facial, and Temporal Arteries, which are Branches of the External and Internal Carotids, supply the Palpebrae, and communicate with those which are dispersed within the Orbit. Some small Branches of the Internal Maxillary Ar- tery pass through the Inferior Orbitar Fissure, to be dispersed chiefly ypon the Periosteum of the Orbit and Fat of the Eye. The Ocular Arteiy, which is a Branch of the Internal Carotid, passes through the Foramen Opticum, in com- pany with the Optic Nerve, and supplies the Fat, Mus- cles, and Ball of the Eye, and also the Lacrymal Gland and Tunica Conjunctiva. The Branches which belong to the Ball of the Eye, have the name of Ciliares. They perforate the Sclero- tica in different places, and are afterwards dispersed upon the Choroid Coat and Iris. One Branch of the Ocular Artery, called Centralis Retina:, perforates the Optic Nerve, and is dispersed upon the Retina. The Veins which correspond with the Arteries of the Eye, communicate freely writh each other, and pass partly to the External Jugular Vein, by Branches si- tuated about the fore part of the Orbit, and partly to the Internal Jugular Vein, by the Cavernous Sinus. SERVES S cOF THE EYE. TJ Part IV.J NER VES OF THE EYE. Besides the Optic Nerve, already taken notice of, the Eye receives the Third and Fourth Pairs, and Branches from the First of the Fifth Pair, together with the Sixth Pair, and Branches from the Seventh. The parts about the fore side of the Orbit are sup- plied by Branches from the Fifth and Seventh Pairs -, —the Ball of the Eye by Nerves called Ciliary, which come from the Third and Fifth Pairs;—the Fat, Mus- cles, Lacrymal Gland, &c. are supplied by the Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Pairs. The Eye receives and collects the rays of light, in such a manner as to form upon the Retina the image or picture of the object which the Eye looks at; and the point where these different rays meet is called the Focus. The object is painted upon the Retina in an inverted manner, the rays from above falling upon its under, and those from below upon its upper part; and it is suppos- ed to be by habit, or rather by instinct, that we judge of the real situation of any object. That the rays of light may terminate distinctly on the Retina, it is necessary that both the Cornea and Crystalline Lens should have a certain degree of con- vexity. If either the one or the other be too prominent, the Focus will be formed before it reach the Retina, as is the case in short-sighted people, who require concave ,E 4- glasses72 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. glasses to enable them to see objects distinctly, at the propel' and ordinary distance. If, on the contrary, the Cornea or Lens be too flat, or the refractive power of the Humours be in any way diminished, the Focus will then be imperfectly formed, till the object is viewed at a greater distance than ordi- nary ; as is the case with persons advanced in life, to whom the assistance of convex glasses becomes neces- sary. How an object, viewed with both Eyes, appears single, has been, as well as our judging of the real si- tuation of any object, ascribed by the generality of Authors to custom and habit; and by others to instinct, which regulates the uniform motion of the Eyes, and the accurate application of both to one point. The Eye is enabled to judge of, or accommodate it- self to objects at different distances, by the action of its Muscles increasing or diminishing the length of its axis, and by the motions of the Iris allowing a greater or smaller quantity of light to be thrown into the Eye. TABLEI Part IV.] OF THE EAR. 73 OF THE EAT. The Ear, or Organ of Hearing, is divided into Ex- ternal and Internal Ear. External Ear. The External Ear comprehends the Auricle, or Ear, properly so called, and the Meatus Auditorius Externus. It is again divided into Pinna, or Ala, which consti- tutes by much the greater part of it, and Lobus, which is placed at its under end. The Pinna is chiefly composed of Cartilage, and is divided at its fore part, into' several Eminences and Ca- vities, which have received particular names ; viz. The Helix, or outer Bar, or Margin, which arises behind, at the Lobe of the Ear, surrounds its upper edge, and terminates below, nearly opposite to its ori- gin ; dividing the Concha into two parts. The Antihelix, Anthelix, or inner Bar or Margin, which I74 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. which is situated within the former, and is composed superiorly of two Ridges, uniting together below. The Tragus, which is a small Eminence lying over the Meatus Externus, and is connected to the under and fore part of the Helix. The Antitragus, placed below the posterior extremity of the Antihelix. The Cavitas Innominata, situated between the Helix and Antihelix. The Scapha, or Fossa Navicularis, situated between the two limbs of the Antihelix. The Concha, which is a large Cavity under the Anti- helix ; divided by the Helix into two parts, the inferior of which leads to the Meatus Auditorius. The back part of the External Ear exhibits only one considerable Eminence, which is the convex Surface of the Concha. The Lobus, which is the inferior soft part of the Ear, is composed of Cellular Substance, with a small quanti- ty of Fat. The Ear is covered by a continuation of the common Integuments, which are thinner here than on the rest of the Body, and is perforated in many parts by the mouths of Sebaceous Ducts placed immediately under the Skin. The motions of the Ear, which arc very limited, are regulated by several Muscles, some of which are com- mon to the Ear and Head, and others proper to the Ear itself. The former have been already described. The latter lie close upon the Cartilage, and, in the generality of Subjects, are so thin, white, and indistinct, as to re- ceivePart IV.] 75 OF THE EAR. ceive from some Authors the name of Muscular Mem- branes.—They are as follow : Helicis Major. Origin: From the anterior acute part of the Helix, upon which it ascends. Insertion: Into the Helix. Action : To pull that part into which it is inserted a little downwards and forwards. Helicis Minor. Oiigin : From the under and fore part of the Helix. Insertion : Into the Helix, near the Fissure in the Cartilage opposite the Concha. Action: To contract the Fissure. Tragicus. Origin : From the middle and outer part of the Con- cha, at the root of the Tragus, along which it runs. Insertion : Into the point of the Tragus. Action : To pull the point of the Tragus a little for- wards. Antitragicus. Origin: From the internal part of the Antitragus, upon which it ascends. Insertion.- Into the tip of the Antitragus, as far as theOF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV. ib the inferior part of the Antihelix, where there is a Fis- sure in the Cartilage. Action : To turn the tip of the Antitragus a little out- wards, and depress the extremity of the Antihelix. Transversus Auris, vel Transvcrsus Auricula:. Origin : From the prominent part of the Concha, on the back part of the Ear. Insertion : Into the outside of the Antihelix. Action: To draw the parts to which it is connected towards each other, and to stretch the Scapha and Concha. The Cartilage of the External Ear is connected to the Temporal Bone by the common Integuments, and by its Muscles *, and is furnished with Ligamentous Mem- branes, which fix it to the roots of the Zygoma and of the Mastoid Process. The Auricle collects sound, and conveys it to the Meatus Extcrnus,—the Muscles giving tension to it, so as to render the sound more distinct. The Meatus Anditorius Extcrnus leads inwards, from the Concha, and in its course proceeds somewhat for- wards and upwards, turning a little downwards at its farthest extremity, and terminating at the Membrana Tympani. The turns, however, are so inconsiderable, that the bottom of the passage can be readily seen in a clear light, upon pulling the Ear backwards. It is rather of an oval form, a little contracted in the middle.OF THE EAR. Part IV. j middle, and from an inch to an inch and a half in length. Its outer end, which is a continuation of the Concha, is Cartilaginous, and has two or three Interruptions or Fissures in it. On the upper and back part of its circumference, there is a Large Interruption terminating in an oblique Mar- gin, which is fixed to the rough edge, at the under part of the Osseous Portion of the Meatus. At the upper and back part of the Meatus, the Car- tilage has but little connection with the Bones, being there fixed by the Skin which lines the Canal. The Osseous is continued from the Cartilaginous part of the Canal, and is the longer of the two, particularly at its upper and back part. The Meatus is lined with a continuation of the Skin, which fills up the Interruptions in the Cartilage, but, like the Skin covering the Auricle, it is thinner than on the rest of the Body. Under the Skin of the Meatus, and near its outer end, there are numerous small Glands, of a yellowish colour, placed in a Reticular Substance formed of the Corpus Mucosum, and termed Glandules Ceruminosec, which discharge the Wax of the Ear, through small excretory Ducts. The Wax lubricates the Passage, and defends it from the injuries of the air, and, being of a viscid and bitter quality, assists in the exclusion of insects. The Arteries of the external Ear come anteriorly from the Temporal, and posteriorly from the Occipital both78 OF THE VISCERA, kc. [Part IV. both of which .'ire Branches of the External Carotid Artery. The Veins pass partly to the External, and partly to the Internal Jugulars. The Nerves which supply the lore part of the Ear, arc derived from the third of the Fifth, and from the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. Those which supply the under and back part come from the first and second Cervicals. The Meatus Externus conveys sound from the outer towards the inner Ear, and is supposed to do this to greater advantage on account of the winding nature of the Passage. In the Foetus, the Meatus is entirely Cartilaginous, and only adheres to an imperfect Bony Circle, in which the Membrana Tympani is fixed. At the inner end of the Meatus Externus, the Mem- brana Tympani is situated, which is thin but firm, some- what dry and elastic, almost transparent, and of an oval form. It is fixed in a Groove which divides the Meatus from the Tympanum. It is very tense, but has a small Depression in the middle next the Meatus, with a corresponding Convexity towards the Tympanum, where the extremity of the Malleus is fixed to it. Its situation is somewhat oblique, the upper part be- ing turned outwards, and the under inwards, so that the lower side of the Meatus is a little longer than the upper. ItPart IV.] OF THE EAR. 79 It forms a complete impervious Septum, though the contrary has been maintained by some Authors. It is formed partly of a continuation of the lining of the Meatus, but chiefly of the Periosteum. The Membrana Tympani has numerous small Vessels from the Temporal and Stylo-Mastoid Arteries, which run in a radiated manner, and which are most abundant in the Foetus. This Membrane serves to conduct the Sound from the Outer to the Inner Ear. In the Foetus, the Membrana Tympani is fixed in an imperfect Ring of Bone, being open above, and, along with the Meatus, is covered with a Mucous Membrane, wlijch defends the parts from the too strong impulse of •Sound. Tiie Internal Ear. The Internal Ear comprehends the Tympanum, La- byrinth, and certain Passages leading into these. The Tympanum is situated at the inner side of the Membrana Tympani, approaches to a hemispherical fi- gure, and is about half an inch in width. Between the Tympanum and Cavity called Labyrinth, there is an Osseous Septum, which forms the bottom of the 1 ympanum, where there are several Eminences, viz. ihc Promontory, which forms the beginning of the Scala Tympani, and divides the Tympanum into ante- rior and posterior Regions. A Protuberance at the upper and back part of the 1 ympanum, formed by the Aquseductus Fallopii. ASd OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Pakt IV. A Projection, called Eminentia Pyramidalis Tympani, situated behind the Fenestra Ovalis, in which is the Passage for the Stapedius. An Eminence at the upper and fore part of the Tym- panum, containing a semi-canal, for lodging part of the Tensor Tympani. In the Tympanum there are various Passages, which communicate with the neighbouring parts, viz. The Iter a Palato ad Aurem, or Eustachian Tube, which goes off from the upper and fore part of the Tym- panum, and, running obliquely forwards and inwards to the posterior Opening of the Nostril, terminates at its outer edge, above the Arch of the Palate. The posterior part of the Tube is Osseous, being- formed in the Pars Petrosa, at the upper and outer part of the Canal for the Carotid Artery. The anterior portion is formed above, by the Spinous Process, and root of the Pterygoid Process of the Sphe- noid Bone;—and below, by Cartilage and Membrane. It is narrower next the Ear, where it can only admit the point of a Surgeon’s Probe, but becomes gradually wider towards the Nose, where it terminates by an ob- lique Opening with prominent sides, sufficiently large to admit a Goose-quill. It is lined by a Membrane similar to that of the Nose, of which it appears to be a continuation ; and which, on the edtre of the Mouth of the Tube, is so thick as to add considerably to its prominency. The Eustachian Tube preserves the balance of Air between the Outer and Inner Ear, and prevents it from pressingPart IV.] OF THE EAR. SI pressing too forcibly upon the different Membranes pla- ced in the sides of the Tympanum. It has been supposed to convey the sound of a Per- son’s own Voice to the Inner Ear ; but experiment does not favour this opinion, nor is it found to render Sound more distinct when the Mouth is open;—though Per- sons who have a degree of deafness are observed fre- quently to listen after this manner. The Cells of the Mastoid Process, which open into the upper and back part of the Tympanum, opposite to, but a little higher than, the Eustachian Tube. They are very irregular, and have many windings and turnings, which communicate with each other, and are lined, like the Cells of other Bones, with the Perios- teum Internum. They assist the Tympanum in reflecting Sound. In Quadrupeds which hear acutely, there are large Cavities, connected with the Tympanum, which seem to supply the place of Mastoid Cells. Above the Promontorv, a Hole called Fenestra Ova- lis, the upper and under edges of which are convex up- wards,—for lodging the Base of the Stapes. The long diameter of thisvFencstra is placed transversely, and near double the length of the short one. The inner edges of this Hole are contracted by a nar- row Border, upon which the end of the Stapes rests. Below the Fenestra Ovalis, and at the under and back part of the Promontory, a Hole, smaller than the for- mer, called Fenestra Rotunda. It is placed obliquely backwards and outwards, leads to the Cochlea, but is shut up by a Membrane which Von. II, F assists82 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV assists in communicating Sound to the Labyrinth. The two Foramina are placed opposite to the Membrana Tympani. The Sides or Walls of the Tympanum, which like- wise assist in conveying Sound to the Labyrinth, are lined with Periosteum, which is reflected into the diffe- rent Passages leading from it. The Cavity of the Tympanum contains four small Bones called Ossicula Auditus, which form a Chain, stretching across from the Membrana Tympani to the Labyrinth. The Ossicula Auditus are,—the Malleus, the Incus, the Os Orbiculare, and the Stapes,—these names being derived from Substances which they are supposed to re- semble in shape. The Malleus, or Hammer, consists of a round Plead, a small Neck, a.Manubrium or Handle, and two small Processes; one in the Neck, long and very slender, and therefore called Gracilis; the other in the upper end of the Handle, called Processus Brevis. The Handle is by some Authors considered as one of the Processes, and is then called the longest of the three. It forms an Angle with the Neck, is slightly compressed, becomes gradually smaller, and is bent at its extremity towards the Membrana Tympani. In the natural situation, the Head is turned upwards and inwards, and the Handle down upon the Membrana Tympani, to which it adheres. The Incus, compared in shape to an Anvil, but more resembling one of the Dentes Molares, with its roots widely separated, is situated behind the Malleus, and is formedF 2 Crura Part iV.] OF THE EAR. S3 formed of a Body and two Crura, one of which is term- ed the Short or Superior, and the other the Long or Inferior Crus. The Body has a Cavity and two Eminences, corre- sponding to the back part of the head of the Malleus, with which it is articulated. The short Crus extends backwards, and is joined by a Ligament to the edge of the Mastoid Opening. The long Crus, which is smaller than the other, is turned downwards, with'the point a little flattened, and bent inwards. The Os Orhiculare, or Lenticulare, is the smallest Bone of the Body, being considerably less than a grain of Mustard-seed. It is articulated with the point of the long Process of the Incus, and is so firmly fixed to it, that it has been frequently considered as a Process of that Bone. The Stapes is named from a striking resemblance it has to a Stirrup. It is divided into Head, Crura, and Base. The Head is placed upon a small flat Neck, and is ar- ticulated with the Os Orbiculare. The Crura, like those of the Incus, are unequal in length, and have each a Groove on the inside, which gives insertion to the Membrane stretched between them. The Base is of an oval, or rather semi-oval shape, and has no Perforation in it; its edges correspond with those of the Fenestra Ovalis, with which it is arti- culated. The Stapes is placed horizontally, being nearly at a right angle with the inferior Crus of the Incus. Its two86 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Action : To draw the Head of the Stapes obliquely upwards and backwards, by which the posterior part of its Base is moved inwards, and the anterior part out- wards, and the Membrana Tympani thereby put upon the stretch. Labyrinth. it The Labyrinth, so called from its Sinuosities and AVindings, is situated at the inner part of the Tympa- num, and is formed of the Vestible, Cochlea, and Semi- circular Canals, together with the Canalis Fallopii and Meatus Auditorius Interims. The Vestible, named from its forming a Porch or En- try to the Cochlea and Semicircular Canals, is of an oval figure, nearly of the size and shape of a decorti- cated grain of Barley, and is situated at the inner side of the Base of the Stapes. There are three contiguous Cavities in the Vestible, one of which, the Semi-oval, is situated above; another, the Hemispherical, below ; and the third, or Sulciform, which is the Orifice of the Aquseductus Vestibuli, is placed behind. In the Vestible there are several Holes which com- municate with the neighbouring parts, viz. The Fenestra Ovalis, situated at the outside, by which it communicates with the Tympanum. A round Hole, situated at the fore and under part, by which it communicates with one of the Canals of the Cochlea. Fives? Part IV.] OF THE EAR. F 4 the Five similar Foramina behind, by which it commu- nicates with the Semicircular Canals. Towards the Meatus Auditorius Internus, it has four or five Cribriform Perforations, for the transmission of Nerves. The Cochlea is placed obliquely, next the anterior ex- • tremity of the Os Petrosum, and at the fore part of the Vestible, in such a manner as to have its Base towards the Meatus Auditorius Internus, and its Apex in the opposite direction, or facing outwards. It has two Canals or Gyri, called Scalce, from a sup- posed resemblance to a stair-case ; one of which is placed on the outer and fore side, the other on the inner and back part. The Gyri are very close to each other, and run in a spiral direction, like the Shell of a Snail, from which the part has obtained its name. The Cochlea forms two Circumvolutions or Turns and a half the first of which is much larger and wider than the other turn and a half, which become suddenly smaller, the whole approaching to a globular form. The two Canals are upon the same level, the inner one next the Base, and the outer next the point of the Cochlea. The Gyri go round a Nucleus, Axis, or Central Pil- lar, which is nearly horizontal, and is formed of two hollow Coties, with their points turned to each other, the one termed Modiolus, from its resemblance to the Spindle of a winding Stair-case, the other Infundibu- lum, or Funnel. The Modiolus forms the inner and larger portion oiSB OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. the central Pillar, and is that Cavity seen in the bot- tom or outer extremity of the Meatus Auditorius In- terims. It lodges the Branch of the Portio Mollis of the Se- venth Pair of Nerves which goes to the Cochlea, and is Cribriform, or full of small Holes, for the passage of the Twigs of that Branch. The Modiolus consists of /ico Plates, with numerous Cells and Passages between them, and terminates in the middle of the second Gyrus of the Cochlea. The Infundibulum is an imperfect Funnel, the Apex of which is common with that of the Modiolus, and the _ Base is covered by the Apex of the Cochlea, which is termed Cupola. Between the Scalar of the Cochlea there is a Parti? lion, called Lamina Spiralis, or Septum Scalec; the larger portion of which, next the Modiolus, is formed of Bone; the remainder, or that part next the opposite side of the Scalrn, is composed of a Cartilaginous Membrane, and termed by Valsalva Zona Cochlea\—This drops out by maceration, so as afterwards to leave only a par- tial Septum. The Osseous part of the Lamina Spiralis is composed of two extremely thin Cribriform Plates, which gradual- ly approach each other at their opposite edges, where they arc perforated by numerous Holes. The termination of the Lamina Spiralis, and of the Scala Tympani, forms a Hamulus, or small Hook, which projects into the Infundibulum. One of the Canals or Scalmof the Cochlea opens into • theOF THE EAR. 89 Part IV.] the under and fore part of the Vestible, and is termed Scala Vestibuli; this is not shut by any Membrane : The other, which is the smaller of the two, communicates with the Tympanum by the Fenestra Rotunda, but is shut in the Subject by a Membrane, and is called Scala Tympani. The Partition between the two Gyri or Turns of the Cochlea, like the Osseous part of the Lamina Spiralis, is formed of two Plates, with a small Cavity between them. The Volute, or Spiral of the Cochlea, begins below, yuns forwards, and then round, so as to form, as has been already mentioned, two Circles or Turns and a half, the direction of the Gyri corresponding with those of the Shell of a Snail. The Canals of the Cochlea are conical, becoming gradually smaller towards the Apex, where they com- municate with each other, through the medium of the Infundibulum. This communication is called by C’as- sebohm, who gives the fullest Treatise upon the Ear, Canalis Scalarum Communis. The Semicircular Canals are three in number,—the Superior or Vertical,—the Posterior or Oblique,—and the Exterior or Horizontal. The Superior is placed transversely, in the upper part of the Pars Petrosa, with its convex side upwards. The Posterior is farther back than the former one, and is parallel to the length of the Pars Petrosa, with the convex side turned backwards.—One of its extremi- ties is placed above, and the other below, the upper ex- tremity90 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. tromity joining with the internal one of the Vertical Ca- nal, by which a common Passage is formed. The Exterior is less than the other two, which are more of an equal size, is placed next the Tympanum, and has its extremities and curvatures nearly upon the same plane ;—with the convex part of the curve placed backwards. 0 Eacli of the Canals forms upwards of three-fourths of a Circle, can admit the head of a small Pin, and has a slight Dilatation, an Ampulla, or Cavilas Elliptica, at one end, the other extremity being nearly of the same size with the rest of the Canal. , The Orifices are onl)r five in number, two of the Ca- nals having a common termination. Of these Orifices, three are situated at the inside, and two at the outside of the Vestible, into the posterior part of which they open, without being closed by any Membrane. In the bottom of the Meatus Auditorius Internus, which is situated in the posterior Surface of the Pars Petrosa, there is a large under, and a small upper Fos- sula, separated by a sharp Ridge. The fore part of the inferior Fossula leads towards the Cochlea, and is perforated with numberless minute Holes, through which branches of the Portio Mollis of the seventh Pair of Nerves pass to the Cochlea. One Hole in the Centre, larger than the rest, trans- mits a Branch of that Nerve to the Infundibulum. This Hole, however, is frequently enlarged, in consequence of the Bone, which is extremely thin, being broken while preparing it. In the back part of the inferior Fossula, three or four CribriformPart IV.] yi OF THE EAR. Tympanum Cribriform Holes appear, for the transmission of Branches of that part of the Portio Mollis destined for the Ves- tible and Semicircular Canals. In the upper Fossula of the Meatus Interims, there are Two Passages, one posterior and smaller, transmit- ting Nerves into the Elliptical Cavity of the Vestible. The other, the anterior and larger, is termed Canalis vel Aquccductus Fallopii,—from a resemblance it bears to an Italian Aqueduct; and serves for the transmission of the Portio Dura of the Seventh pair of Nerves. The Canal of Fallopius goes through the upper part of the Pars Petrosa, passes downwards and backwards between the Fenestra Ovalis and external Semicircular Canal, and terminates in the Foramen Stylo-Mastoi- deum. In its passage through the Pars Petrosa, it communi - cates with the Foramen Innominatum, situated on the upper and fore part of the Petrous Process. In Children, the Labyrinth is almost as large as in A- dults, its Substance complete and hard, while the Bone which surrounds it is soft and spongy •, on which account it is easily separated from the rest of the Pars Petrosa. The different Cavities and Passages of the Labyrinth are lined with the Periosteum, which in the Vestible fills the Fenestra Ovalis, and of consequence covers the Base ol the Stapes. The Periostea lining the two Canals of the Cochlea form the Membranous portion of the Lamina Spiralis, which, together with the Osseous part, completes the Septum between the two Scalse. The Periosteum of the Cochlea also assists that of the90 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. trcmity joining with the internal one of the Vertical Ca- nal, by which a common Passage is formed. The Exterior is less than the other two, which are more of an equal size, is placed next the Tympanum, and has its extremities and curvatures nearly upon the same plane ;—with the convex part of the curve placed backwards. 0 Each of the Canals forms upwards of three-fourths of a Circle, can admit the head of a small Pin, and has a slight Dilatation, an Ampulla, or Cavitas Elliptica, at one end, the other extremity being nearly of the same size with the rest of the Canal. The Orifices are only five in number, two of the Ca- nals having a common termination. Of these Orifices, three are situated at the inside, and two at the outside of the Vestible, into the posterior part of which they open, without being closed by any Membrane. In the bottom of the Meatus Auditorius Intcrnus, which is situated in the posterior Surface of the Pars Petrosa, there is a large under, and a small upper Fos- sula, separated by a sharp Ridge. The fore part of the inferior Fossula leads towards the Cochlea, and is perforated with numberless minute Holes, through which branches of the Portio Mollis of the seventh Pair of Nerves pass to the Cochlea. One Hole in the Centre, larger than the rest, trans- mits a Branch of that Nerve to the Infundibulum. This Hole, however, is frequently enlarged, in consequence of the Bone, which is extremely thin, being broken ■while preparing it. In the back part of the inferior Fossula, three or four CribriformOF THE EAR. Part IV.] 91 Tympanum Cribriform Holes appear, for the transmission of Branches of that part of the Portio Mollis destined for the Ves- tible and Semicircular Canals. In the upper Fossula of the Meatus Interims, there are Two Passages, one posterior and smaller, transmit- ting Nerves into the Elliptical Cavity of the Vestible. The other, the anterior and larger, is termed Canalis vel Aquccductns Fallopit,—from a resemblance it bears to an Italian Aqueduct; and serves for the transmission of the Portio Dura of the Seventh pair of Nerves. The Canal of Fallopius goes through the upper part of the Pars Petrosa, passes downwards and backwards between the Fenestra Ovalis and external Semicircular Canal, and terminates in the Foramen Stylo-Mastoi- dcum. In its passage through the Pars Petrosa, it communi- cates with the Foramen Innominatum, situated on the upper and fore part of the Petrous Process. In Children, the Labyrinth is almost as large as in A- dults, its Substance complete and hard, while the Bone which surrounds it is soft and spongy ; on which account it is easily separated from the rest of the Pars Petrosa. The different Cavities and Passages of the Labyrinth are lined with the Periosteum, which in the Vestible fills the Fenestra Ovalis, and of consequence covers the Base of the Stapes. The Periostea lining the two Canals of the Cochlea form the Membranous portion of the Lamina Spiralis, which, together with the Osseous part, completes the Septum between the two Scalae. The Periosteum of the Cochlea also assists that of theOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 92 lympanum in forming the Membrane of the Fenestra Rotunda, which is sometimes called Mcmbrana Tympa- ni Secundarii, from a resemblance to the Membrana Tympani, ancl from being also, like it, a little concave on the outer, and convex on the inner Surface, or where it faces the Scalae to which it belongs. Besides the Periosteum, the Vestiblc, Cochlea, and Semicircular Canals, contain a Pulpy Membrane, or there is a Membranous Labyrinth, upon which the Por- tio Mollis is irregularly dispersed. In the Vestiblc, the Pulpy Membrane forms a Sac, in shape resembling that of the Osseous Cavity which contains it, and which is described and beautifully deli- neated by Scarpa. When the Sac is laid open upon the upper and outer part, a Partition appears, partaking of the nature of the Sac, and termed by Dr Meckel Septum Vestilmli Ner* voso-Membranaceum. In the Cochlea, the Pulpy Membrane is in contact with the Periosteum, but can be separated from that Membrane without much difficulty. In the Semicircular Canals, it is at some distance from the Periosteum of these Bones, and is considerably smaller ■, but, like them, it forms distinct Tubes, which communicate with the Vestiblc. Like the Osseous, the Membranous Canals also form Ampullae, or Elliptic Ca- vities, at one end. The Arteries of the Labyrinth arise by one or two 'small Branches, chiefly from the Vertebral Artery, and pass through the Cribriform Plate, at the bottom ol the Meatus Interims which belongs to the Labyrinth. FromOF THE EAR. 93 IPakt IV.] From the Labyrinth one or two Veins return, and terminate in the end of the Lateral Sinus. The Cavity of the Vestible contains no Air, but is i constantly filled with a Watery Fluid, called Aqua La~ byrinbhi, supposed to be secreted from the Arteries of the Periosteum, and which is found to resemble the Aqueous Humour of the Eye. The Aqueous Fluid fills the Vestible and Seal® of the Cochlea, and likewise surrounds the Membranous Se- micircular Canals. The Aqua Labyrinthi is considered as a medium by which sounds are communicated from the Membrane filling the round and oval Holes, and from the Base of the Stapes to the Pulpy Membrane placed in it. The superfluous part of the Aqua Labyrinthi is sup- posed by Cotunnius to be carried off by two small Co- nical Ducts, more particularly described by him than by some preceding Anatomists, who were partly ac- quainted with them, but considered them as Blood- vessels. One of the Aqueducts of Cotunnius, called Aquee- dactus Cochlea:, begins at the under part of the Scala Tympani, near the Fenestra Rotunda, and, after pass- ing through-the Pars Petrosa, is seen, in the Figures he givqs of it, terminating by a wide triangular Opening, upon the Surface of the Dura Mater, between the pas- sages of the Seventh and Eighth Pair of Nerves. The other Duct, called Aqiueductus Vestibuli, begins under the termination of the common Canal, in the Vestible, from which it descends, and terminates by a Triangular Opening between the Layers of the Dura Mater,OF THE VISCEftA, &c. [PartIV, Mater, behind the Meatus Internus, and half way be- tween the upper edge of the Pars Petrosa and Diverti- culum of the Internal Jugular Vein. The Nerves of the Labyrinth are derived entirely from the Seventh Pair. The Auditory Nerve is composed of two Branches, one of which is called Portio Dura, and is harder than the other, termed Portio Mollis. The Trunk of the Auditory Nerve passes into the Meatus Internus, covered by the investing Membrane of the Brain. The Portio Dura goes through the Canal is Falloph, sending off Branches through Perforations, in the sides of the Canal, to the Stapedius, and to the Mastoid Cells. One reflected Branch passing through the Foramen Innominatum in the Pars Petrosa, forms a connection between the Portio Dura and the second part of the Fifth Pair. Another, called Chorda Tympani, passes across the Cavity of the Tympanum, between the inferior Crus of the Incus and Handle of the Malleus, and, after run- ning along the outside of the Eustachian Tube, joins the Lingual Branch of the Fifth Pair. In its passage, it supplies the Muscles of the Malleus, and Membranes, Sic. of the Tympanum. The remainder of the Portio Dura is dispersed upon the Face. The Portio Mollis is divided into two principal parts, —one to the Cochlea, the other to the Vestible and Se- micircular Canals. ThePart IV.] OF THE EAR. 95 The Branches of the Cochlea pass through the Cri- I briform Plates of the Modiolus, to the Pulpy Mem- lbrane lying on the Scalae. The Branches run between, and likewise on the out- side of the Partitions which divide the Cochlea into Gyri, and the Gyri into Scalae, and are large and nu- merous in proportion to the part they supply. The largest and most numerous of these Branches are i dispersed upon the Lamina Spiralis, where they form an intricate Plexus, the Threads of which are at first opaque, but are afterwards of the colour of the Retina of the Eye. The Branches terminate, and appear also to meet, upon that part of the Pulpy Membrane which is most distant from the Modiolus. • • Through the Cribriform Plate, common to the Mo- diolus and Infundibulum, the last Branches of this Por- tion of the Nerves pass to be spread out upon the Mem- brane lying within the Infundibulum.—For a particulai description of that part of the Porlio Mollis distributed to the Cochlea, and of the Cochlea itself see Du Mon- ro’s Treatise on the Ear* Of that part of the Portio Mollis destined for the Vestible fcnd Semicircular Canals, one Branch goes through the posterior Hole in the upper part of the Meatus Internus; the rest pass through the Holes in the under and back part of the Meatus, already point- / ed out in the description of that Passage. Having perforated the Foramina, the Nerves are seen first in distinct Plexus, after which they become transpa- rent, and are lost upon the Sac contained in the Ves- tible,OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 96 tible, and upon the Ampullae of the Membranous Semi- circular Canals. The Porlio Mollis is the Primary Part of the Organ of Hearing, to which all the other parts are subservient, and may be regarded as being of the same service to the Ear, as the Iiclina is to the Eye. Sound is conveyed to the Portio Mollis, by the Ex- ternal Ear, by the small chain of Bones in the Tympa- num, by the Membrana Tympani Secundarii, by the walls of the Tympanum and Labyrinth, by the Bones of* the Head in general, and by the Aqua Labyrinthi, which communicates the tremor directly to the pulpy Substance of the Nerve. ( OF37 OF THE NOSE. ’Fart XV.] 6f the nose. % The Nose, which constitutes the Organ of Smell, and contributes to the general purpose of Respiration, is di- vided into the External Prominent Part, and the Inter- nal Cavity, which is separated by the Septum Narium into two smaller Cavities;—or it is divided into hard and soft Parts. The External Part, or Nose properly so called, is composed superiorly of Bones, inferiorly of Cartilages, and has a partial Covering from the Muscles, and a ge- neral one from the Common Integuments. On the outside of the Nose are observed,—the Radix, or upper part;—the Dorsum, or middle prominence ;— the Apex, or point;—the Alee, or lateral moveable parts; and Columna, or under part of the Partition next the Upper Lip. The Osseous Part of the Nose is formed by the Ossa Nasi, and Ossa Maxillaria, and Os Frontis, which form the upper and fore part: Vol. II. G ByOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Fart IV. 98 By the Os Ethmoides and Ossa Unguis, which form the upper, inner, and lateral parts : And by the Ossa Maxillaria Supcriora, Ossa Palati, Os Sphenoidcs, Ossa Spongiosa Inferiora, and Vomer, which form the under, inner, and back part. The two Cavities, or Nostrils, terminate anteriorly in the Face, and posteriorly in jhe Fauces, and are much enlarged by the different Sinuses which communicate with them. The under and fore part of the Nose consists of Five Cartilages, of a somewhat regular figure, and of some smaller pieces, which arc more irregular, and of an in- determinate number. Of the five Cartilages, one is situated in the middle, and the other four laterally. The middle Cartilage is the most considerable, and supports the rest: It constitutes the Cartilaginous part of the Septum Narium, and is joined to the anterior edge of the Nasal Lamella of the Ethmoid Bone, to the anterior edge of the Vomer, and to the fore part of the Spinous Process of the Superior Maxillary Bones. Of the lateral Cartilages, two are placed anteriorly, forming by their curved union the Tip of the Nose *, and two posteriorly, which form the Aloe Nasi. Between the anterior and posterior Cartilages, are Spaces filled with the additional Cartilages, the number, size, and figure, varying in different Bodies. The Elasticity of the Cartilages contributes to the de- fence of the Nose against external injuries. 'Fhe Nose is covered by the Common Integuments, and perforated at its under and outer parts by the Ducts ofPart IV.] 99 OF THE NOSE. of Sebaceous Glands, the contents of which may be rea- dily squeezed out by the pressure of the Fingers. The Cartilages of the Nose are moved in different di- rections, by the following Muscles on each side, which have been already described ; viz. the Compressor Na- rium, the Nasal part of the Frontal Muscle, and the Le- vator and Depressor Labii Superioris ALceque Nasi.—The Nose may also be moved by the neighbouring Muscles, which, in many instances, become assistants to the others. The Internal Nares or Cavities of the Nose extend upwards to the Cribriform Plate of the Ethmoid, and to the Body of the Sphenoid Bone. At the inner side, they are bounded by the Septum Narium, which is formed by the Nasal Lamella of the Ethmoid Bone, by the Vomer, and by the middle Car- tilage of the Nose. On the outside, or that next the Cheek, the Ossa Spongiosa project a considei’able way into the Cavities of the Nares, and increase the Surface of the Membrane of the Nose, for enlarging the Organ of Smell; and in Animals which smell acutely, the Ossa Spongiosa are remarkably large and complex. The bottom of the Nostrils runs directly backwards, so that a straight Probe may be passed through either of them to the Throat. In the fore part of the Nostrils there are stiff Hairs, called Vibrissce, which prevent the Mucus from con- stantly flowing, and insects or other extraneous matter from entering. Hie general Cavity of each Nostril is divided by the G 2 OssaOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV, 100 Ossa Spongiosa into three Meatus, or Passages, which run from before backwards, and are described by Hal- ler according to their situations, viz. The Meatus Narium Superior, placed at the upper, inner, and back part of the Superior Spongy Bone. The Meatus Medius, situated between the Superior and Inferior Spongy Bones j and, The Meatus Inferior, situated between the Inferior Spongy Bone and Bottom of the Nose. The inside of the Nose is lined with a thick Spongy Substance, termed Membrane/. Mucosa, or Membrane, Pituitaria of Schneider, or Membrana Schneideriana, v which adheres to the Periosteum, and is also continued to the different Sinuses, to the Lacrymal Sacs and Pa- latine Ducts, to the Pharynx, Palate, and Eustachian Tubes. This Membrane is very Vascidar and Nervous, and is the Primary Organ of Smelling. It is constantly lubri- cated and preserved in a proper degree of moisture by the Mucus of the Nose, which is discharged from nu- merous small Follicles, every where dispersed over the Surface of that Membrane. The Passages of the different Sinuses of the Bones of the Plead, after having run obliquely backwards in a short winding direction, terminate by small openings in the Cavity of the Nose. The Frontal Sinuses send Passages downwards into the anterior Ethmoid Cells, which terminate in the up- per part of the Nose, behind the beginning of the La- crymal Sacs. BesidesOF THE NOSE. 101 Part IV.] Besides the Passages common to the Frontal Sinuses and anterior Ethmoid Cells, there are others proper to the posterior Ethmoid Cells, which terminate in the upper and back part of the Nose, near the openings of the Sphenoid Sinuses. The Sphenoid Sinuses, open, behind the Cells of the Ethmoid Bone, into the upper and back part of the Nose. - The Maxillary Sinuses open at their upper and inner sides, each by one, and sometimes by two Passages, into the middle of the space between the Superior anti Inferior Spongy Bones, nearly opposite to the under edge of the Orbit. At the upper part of the Maxillary Sinuses, Appen- dices, described by Haller, are sometimes found, which communicate with the Ethmoid Cells. The Sides, or Walls of the Maxillary Sinuses, are formed of thin Plates of Bone, excepting where the Pro- cesses project, and give them additional strength ; and below, the Bone is so thin between them and the Dentes Molares, that the roots of these Teeth are sometimes found to perforate the Septum. The different Sinuses are lined with a continuation of the Membrana Schneideriana; but in these it is much thinner, and less Vascular and Nervous, than that part of it which lines the general Cavity of the Nose. They are constantly moistened, but not filled with a Fluid. The Sinuses increase and modulate the voice : Their hollow structure renders the Bones lighter ; they sepa- G 3 , rateThe ) 102 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. rate a Fluid which assists in lubricating the interio parts oi the Nose; but they do not appear to constitute part of the Organ of Smell. 1 heir Passages being directed backwards, prevent extraneous matter from getting into them. Lacrymal Groove.—This is formed by the Superior Maxillary, Lacrymal, and Inferior Spongy Bones. In its descent, it runs a little obliquely backwards to the lower and lateral part of the Cavity of the Nose, where it terminates at the inner and fore part of the Antrum Maxillare, under the Os Spongiosum Inferius, a little behind the anterior extremity of that Bone, and in a direct line upwards from the second Dens Molaris. The upper part of the Groove forms only a semi- canal, the under end a complete one. The Lacrymal Sac is a Membranous Canal, situat- ed in the upper part of the Lacrymal Groove, be- hind the Tendon of the Orbicularis of the Eye-lids; about a fourth part of it above the Tendon, and forming a kind of Intestinum Caecum, and the rest below it. Towards the inner Angle of the Eye, behind the Tendon of the Orbicularis, the Sac is perforated by the Lacrymal Ducts. The lower part of the Sac becoming a little narrower, but without forming any Valve, passes into the Nose, under the name of Canalis Na sails. Ductus ad Nasum, or Lacrymal Duct, and terminates at the inferior extre- mity of the Osseous Canal.Part IV.] OF THE NOSE. 10.**. The Structure of the Lacrymal Sac and Duct is simi- lar to that of the Membrana Schneideriana. They are defended by the same kind of Mucus with which this Membrane is lubricated, and are firmly connected to the Periosteum of the Osseous Canal. The Use of this Passage is,—to convey the superfluous Tears to the Nose, so as to prevent them from passing over the Cheek. The Ductus Incisivus, vel Nasalo-Palalmus of Strno, is a small Canal, which, as lias been already observed in the description of the Bones, is only sometimes met with in the Human Body, though it is always to be found in the Ox, Plorse, Sheep, &c. When present, it takes its Origin from a small Pit, formed in the fore part of the bottom of the Nostril, under the termination of the Lacrymal Duct. It runs obliquely downwards and forwards, placed in such a manner as to receive and conduct the Tears into the Mouth. The Arteries of the Nose come chiefly from the Ex- ternal Carotids. Those of the outer part of the Nose come from the Facial and Internal Maxillary Arteries;—those of the inner from the Internal Maxillary; and a few Twigs are furnished by the Ocular Arteries. The Veins go to the External Jugulars. They like- wise communicate with the Ocular Veins, and of course with the Lateral Sinuses and Internal Jugulars. The Nerves with which the outer part of the Nose is chiefly supplied, come from the second Branch of G 4 the101 OF THE VISCERA, 3tc. [Part IV. the Fifth, and from the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The inner part is principally supplied by the First Pair, or Olfactory Nerves, and by some Branches front the first and second portion of the Fifth Pair. TABLE .Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, See. 105 The OF TIIE MOUTH AND THROAT, WITH THEIR APPENDAGES. \ MOUTH. The Osseous Parts of the Mouth are,—the Ossa Maxillaria Superior a, the Ossa Palati, the Maxilla In- ferior, and the Teeth;—all of which, except the Teeth, have been already described. The Soft Parts of the Mouth consist of the Lips and Cheeks, the Gums, the Palate, the Velum Palati, the Uvula, the Tongue, the Membrane lining the Mouth, and the Salivary Glands. The Lips and Cheeks, which are principally composed of Muscles, are covered on the outside by the common Integuments, and lined within by the Membrane of the Mouth, under which there are numerous Mucous Glands, obtaining their names from their situations. The intervening space between the Masseter and Buc- cinator is occupied by a large quantity of Fat, which gives form to the Face.OF THE VISCERA, See. [PartIV. 10 G The Membrane of the Mouth is covered with fine Villi; but these are most conspicuous upon the edges of the Lips, as may be distinctly seen after a fine In- jection, or after macerating the parts till the Cuticle can be separated. From the edges of the Lips, the common Integu- ments, now become extremely thin, are converted into the Membrane which lines the Mouth, and which, op- posite to the Dentes Incisores of the Upper and Under Jaws, forms two Doublings or Frcena, which fix the Lips more firmly to the Jaws. The Lips are serviceable in the general purposes of Speaking, Eating, Drinking, &c. The Gums cover the sides of the Alveolar Border of both Jaws, pass in between the different Teeth, and surround and adhere firmly to the Collar of each. The Substance of the Gums is of a dense nature, and very Vascular, and the Vessels are united by a compact Cellular Substance. They may be said to consist of the common Mem- brane of the Mouth and the Periosteum of the Jaws in- timately connected. They serve as a Covering to the Jaws, and contribute to the security of the Teeth. The Arteries of the Lips, Cheeks, and Gums, are from the Facial, Temporal, and Internal Maxillaries, which are derived from the External Carotids. The Veins go chiefly to the External, and partly to the Internal Jugulars. The Nerves come from the first and second Branches ofPart IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 107 of the Fifth Pair, and also from the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The Palate is divided into the Palatum Durum and Palatum Molle. The former is composed of the Palate- Plates of the Upper Jaw, and is covered by the Perios- teum and common Membrane of the Mouth, which prevent the Bones from being injured. The Membrane which covers the Bones of the Palate forms numerous Kitgce, which assist in the division of the Food. It is nearly of the same structure with that of the Gums, but perforated by the Ducts of the Palatine Glands, for the excretion of Mucus, which serves to lu- bricate the Palate, and assists in dissolving the Food. The Palatum Molle, Velum Pendulum Palati, or Soft Palate, is that part which depends from the posterior edge of the Ossa Palati, and from the Pterygoid Pro- cesses of the Sphenoid Bone, and forms a Musculo- Membranous Partition between the Nose and Mouth. It is composed of the Membranes which line the Nose and Mouth, and of the Expansions of the Circumflexus and Levator Palati, and likewise of numerous Mucous Glands, which serve to lubricate the Mouth and Throat, and facilitate Deglutition. 1 he Palatum Molle conducts the Fluids of the Nose into the Mouth, and acts like a \ alve in preventing what we swallow from passing into the Nose. In the middle of the Posterior edge of the Velum Pa- lati, the Uvula or Pap of the Throat takes its origin, and hangs pendulous from the Velum over the root of the Tongue. ItThe i los OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. It is of a Conical form, and is covered by the Mem- brane of the Mouth. Numerous Mucous Glands are found in its Substance, and it has a small Muscle with- in it, by which it is elevated and shortened;—its other motions depending upon the Muscles of the Palate. The Use of the Uvula in speaking and in Deglutition, is evident irom the inconveniences which result from its being destroyed by disease. The Arteries of the Paiate, &c. come from the Facial and internal Maxillary. The Veins go to the External and Internal Jugulars. The Serves are chiefly from the second of the Fifth, with some Twigs from the Eighth Pair. Tongue. The Tongue is of an Oval form, and is divided into Base, Body, and Apex The Base, or posterior part of the Tongue, is con- nected to the Os Hyoides, and, by the medium of this, to the adjacent Bones and Muscles. The Body, or middle part of the Tongue, terminates anteriorly in the loose moveable point. On the Dorsum or Upper Surface, there is a Linea Mediana, or middle Groove, running longitudinally, and dividing it into two lateral Convexities. The inferior Surface, which reaches only from the middle of the Tongue to the point, is connected to the parts below it by the Sublingual Ligament, or Freemim Linguce, which is a Doubling of the Skin or Lining of the Mouth.109 Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. They The sides of the Tongue are fixed to the Lower Jaw and Styloid Processes, and parts adjacent, by Membra- nous Ligaments. The Tongue is chiefly composed of the Fibres of the Muscles, which serve for its motions.—These Fibres are disposed in various directions, and intermixed with Me- dullary Fat. The upper and lateral parts of the Tongue are com- posed of the Stylo-Glossi.—Its middle portion, between the two former Muscles, is formed of the Linguales.— The lower part is chiefly formed of the Genio-Glossi; —and behind, the Stylo-Glossi enter into its composi- tion. The Tongue is covered by a continuation of the com- mon Integuments, which are preserved soft and moist by the Saliva. The Cuticle of the Tongue forms Vaginae for receiv- ing the Substances called Papilla:. The Corpus Mucosum of the Tongue is thicker than in other parts of the Body, but more moist. The third Covering of the Tongue, the Cutis Vera, is very plentifully supplied with Nerves.—The Papillae, which take their origin from it, are very Vascular, es- pecially near the Apex of the Tongue, but are wanting on its under Surface. The Papilla: are divided into three kinds, the Maxi- maMedia, and Minima:. The first class, called Papilla: Maxima:, Lenticulares Capitatavel Vallatce, are by much the largest, and of a Lenticular form, having round Heads and short Stems.no OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV, the I hey are placed at the Base of the Tongue, in super- ficial Fossilise, and the whole are arranged in such a manner as to form an Angle with its point backwards. They are Glands of the Salivary kind, and have each of them a small Perforation in the middle of its convex Surface. • Besides the Papillae Capitatae, there are numerous Mucous Follicles, which cover the greater part of the Surface of the root of the Tongue. At the root of the Tongue, and behind the Angle formed by the Papillae Maximae, there is a Hole called Foramen Ccccuvi of Morgagnt, by whom it was first described. It penetrates only a small way into the Substance of the Tongue, and receives the Mouths of several Excre- tory Ducts which terminate in it. The second class, called Papillcc Media?, Semi-lenti- cular cs, vel Fungiformes, are much smaller than the former, and are scattered over the upper Surface of the Tongue, at some distance from each other. They are of a Cylindrical form, supported on a small Pedicle, and terminated by a round extremity. The third class, called Papilla? Minima?, vel Conica?, vel Villosce, are by much the most numerous, but very minute. They occupy almost the whole upper Surface of the Tongue, becoming gradually shorter at its sides, and are most abundant towards the Apex, where the sensation of taste is most acute. This and the second class have been supposed to be formed chiefly of the extremities of Nerves, and to con- stitute the real Organ of Taste ; though other parts, asIll Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. the Palate, and even the Pharynx and Esophagus, pos- sess the faculty of Taste in a certain degree. The principal Blood-vessels of the Tongue are large in proportion to the size of that Organ. They are called Linguales, vel Panina, on account of the dark-coloured Branches which appear under the Tongue. The Arteries, which are Branches of the External Carotids, are not found to communicate so freely on the opposite sides of the Tongue, as they do in other parts of the Body. The Veins open chiefly into the External Jugulars. The Nerves, like the Arteries, are large and nume- rous, and have little connection on the opposite sides. They come from the Fifth, Eighth, and Ninth Pairs. The first set supply the parts next the point of the Tongue, and are therefore considered as being princi- pally concerned in conveying the sensation of Taste. The second set supply the root, and the third the middle of the Tongue, and are chiefly dispersed upon its Muscles. There is a considerable intermixture, how- ever, between the three sets on the same side. Besides being the principal Organ of Taste, the Tongue is the chief instrument of Speech, and of the articulation of the Voice.—It also assists in Manduca- tion, Deglutition, Spitting, Sucking, &c. Salivary Glands. The Salivary Glands consist of three large Glands on each side of the Face, viz.—the Parotid, the Submaxil- lary,OF THE VISCERA, kc. [Part IV. 112 the laryt and the Sublingual,—besides many small Glands named from the parts to which they belong. They are of a yellowish colour, and irregular on their Surface, being of the Conglomerate kind. The Parotid Gland, which is the largest of the Sali- vary Glands, is named from its situation near the Ear. It occupies the whole space between the Ear, Mastoid and Styloid Processes, and Angle of the Lower Jaw. It extends superiorly to the Zygoma, and anteriorly to the Masseter, part of which it covers. The under end of it lies contiguous to the Submaxil- lary Gland. From the different parts of the Gland, numerous small Branches arise, which join together to form a large Duct, sometimes called Steno’s Salivary Duct, or Ductus Superior, which passes from the upper and fore part of the Gland. The Parotid Duct is of a white colour, and large size, but, from the thickness of its Coats, the Cavity is small, in proportion to the general size of the Duct. It traverses the Masseter about its middle height, and where the Muscle is tendinous; in consequence of which, it is free from compression, and descends a little to perforate the Buccinator, and Membrane of the Mouth, by an orifice without any Papilla, opposite to the second or third Dens Molaris of the Upper Jaw. In crossing the Masseter, it receives sometimes one, sometimes two minute Ducts, from an equal number of small Glands, called by Haller Glandulce Accessories. The Submaxillary Gland is smaller and rounder than113 Fart IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. The Vol. II. H the Parotid, and is situated on the inside of the Angle of the Lower Jaw, between it and the Tendon of the Digastricus, and directly under the Platysma Myoides. From the upper and fore part of this Gland, a Duct arises, called, by some Authors, Ductus Whartoni, vel Ductus Inferior, which is much thinner in its coats than the former Duct, but longer. It passes forwards between the Mylo-Hyoideus and Genio-Glossus, along the under and inner edge of the Sublingual Gland, to the side of the Fraenum Linguae, and terminates behind the Dentes Incisores, by a small Orifice in form of a Papilla. The Sublingual Gland is smaller, longer, and softer than the Submaxillary, and is flat, and of an oval form. It is situated under the anterior lateral portion of the Tongue, above the Duct of the Inferior Maxillary Gland, near the Lower Jaw, between the Mylo-PIyoi- deus and Genio-Hyo-Glossus j the former of which sustains it. Its extremities are turned forwards and backwards, and the edges obliquely inwards and outwards. It is covered by a continuation of the Skin of the under side of the Tongue, which fixes the Gland in its place. It opens by several Orifices arranged in a line near the Gums, a little to the outside of the Fraenum. Sometimes this Gland sends off a Duct which com- municates with that of the Submaxillary ; but generally it is otherwise. In many Quadrupeds, there is a distinct Duct belong- ing to this Gland, like that of the Submaxillary.114- OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV, I The smaller Glands of the Mouth are in great num- bers, lying between the inner Lining of the Mouth and its Muscles, and deriving their names from their situa- tions. They arc much inferior in size to the former, each forming a simple little Lobe, which is somewhat flat- tened, or Lenticular. Each Gland sends out a Duct, which perforates the Skin of the Mouth, and opens into its Cavity. They consist of— The Buccales, whicli are dispersed over the whole of the Check, but most plentifully near the termination of the Parotid Duct j The Molares, which are in a Group, and are part of the Buccal, situated opposite to the large superior Dentes Molares; The Labialcs, lying on the inside of the Lips ; The Palatincc, upon the Palate ; and, The Linguales, at the root of the Tongue. The Arteries of the Salivary Glands are from diffe- rent Branches of the External Carotids. The Parotid Gland is supplied from the Temporal, the Inferior Maxillary Gland from the Facial, and the- Sublingual Gland from the Lingual Artery. The Veins of these Glands go to the External Jugu- lars. The Nerves are chiefly from the third part of the Fifth, and from the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The Salivary Glands serve for the secretion of the Sa- liva, which they pour out in large quantity, and which is promoted by the motion of the Lower Jaw. The Sa- liva115 Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. The H 2 liva assists in the solution of the Food in the Mouth, in lubricating the Throat for its passage downwards, and in the digestion of it in the Stomach. OF THE TEETH. Of the Structure of the Teeth in the ApuIt. The Teeth are situated in the Alveoli of the Jaws, and are sixteen in number in each Jaw. Each Tooth consists of a Base or Body, and one or more iRoots or Fangs; the former appearing without, the latter within the Sockets. Around the Surface, where the Body ends and the Root begins, the Tooth is a little depressed where it forms the Cervix or Collar of the Tooth. The Roots are of a Conical form, becoming gradual- ly smaller as they recede from the Body of the Tooth, in consequence of which, pressure is removed from the tender parts placed at their points, and divided equally over the Surface of the Fangs. Upon the Body of each Tooth, there is an additional Covering, termed Cortex Striata, or Enamel, which is spread over all that part of the Tooth that, in the healthy state, is not covered by the Gums.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Path IV. 116 The Enamel has no Cavity for Marrow, and is so hard, that a Saw or a File impresses it with difficulty. The action of Fire does not much affect its colour. It is almost completely dissolved in the Acids. It is thicker towards the Body, and becomes gradual- ly thinner towards the Cervix of the Tooth. It is composed of Fibres so disposed as to form Radii round the Body of the Tooth j or they are nearly per- pendicular to its Surface. The Fibres are straight on the cutting Edges and grinding Surfaces of the Bodies, but curved at the sides, with their convex part turned towards the Fangs of the Teeth, which better enables them to resist the impression of hard Substances placed between them du- ring Manducation ; nor are they, from this structure, so easily fractured by the inordinate motion of the Jaws. At the point of each of the Roots of the Teeth, there is a Foramen, and a passage leading from it into a common Cavity in the Body of the Tooth, for lodg- ing the Substance called Fid}) of the Teeth. The Foramen is placed towards one side of the point, which prevents the Vessels and Nerves entering frouv being injured by pressure. In old People, the Foramen is sometimes obliterated ; in such cases the Vessels and Nerves arc destroyed. The shape of the Cavity resembles that of the Body of the Tooth, being narrow next the Fangs, and gra- dually expanding towards the opposite extremity. The Cavity has no Cancelli nor Marrow, being filled withPart IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 117 II 3 The with the Pulp, which is inclosed in a fine Membrane, connected to the Tooth by Cellular Substance. The Pulp consists of minute Vessels and Nerves, in- termixed with Gelatinous Matter, the remains of that which gave origin to the Tooth. The Arteries of the Teeth, called Dental, are Branches of the Internal Maxillary; the Veins returning from them pass into the Internal Jugular Veins. After the Arteries have entered the Teeth, they are dispersed upon the Membrane which lines their Cavity, as may be seen by injecting them ;—by the appearance produced by age, the Cavity in old People often filling- up with Osseous Matter, and the Teeth acquiring a horny transparency ;—by accident, as when a Tooth is loosened by a blow, the Tooth being sometimes fixed again in its Socket, at other times becoming black, from its nourishing Vessels being destroyed ;—by disease, as in Anchylosis of the Roots of the Teeth, or in some rare cases, of the Roots of one Tooth to those next it; —but especially by the Blood which is observed by Den- tists to issue from the Cavity of the Teeth in sawing them across, for the purpose of fixing other Teeth. The Nerves of the Teeth are from the Fifth Pair, those of the Teeth of the Upper Jaw being from the Second, and those of the Teeth of the Lower Jaw from the Third Branch of that Pair. In the Upper Jaw, the Nerves enter through various parts of the Ossa Maxillaria Superiora. In the under Jaw, the Trunk which furnishes the Dental Nerves is lodged in the inferior Maxillary Canal.118 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. The Nerves which supply the Teeth, though small, can be observed to enter the Foramina at the points of the Fangs, and by properly preparing the Teeth, can be distinctly traced in their Osseous Canals. The Absorbents of the Teeth have not been seen, but their existence is proved,—by the Absorption of the Fangs of the Temporary Teeth during the second Den- tition ;—the removal of part of the Teeth in conse- quence of ulceration within them; and the disappear- ing of part of the Internal Substance of the Teeth of such large Animals as the Elephant, where the Tusks have been found with extraneous Bodies forced into, and lodged within them. The Substance of the Osseous part of the Teeth is like that of Bone in other parts of the Body, differing only in being harder and more dense, in having its Fibres generally in a longitudinal direction, and in ha- ving a partial covering from the Enamel. The Teeth are fixed in their Sockets by Gomphosis, and attached to the Alveoli by a strong Periosteum. This Periosteum lines the Sockets, and is reflected upon the Fangs as far as the Necks of the Teeth, where it is intimately connected with the Gums. The Teeth serve to masticate the Aliment, to assist in pronouncing several of the Letters, and are orna- mental to the Face. Analysis I119 Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. ! »\ : \j ,'r- - ■ Analysis of the Teeth, as made by Mr Pepys of Lon- don.—See Mr Fox’s Natural History of the Human Teeth. 100 parts of Enamel yielded, Phosphat of Lime, 78 Carbonat of Lime, 6 Water of composition and loss, 16 100 100 parts of the Osseous Substance yielded, Phosphat of lime, 58 Carbonat of Lime, 4 Gelatine, - 28 Water of composition and loss, 10 100 So far the Teeth agree in their general structure; but, in consequence of certain differences among them, they are in each Jaw divided into four classes, viz. Four Incisores, Two Cuspidati, Four Bicuspidati, and Six Molares. The Incisores, or Cutting Teeth, are placed in the - fore part of the Ja>v, and have their Bodies formed into Wedges, sloped out behind. Viewed anteriorly, their cutting edges appear broader than the rest of the Tooth; when seen in a lateral direction, they appear thicker to- wards their roots. Their Fangs, when taken laterally, H 4 appearOP THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 120 appear broader than when examined in their anterior and posterior Surfaces. Each of these Teeth has a single Fang. Their Enamel is thicker on their anterior and poste- rior Surfaces than at the sides, where it is remarkably thin, and thicker before than on the back part of the Tooth. The middle Incisores of the Upper Jaw are the broadest of the Incisores, w'hile the lateral Incisores of the Under Jaw are larger than the middle ones. The Cuspidati, or Canine Teeth, are placed at tho sides of the Incisores, and, like them, have their Bases in form of Wedges, but pointed in the middle. The Enamel covers more of these Teeth than of the Incisores, and is more equal in thickness all round the Teeth. The Fangs are thicker, larger, and more depressed at the sides, than those of the Incisores, and appear broadest when viewed in a lateral direction. The Fangs being the largest of any of the Teeth, project more in the Jaw, as is obvious both to the sight and touch; hence the Incisores and Canini are almost in a straight line, especially in the Under Jaw. They have each commonly but one long root, though in some rare cases two, and are crooked at the point. They re- semble the Tusks of Carnivorous Quadrupeds, especial- ly those of the Dog tribe, from which they have got their name. The tw'o of the Upper Jaw are a little larger and longer, and have their roots more crooked than those of the under one. In121 Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. In the Upper Jaw, they are placed immediately un- der the Orbitar Plates, and are termed Eye-Teeth, from a supposed connection with the Eyes. The two below are placed almost as deep as the Base of the Bone, and are called Angular Teeth, from supporting the Angles of the Mouth. The Bicuspidati, formerly termed Small Molares, or First and Second Grinders, are situated behind the Cus- pidati, and bear an intermediate resemblance between these and the Molares. Viewed in the Jaws, they are somewhat like each other, and not unlike the Cuspidati. The Body of each has two points upon its grinding Surface, one external, the other internal; and those in the Upper Jaw are nearly upon a level. In the Under Jaw the points pro- ject most on the outside of the Teeth. The Enamel is nearly equal in thickness round the Body of the Tooth, but is thinner at the sides than on the Cuspidati. The Fangs resemble two Fangs united, with a de- pression between them ; sometimes, however, the Bi- cuspidati of the Upper Jaw have distinct roots. The Bicuspidati of the Under Jaw are smaller than those of the upper one, the points on their grinding Surfaces are not so distinct, and the Teeth themselves have a slight inclination inwards in the Jaws. The Molares, formerly termed Large Molares, are behind the Bicuspidati, are the largest of the Teeth, and have broad Bases with several points. The roots divaricate from each other, and have partitions of the Sockets between them, which assist in lessening the pressure122 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. pressure on their points during Manducation. They have thinner Enamel than the other Teeth. The first of the Molares of the Under Jaw has five, and each of the other has four points. Each has two roots, one placed forwards, the other backwards, and these are flat and broad, their flat Sur- faces facing anteriorly and posteriorly. Sometimes there are three roots. In the Upper Jaw, the first Molaris has four, and each of the others only three points. In the two anterior Molares of the Upper Jaw, there are generally three roots, of which two are on the outer side ; the third is on the inner side, and placed oblique- ly, and is the largest and roundest of the three. Some- times, though rarely, there are four roots. The Molares above have a perpendicular direction in respect to the Jaw, those below have an inclination in- wards, which should be attended to by Dentists in the extraction of the Teeth. The backmost Molares are termed Dentes Sapicnticc, from appearing later than the rest of the Teeth. They arc smaller than the other Molares, and have generally fewer roots; these are often quite indistinct, a6 if squeezed together; and frequently there is oidy a single Fang. The Dentes Sapientiae of the Under Jaw have fre- quently curved roots, and are sometimes placed so ob- liquely inwards, as scarcely to appear beyond the Gums. The Incisores of the Upper Jaw being for the most part much broader than those of the under , one, the otherPart IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 123 other Teeth are thrown farther back than the corre- sponding Teeth of the Under Jaw; in consequence of which, in well-formed Teeth, when the Jaws are shut, the Teeth of the Upper Jaw are opposed to the Inter- stices of the Teeth of the Under one, and the third Molares of the Upper Jaw being smaller than those of the Under, allow the Teeth to close even at their poste- rior parts. By such a construction, the Teeth are properly adapted to the Manducation of the Food, and one Tooth being lost, its opponent remains useful, by act- ing upon the parts of the Teeth immediately opposed to it. I Of the Temporary Teeth. In a Foetus of three or four Months after conception, the Jaws are distinctly formed ; but in place of Sockets, there are Grooves running along the Jaws, with im- pressions within them, forming the origins of the future Alveoli. The Grooves are narrow and deep at the fore part of the Jaws, and become wider and more shallow to- wards their posterior extremities. In the bottom of the Groove of the Lower Jaw, the Inferior Maxillary Vessels and Nerves are placed, which have afterwards a Canal peculiar to themselves. Within the Alveolar Grooves, there are, at this time. Ridges which gradually extend from the bottom and in- ner sides, forming Arches; and the Cavities becoming deeper, their external Openings contract, till, at the12 If OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. time of birth, they arc almost closed. In consequence of this, considerable pressure can be made in the time of Suction, without injuring the tender Teeth they con- tain. The Alveoli of the Molares are produced directly be- fore the roots of the Coronoid Processes of the Under Jaw, and in the Bulges or Tubers of the Upper Jaw, and come forwards as the Jaws increase in length and size. In a Foetus of about four Months, small Pulpy Pro- cesses are found to proceed from the inner Surface of the Gums, and to be lodged in the Alveolar Grooves of both Jaws. These are the Rudiments of the future Teeth. At this time they are of a Gelatinous or Pulpy nature, resembling in shape the Bodies of the Teethwhich are to be formed in them ; each contained in a Membranous Capsule proper to itself. By degrees the Pulp becomes firmer, and extremely Vascular, and having increased to near the size of the Body of the Tooth, Bone is deposited upon its extreme points by the Blood-vessels, the Pulp itself continuing to grow for some time after this. About the filth or sixth Month, Bone begins to ap- pear on that part of the Surface which is afterwards to form the cutting Edges and grinding Surfaces, and in as many points as there are Eminences on the Pulp. The Ossification begins in the Incisores at three points, and in the other Teeth at points corresponding with the number of the future points of the Teeth. The Osseous points gradually increase, unite, and form125 Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. form a Layer of Bone, which extends over the Surface of the Pulp to the Necks of the Teeth. Between the eighth and ninth Month, Ossification is considerably advanced in all the Pulps, and, In the full grown Foetus, the outer Shells of five Teeth in each side of each Jaw are found, which are termed Temporary, Deciduous, Shedding, or Milk Teeth. Of these there are in each side two Incisores, one Cuspidatus, and two Molares; besides, there is the Shell of the Anterior Permanent Molaris ; but the whole of the Temporary Teeth are much smaller than the corre- sponding classes of Teeth in the Adult. In the Upper Jaw, the points or eminences of the Shells correspond with the depressions in the Teeth of the Under Jaw. After the outer Shell of a Tooth is formed, the Os- seous Matter gradually penetrates the greater part of the Pulp, and, having completed the Body, it contracts, and forms the Cervix of the Tooth. Having formed the Cervix, the Cavity of the Tooth is by degrees diminished, and in proportion as it is les- sened, part of the Pulp is pushed out or elongated, and assumes the part of the respective Fang. Upon this Pulp also Bone is deposited. While the Fang is extending, the Socket is found to accommodate itself to it, by extending along with it till the Fang is completed. Where there are two or more Fangs, the Osseous Fibres shoot across at the Cervix, and form the begin- ning of these, after which the Ossification of each Fang advances125 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartI Vi advances in the same maimer as that of a Tooth with a single root. At birth, the Capsules containing the Pulps of the Teeth can be separated into two Membranes, the exter- nal of which is of a Spongy and somewhat Vascular na- ture, and adheres to the Gums, while the internal, smoother and firmer than the former, and extremely Vascular, adheres to the Pulp. The Membrane of the Pulp derives its Vessels from those of the Gums, the Pulp receives its Vessels from those which enter the Foramina at the points of the Fangs. The Membrane containing the Pulp is firmly attach- ed to the inside of the Gum, and to the Basis of the Pulp, and has the same form with the Tooth it in- closes. The Vascularity of the Pulp is shewn by injection, as is also that of the Membrane by which it is covered ; and this appearance is rendered still more evident by examining the growing Teeth of large Animals, as those of the Elephant. That part of the Pulp lias the most Vascular appear- ance which is covered with Bone, but the Osseous Shell is found to adhere so slightly to the Pulp, as to be readi- ly separated from it without apparent laceration. The Osseous Matter of a Tooth is formed in Strata, one Layer being added within another, till the Tooth is completed. After the Osseous Substance is formed, the Enamel is added, which increases in thickness, till within a little whilePart IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 127 while of the time at which the Tooth begins to pass through the Gum. The Enamel is secreted by the Capsule which contains the Pulp, soon after the Osseous Shell has begun to be formed. It is always thickest where first deposited ; of course, it is thicker upon the Body than upon the Cervix of the Tooth. The Enamel is secreted in the form of a pure white earthy Substance, moistened with a Mucilage, and has much the appearance of crystallization. The deposition of the Enamel continues nearly as long as the Teeth are contained in their Capsules. It is at first, and even for some time after birth, so soft, as to be little firmer than Chalk, being easily scraped by the Nail, but soon acquiring a flinty hardness and a striated appearance. After the Bodies of the Teeth have attained their full size, no addition of Substance is made to the Enamel, the Membrane which produces it being destroyed pre- vious to the appearance of the Teeth beyond the Gums. The Osseous part of the Teeth, on the contrary, con- tinues to grow for a considerable time afterwards, one third of the length of the Fangs being added, after the Teeth have first appeared in the Mouth. While the Teeth are extending in their Sockets, they press upon their Capsules, and occasion an absorption of them ; the remains of the Capsules surround the Necks of the Teeth, and are gradually removed as the Tooth is completed. Origin-Ua OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV, Origin of the Permanent Teeth. The Permanent Incisores and Cuspidati succeed to i the Temporary Incisores and Cuspidati; they are simi- lar in form to these, but much larger; but the Tempo- rary Molares are succeeded by the Bicuspides, which are much smaller. When the Rudiments of the Temporary Teeth are somewhat advanced, a New Sac is sent off at the under and inner part of the Sacs of the Temporary Teeth of the Upper Jaw, and at the upper and inner part of the corresponding Sacs of the Under Jaw, the new Sacs lying between those of the Temporary Teeth and the Internal Alveolar Plate, each being on the inner side of the Tooth it is to succeed, and connected to the Gum. Sec Dr Blake’s Thesis, Edin. 1798. These Sacs are at first contained in the same Sockets with the Temporary Teeth, and are loosely connected with the Membranes of these. By degrees, little Nitches are formed in the internal Alveolar Plate, and these gradually form a distinct Socket round each of the Sacs. When the Temporary Teeth have advanced in their Sockets, the Sacs of the Permanent Teeth become elon- gated, but still remain attached to the Sacs and Gums at the Necks of the Temporary Teeth, by means of Pro- cesses which pass through small Foramina at the inner ed<xe of the Jaw. At the time ofbirth, Ossification has commenced upon the anterior Permanent Molaris, and there are small Membranous''^Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 129 VOL. II. I The Membranous Sacs, containing a Pulp with the Rudi- ments of the other two Molares. Ossification com- mences upon their tips some time after, but always first in the lower Jaw. The second Permanent Molaris is formed from the first in th6 same manner as the other Permanent Teeth are formed from the Temporary Set. A small Sac is sent back, which is at first contained in the same Socket with the Pulp of the first Molaris; a new Socket is af- terwards formed, in which the Pulp of the second Mo- laris becomes perfect; this, in a similar way, sends off another Process, in which the Third Molaris is (formed. Of the Appearing of the Temporary Teeth. f * The Temporary Teeth generally begin to appear be- tween the sixth and eighth Month after Birth, the cor- responding Teeth commonly appearing about the same ime, first in the Under, then in the Upper Jaw, though hey frequently appear a little sooner, and often consi- derably later than this period. They commonly appear in the following order: First, me of the Central Incisores of the Under Jaw, and ;oon after the other one; a few weeks afterwards, the Central Incisores of the Upper Jaw pass through ; these rre soon succeeded by the Lateral Incisores of the Un- der Jaw, and then by those of the Upper one. About the sixteenth or eighteenth Month, the ante- •ior or small Molares of the Under Jaw appear, and are iucceeded by those of the Upper Jaw,180 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV The Cuspidati come next in order, and first those of the Under Jaw, which are soon followed by those of the Upper Jaw. About the end of the second Year, or a little later, the second, or posterior, or large Molares, appear, which complete the first Set; though to the above rule there are many exceptions. Of the Formation of the Permanent Teeth. The anterior Permanent Molares are first formed, the Fulps being found in the Foetus previous to its birth, and are situated in the back part of the Jaws. The Permanent Incisores and Cuspidati are formed on the inner side of the Temporary Incisores and Cus- pidati, in Capsules peculiar to themselves, but in the same Sockets with the Temporary Set. The Bicuspidati are formed at the roots of the Tem- porary Molares, small Osseous Partitions being found between the two Sets. At the time of birth, Ossification has commenced upon the anterior Permanent Molares j and there are sqaall Membranous Sacs containing a Pulp, with the Rudiments of all the other Molares. Ossification com- mences upon the tips some time after, but always first in the Under Jaw. By degrees, as the Alveoli increase in size, the Per- manent Teeth get Sockets of their own, as is seen b) removing the outer Alveolar Process in a Child of abou four years of age. At this period, the Ossification of the Incisores, Cus pidatus131 Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. pidatus, first Bicuspidatus, and first Molaris, in each side, is much advanced; the second Molaris is also partly formed, and soon after the Ossification of the second Bicuspidatus commences. About six years of age, all the Permanent Teeth, ex- cepting the Dentes Sapientiae, have made considerable progress. Twenty now ax*e commonly seen without the Gums, which are to be succeeded by twenty-eight, that at this time lie concealed in the Jaws. In the eighth or ninth year, the Dentes Sapientue begin to be formed. Of the Shedding of the Temporary, and the Ap- pearing of the Permanent Teeth. About seven years of age is the common time at which Children begin to shed their Teeth, though some shed their Teeth a little sooner, others considerably later than this period ; and it not unfrequently happens, that some of the first Set remain in the Jaws to adult, «r even old age. The anterior Permanent Molares first appear, soon after the Temporary Central Incisoresof the Under Jaw are removed, and are succeeded by the Permanent Cen- tral Incisores, one coming a little while before the other; then the Central Incisores of the Upper Jaw come out, and the Permanent Central Incisores succeed them. Next the Lateral Incisores are succeeded by the Per- manent ones. Then the first or anterior Temporary Molares come out, and are succeeded by the anterior Bicuspides. 12 Then18*2 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Then the second Temporary Molarcs and Cuspidati are succeeded by the posterior Bicuspidati and the Per- manent Cuspidati ; the whole shedding of the Teeth occupying a space of five or six years. The Dentes Sapientiae do not appear till between the eighteenth and twenty-first year ; sometimes, however, they appear a year or two sooner, and frequently not till some years later. The number of the Teeth does not increase till be- tween the sixth and eighth year, when the Teeth that first made, their appearance through the Gums are shed, and replaced by others, and more soon begin to appeal farther back in the Jaws. The second Set of Teeth, it is found, contrary to the opinion of former times, do not push out the first, the second Set being formed in Sockets of their own, and • the Fangs of the first Set gradually decaying as the suc- ceeding Teeth grow; the decaying of the Fangs of the first Set being in proportion to the decay of the first Set of Sockets. The Permanent Teeth arise in Sockets appropriated to themselves, and are inclosed in these Sockets after the Temporary Teeth have been shed. During the growth of the Permanent Teeth, absorp- tion proceeds in the Fangs of the Temporary Set, which facilitates their removal from the Sockets, and affords a Passage for the Permanent Teeth. While the Permanent Teeth increase in size, they occupy more space, come forwards, produce a pressure against the Bony Partitions placed between them and the Temporary Teeth, and then against the posterior Surface133 Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. Surface of the roots of these Teeth, till at length the greater portion, or the whole of the parts pressed against, are absorbed. The Permanent Teeth now come forwards under the Temporary Set, which, by the pressure being conti- nued, soon drop out. Besides the causes mentioned above, with respect to the shedding of the Teeth, others contribute j for now and then the Temporary Teeth drop out long before the Permanent Teeth appear, and sometimes where they never appear. That absorption of the first Set is much influenced, however, by pressure on the second Set, is rendered probable, from the instances where one or more of the Temporary Teeth have been observed remaining in the Jaws for many years, and where, upon examination, no Permanent Teeth have been found to be formed. Of the Growth of the Jaws. ♦ After all the Temporary Teeth have appeared through the Gums, the Jaws are observed to grow little in the parts the Teeth occupy. The Lower Jaw receives its greater increase between the second Temporary Molaris and the Coronoid Pro- cess, the lengthened part being destined for the Per- manent Molares. The Temporary Incisores and Cuspidati being much smaller than the Permanent, while the Temporary Mo- iares are larger than the Bicuspidati which succeed I 3 them,134 OF THE VISCERA, See. [Part IV. The them, space is gained for the Front Teeth, which other- wise would be distorted in the Jaws. The Jaws grow uniformly throughout for about a year after birth, and as far as the Teeth extend, form nearly half of a circle; after all the Temporary Teeth have appeared, the Jaws elongate, so that in the Adult they form half of a long Ellipsis. The extension which takes place between the last Temporary Molaris and the Coronoid Process, and in the corresponding parts of the Upper Jaw, continues to increase till the eighteenth or twentieth year, the ante- rior part of the Jaw adapting itself to the Permanent Teeth, but scarcely receiving any additional size. OF THE THROAT. The Throat consists of the Arches of the Palate, of the Pharynx and Larynx, with the Muscles, Vessels, Nerves, See. which surround them. The Arches of the Palate are two in number in each side of the Throat, one of which is termed the Anterior, the other the Posterior Arch. They are formed of a Doubling of the Skin, with a few scattered Muscular Fibres. The Anterior Arch arises from the middle of the Ve- lum Palati, at the side of the Uvula, and is fixed to the edge of the Base of the Tongue.I*Xrt IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 135 The Posterior Arch has its Origin likewise from the side of the Uvula, and passes downwards, to be insert- ed into the side of the Pharynx. The Anterior Arch contains the Circumflexus Palati, and, with its fellow on the opposite side, forms the open- ing into the Throat, called Isthmus Faucium. The Posterior Arch has within it the Levator Palati. Between the Anterior and Posterior Arches, and close by the sides of the Base of the Tongue, the Amygdalae, Tonsils, or Almonds of the Ears, are situated. They are of a reddish colour, of the figure of Al- monds, full of Cells, which communicate with each other, and have large irregular Openings, which con- vey Mucus into the Throat; the discharge of which is promoted by the motion of the surrounding parts. • ... D' . ‘ i Pharynx. The Pharynx, so called from its conveying Food to the Stomach, and Air to the Lungs, is a large Muscu- lar Bag, in form of an irregular Funnel, with the Tube termed Esophagus descending from it, and forming the under end of that Funnel. It is bounded above by the Cuneiform Process of the Occipital Bone, the Pterygoid Processes of the Sphe- noid Bone, and back part of the Jaws ; with all of which it is intimately connected. The anterior Margins of its Fleshy parts are connect- ed to the edges of the Larynx, and its sides are cover- ed by the great Blood-vessels of the Neck. The fore part of the Pharynx is formed by a Mem- ' I 4> brane136 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. brane common to it and to the back part of toe La- rynx. Behind, it lies flat upon the Cervical Vertebrae, and upon the Muscles which cover the fore part of the sides of these Vertebrae. It has several Openings by which it communicates with the neighbouring Cavities. Two of these lead upwards and forwards by the poste- rior Nares into the Nose ; two go laterally by the Eusta- chian Tubes to the Ears ; one passes forwards througli the large Opening termed Fauces, or Top of the Throat, to the Mouth; one goes downwards and forwards through the Larynx and Trachea, to the Lungs; and another directly downwards by the Esophagus to the Stomach. The Pharynx is surrounded by a loose Cellular Sub- stance, and consists of different Layers of Muscles, call- ed Constrictores Pliaryngis, which have been already described. On the inner side, it is lined by the continuation of the Membrane of the Mouth, which is perforated by the Ducts of numerous Glands, for the secretion of Mucus. The lower end of the Pharynx, opposite to the under edge of the Cricoid Cartilage, describes a complete Circle, which forms the beginning of the Esophagus. The Pharynx is supplied with Blood by the Pharyn- geal Branches, which come directly or indirectly from the External Carotids.—It returns its Blood to both Ju- gulai Veins.—Its Nerves are from the Eighth Pair. The Pharynx receives the Aliments from the Mouth, and.Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 137 and, by the action of its Muscles, conveys them to the Esophagus. It must likewise assist in the modification of the Voice. A ' Larynx. r * The Larynx, so called from its being the principal Organ of Voice, is situated at the upper and fore part of the Neck, immediately under the Os Hyoides, which is placed at the root of the Tongue. It is composed of Cartilages, Muscles, Ligaments, Membranes, and Mucous -Glands; and is connected above to the Tongue and Os Hyoides, and behind to the Pharynx. The Cartilages of the Larynx are generally consi- dered as being Five in number, though, besides these, some choose to enumerate small Projections which are connected with them. The Five Cartilages are,—the Thyroid, the Cricoid, the Two Arytenoid, and the Epiglottis. The Thyroid, Scutiform, or Shield-like Cartilage, is placed at the upper and fore part of the Larynx, and is the largest of the whole. When spread out, it is of an oblong shape ; but, in the natural situation, it consists of two lateral Wings or Portions, of a quadrangular form, uniting before in a longitudinal Angle, which can be readily felt in the fore part of the Throat, and which, from its projecting more in Men than in Women, has obtained the name of Pomum Adami. The upper part of the Angle is formed into a Notch, from rOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 138 the irom which, and from the upper edge of the Cartilage in genera], a broad Ligament ascends, to fix it to the under part of the Os Hyoides. From the posterior corners four Processes project, called Cornua, two of which, termed Superior, are long, and ascend to be joined by round Ligaments to the ex- tremities of the Cornua of the Os Hyoides. In the middle of these Ligaments, one or two small Cartilaginous, or even Osseous Substances, of an oval form, are frequently found. The other two Cornua, called Inferior, are shorter than the Superior, and curved backwards, to be fixed by smooth articulating Surfaces to the sides of the Cri- coid Cartilage. The Thyroid Cartilage serves for the protection of the other Cartilages, and, along with the Os Hyoides, pre- serves the passage open, for the transmission of Food to the Stomach. In old age, this Cartilage is frequently ossified. The Cricoid, Annular, or Ring-like Cartilage, is placed below, and also behind the Thyroid, and, like it, may be readily felt in the fore part of the Throat. It is narrow before, where it lies under the Thyroid Cartilage, and thick, broad, and strong posteriorly, where it is placed behind that Cartilage. Its posterior Surface is divided by a Ridge into two lateral Cavities, for the reception of the posterior Crico- Arytenoid Muscles. Its under edge is horizontal, and fixed to the whole circumference of the beginning of the Trachea. The upper edge slants considerably, or rises between139 Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. the wings of the Thyroid Cartilage, and has its anterior narrow part fixed to the under edge of that Cartilage. It has four small Articular Surfaces, with distinct Capsular Ligaments, of which tvyo are placed above, for the articulation of the Arytenoid Cartilages, and two at the under and lateral parts, for the connection of the inferior Cornua pf the Thyroid Cartilage- The Cricoid Cartilage forms part of the general Tube of the Trachea, constitutes the Base of the Larynx, and gives a firm support to the Arytenoid Cartilages. The two Ai'ytenoid Cartilages are much smaller than the other Cartilages, and are placed upon the upper, posterior, and lateral parts of the Cricoid Cartilage, at a small distance from each other. They are of a triangular form, and a little twisted, and are bent back, so as to have a broad concave Sur- face behind. Their upper extremities, or Cornua, are turned to- wards each other, and are now and then found loose in the form of Appendices, which are considered by some Authors as distinct Cartilages, and termed Cuneiform or Tubercidated. Their Bases are broad and hollow, where they are articulated by Capsular Ligaments with the Cricoid Cartilage, upon which they are moved in different di- rections, by the action of various Muscles. They are connected to each other, and to the adja- cent Cartilages, by different Muscles and Ligaments. The Arytenoid Cartilages form a part of the Opening called Glottis, and give attachment to its Ligaments. The Epiglottis, obtaining its name from its situation - aboveHO OF THE VISCERA, See. [Part IV. above the Glottis, is of an oval form when surrounded by its Ligaments and Membranes; but when divested of these, it is found to be narrow below', broad above, and rounded, and slightly notched, at its upper extre- mity. It is convex towards the Tongue, and concave to- wards the Glottis, with its point reflected a little for- wards. It is placed behind the upper part of the Thyroid Cartilage, is situated obliquely over the Glottis, and may be seen and examined in the living Body, by press- ing down the root of the Tongue. Its under end is fixed by a broad and short Ligament to the middle Notch of the Thyroid Cartilage; laterally it is attached by two Ligaments to the whole length of the Arytenoid Cartilages. It is fixed to the roots of the Os Hyoides ar.d Tongue by another Ligament, which is a doubling of the inner Membrane running along the middle of its anterior Sur- face, and forming the Freenum Epiglottidis. It is very elastic, and is much more pliable than the ether Cartilages, being of a Cartilago-Ligamentous na- ture. It is found to have a number of Fissures, in which Lactinee are placed, and to be perforated by numerous Foramina, which are the Mouths of so many Mucous Follicles, and which arc in a great measure concealed by the Membrane which covers it. It breaks the current of the Air coming from the Mouth and Nose, and prevents it from rushing too forcibly into the Cavity of the Lungs. Pressed and drawnPart IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 141 They drawn down by the Tongue and by small Muscles, it defends the Glottis, and shuts it completely in the time ; of Swallowing. After the action of Swallowing, it is i raised by its own elasticity, and by the root of the Tongue, to which it is fixed; returning to its former position. Ligamenta Thyreo-Arytenoidea, or Ligaments of the Glottis.—From the fore part of the Body of each of the Arytenoid Cartilages, a Ligamentous Cord passes horizontally forwards, to be fixed by its other extremity, at the side of its fellow, to the inner Surface of the an- terior Angle of the Thyroid Cartilage. The Opening formed between these Ligaments is call- ed Glottis, Mouth of the Larynx, and Lima Glottidis, and is of a triangular figure, the Ligaments being in contact before, but at a considerable distance from each other at their posterior extremities. • Under these two Ligaments there are two others, larger and more distinct than the former, and which are commonly considered as the Vocal Ligaments, or the proper Ligaments of the Glottis. They arise from the Base of the Arytenoid Cartilages, and run in the same direction with the former, to be fixed also to the Thy- roid Cartilage. In the Interstice of the Superior and Inferior Liga- ments, on each side there is a Fissure, which leads to a small semicircular Membranous Cavity or Depression, with its bottom turned outwards. These are the Ventricles of the Larynx of Galen.— They are chiefly formed by the inner Membrane of the Larynx.OF THE VISCERA, &e. [Part IV, H2 The They differ in size in different people, have Mucous Follicles opening into them, and arc found to be service- able in the modulation of the Voice. On the anterior Surface of the Arytenoid Cartilages, there is a small Depression, filled by a Glandular Body, which not only covers the fore part of these Cartilages, but is continued over the posterior extremities of the Ligaments of the Glottis. The Arytenoid Glands arc larger in some Subjects than in others. They were discovered, and are parti- cularly described and delineated, by Morgagni. The Ligaments which connect the Epiglottis to the Notch of the Thyroid Cartilage, and to the under side of the Os Hyoides, together with one whieh ties the Base of the Os Hyoides, form a Triangular space t which is also occupied by Cellular Substance and by Mucous Glands. In a Woman, the Larynx is proportionally smaller than in a Man, and the Thyroid Cartilage projects less in the fore part of the Throat. The Cavity of the Larynx is lined by a Membrane which is extremely irritable, and is every where perfo- rated by the Mouths of small Mucous Glands, for the purpose of moistening it. The Larynx has a number of Museles, for its different motions ; all of which have been already described. The Arteries of the Larynx are the two Superior La- ryngeals, which come from the External Carotids, and the two Inferior Laryngeals, which are sent off from the Subclavian Arteries.Part IV.] OF THE MOUTH, &c. 143 The Superior Laryngeal Veins return to the Internal Jugulars j the Inferior to the Subclavians, or Superior Cava. The Nerves are chiefly the Superior and Inferior La- ryngeals, which are Branches of the Eighth Pair. The Larynx serves the purpose of Respiration, forms and modulates the Voice, and is also useful in Degluti- tion. It is the principal Organ of Voice ;—for, if a Hole be cut in the Trachea, of sufficient size to allow the Person to breathe freely through it, the power of pro- ducing Voice is destroyed till the cut is closed up. Voice is formed by the Air, in its passage through the Glottis, acting upon the Ligaments of the Glottis and Cartilages of the Larynx and Trachea, and thus producing a Tremor;—and is different in different Persons, according to the form and structure of the Larynx. The strength of Voice is in proportion to the quantity of Air expired, and the narrowness of the Glottis. A Tone is acute in proportion to the tension of the parts of the Larynx and Trachea in general, and of the Ligaments of the Glottis in particular. A Tone is grave in proportion to the reverse of the above. Speech is performed chiefly by the different parts of the Mouth, assisted by the Cavity of the Nose,—the Larynx moving only in a small degree. When the Air passes through the Larynx without producing a tremor, it occasions a Whisper. WhenOF THE VISCERA, See. [PartIV. Mi When a person speaks daring Inspiration, the Voice is thereby very'materially altered, and, by practice, may be made to appear as coming from other places than the Mouth of the Speaker; as is the case with those who call themselves Ventriloquists. TABLEpART IV.] OF THE THORAX. 145 OF THE THORAX. The Thorax, or Breast, extends from the Neck to the Diaphragm, and is divided into External and Inter- ; nal parts. EXTERNAL PARTS OF THE THORAX. The External Parts of the Thorax, besides the com- unon Integuments and Mammae, are. The Muscles, consisting of the Pedorales, Suhclavii, and under end of the Platysma Myoides on each side, which are situated anteriorly. The Serrati Magni, which are placed laterally. The Trapezii, Latissimi Dorsi, and numerous other 'Muscles, placed posteriorly. The Inter-costales and S'emo-costales, which are si- tuated, the former between, and the latter on the inner side of the Ribs. The Bones, consisting of Sternum, Rios, and Dorsal Vertehrce.—All these parts, excepting the Mammae, hove been already described, b Vol. II. ,, K Mamm.t.OF THE VISCERA, &e. [Part IV. H6‘ Mammae. The Mammae are two Glandular Bodies, of a circu- lar form, situated on the anterior, and a little towards the lateral parts of the Thorax, adhering loosely by Cellular Substance to the Surface of the large Pectoral Muscles. The term Mammae is peculiar to the Breasts of Wo- men.—In Men these parts arc called Mammillae;—in the Brute kind Ubcra. In the Ape, and a few other Animals, these parts are placed, as in the Human Body, upon the Thorax ; but in the generality of Quadrupeds, they are situated un- der the Abdomen. The Mammae vary in size in different Women, and in the same Woman at different periods of life. In Girls, previous to the age of puberty, they arc re- markably small. About the age of fourteen, at which time the Menses, in this Climate, most commonly begin to appear, they evolve and become prominent. During Gestation they increase in size, and soon after Delivery, they arrive at their greatest extent. After the age of forty-five, or from that to fifty,— the period when the Menses generally disappear,— they decrease in size, and become soft, pendulous, and flaccid. Under the Skin, there is a large quantity of Faft which constitutes a considerable portion of the bulk of the Mamma, defends the Glandular part, and is not foundPart IV.] OF THE THORAX. 147 found to pass into or communicate with the Lactiferous Ducts, which some have asserted. To the quantity of Fat in the Mamma, much of the bulk of the Breast depends ; from this circumstance, a Woman with small Breasts frequently produces more milk in suckling, than those whose Mammae are of a larger size. The Glandular part of the Mamma is of a whitish colour, is of the Conglomerate kind, and therefore ir- regular in its Substance. It is composed of Lobes and Lobules, or of a number of smaller Masses or Glands, which are separated by Fat, and these again are divided into still smaller parts, in which the Milk is originally secreted. Near the centre of the Mamma, but a little towards the outside, is the Papilla or Nipple, which is of a Cy- lindrical form, and of a redder colour than the rest of the Integuments of the Breast. It has a delicate Skin, and is extremely sensible. It is of different sizes in different ages and constitu- tions, and is always larger in the time of Gestation, or > cf Nursing. It is capable of distension from titillation, or when in - fluenced by the passions of the Mind. It is composed of a tough Cellular or Ligamentous Suh- stance, which incloses the Lactiferous Tubes, and which is so elastic, that after the part is drawn out or distend- ed, it readily recovers its former dimension, when the ■ cause of distension is removed. Upon the Apex of the Nipple, the Orifices of the Lac- K 2 tiferonsUS or THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. titerous Ducts appear, and are of the same number with those which enter its Base. Around the Nipple, there is a Circle or Disk, called Areola,—nearly of the same colour with that of the Nipple itself. The colour here, however, varies at different times of life,—being florid in Girls, of a pale brown in Wo- men more advanced in life, and in old age of a livid and dull colour. During Pregnancy, it is of a darker colour than at other times, in consequence of a change which takes place in the Corpus Mucosum which forms it. Under the Skin of the Areola, there are numerous Sebaceous Glands, or Follicles, the Orifices of which dis- charge an oily Mucus, to defend the Nipple and Areola around it. The Arteries of the Mamma are partly from the In- ternal, and partly from the External Mammaries; the former of which are sent off from the Subclavian, and the latter from the Axillary Artery ;—the Branches en- tering the Mamma at many different places. The Veins accompany the Arteries, and are distin- guished by the same name. The Absorbents, like the Blood-vessels of the Mamma, are numerous. The greater part of them pass through the Axillary Glands; others penetrate the Interstices of the Ribs, near the Sternum, and enter the Glands which belong to the Internal Mammary Vessels. The Nerves are chiefly from the Axillary Plexus, a few Branches being also sent off from the Intercostals. From the extremities of the Arteries in the Substance of. H9 Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. K 3 corne of the Mamma, numberless Tubes arise, called Ductus or TubuliLactiferi. They gradually unite into Trunks, which run in a radiated manner, and, becoming greatly enlarged in the time of Suckling, serve as Reservoirs in which the Milk is contained. The Lactiferous Ducts are accompanied, in the Sub- stance of the Mamma, by a tough white Elastic Sub- stance, which follows them to the Nipple. At the root of the Nipple they become contracted, and are there from Twelve to Eighteen and upwards in number. Either from the want of uniformity, however, with respect to their number in different Subjects, or from the difficulty of perceiving them, they have been va- riously estimated by different Authors. Near the root of the Nipple, they have been supposed by Dr Meckel to form a circle of communication j— but this has been ascribed, by still later Anatomists, to a laceration of Vessels. Numerous preparations and ex- periments,—particularly that of throwing in an Injec- tion at one Duct, and finding that it fills only one part of the Mamma, without returning by any other Duct, —seem sufficiently to indicate, that there is no such cir- cular communication. In the Substance of the Nipple, the Lactiferous Tubes are at a little distance from each other, and are coiled up in such a manner, that the spontaneous flow of the Milk is prevented, unless it be accumulated in a large quantitj'. But when the Nipple is drawn out and extended,—as by the application of the Child’s Mouth,-—the Ducts be-ir, o OF THE VISCERA, See. [Part IV. come straight and parallel to each other, so as to allow an uninterrupted flow of the Milk. After Sucking, the Nipple, and consequently its Ducts, immediately recover their former situation. Sometimes one or more of the Lactiferous Ducts ter- minate upon the Surface of the Areola, from which Morgagni supposed that the Glands there were of the Lactiferous kind. In Children of both Sexes, the Mammae are merely Cutaneous Tubercles, and at the time of Birth contain a Milky-like Fluid, which can be readily squeezed out. This Fluid commonly disappears a short time after Birth;—but there are various examples on record, where Milk has been brought to the Breasts, both of young Girls and Old Women, by the frequent application of a Child to the Nipples, and where there was no cause for suspecting this to be the consequence of Impregnation. Nor are instances wanting of Milk having been brought to the Mammillae of Men by the same application. The Mammae add much to the ornament of the Sex, but serve in particular for furnishing Nourishment to the Child, which is conveyed through the medium of the Nipple. The Secretion begins soon after Delivery, and con- tinues to flow for many months, and even for some years, if the Woman suckle her Child ; and the more frequently the Milk is extracted, the greater is the quantity received in a given time. The operation of Sucking depends upon the princi- ples of the Air-pump.—The Child embraces the Nipple '‘closely with its Lips, which prevents the external Air , from151 Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. from entering, draws the Ducts to a straight Line, and prepares a space for the Milk, which is forced from the Breast by the pressure of the Atmosphere, and flows to the Mouth in the manner a Fluid follows the Pistern of a common Pump or Syringe. INTERNAL PARTS OF THE THORAX. The Mammae and Muscles, covering the fore and lateral parts of the Thorax, being turned aside, and the Ribs afterwards cut from the Sternum and turned back, the Internal Parts of the Thorax are brought into view. They consist of the Pleura, which lines the Thorax; the Mediastinum, which divides it into right and left Cavities, and contains several Vessels, Nerves, &c. be- tween its Layers;—the Pericardium and Heart, which occupy the middle ;—and the Lungs, which surround the Heart, and fill the greater part of the Thorax. 4 Pleura. The Pleura is a thin Membrane, with some degree of transparency, and of considerable strength, which lines the inner side of the Thorax, and covers the most of its Contents. Its External Surface is Cellular, and adheres closely to the parts with which it is connected. Its Internal Surface is smooth and polished, being K 4 moistened152 OF THE VISCERA, &c. (Tart IV. moistened by a Serous Fluid, which exudes from its Arteries. 1 ;s divided into two Lateral Sacs or Pleurae, the form of which corresponds exactly with that of the surround- ing Bones of the Thorax. The Pleurae adhere to the Periosteum of the Ribs, line the Intercostales and Sterno-costales, the Sternum, and Dorsal Vertebrae, and cover the Pericardium, Lungs, and Lateral or Fleshy parts of the Diaphragm. Behind the Sternum, the Pleurae are contiguous to each other, and form the Partition called Mediastinum, which extends between the Sternum and Vertebrae. The Arteries of the Pleura are from those of the ad- jacent parts, viz. from the Intercostal, Mammary, Dia- phragmatic, Bronchial, and Esophageal Arteries. The Veins, which return the Blood, accompany the Arteries, and are distinguished by the same name. The Nerves are from the Intercostals and Diaphrag- matics, but too small to be easily traced ; and the Mem- brane itself is not observed to possess much sensibility in the sound state. The Pleura, by its smoothness, facilitates the motions of the Heart and Lungs, divides the Thorax into Ca- vities, and strengthens its containing and contained parts. Mediastinum. The Mediastinum, so named from its situation in the middle of the Thorax, extends, as has been already ob- served, between the Sternum and Vertebras; but is in- terceptedPart IV.] OF THE THORAX. 153 the tercepted by the Heart and root of the Lungs, and di- vides the Thorax into two distinct Cavities, which have no communication with each other. It is formed by a reflection of the Pleura, and is of course double, and contains between its Layers a consi- derable quantity of Cellular Substance, by which they are united. It is divided into Anterior and Posterior Mediastinum, the former of which is situated at the fore, and the lat- ter at the back part of the Thorax. The Anterior Mediastinum is connected before to the Sternumj and behind, to the Pericardium and large Vessels of the Heart. The tw'o Layers of the Anterior Mediastinum arc closely applied to each other, excepting at the upper part of the Thorax, where they are separated by the remains of the Thymus Gland. At the upper part of the Thorax, it lies exactly be- hind the middle of the Sternum ; but in its descent, it inclines gradually to the left edge of that Bone. In consequence of its obliquity, a pointed instrument, pushed through the centre of the Sternum, is generally found to pass into the right Cavity of the Thorax. Frequent deviations, however, from this general rule have been met with.—In particular, Lieutaud and Sa- batier relate several instances where the Anterior Me- diastinum was found to descend alon^ the middle of the Sternum 5 and others, though .rare, where it descended even to the right side of this Bone. ri he Posterior Mediastinum reaches from the root of154 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. the Lungs and back part of the Heart, to the Dorsal Vertebrae. Between the Layers of the posterior Mediastinum, a Triangular space is formed, in which are situated the under end of the Trachea, the Esophagus, the Aorta Desccndens, the Vena Azygos, and Thoracic Duct, with the Eighth Pair of Nerves. The Blood-vessels of the Mediastinum are from those of the neighbouring parts:—The Anterior Mediastinum is supplied by Branches from the Subclavian, Internal Mammaries, and Diaphragmatics,—and the Posterior Mediastinum, by Branches from the Intercostals and Esophageals. The Veins accompany the Arteries, and have the same names. The Mediastinum divides the Thorax into two Cavi- ties, supports its general Contents, hinders one Lung from pressing upon the other when the Person lies on his side, and prevents Fluids,—which, in consequence of accidents or disease, may be contained in the Cavity of the Thorax,—from passing from one side to the other. Pericardium. The Pericardium, Sac, or Capsule of the Heart, is •ne of the strongest Membranes of the Body, and its size such as to be properly adapted to that of the Heart, which it contains. It is formed of two Layers ; the External of which is a continuation of the Anterior Mediastinum, which af- terwardsPart IV.] OF THE THORAX. 155 tervvards passes to the Lungs and Lateral parts of the Diaphragm. The Internal Layer is smooth, tendinous-like, polish- ed on its inner Surface, and stronger than the other. It adheres so firmly to the Tendinous part of the Diaphragm, as not to be separated from it without much difficulty. The Pericardium extends a considerable way beyond the base of the Heart, and includes the large Blood-ves- sels, as far as the roots of their first principal Branches, in consequence of which it forms several Angles, which have been termed Cornua of the Pericardium. While the External Layer is reflected to cover the parts which surround it, the Internal is also reflected, first over the roots of the large Blood-vessels, and then over the Heart, to form its proper covering •, in the same manner the Tunica Conjunctiva is reflected from the Eye-lids to cover the fore part of the Eye. From the ends of the Extreme Arteries upon its Sur- face, a Fluid, called Liquor Pericardii, is discharged, by which it is lubricated, and the effects of friction di- minished. The Liquor Pericardii is commonly found, after death, in the quantity of a few Drachms, though not unfrequently of one or two Ounces. Its colour is redder in a young Subject than in a Per- son advanced in life, in whom it becomes paler, or more of a straw colour. The Arteries of the fore part of the Pericardium are from the Internal Mammaries and Diaphragmatics; thoseI 15G OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. tliose oi its back part from the Bronchials and Esopha- geals. The Veins correspond v/ith the Arteries, and have the same names. The Pericardium preserves the Pleart in situ, defends it from being injured by the parts which surround it, and restrains its inordinate motions. HEART. The Heart is a hollow Muscle, divided into different Cavities, and inclosed in the Pericardium. It is situated in the Cavity of the Thorax, behind the Sternum, between the Right and Left Lungs. It is of a Conical figure, flattened at one side, and is divided into Base, Body, and Apex, with a Superior and Inferior Surface, and a Right and Left Margin. The Base is placed back-wards next the Spine, the Upper part opposed to the Eighth Dorsal Vertebra, while the Body and Apex are turned forwards, and obliquely over to the left side. In Quadrupeds, the Heart is placed upon a line with the Sternum ; the point of it being the only part which touches the Diaphragm.—In the Human Body, the Apex is but a little lower than the Base, and projects between the two Lobes of the Left Lung, behind the Cartilages of the Fifth and Sixth True Ribs of the left side, or a little below the left Nipple, where the Pulsa- tion may be felt. The situation, however, varies in a smallPart IV.] OF THE THORAX. 157 the small degree, according to the position of the Body, and state of Respiration. Though this be the common situation of the Heart, a few rare and singular instances have occurred, where it has been found to occupy the right side of the Thorax ; and a displacement has sometimes happened, in conse- quence of different kinds of Tumours in the left side of the Thorax. The Superior or Anterior Surface of the Heart is con- vex, and is opposed to the posterior Surface of the Ster- num ; the anterior edges of the Lungs intervening. The Inferior or Posterior Surface is flat, and rests upon the Tendon of the Diaphragm which supports it. The Heart is not much affected, however, by the mo- tions of that Muscle in time of Respiration ; its Tendon moving only in a small degree. The right side of the Body of the Heart is sharp, and is called Margo Acutus. The left side is round, and is termed Margo Obiusus. The Base is formed of a Right and Left Auricle, and the Body of a Right and Left Ventricle. When the Heart is distended, the Right Auricle, and part of the corresponding Ventricle, occupy the right, and the rest of the Heart the left Cavity of the Thorax. The Heart is connected above and behind to the upper and back part of the Thorax, through the Medium of the great Vessels which go into, or pass out from it. The other parts of the Heart are free, being merely contiguous to the inside of the Pericardium. The External Surface of the Heart is covered with a thin, smooth, Membranous Coat, which is a reflection of1.55 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. the inner Layer of the Pericardium, and which gives additional strength to its Fleshy Fibres. Between this Coat and the Substance of the Heart, there is commonly a considerable quantity of Fat, which lubricates it, and facilitates its motions. The Substance of the Heart consists of Muscular Fi- bres, firm and more closely connected than the Fibres of Muscles generally are in the other parts of the Body. The Fibres of the Heart run in different directions, longitudinally and transversely, but most of them ob- liquely. Many of them run over the point of the Heart from one Surface to the other, and the whole are so much twisted and folded, and so variously intermixed, as to render it difficult to unravel or describe them.—In ge- neral, however, their course is such as to lessen the Ca- vities of the Heart in all their dimensions. The Cavities of the Heart are lined with a Membrane extremely thin, but dense and strong to defend it against the pressure of the Blood. The Heart is formed of an Anterior or Fight, and a Posterior or Left side, or of a Right and Left Heart, joined together by a Partition, which prevents the two sides from having any direct communication with each other.—The terms Right and Left, however, arc more applicable to the Heart of the Quadruped, and those of Anterior and Posterior to the Human Heart. Each side of the Heart is furnished with a set of Veins, with an Auricle, a Ventricle, and an Artery, ancl also with two sets of Valves, one of which is situated be- tweenPart IV.] OF THE THORAX. 159 tween the Auricle and Ventricle, the other between the Ventricle and Artery. At the right side of the Heart are two Veins, called from their large size Vena Cava; the one Superior, the other Inferior. The Superior Vena Cava, called also Vena Cava De- scefidens, conveys the Blood from the upper parts of the Body •, and the Inferior Vena Cava, termed likewise A- scendens, conveys it from the lower parts; and both ter- minate in the right Auricle. The Blood in the Auricle is prevented from returning by the fulness of the Veins, and by the pressure of the Blood a tcrgo. The Auricle is situated upon the right, and partly upon the back part of the Heart. It is somewhat of an oval form, and is divided into the Bight Sinus Venosus, and Proper Auricle. The Sinus Venosus is formed by the union of the two Venae Cavae, which swell out towards the anterior and left side. It is notched at its anterior edge, is a Mus- cular Bag of considerable strength, and both upon its outer and inner Surface is uniform and smooth. At the upper and left side of the Sinus, is the Pro- jection or Appendix, termed, from its supposed resem- blance to the Ear of a Quadruped, Proper Auricle. It is formed by a blind Sac, which is serrated and notched on its posterior edge, and convex or rounded on the other, and terminates obliquely in an obtuse point. The Sinus and Proper Auricle form one common Ca- vity, have no valve between them, and are therefore filled and emptied at the same time. Where the two Cavm meet in the Hearts of Quadru- peds,OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. lbiO peels, there is a Projection seen in the Sinus Venosus, called Tuberculum Lovveri, which is supposed to pre- vent the Blood of the one Cava from rushing upon that ot the other, and to direct it into the Auricle. At the meeting of the two Cavae in the Human Heart, an Angle is formed, which also has frequently got the name of Tuberculum Loweri.—This Term, however, is peculiar to the Projection in the Hearts of Brute Ani- mals. Under this Angle or joining of the Venae Cavae, there is the Vestige of the Foramen Ovale, which, in the Foe- tus, forms a communication between the Right and Left Auricles, but in the Adult, is filled up by its Mem- brane, and forms the Fossa Ovalis. The Fossa Ovalis has thick and strong sides, called Columnar Foraminis Ovalis, Isthmus Vieussenii, vel An- nulus Fossae Ovalis. At the left side of the Mouth of the Inferior Cava, s' where it joins the Sinus, is the Valve of Eustachius. It is in form of a Crescent, with the convex edge fix- ed to the union of the Sinus and Cava, and the concave edge turned obliquely upwards, reaching about half way over the Mouth of the Cava. Its size and appearance, however, vary much in different Subjects. Its posterior Cornu is continued with the left side of the Isthmus of the Foramen Ovale; the other end va- nishes in the opposite side of the Sinus. It is equally distinct in the Adult as in the Foetus ; but in the former it is frequently found reticulated, or Cribriform, which appearance is seldom, though some- times, met with in the latter. InPart IV.] OF THE THORAX. 161 In the Adult, it is supposed to prevent the Blood of the Auricle from passing into the Inferior Cava; and in the Foetus, to direct the Blood of the Inferior Cava to the Foramen Ovale. Upon the left side of the Valve of Eustachius, in the under part of the Auricle, is the Orifice or Termination of the great Coronary Vein of the Heart. Over the Orifice of this Vein, there is a Semilunar Valve, to prevent the Blood in the Auricle from passing ■into the Vein. The inner side of the proper Auricle is readily distin- guished from the Sinus, by having a number of Fleshy * Pillars in it, which, from their supposed resemblance to the Teeth of a Comb, sometimes obtain the name of Musculi Auriculce Pectinati. The Musculi Pectinati have smaller Columns running C in different directions* giving the whole a reticulated ap- pearance. Between the 1 leshy Pillars, are Depressions or Fur- ivies, where the sides of the Auricle are thin, and semi- ' transparent, being chiefly formed of the outer and inner Membranes only. At the under and left side of the Sinus Venosus, and opposite to a Groove situated externally between the Auricle and Ventricle, there is a Hole, above an inch n diameter, which opens into the upper and right part of the corresponding Ventricle. The Right Auricle receives the Blood from the Venae ^avae and Coronary \cins, and, by its Muscular con i action, discharges it into the corresponding Ventricle, >ut of which it is prevented from returning by a Valve, ■ailed Tricuspid, placed within the Ventricle. Vol. II. L TheOF THE VISCERA, 5tc. [Part IV, 102 1 The Right or Pulmonary Ventricle is situated on { the fore side of the Heart, is of a triangular form, and much thicker and stronger than the corresponding J Auricle. It has many strong Eminences, Columns, Lacertuli, or Cords, called Columnce Carnecc. The Columnce run in different directions, but the strongest of them longitudinally, and arc of various sizes, forming so many distinct Muscles, which are ex- tremely compact in their structure, and compose a beau- tiful, intricate, and irregular Net-work. In general, they adhere through their whole length to each other, or to the sides of the Ventricle; but many of them are loose in their middle, and inay be raised by a Probe put under them. They assist the Ventricle in its Systole or Contraction, and prevent it from being overstretched in its Diastole or dilatation, and agitate the Blood in its passage through the Ventricle. They are supposed to bring the opposite sides of the Ventricle completely together, during its contraction. Pi Between the Columnce are many deep Grooves, Pits, or Fovea:, into all of which the Blood readily enters. Around the Passage, between the Auricle and Ven- tricle, there is a Tendinous Margin or Ring, from the whole edge of which a circular Membrane is sent off, called Valvula Tricuspis, or Triglochin, from its having three principal points or divisions. From the edge of the Tricuspid Valve, many small round Tendinous Cords of unequal size are sent off’. The Chordae Tendineae descend obliquely within the Ventricle163 Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. Ventricle in the same direction with the Valve from which they arise. They are fixed to the extremities of a few strong Pa- pillae or Columnae Carneae, which arc joined by their other extremities to the corresponding sides of the Ven- tricle. Besides the three principal portions of the Valve, it has some Tendinous Cords, and Fleshy Pil- lars of inferior size, fixed in the same manner with the rest. The Tricuspid Valve prevents the reflux of the Blood to the Auricle, during the contraction of the Ventricle. The Tendons allow the Valve to be pushed back by the Blood, until a Septum or Partition is formed by it at the Mouth of the Ventricle, during the contraction of the latter.—The Papillae, by their contraction, pre- i vent the Valve from going into the Auricle. The Valve is opened and pressed back by the Blood, in its passage from the Auricle to the Ventricle. The upper and left side of the Ventricle becomes smooth and uniform, and leads to a large Opening, about an inch in diameter, which is the Month of the Pulmonary Artery. The Right Ventricle, by its dilatation, receives the blood from the Auricle, and sends it, by a strong and sudden convulsive contraction, to the Pulmonary Ar- > tery, from whence it is prevented from returning by £ Three Valves placed in the Mouth of the Artery. The Valves at the Mouth of the Pulmonary Artery are called Valvulce Semilunares, vel Sigmoidctr, from the resemblance of their edges to those of a Crescent. Two L 2 ©fOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 16* of them are placed in the fore, and one in the back part of the Artery. Each of them forms a small Sac, one edge of which adheres to a third part of the circumference of the in- side of the Artery; the other edge is loose in the Cavi- ty of that Vessel, and is somewhat thicker and stronger than the rest of the Valve,—the thickened edges serving as Ligaments to it. The loose edge has a general Curve, divided into tivo smaller ones, which meet in a point at the middle. The Valves are chiefly formed of a doubling or ex- tension of the inner Coat of the Artery. In the middle point, or loose edge of each of the Valves, there is a small hard Triangular Granula, of a somewhat redder colour than the rest of the Valve, call- ed, from its reputed Discoverers, Corpusculum Auran- tii, vel Corpusculum Morgagni j or, from its resem- blance in shape to the Seed of the Sesamum, Corpuscu- lum Sesamoideum. The Corpuscles complete the Valves at the centre of the Artery, and enable them to make a stronger re- sistance against the Blood, while the Artery is in ac- tion. The Semilunar Valves are concave towards the Ar- tery, convex towards the Ventricle, and, when shut, their loose edges are opposed to each other, so as to enable them to form a complete Partition between the Ventricle and Artery. Opposite to the Semilunar Valves, the Artery bulges J out, and forms Three Projections, which have corre- sponding | /165 Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. L 3 Of sponding Pits or Depressions within, and are called, from their Discoverer, Sinus Valsalvae. The Sinuses of Valsalva are of the same nature with those Dilatations which are found in the Veins and Lym- phatics, between their Sides and Valves; and, like them, are partly formed by the pressure of the Fluids upon the sides of the Vessels. The Pulmonary Artery receives the Blood from the Right Ventricle, and, by its contractile power, assists the Ventricle in driving it through the Lungs. The Semilunar Valves, pressed back by the Blood in the Artery, prevent its return into the Ventricle. The Valves are opened again in consequence of their being driven towards the sides of the Artery by the cur- rent of the Blood, upon the next contraction or stroke of the Ventricle. The Pulmonary Artery passes behind the Sternum, and separates into Right and Left Branches, which go to the corresponding parts of the Lungs. The two Branches of the Pulmonary Artery, like those of the Arteries of the Viscera in other parts of the large Cavities, suddenly divide into still smaller Branches. From the extreme Arteries of the Lungs, correspond- ing Veins arise, which are merely the continuation or reflection of the Arteries, without any intermediate Cells or dilatations. The Pulmonary Veins, in the Substance of the Lungs, gradually unite, and form Four Principal Trunks, which terminate in, and carry the Blood to, the Left Auricle,I(i6 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Of the Pulmonary Veins, Two come from the right, and Two from the left Lung, and terminate in the cor- responding sides of the Left Auricle, towards its upper part. The Left Auricle is considerably thicker and stronger than the Right, and is also divided into Sinus Venosus and Proper Auricle, which form one common Cavity without the intervention of any Valve. The Left Sinus Venosus, called also Sinus Pulmonalis, is turned towards the Spino, is more of a cubic form than the Right one, but resembles it in the uniformity and smoothness of its outer and inner Surfaces. From the fore and left part of the Sinus, the Proper Auricle projects, and forms a distinct flat Appendix or Bag, with different. Curvatures or Indentations upon its edges. The inner part of the Proper Auricle is longer, but narrower than that on the right side ; like it, however, it is formed of Columnae, with Furrows between them. The Proper Auricle is somewhat less capacious than that on the right side; but the Sinus is as much larger as to render the two common Cavities of the right and left Auricles nearly equal. The two Auricles have a Fleshy Septum between them, in which, as has been already mentioned, there is the Foramen Ovale in the Foetus;—but in the Adult the Partition is generally perfect, leaving merely the vestige of the Valve which belonged to this Passage. From the under part of the Sinus Venosus, a Passage leads down to the Cavity of the Left Ventricle, and is opposite167 Part IV.]. OF THE THORAX. L 4 The opposite to a Groove seen externally between the Auricle and Ventricle, similar to that on the right side. The Left Auricle receives the Flood from the Pulmo- nary Veins, and, by its Muscular contraction, drives it into the Left Ventricle, from which it is prevented from returning, by a Valve in the Ventricle, called Mitralis. The Left Ventricle is situated in the posterior and left part of the Heart, and is somewhat of an egg shape. Its sides are about three times thicker and stronger than those of the Right Ventricle ; the thickness being in proportion to the force required to propel the Blood to the most remote parts of the Body. It is narrower and rounder, but considerably longei'y both on its External Surface and in its Internal Cavity, than the right Ventricle, and generally descends some way below the other, and forms the Apex Cordis. The Cavity is commonly described as being less than that of the Right Ventricle;—but the apparent diffe- rence, which takes place after death, is accounted for with seeming propriety by some Authors,—from the Left Ventricle being then for the most part found empty, and the Right one full, and from the greater degree of contractility in the former. That the capacity of the Cavities of the right and left sides of the Heart, is more nearly equal during life than after death, or than it is generally supposed to be, is evident from the appearance of the Heart of the Hu- man and also of the Brute kind, and from Injections thrown into the two sides of the Heart, where the force applied is ip proportion to the relative strength of each ride.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV. 1G8 the The inner Surface of the Left Ventricle has the same general appearance with the Ventricle of the right side, but differs from it in having its Column® Carneoe larger, and more numerous, firmer, and stronger; more detached, and more varied in their directions. They form Meshes in the shape of Lozenges, in which are Column® of a more slender nature, intercepting Meshes of an inferior size. In the Passage of communication between the Auricle and Ventricle, there is a Ring, from which a Circular Valve goes off, with all its Apparatus similar to that be- tween the right Auricle and Ventricle, and differing in no respect from it in structure and use, excepting in being stronger, and in being divided into two principal Portions only. This Valve has been supposed to bear some resem- blance to a Bishop’s Mitre, frojn which it lias been call- ed Valvula Mi traits. < One of the Portions of this Valve is larger than the oilier, lies over the Mouth of the Aorta, and is sup- posed to cover it while the Ventricle is filling. The Valvula Mitralis prevents the reflux of the Blood during the contraction of the Ventricle. After the contraction is over, the Valve returns to its former situation, by the impulse of a fresh current of Blood from the Auricle. Between the Right and Left Ventricle, there is a thick, strong, impervious Partition, which forms 4 share of the General Septum Cordis, and is composed partly by the Wall of the Right, but chiefly by that ofPart IV.] OF THE THORAX. JG9 the Left Ventricle; the Right being united to the Left, al- most in the form of an Appendix. The Partition prevents any direct communication be- tween the two Ventricles. Opposite to the outer edge of the Septum, both upon the upper and under Surfaces of the Heart, there is a Groove in which some of the principal Trunks of the Coronary Vessels are situated. At the fore and right side of the Valvula Mitralis, and 1 behind the beginning of the Pulmonary Artery, there i is a Round Opening, which is the Mouth of the Aorta, and which is nearly of the same size with that of the Pulmonary Artery. Under this opening, the Surface of the Ventricle becomes smooth and equal, having none of the Co- i lumnae Carneas which arc seen on the other parts of its I Cavity. The Left Ventricle receives the Blood sent to it from, tthe Auricle, and, by a contraction similar to, but much .stronger than that of the Right Ventricle, propels it to ithe Aorta. , At the Mouth of the Aorta, there are three Semilu- nar Valves, with their Cojpuscula Aurantii, perfectly similar to those of the Pulmonary Artery,—but some- uvhat stronger. On the outside of the Semilunar Valves, are the Si- nuses of Valsalva, resembling those of the Pulmonary Artery,—but a little more prominent. The Semilunar Valves are pressed back by the Blood, the reflux of which they prevent during the contraction ef the Aorta.—They are returned towards the sides of170 OF THE VISCERA, Ac. [Part IV. the Aorta in the same manner, and from the same cause, as those in the Pulmonary Artery. The Aorta passes upwards from the top of the Left Ventricle, and is situated first behind, and then on the right side of the Pulmonary Artery, and between it and the Superior Cava. It bears nearly the same proportion in thickness and strength to the Pulmonary Artery, which the sides of the Left Ventricle do to those of the Ri^ht. When the Aorta is about to send off the first of its large Branches at the top of the Thorax, it is of great size, and is sometimes called the Large Sinus of Val- salva. The Aorta receives the Blood from the Left Ven- tricle, and by its Muscular contraction re-acts upon it, and assists the Ventricle in sending it by numberless Branches through the different parts of the Body, from whence it is returned by the Veins to the Right Auricle. Besides the Blood-vessels already taken notice of, and which are common to the Heart and the rest of the Body, the Heart is furnished with Vessels peculiar to itself, termed Coronary, from a Corona which they form upon its Surface. The* Coronary Vessels consist of two Arteries, a right and left, and one principal Vein, The Coronaiy Arteries arise from the Sinuses at the Mouth of the Aorta, opposite to two of the Semilunar Valves. One runs in a Groove between the Right Auricle and Ventricle, and supplies chiefly the right side of the Heart. Tbe * } 1171 Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. The other passes partly between the Left Auricle and Ventricle, and partly in the Groove between the Vem- tricles, on the fore side of the Heart,—supplying the ; left side of the Heart, and communicating with the Branches of the other Artery on its upper and under : Surfaces. The Coronary Arteries are entirely dispersed upon the substance of the Heart, and upon the roots of the great Vessels, forming upon these some of the minute Branches, termed Vasa Vasorwn. The Coronary Arteries, from their situation opposite to the Valves, have been supposed to be filled at a diffe- rent time from that of the rest of the Arterious System ; —but from Experiment, it seems now sufficiently ascer- tained, that the Coronary Vessels have their Pulsation at the same instant with the other Arteries. The Coronary Veins return the Blood from their cor- responding Arteries. The greater part of them join into a Trunk, called the Great Cm-onary Vein, which, after making a turn from the left side, and running be- tween the Left Auricle and Ventricle, terminates jn the under and back part of the Right Auricle, where it i§ covered by its Semilunar Valve. Other Coronary Veins, much smaller than the for- mer, terminate in different parts of the right side of the Heart. The Absorbents of the Heart go to tire neighbouring Lymphatic Glands. The Nerves are from the Great Sympathetics and Eighth Pair. With respect to the Circulation of the Blood in gene- ral :—172 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV.. The rnl:—The Veins, by a slow and equal motion, and with- out Pulsation, return the Blood, from all the different parts of the Body, to the Auricles, which, on account of the quantity and stimulating quality of the Blood, contract suddenly and at the same time, and send it to the Ventricles. The Ventricles, from the same cause which stimulates the Auricles, and from the stroke they receive from them, contract convulsively, with a force proportioned to the thickness of their sides, and send the Blood to the Arteries; and, during their Contraction, they are thrown by the dilating Auricles against the Ribs, where the stroke occasioned by the Pulse of the Heart may be felt. The Arteries, by their contractile power and elasti- city, send the Blood suddenly to the Veins, through which, by the united force of the Ventricles and Arte- ries, and likewise, as some suppose, by a contractile power of the Veins, and pressure of the surrounding parts, it is driven again to the Auricles. In its course, the Blood performs a double Circula- tion,—one called the Lesser, the Pulmonary, or that through the Lungs,—the other called the Greater, the Aortic, or that through the rest of the Body. In the former, it passes from the Right Ventricle to the Lungs, and returns to the Left Auricle.—In the lat- ter, it goes from the Left Ventricle to the different parts of the Body, and returns to the Right Auricle. During this Circulation, the Auricles and Arteries, and the Ventricles and Veins, act in concert, contracting and dilating at the same time.Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. 173 The Heart is the Centre of the Vascular System, and the principal agent in the Circulation of the Blood. The right side of the Heart receives the Blood, which is contaminated in passing through the Body, and sends it to the Lungs, where it is purified through the medium of the Air. From the Lungs, the Blood, now purified, is returned to the left side of the Heart, to be circulated through all the other parts of the Body, thereby imparting nourish- ment, growth, and strength, to the general System ; being found also to be the source of Sensibility, Irrita- bility, Motion, and Animal Heat. LUNG S. The Lungs are two soft Spongy Bodies, which occupy the far greater part of the Cavity of the Thorax. They completely fill the two Bags of the Pleura, and are every where in contact with the parts adjacent; no Air intervening between them and the Thorax. In Figure, they have been compared to that of the Foot of an Ox, with the back part turned forwards ;— or, their shape corresponds exactly with the inside of the Thorax; being rounded next the Ribs, hollow towards the Diaphragm, and irregularly flattened and depressed next the Mediastinum and Heart. They are of a reddish or pink colour in Children, of a light blue or greyish colour in Adults, and more of a purple and livid colour in Old Age, at which period • they174 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Fart IV. they arc also observed to be tinged with black spots, proceeding from a matter secreted in their Substance. They are joined to the Neck by the Trachea; to the Spine, by the two Layers of the Mediastinum, which serve them as Ligaments; and to the Heart, by the Pulmonary Vessels; the rest of them being free and unconnected, unless when an adhesion takes place in consequence of Inflammation. They are divided into Right and Left Portions, or Lungs, which are separated from each other by the Heart and Mediastinum, and which have no communi- cation, except through the medium of the Trachea. Each of the Lungs is again divided by Fissures, vary- ing in depth in different Bodies, into large Portions, called Lobes, which facilitates their motion and the dila- tation of their Cells. Of the Lobes, Three belong to the Right Lung, cor- responding with the larger Bag of the Pleura, and Tvco to the Left, between which there is a Notch or Sinus, occupied by the Point of the Heart. Sometimes an ad- ditional Lobe is found in the Left Lung, or the reverse in the Right one; but mistakes may arise in numbering these, in consequence of morbid adhesions. Each of the Lobes is subdivided into many smaller parts, termed Lobules, which are of different sizes, and of an irregular angular form. The Lobules diminish in size, and degenerate at last into small Vesicles or Cells, which constitute a large share of the Lungs. The Cells of the Lungs are purely Membranous, of an irregular figure, but nearly of the same size, com- pressedPart IV.] OF THE THORAX. The i pressed and closely connected} and have a flee commu— nication with each other. Between the different Lobes, Lobules, and Cells, a large quantity of common Cellular Substance, destitute of Fat, is interposed, which unites and strengthens them, and allows the Blood-vessels to be minutely dis- persed over them. The Cells of the Lungs have no communication with this common Cellular Substance; for when Air is blown into it, the Lobules are compressed ; but when the Air is blown in through a Branch of the Trachea, the Cells are again distended, and the Lobules recover their for- mer dimensions. In the Foetus, the Cells are empty and in a collapsed state;—but as soon as Respiration begins, they become distended, and continue so during life, and in every state of Respiration, and even in the recently dead Body:— But if an Opening be made into the Cavity of the Tho- rax, whether in the living or dead Body, and the Air in this or in any other way freely admitted, they imme- diately collapse by their weight and elasticity, the pres- sure of the Air being then the same on the outer Sur- face of the Lungs, and inner Surface of the Trachea. The Lungs are covered by Two Coats, an External or Common, and an Internal or Proper one. The External or Common Coat is a continuation or reflection of the Pleura, is extremely thin, but dense, and, like the other warts of the Pleura, is found to pos- Lungs, but does not enter between their different Lo- bules. It forms a general covering to the O OOF THE VISCERA, &e. [Part IV, 176 The Internal or Proper Coat adheres so firmly to the former, as to appear to constitute part of its Substance. It not only covers the Lungs, but insinuates itself be- tween their Lobules, and is intimately connected with their Cellular Substance. Besides the Cells, various kinds of Vessels, viz. the Vcsscls or Branches of the Trachea, Blood-vessels, and Absorbents, together with small Branches of Nerves, enter into the composition of the Lungs. Trachea. The Trachea, vcl Aspera Arteria, so called from the inequality of its Surface, and from its conveying Air, begins at the under part of the Cricoid Cartilage, and descends in the fore part of the Neck, between and be- hind the Sterno-Hyoidei and Stemo-Thyroidei. From the Neck, it passes into the Thorax, where it is situated between the Layers of the upper part of the Posterior Mediastinum. Behind the Curvature of the Aorta, and opposite to the Third Dorsal Vertebra, the Trachea divides into two Lateral Branches, termed Bronchi; one of which goes to the Right, and the other, which is the longer, but rather the smaller of the two, to the Left Lung. Each of the Bronchi is subdivided at the place where it enters the Lung, the Right separating into three Branches, the Left often only into two. In the sub- stance of the Lungs, the Bronchial Branches run be- tween their corresponding Arteries and Veins. They dividePart IV.] OF THE THORAX. 177 livide and subdivide after the manner of the branching 3f a Tree. They become smaller and smaller, till at length they orm an infinite number of Capillary Tubes, which, di- jating, end in the Cells of the Lungs. The Cells of the Lungs, in a Child, are barely visible o the naked Eye. In the Adult they are larger, and n both they communicate so freely together, that, upon introducing Air into a Bronchial Tube of moderate size, large portion of the Lungs may be inflated. The Trachea consists of Cartilaginous Rings, about lixteen or eighteen in number, which give strength and rrmncss to it, and preserve it constantly open for the transmission of Air. They are incomplete, however, eehind, where the Trachea is formed of a soft Fleshy uubstance, which yields to the Esophagus in the time of deglutition. Each Cartilage forms a large Segment of a Circle, jDout a line or one-twelfth of an inch in breadth, and nne-fourth of a line in thickness. The Cartilages are situated horizontally, with their ilges opposed to each other j small spaces intervening 3?tween them. They are united to each other by a Ligamentous Sub- ance, which is so elastic, that when the Lungs are ■ ken out of the Body, it draws the Cartilages closely ggether. I At the upper end of the Trachea, two or three of the artilages are frequently joined by an union of Sub- iance; but below this, they are perfectly distinct from cch other, The last pf the Cartilages is now and then Vol. II. M triangular.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. ITS triangular, to adapt itself more readily to the beginning of the Bronchi. The Bronchi, at their beginnings, have the same kind ot Cartilages with the Trachea ; but after they enter the Lungs, each Cartilaginous Ring is divided into two or three pieces, which, however, are so connected to each other, as to go completely round the Bronchi, and keep the Passage open and free from compression. Upon tracing the smaller divisions of the Bronchi, the Cartilages are observed to become less numerous, and more separated from each other, till at length they vanish; the Capillary Branches becoming entirely Mem- branous, as well as the Vesicles in which thev termi- * nate. The Trachea has several Coats entering into its com position, some for strengthening it, others for giving i a certain degree of motion, viz. A Cellular Coat, which, in the Thorax, is covere by the Mediastinum ; An Elastic Ligamentous Coat, which passes along th Trachea, and also upon the different Branches in th Substance of the Lungs, adding much to the elastici of these; A Muscular Coat, placed between the Cartilages an in the back part of the Trachea, and composed of Cir cular Fibres without, and Longitudinal Fibres within I tioi iat( tin the former for straitening, the latter for shorteninj the general Passage. The Longitudinal Fibres are collected into Bundles which are distinctly seen through the inner Coat, am ? Unit H ■ fit •Hat179 Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. 1 may be traced considerably farther, in the Substance of the Lungs, than the Cartilages ; A very Vascular and Irritable Membrane, continued from the Mouth, which lines the inner side of the Tra- • chea, and forms at last the extreme Branches, which i terminate in the Cells of the Lungs. The inner Membrane of the Trachea is every where i perforated by the Ducts of Mucous Glands, and by the Mouths of the Exhalent Arteries, the former pouring out Mucus to lubricate the Lungs, the latter the Vapour ■ which is thrown off in Perspiration. Three different kinds of Glands are connected witli tthe Trachea,—the Thyroid, the Tracheal, and the . Bronchial. The Thyroid Gland has its name from its connection 'with the Thyroid Cartilage, though more immediately ^connected with the Trachea. It is a large Mass, of a deep red colour, situated at tthe under and fore part of the Larynx, behind the ! Sterno-Hyoidei and Sterno-thyroidei, and is propor- tionally larger in Man than in any other Animal. It has two triangular Lobes placed at the under and ! lateral parts of the Larynx, descending over two or tthree Rings of the Trachea, and also part of the Eso- jphagus, with the Bases of the Lobes undermost. The Lobes are joined by an intermediate portion, (called Isthmus, which lies across the upper and fore part (of the Trachea. * Sometimes a Process from the middle Portion, which ’may be mistaken for a Muscle, ascends between the M 2 Sterno-OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 180 Je ti Sterno-hyoidei, and is fixed to the Base of the Os Hyoides. This Gland has a Granulous appearance within, and a Viscid Liquor is sometimes observed in it, which has been supposed by Sabatier and some others, to lubri- cate the parts in the neighbourhood. It is supplied with large Blood-vessels, and with seve- ral Nerves, from the Superior and Inferior Vessels and Nerves of the Larynx. It is likewise furnished with numerous Lymphatics.—But no Excretory Duct has yet been observed to come from it; nor is its office yet understood. The Tracheal Glands are small, but numerous, and of different sizes, surrounding the Muscular Coat of the Trachea, and its Branches in the Lungs;—the largest of them are placed in the Fleshy Substance behind. From each of these Glands, a small Duct issues, and throws out a Mucus, to defend the inner Surface of the Trachea from being injured by the Air, or by the ex- traneous Particles which it carries along with it. The Bronchial Glands are placed in the Cellular Sub- stance round the under end of the Trachea and roots of the Bronchi, where these penetrate into the Substance of the Lungs. They are of various sizes, from that of the point of the Little Finger to that of a Millet-seed, and have a bluish or blackish colour, corresponding in a great measure with the colour of the darkest parts of the Lungs. They were formerly considered by many Authors as a sending Fluids to the Trachea, but are now universally known B. if; » a. 1 mi a 1 lr181 Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. known to be entirely of the Lymphatic kind,—the Ab- sorbents of the Lungs passing through them in their way to the Thoracic Duct. The Trachea is furnished with Blood-vessels from the [Inferior Laryngeals, and Nerves from the Recurrents, .and Great Sympathetic Pair. The Trachea serves to convey Air into, or out from, the Cells of the Lungs, during Respiration, and to .carry off the Perspirable Matter from the Arteries in •Jthe time of Expiration. The Blood-vessels of the Lungs consist of the Pulmo- .nary and Bronchial Vessels; the one for the general cir- culation, the other proper to the Lungs. The Pulmonary Blood-vessels have been already taken notice of in page 165. Here it may be proper to ob- serve, that the minute Branches of the Artery, running i n the common Cellular Substance of the Lungs, form .it last a Plexus upon the proper Cells, sometimes called Pete Mirahilc, vel Pete Vascidosum Malpighi. Part >i>f this Plexus terminates in the Cells, and their corre- sponding Bronchi, by Exhalent Vessels, from which ihat Halitus is derived which is expelled by the Lungs :n Expiration. The Pulmonary Veins are commonly observed to be imaller, in proportion to the corresponding Arteries, lhan Veins are to Arteries in other parts of the Body, .’hick has been supposed to be owing to the large quan- tity of Fluids expired. The Bronchial Arteries arise by three or four small Branches \ one of which is from one of the right Supe- ior Intercostal?, the rest from the Trunk of the Aorta. M 3 TheyOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. ] $2 They are dispersed upon the Bronchi and Bronchial Glands, and the Substance of the Lungs in general, and are found to communicate with the Pulmonary Artery. The Bronchial Arteries are supposed to serve for the nourishment of the Lungs, and for the secretion of the Mucus. The Veins return the Blood to the Vena Azygos, and Left Superior Intercostal Vein. The Lymphatics form a Plexus upon the Surface of the Lungs :—They communicate freely with the deep- seated Absorbents, and pass through the Bronchial Glands. The Nerves of the Lungs are partly from the Great Sympathetics, but chiefly from the Eighth Pair, and are rather small in proportion to the bulk of the Organ on which they are dispersed. The Lungs serve the general purpose of Respiration, which consists of Inspiration and Expiration, or the passage of the Air into or out from the Lungs, by the alternate dilatation and contraption of the Thorax. Moderate Inspiration is performed in consequence of the Thorax being dilated by the action chiefly of the Diaphragm, assisted in a small degree by the Intercos- tales ; the Lungs, which are passive, and in contact with the Thorax, following it, and the Air rushing into the Trachea by its own gravity. In strong Inspirations, additional Muscles are brought into action, as the Scaleni, Serrati Postici Supcriores, Serrati Magni, and Pectorales Minores. Expiration is performed in consequence of a relaxa- tion of the Muscles which dilate the Thorax,—of the contraction 1 : t ci B V Ci i r~ r ra’ i; V, DO la *1 H si ci JCO mI Part IV.] OF THE THORAX. 183 contraction of the Abdominal and a few other Muscles, —assisted in strong Expirations chiefly by the 1 riangu- .ares Stprni, Sacro-lumbales, and Serrati Postici Infe- riores,—of the elasticity of the Cartilages of the Ribs, sand the elasticity and contractile nature of the Bronchi, )3y which the Cavity of the Thorax is diminished, and uhe Air is expelled from the Lungs. Upon the alternate states of Inspiration and Expira- tion depend the formation of the Voice, the sensation of Smell, and all the other functions of the Body :— iBut the grpat and principal office of the Lungs, which was formerly supposed to be that of cooling the Blood coverheated by Friction, is, during Inspiration, to re- ceive from the Atmosphere pure Air, upon which the {principle of heat and life depends ; and, during Expi- iration, to carry off an impure Air, which is noxious to JLife. According to late Experiments, it appears,—that the YVenous Blood passing to the Lungs of a dark red or {purple colour, is charged with Carbon and Hydrogen ; —that, while circulating upon the Bronchial Cells, one ipart of the Oxygen, contained in the common Air vwliich has been inspired, unites with the Carbon and IHydrogen, and forms fixed Air and a Watery Ilalitus, which are carried off by Expiration ;—that another part ■ of the Oxygen is imbibed by the Blood, which, in con- sequence of these changes, or having received an Arte- rial quality, returns from the Lungs of a florid red co- lour, and full of heat in a latent state, w hich becomes .) sensible in the course of the general circulation, and is M 4- diffusedOF THE VISCERA, &c. CPart IV. 184 diffused over the different parts of the Body and that the Blood thus changed also affords a Stimulus to the Arteries, and promotes the different Secretions. Esophagus. The Esophagus, called also Gula or Gullet, derives its name from carrying what is eaten into the Stomach. It is a Fleshy Canal, which begins from the Inferior part of the Pharynx, descends along the Neck, and through the Thorax, following near the direction of the Spine. It is situated between the Trachea and Vertebrae j and in the Thorax, it proceeds behind the Base of the Heart, and between the Layers of the Posterior Me- diastinum, from which it receives a lateral covering. Soon after entering the Thorax, it makes a slight turn to the right, and passes down upon the fore and right 6idc of the Aorta, consequently the Artery and it are prevented from injuring each other by pressure. In its progress, it inclines more forwards and to the left side; and about the Ninth Dorsal Vertebra, it per- forates the Muscular part of the Diaphragm, and ter- minates in the upper Orifice of the Stomach. It has several Coats proper to it, the first of which is Cellular, and connects it to the adjacent parts. The second Coat is Muscular, and is sometimes term- ed Vaginalis Gulae.—It consists of two Layers; the ex- ternal of which has thick, strong, longitudinal Fibres; the internal is formed of circular and transverse Fibres, and is thinner than the former.—The outer Layer is fitted185 Fakt IV.] OF THE THORAX. fitted for shortening and relaxing, and the inner for contracting the Canal, during Deglutition. The third Coat is termed Nervous, and is considered by some as a continuation of the Cutis Vera, but is properly Cellular, being formed of loose Cellular Sub- stance, which connects the Muscular to the inner Coat. The Inner Coat is continued from the lining of the Mouth : It consists of many longitudinal Plica:, which are scarcely visible when the Esophagus is dilated, and is furnished with numerous Foramina, which discharge a Mucus, for lubricating the Passage, and facilitating Deglutition. The Arteries of the Esophagus are Branches of the Inferior Laryngeals, which supply the Cervical part of it, and the Esophageals and Branches of the Bronchials, which are derived from the Aorta Descendens, and sup- ply the Thoracic Portion. The Veins go to the Inferior Laryngeals, to the Vena Azygos, and to the left superior Intercostal Vein. The Absorbents are numerous, and intermix with thqse of the Heart and Lungs. The Nerves are chiefly from the Eighth Pair. The Esophagus receives the Aliments from the Pha- rynx, and conveys them to the Stomach. TnoRAcrc Duct. The 1 iioracic Duct is a small Membranous-like Canal, situated in the back part of the Thorax, and is the principal Trunk of the Absorbent System. It begins upon the third Vertebra of the Loins, and passesOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 186 passes behind (lie Aorta, crossing obliquely from left to right, till it gets to the right side of that Artery. Upon the first Lumbar Vertebra, it forms an Oval Sac, termed lleceptacvlum Chyli, which is placed behind the Right Crus of the Diaphragm, and a little higher than the Right Renal Artery. The Duct afterwards passes between the Crura of the Diaphragm, and ascends in the Thorax, on the antc- » rior part of the Spine, between the Layers of the pos- terior Mediastinum, on the right side of the Aorta, and between it and the Vena Azygos. It crosses behind the upper part of the descending Aorta, and emerges from the Thorax, to reach the un- der part of the left side of the Neck. In the Neck, it passes behind the Internal Jugular Vein, and a little higher than the Subclavian. It then turns downwards, forming an Arch, which terminates in the upper part of the Angle, between the Internal Jugular and Subclavian of the Left Side. The Thoracic Duct receives the Chyle from the Lac- teals, and Lymph from the Lymphatics, and discharges these into the red Veins. •*« OF187 Part IV.] OF THE A HD OMEN. OF THE AB'DOHKN. • t. *" ' [ i ft i J 'H , 1 i The Abdomen or Z>V% extends from the Tliorax to the under part of the Trunk. It is bounded above by the Diaphragm, and the Bones to which that Muscle is fixed; below', by the Pelvis ; behind, by the Lumbar Vertebras and Muscles of the Loins; anteriorly, by its proper Muscles; and laterally, by the False Ribs, Ossa ilii, and Muscles connected with these;—all of which have been described in their places. It is divided into three Regions, termed Upper, Middle, and Under Region ; each of which is subdivided into three others. The Upper Region begins opposite to the Cartilago Ensiformis, at a small depression called Scrobicuhcs Cor- dis, and extends to about a hand-breadth from the Um- bilicus. The middle of this Region is termed Epigastrium, or upper part of the Belly, and the tw o lateral parts Hypo- chondria, /188 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. chondria, from their lying under the Cartilages of the False Ribs. The Middle Region occupies an equal distance above and below the Umbilicus.—The middle part of it is call- ed the Umbilical, and its lateral parts the Lumbar Re- gions or Loins. The Under Region begins where the middle one ter- minates, or at a line drawn between the superior-ante- rior Spinous Processes of the Ossa Ilii, and forms, in the middle, the Hypogastrium or bottom of the Belly; and at the sides, the Iliac Regions. The Abdomen is covered on the outside by the com- non Integuments, and lined within by the Peritoneum, in the manner the Thorax is lined by the Pleura, but ■without being divided by the intervention of a Parti- tion. The Abdomen contains the Chylopoietic and Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera, or Organs of Digestion,—the Or- gans of Urine, and part of those of Generation, with the Vessels and Nerves which belong, some of them to these Viscera, and others to the lower parts of the Body. The Chylopoietic Viscera comprehend the Stomach, which is situated in the upper and left part of the Ab- domen,—the Intestines, which fill the greater part of it, —and the Membranes, termed Omenta and Mese?itayt which are connected with these. The Assistant Chylopoietic Viscera consist of the Liver, which is placed in the upper and right side of the Ab- domen —of the Spleen, winch is situated in the upper andPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 1S9 and left side of it, and of the Pancreas, which lies un- der the Stomach. Of the Organs of Urine, the Kidneys are placed in the back part of the Abdomen, and the Bladdery with some of the Organs of Generation, in the Pelvis. Peritoneum. • The Peritoneum, named from its being stretched or spread around the Bowels, is a firm but simple Mem- brane, by which the Abdominal Viscera are surrounded and partly supported, and the Walls of the Abdomen lined, as already observed, somewhat after the manner the Pleura covers the Lungs, and lines the Cavity of the Thorax. Its External Surface is rough and Cellular, and close- ly connected with the parts to which it belongs. The Internal Surface is remarkably smooth, and lu- bricated by a Liquor which is exhaled from its own Vessels, without the interference of Glands. It is very elastic, and admits of great extension, as happens in Gestation, Corpulency, Ascites, and Her- nia ; but, upon the causes of extension being removed, it returns to its former dimensions. It lines the Diaphragm, and passes downwards, ad- hering firmly to the Abdominal Muscles.—It also lines the containing, and covers the contained parts of the Pelvis, from which it is reflected in the back part of the Abdomen, lining the Muscles there, and, by its redu- plications, covering the Bowels and great Blood-vessels of that Cavity. Strictly speaking, however, the Abdo- minalTOO OF THE VISCERA, &c. LFar*IV. The minal Viscera may be said to lie on tlic outside of the Peritoneum. In its passage from one Bowel to another, it forms Doublings which serve as Ligaments to fix the Bowels to each other, and likewise to the Body. It gives a general covering to most of the Bowels, a partial one to a few, and to those which are deep seated, and project least, a still more partial covering. It forms a large Sac, the posterior part of which ad- heres firmly to the different Viscera, and the anterior to the Abdominal Muscles ;—the part lining the Abdomen being merely in contact with its contents, and allowing a small degree of motion. The Cellular Substance on the External Surface of this Membrane, is not every where of equal thickness, being in some parts, as upon the Bowels, remarkably thin; in others, as over the Kidneys, filled with a con- siderable quantity of Eat. The Cellular Substance forms various Processes or Productions, some of which, as those on the Spermatic Cords, pass through Foramina, to be connected with the neighbouring parts ; and the Processes are sent offj without affecting the Internal Membrane; the one not accompanying the other. The Arteries of the Peritoneum come from the Inter- nal Mammary, Epigastric, Inferior Intercostal, Lum- bar, Sacral, and Ilio-Lumbar Arteries, and from those which supply the Abdominal Viscera. The Veins have the same course, bear the same names with the Arteries, and in general pass to the Inferior Cava.Part IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 191 The Absorbents are numerous, and run chiefly to the Iliac and Lumbar Plexus. The Nerves, which are few in number and small, are from the Inferior Dorsal, the Lumbar, the Great Sym- pathetic and Sacral Nerves. Its Blood-vessels, however, are not very numerous, neither does it possess much Sensibility when free from disease. The Peritoneum lines and strengthens the Cavity of the Abdomen ; incloses and assists in supporting its dif- ferent Viscera ; furnishes most of them with an Exter- nal Coat; connects them to the Body ; and, by its smoothness and slipperiness, prevents the effects of Fric- tion. Upon the outside of the Peritoneum are Four White Lines, or small Cords, three of which are Vessels in the Foetus,—one of them a Vein, and two of them Arte- ries ; the fourth is the Urachus.—In the Adult, they are shrivelled up, and serve as Ligaments; the Vein forming the Round Ligament of the Liver, the thrpe other Cords forming Ligaments of the Bladder. STOMAC H. The Stomach is a large Bag or Reservoir, situated ob- liquely across the upper and back part of the Abdomen, in the Epigastric and left Hypochondriac Regions. It is turned downwards and forwards, so as to form an Angle with the Esophagus, the Angle becoming more conspicuous19- OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV. conspicuous in proportion as the Stomach is more dis- tended. The right part of the Stomach is situated under the left part of the Liver, the rest of it is placed immediate- ly under the Diaphragm j and in the upright position of the Body, the Stomach rests upon the Intestines. The Stomach is long, round, and tapering, and has been compared in shape to the Bag of a Bagpipe, or to a Cone, with the Base drawn back, towards the summit. The size is in proportion to the quantity of Aliment it has been accustomed to receive, and therefore is com- monly larger in Men than in Women. It has a Large and Small Extremity, an Upper and Under Surface, a Great and Small Curvature, a Left and Bight Orifice, and consists of several Layers or Coats. The Large, called also the Left Extremity, or Base, is situated in the Left Hypochondriac Region, and forms the great Cul de Sac of the French. This is in contact with the Spleen, and is considerably higher than the Small or Bight Extremity, or small Cul de Sac, which is placed in the Epigastric Region, and approaches more or less towards the Right Hypochondrium, in propor- tion as the Stomach happens to be more or less dis- tended. The Upper Surface is turned towards the Diaphragm, the Under towards the Intestines ;—but when the Abdo- men is laid open,—unless the Stomach be considerably distended,—the superior Surface becomes anterior, and the inferior Surface posterior. The Large Curvature is turned obliquely forwards and downwardsThe Vol. II. N f Part IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 193 downwards towards the Abdominal Muscles, and ex- tends from one Orifice to the other. The Small Curvature is opposed to the other, and turned backwards and upwards, towards the Spine, ex- i tending also between the two Orifices. The Orifices are next the Small Curvature. The ' Left is termed Cardia, or Os Ventricidi, or Upper Ori- )fice of the Stomach.—It is placed at the right side of ithe great Extremity, and is opposed to the Spine, but ;at a little distance from it, and is formed by the termi- mation of the Esophagus.—It allows a free passage for tthe Food into the Stomach, the return of which is pre- wented bv the Angle formed between the Stomach and lEsophagus, by the Fleshy parts of the Cardia, and by tthe Fleshy Crura of the Diaphragm, between which the (Cardia is situated. The Right or Inferior Orifice, commonly termed [Pylorus, is situated under the small Lobe of the Liver, :ia little to the Right Side of the Spine,—is turned rmore forwards than the Cardia, and is considerably Mower, but rises in proportion to the Distension of the SStomach. The Stomach is connected by the Cardia to the Eso- phagus,—by the Pylorus to the beginning of the Intes- tines,—by the Peritoneum and Blood-vessels to the SSpleen,—and by a reflection of the Peritoneum to the root of the Liver, and to the great Intestines. The Structure of the Stomach is in general similar to tlhat of the Esophagus, of which it is a kind of Expan- sion. The Coats of the Stomach are Four in number.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV- 194 $ The First, or External Coat, called also Peritoneal, is a Reflection of that part of the Peritoneum which comes from the root of the Liver. It strengthens the Stomach ; by its smoothness it di- minishes the effects of Friction ; and possessing few Nerves or Blood-vessels, it is not very susceptible of pain or inflammation. The Cellular Substance under the Peritoneal Cover- ing, is described by some Authors as a distinct Coat, called Tunica Cellulosa Puyschiana ;—but ought not to be numbered among the Coats of the Stomach. The Second, or Muscular Coat, is composed chiefly of two Planes of Fibres variously disposed. The External Plane is longitudinal, extends from the longitudinal Fibres of the Esophagus, and follows the same general course with that of the Stomach from the Great to the Small Extremity. Upon each side of the small Curvature, the longitu- dinal Fibres form a thick, strong, Muscular Band. The second Plane is chiefly transverse or circular, and considerably thicker and stronger than the other. Its Fibres are intersected by many small, white, Ten- dinous-like Lines ;—these, however, are in a great mea- sure formed of that Cellular Substance by which the two Coats are united. The Muscular Coat assists in the Digestion of the Food, by giving a gentle motion to the Stomach, ac- cording to the direction of its Fibres; the one set shortening it, the other rendering it narrower. The Pylorus is formed by a Doubling of the two inner Coats, which project into the Passage between the StomachPart XV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 195 Stomach and Intestines, and contain a Ritig of Muscu- lar Fibres, which form a Sphincter, called Sphincter Pylori. This Substance, by contracting, prevents the grosser indigested parts of the Aliment from escaping, and, by dilating, allows the Pulpy digested part to pass to the Intestines. The Third Coat, commonly called Nervous, some- times Vascular, but properly Cellular, consists of a large quantity of fine Cellular Substance without Fat, and is intermixed with, and supported by, small Aponeurotic- like Filaments, which cross each other obliquely, but. which are also of a Cellular nature. This Coat strengthens the Stomach, and allows the Vessels to be distributed to the Inner Coat, with which it is intimately connected. The Fourth, ox Inner Coat, called also Villous, is con- tinued from the Inner Coat of the Esophagus, but has much more of a Velvet appearance than it.—It is form- ed of fine, short, prominent Villi, which are crowded with Small Vessels, some for furnishing a Mucous Li- quor to the Stomach, others for absorbing a portion of the thinner part of the Food. The two last Coats are more extensive than the rest, and form, upon the inner part of the Stomach, many Doublings, termed Rugce, the greater number of which run in a wavering transverse direction, and are after- wards divided into a sort of Net-work. Near the Ori- fices, however, especially towards the upper one, they run more in a longitudinal direction, corresponding with N 2 theOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 196 the Plica; of the Esophagus, and have a radiated ap- pearance at the Cardia. The Rugae of the Stomach, like the Plica? of the Eso- phagus, are most distinct when the Stomach is empty ; —when it is full, they are much less evident. They admit of distension without endangering the Vessels and Nerves dispersed in them, and assist a little in detaining the Aliment till properly digested. From the inner Surface of the Stomach, a Liquor issues, which is found to approach to the nature of Sa- liva, and is termed Gastric Juice.—This was formerly supposed to come from Glands seated in the Third Coat, but is now more frequently considered as a Secretion from the Arteries of the Stomach, no Glands being evident there, at least in the sound state of this Viscus, unless we consider the Villi as such. The Arteries of the Stomach are derived from the Coeliac Artery. They consist of the Superior Gastric, which supplies the place next the small Curvature; of the Right Inferior Gastric, which is a Branch of the He- patic *, of the Pyloric Arteries, which are small Branches from the Gastrics and from the Hepatic; and of the Left Gastric and Arterice Breves, which are Branches of the Splenic Artery. When the Arteries arrive at the small Curvature of the Stomach, they separate into two Layers; the inner is spread out upon the Nervous Coat, and is distributed to the Villi by Filaments, which form a most delicate Plexus. The External Layer is expanded under the Peritoneal Coat, supplying it and the Muscular one with197 Part IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. with numerous Branches, which form frequent Anasto- moses with each other. The Veins have the same names, and nearly the same course with the Arteries. The whole of them terminate in the Vena Portae. The Absorbents of the Stomach are numerous and large. They pass through small Glands situated upon its Curvatures, and go afterwards to the Thoracic Duct. They appear to carry Lymph only, no Chyle having been detected in them, even in cases where the Lacteals were found full of it. The Nerves are chiefly from the Eighth Pair, and partly from the Great Sympathetica, and are most nu- merous upon the Cardia. The Stomach receives the Food from the Esophagus, and afterwards prepares it, by Digestion, for the In- testines. The Digestion of the Food in the Stomach is found to be effected,—by Triture, which is performed by the motions of the Stomach and surrounding Muscles,—by Dilution,—by a partial Fermentation,—but chiefly by the action of the Gastric Juice serving as a Menstruum. INTESTINES. The Intestines consist of a long Cylindrical Canal, which begins at the Inferior Orifice of the Stomach, N 3 and,]9S OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. ami, after winding in various directions, terminates in the Anus. In genera], they are about six times the length of the Body to which they belong ; though, in a person of short stature, the proportional length of the Intestines is greater, and vice versa. They occupy a large part of the Abdomen, and are connected to the Body through their whole extent, by a Doubling of the Peritoneum. On account of the inequalities of their size, they^ire divided into Small and Large Intestines, and each ol these again have their subdivisions. Small Intestines. The Small Intestines are smooth on their outer Sur- iaee, and of a tapering form, becoming gradually less in their diameter from their upper to their under extre- mity, and arc divided into the Duodenum, Jejunum, and Ilium. The Duodenum begins at the Pylorus, and makes a short turn upwards and backwards, by the Neck of the Gall-Bladder, to which it is contiguous *, having the Anterior Layer of the Omentum fixed to its inferior part, and the Omentum Minus to its opposite side. It then passes obliquely downwards and to the right side, before the Great Vessels which go into the Liver, and likewise before the lienal Artery and Vein; the Gut being included in the Cellular Substance of the Meso-colon. Opposite to the under part of the Kidney, it makes a turnPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 199 turn to the left side, where it is lodged in the common root of the Meso-colon and Mesentery, receiving into its back part the ends of the Biliary and Pancreatic Ducts, and going over the Aorta and Vena Cava, at the upper part of the Lumbar Vertebrae. In passing across these Vessels, it is involved in the root of the Mesentery, and ascends a little till it gets to the left side of the Spine; then, perforating the com- mon root of the Mesentery and Meso-colon, it makes a turn forwards, and obtains the name of Jejunum. The Jejunum, so named from its being commonly more empty than the other Intestines, in consequence of the thinner parts of its Contents being sooner absorbed, begins at the last turn of the Duodenum, and forms nu- merous Convolutions, which run in all directions, and are situated in the upper part of the Umbilical Region. The Ilium, named from its numerous Turns, begins where the Jejunum terminates, or where the Internal Plicae become less conspicuous, and is distinguished ex- ternally from that Gut, by being smaller, thinner in its Coats, and paler, and from its forming about three- fifths of the length of the two Intestines. The Ilium, like the Jejunum, forms many convolu- tions, which are situated on the under part of the Um- bilical Region, and extend as far as the Hypogastric and Iliac Regions, and not unfrequentiy, especially in Women, into the Cavity of the Pelvis. It surrounds the lateral parts of the Jejunum, and is supported by the Ossa Ilia ; and, the last turn of the Gut passing across towards the upper edge of the Right N 4 Of.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Paht IV. 200 Os Ilium, it terminates by a Valve in the left side of the beginning of the Colon. Through the whole of this course, the Jejunum and Ilium are fixed to the Spine by a continuation of the Mesentery. Great Intestines. The Great, like the Small Intestines, form one con- tinued Canal, which tapers from its upper to near its under extremity; but they differ from them in being considerably wider, shorter, and straighter, in being irregular in their outer Surface, ajid tacked up into Cells, and in having many Processes upon them, termed Appendiculac Pinguedinosee. Like the Small Intestines, also, they are divided into three parts, termed Caecum, Colon, and Rectum. The Intestinum Caecum forms a round short Bag, only about three or four fingers-breadth in length, and near- ly the same in diameter. The Caecum, properly so call- ed, is that part of the Intestine which lies under the in- sertion of the Ilium, though frequently the dilated be- ginning of the Colon is distinguished by the same name. It is situated in the Right Iliac Region, resting on the Cavity of the corresponding Os Ilium, at the under end of the Right Kidney, and is concealed by the last Con- volutions of the Ilium. The bottom of it is turned downwards, and forms a short Sac the mouth of which is directed towards the Colon, and may be considered as forming the Caecum Caput Colli. AtPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 20.5 At the last Vertebra of the Loins, it forms the Meso- rectum, which by degrees becomes narrower, and dis- appears towards the under part of the Pelvis ; the Rectum being then immediately connected to the Os Sacrum. Between the Layers of the Meso-colon are placed die Arteries, Veins, and Nerves, with the Absorbents and Glands of the Colon. * The Mesentery, in general, suspends, connects, and : retains the Intestines in their places, furnishes them with :an external Coat, receives their Glands, Vessels, and Nerves, and allows the two last to be properly distr- ibuted. Omentum. The Omentum or Cats;/, formerly called Epiploon, from iits seeming to float upon the Intestines, is a fine Mem- ibranous Bag, produced from the Peritoneum, and inter- mixed with much Fat, and covers a large portion of tthe Anterior Surface of the Abdominal Viscera. It is divided into Omentum Gastro-colicum, and Omen- tum Colicum; the former common to the Stomach and (Colon, the latter proper to the Colon : They are, how- oever, a continuation of one and the same Substance. The Omentum Gastro-colicum consists of an Anterior und Posterior Part, each of which is formed of two Membranes intimately united. In young Subjects, the Omentum forms a distinct Bag; but in old People, the Layers of which it is com- posed . \OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. ?0<5 posed become more or less incorporated, and Cribriform or Reticular, and varies much in its extent and gene- ral appearance in different bodies. The Anterior Layer is a continuation of the Perito- neal Coats, produced from the upper and under Sur- faces of the Stomach. This Production arises from the whole length of the large Arch of the Stomach, and beginning of the Duo- denum ; its origin extending as far as the Spleen. It descends commonly a little below the Umbilicus, espe- cially in fat people; sometimes, however, it does not reach this depth, at other times it is found as low as the Pubes, but without adhering to tlie Abdominal Muscles, behind which it is situated. Its under edge is reflected, to form the posterior Layer, which ascends without adhering to the Small Intestines over which it is spread, till it reaches the Arch of the Colon, to the greater part of which Arch, and to the Vessels of the Spleen, it is connected. The Omentum Colicunj, which is merely an Appendix of the Omentum, arises from the right part of the Arch of the Colon, in the same manner as the other part of the Omentum arises from the Stomach, and sends down- wards and to the right side a Cuneiform Process, which is connected with the Colon Dextrum as far as the Cae- cum. Besides the Omentum, there is a Membrane much smaller, situated between the Liver and Stomach, term- ed Omentum Hepato-gastricum, or Omentum Minus of Winslow, or Mcmbrana Macilentioi- of Haller, from its having little Fat in it. \ ItPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 20V It passes from the fore-part of the Sinus of the Porta, to the under and back part of the Liver, to be connect- ed to the whole edge of the small Curvature ot the Sto- mach, and to the beginning of the Duodenum. Like the other Omentum, it is composed of two Layers, but is thinner, less fat, and more uniform in its structure, and also differs from it in having no reflec- tion upwards. After the Omentum Minus reaches the Stomach, its two Layers separate from each other, inclose that Vis- cus, and form its External Coat. At the Great Curvature of the Stomach, they rejoin, and form the Anterior, and then the reflected or Pos- terior part of the Omentum Majus. The Posterior part separates again into two Layers, which inclose the Colon, and form its External Coat. At the opposite side of the Colon, the Layers re-unite, and form the Meso-colon. By the Membrane thus continued, a large irregular Bag is formed, of which the Omentum Minus, Sto- mach, and anterior portion of the Omentum Majus, constitute the anterior, and the reflection of the Large Omentum, the Colon, and Meso-colon, the posterior part. At the upper and right side of the Sac, there is a Passage large enough to admit a Finger, termed Fora- men Winslowi. It is situated immediately behind the Cord of the Great Vessels which lead to the Liver, and is of a Semi- circular form. It is composed of the Peritoneum, under the appear- ance208 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. ance of two Ligaments which connect the surrounding parts to each other. The Foramen of Winslow maintains a communica- tion between the Large Sac of the Omentum and com- mon Cavity of the Abdomen; from which circumstance, Fluids generated by disease may readily pass from one of these Cavities to the other. The Omentum, by its Fatty nature, serves to lubri- cate the Viscera, and to prevent them from being injur- ed by Friction. Being suspended as a Curtain over the Intestines, it has also been supposed to retain the Heat that would otherwise escape from them, but a large portion of the Intestines has no covering from this Sub- stance. Structure or the Small Intestines in general. The Structure of the Small Intestines is nearly similar to that of the Stomach, and the number of their Coats the same. The External Coatt excepting in a. portion of the Duodenum, is a continuation of that part of the Peri- toneum which forms the Mesentery. It closely sur- rounds the Intestines, adhering to them by fine Cellu- lar substance. The Second or Muscular Coat, as in the Stomach, is composed of two Planes of Fibres j the External or Longitudinal of which are more minute than the In- ternal. The Circular Fibres &te distinct and numerous: They . ' consistPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 209 consist of Segments of Circles, which unite at different distances, so as to surround the Canal. The Longitudinal Fibres shorten, and the Circular contract the Intestines ; and upon the alternate relaxa- tion and contraction of these Fibres depends that Ver- micular motion called Peristaltic, by which the content* are pushed through the Canal. The Third, commonly called Nervous Coat, like that in the Stomach, is white and firm, and composed of Cellular Substance without Fat 5—its firmness giving strength to the Intestines. The Fourth, or Villous Coat, differs from that of the Stomach, in forming, with the Cellular Coat, numerous transverse Folds, termed Valvulce Conniventes, from their serving as a kind of Valves, to retard the motion of the Food. One edge of these Valves is fixed to the Intestine, the other is loose. They are much deeper than the Rugae of the Stomach, and placed opposite to the Interstices of each other, and are of different lengths, not forming entire Circles. The Villi of the Inner Coat are much more conspi- cuous than in the Stomach, being composed not only of the extremities of Arteries, Veins, and Nerves, but par- ticularly of the Mouths of Lacteal Vessels, the Origins of which are extremely small, and have a fungous ap- pearance. Numerous Ducts of Simple and Compound Glands ter- minate on this Coat, for the secretion of Mucus. The former are called Solitary, and the latter Con- V«l. II. O gregate;OF THE VISCERA, See. [Part IV. 210 gregafe : and, from their Describers, Glandula: Peyeri, and Glandukc Brunneri. They are in the form of Papillae, but so minute as seldom to be seen, excepting in the diseased state;— though they are supposed to be dispersed over the whole of the Canal. Structure of the Small Intestines in PARTICULAR. The Duodenum is the most lax, and the straightest of the Small Intestines, and so large as to have been con- sidered as a Ventriculus Succentur/atus, or Secondary Sto- mach. It is of a redder colour than the rest, has a thicker Muscular Coat, receives only a partial Covering from th Peritoneum, and is fixed more closely to the Body, without floating like the other Intestines. It is perforated at the distance of three or four fin- gers-breadth from the Pylorus, by the ends of the Bi- liary and Pancreatic Ducts, for the reception of Bile and Pancreatic Juice. On the Duodenum, the Lacteal Vessels begin to make their appearance, and numerous Mucous Glands are found in it, especially near the Pylorus. The inner surface presents only some irregular Rugae, in place ol Valvulae Conmventes. The Duodenum receives the Food from the Stomach, and detains it till it be mixed with the Bile and Pancrea- tic Juice. The Jijunum (lifters from the Duodenum in deriving itsPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. ' 211 i its common Coat wholly from the Peritoneum,—in being i smaller,—in having a weak Muscular Coat, the external Fibres of which are extremely minute,—in the Valvulee i Conniventes, Villi, and Lacteals, which proceed from i them, being much more conspicuous and numerous. The Ilium differs from the former, in being less in (diameter, audits Coats thinner and of a pale colour, :and in having fewer and smaller Lacteal Vessels.—In (this Intestine the Valvulae Conniventes gradually de- crease in size and number, and at length entirely disap- pear.—At its under end, the Mucous Glands are dis- ttinct and frequent. The Small Intestines in general promote the forma- tion of the Chyle,—allow it to be absorbed, and—pro- pel the remains of the Food into the Large Intestines. Structure of the Great Intestines in General. i- ' ‘ .JV. i ■■ ■ • The Great have the same number of Coats with the :Small Intestines, but differ from them in being thicker and stronger.—The Valvuke Conniventes are deep, and placed opposite to each other, and, like the Small In- ttestines, diminish in number and size towards the under extremity.—The Villous appearance is much less dis- tinct.—The Mucous Glands are larger, but simpler than those of the Small Intestines. ' * |ti 1 . J • * Structure of the Great Intestines in par- ticular. 1 he Intestvmm Ccecum is of the same general struc- O 2 ture212 or THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV, ture with the rest of the Great Intestines : Its Villi are very short j and it has a number of solitary Mucous Glands, broader than those of the Small Intestines, Which, when diseased, sometimes appear like Small-pox, with a Perforation in each. The Appendix VermiJ'ormis is of the same structure with the other Intestines, contains no Faeces, but is fur- nished with numerous Glands similar to those of the Duodenum, the contents of which pass into the Caecum, a little below the Valve of the Colon, and assist in lu- bricating that Intestine, and in facilitating the expulsion of the Faeculcnt Matter. In the Caecum and beginning of the Colon, the Food coming from the Ilium is retained for some time, and, in consequence of Absorption, acquires a greater degree of consistency, and receives a foetid smell. 'i he Valvula Cedi,—sometimes called Valvula Ilii, or Valvula Bauhjni, from its supposed Discoverer, and Valvula Tulpii, from the Author who gives a particu- lar description of it,—is situated at the beginning of the Colon, and is placed transversely in the posterior and left part of that Intestine. It is formed of a Projection of the Villous and Ner- vous Coats, and Circular Muscular Fibres of the Ilium, Cmcum, and Colon, and has two Folds or Lips, with an Aperture in form of a Mouth or Chink between them. At the ends of the Valves are two Cords, termed Bctiuacula, or Frcena Morgagnj, which retain the Valve in its proper situation. The Valve of the Colon allows a free passage for the Contents;215 Part IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. Contents of the Small into the Large Intestines, but completely prevents their return. The Colon is of a similar structure with the Caecum. .—The inner Surface is smooth.—The Longitudinal Muscular Fibres are collected upon it into three Fasci- culi or Bands, which arise at the root of the Vermiform Process, and are continued along the Colon to the Rectum. The Longitudinal Bands are shorter than the rest of the Colon, and of course assist in contracting it, and forming it into Plicae, which lie across lhe Gut, answering to the Valvulae Conniventes ; only they are at a greater distance from each other, and much larger; dividing the Colon into little apartments, called Cells. The Cells of the Colon, with their Partitions, have a threefold order, the Intestine being almost quite smooth ®r plain, opposite to the Longitudinal Bands. The Cells assist in preventing the too rapid descent <«f the Faeces. The Colon receives the Excrementitious parts of the Aliment, retains them, changes them into Faeces, and i then, by the Peristaltic motion of the Intestines and | power of Respiration, pushes them, by slow degrees, to Ithe Rectum. The Rectum differs from the Colon in being covered •only anteriorly and laterally by the Peritoneum:—Its Muscular Fibres are stronger and thicker, and spread iuniformly over the Intestine. The Circular Fibres are :S0 thick at the end ol the Rectum, as to have been mamed Internal Sphincter. It has no Cells like the Colon; but the Cellular and Q 8 Inner214 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIN*. Inner Coat are so much larger here than they are higher up, as to fall into transverse Folds, which, however, dis- appear in proportion to the distension of the Intestine. The middle and under end of the Rectum has nume- rous large Mucous Glands or Follicles. The extremity of the Rectum forms a firm Circle, which acts as a Valve, and assists the proper Sphincter in preventing the involuntary discharge of the Faeces. The Verge of the Anus is surrounded with deep Fol- licles, the contents of which prevent the tender Skin of the Anus from being excoriated by hard or acrid Faeces. The Anus is also surrounded with a great deal of Fat, which admits of the dilatation of the Rectum, and fa- cilitates the discharge of the Faeces. The Rectum receives the Faeces from the Colon, re- tains them lor a certain time, till, by their weight and acrid nature, it is stimulated.to discharge them ; which it does by the power of its Muscular Coat, and of the Levator Ani, assisted by the action of the Diaphragma** tic anil Abdominal Muscles. The Blood vessels of the Intestines are large and nu- merous, and are derived from different sources. The Duodenum receives Branches from the Splenic and Hepatic Arteries. The Jejunum, Ilium, and right half of the Colon, are supplied by the Superior Mesenteric Artery ; and the left half of the Colon with the Rectum, by the In- ferior Mesenteric Artery. The Veins of all the Intestines send their Blood to the Vena l’ortas. The Absorbents of the Intestines arc large and nume- rous.Part IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 215 rous.—They arise from their inner Surface, and run in the Mesentery and Meso-colon, passing through their numerous Glands.—The Absorbents of the Small Intes- tines terminate in the Receptacle of the Chyle j those of the Large Intestines, which are smaller than the former, go partly to the Thoracic Duct, and partly to the Lym- phatics of the Loins. The Nencs of the Intestines are very small, yet nu- merous, and are derived partly from the Eighth Pair, but chiefly from the Great Sympathetics. T he Vessels and Nerves of the Omenta are Branches of those which supply the Stomach, and have the name of Gastro-Ejiijjlaic. O i OF215 OF THE VISCERA, 8cc. [Part IV. OF THE LI VEIL The Liver is the largest of the Conglomerate Glands; it forms a solid Mass, of a dusky red colour, situated immediately under the Diaphragm, extending down- wards to the Margin of the Thorax, but not going be- yond it. It is placed partly in the right Hypochondrium, which it in a great measure fills, and partly in the Epigastrium, reaching over a little way into the left Hypochondrium. It is convex and very smooth on the upper Surface, where it is opposed to the Diaphragm, though a little flattened on the upper part of its left side, where it is placed opposite to the Heart. It is irregularly concave on the underside, where it rests upon the Stomach and Intestines, and is perforated by several large Blood-vessels. It is thick on its right and posterior part, and becomes gradually thinner towards the left side; is obtuse or blunt posteriorly, where it is opposed to the Lumbar Vertebrae,Fart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 217 Vertebrae, and acute or sharp on its anterior edge, where it follows the Margin of the right False Ribs.—It is considerably broader from one side to the other, than from before backwards. It is divided into Prominences or Lobes, two of which, called Great and Small, or Right and Left Lobes, are so considerable as to form the Body and whole upper part of the Liver:—The other Lobes, which are very in- ferior in size, are placed upon the under side of the former. The Great Lobe is situated obliquely in the Right Hypochondriac Region, following the Curve of the Dia- phragm, and rests upon the Pylorus, Colon, and top of the Right Kidney. The Small Lobe, distinguished from the Great one by a broad Ligament, is placed almost horizontally, chiefly in the Epigastric, only a small portion of it lying in the Left Hypochondriac Region. The other Lobes are, The Lobulus Spigelii, which is small when compar- ed with the two former Lobes, but is the principal one below. It is situated near the Spine, upon the left side of the Great Lobe, and is of a Pyramidal form, projecting like a Nipple, at the small Curvature of the Stomach. The Lobulus Caudatus, which is merely the Root, or one of the Angles of the Lobulus Spigelii, advancing towards the middle of the lower side of the Great Lobe. The Lobulus Anonymus, or Qriadratus, which is placed between the passage of the Round Ligament and the Gall-21* OF THE VISCERA, Sic. [FartIV. Gall Bladder, and is less prominent, but broader than the former Lobule. From the Lobulus Anonymus, a Bridge, called Pons or Isthmus Hepatis, runs across the passage for the Round Ligament, to be joined to the Left Lobe:—It is sometimes wanting. Upon the under side of the Liver, there are several Fissures, of which the following are the principal :— The Great Fissure, called Fossa Uin'ulicalis, between the Right and Left Lobes, at the under and fore part of the Liver. This is terminated by a Notch at the fore part of th* Liver,—of different depths in different Bodies j—and behind, it is commonly covered with the Bridge above mentioned. The Principal Fissure, termed Sulcus Transversus, or Sinus Port arum, extending from right to left, between the Great and Small Lobes, and bounded by these Lobes at its extremities, and by the Lobulus Anonymus before, and the Lobulus Spigelii behind ; the two latter form- ing parts compared by the Ancients to a Gate, and therefore called Porta. The Depression between the Great Lobe and Lobulus Spigelii, for the passage of the Inferior Vena Cava, which has frequently a Bridge over it, forming it into a Canal. A Small Depression/, called Fossa Ductus Vcnosi, be- tween the Left Lobe and Lobulus Spigelii, running a little obliquely from right to left side, and receiving a Ligament, formerly a Branch of the Umbilical Vein in the Foetus. . ThePart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 219 The Liver is connected to the Body by different Pro- cesses, termed its Ligaments; all of which, excepting one, are formed by Doublings of the Peritoneum, viz. The Ligamentum Latum, or Suspensorium ILepatis, placed between the Right and Left Lobes above, and extending below into the Fossa Umbilicalis. It is fixed obliquely to the Diaphragm and tip of the Ensiform Cartilage, and then descends in the same ob- lique direction, adhering to the inner part of the Vagina of the Right Rectus Abdominis, as far as the Umbi- licus. The Ligamentum Rotundum, which was the Umbilical Vein in the Foetus, placed in a Doubling at the under part of the Ligamentum Latum, and fixed to the Um- bilicus. These two Ligaments have been supposed to resemble a Falx, with the edge turned uppermost, from which circumstance the Ligamentum Latum is sometimes also called Falciforme. The Ligamentum Dextrum, or Right Lateral IJga- ment, which is short, and connects the back part of the right extremity of the Great Lobe to the Diaphragm. The Ligamentum Sinistrum, or Left Lateral Liga- ment, which is longer than the former, and connects the left extremity of the Small Lobe to the Diaphragm. The Ligamentum Coronarium, considered by some as merely Cellular Substance, and by others as a Reflection of the Peritoneum, or both.—It unites the root of the Liver to the Tendinous Portion of the Diaphragm. Besides the Ligaments already mentioned, two others are described by Haller ; one called ILepatico-Colicum, whichOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 2S0 which passes from the Gall-Bladder and contiguous Sinus Portarum, across the Duodenum, to the Colon ; —another termed Hepatico-Renal^ which descends from the root of the Liver to the Kidney.—These, as well a* the other Ligaments of the Liver in general, are pro- ductions of the Peritoneum. The Ligaments of the Liver preserve it in its proper situation, and of course prevent it from inclining too much in any direction.—The Stomach anti Intestine* support it when the Body is upright, and the Diaphragm when the Body is inverted. The Liver has a simple Coat adhering closelv to it, which it derives from the Peritoneum, and is every where covered by this Membrane, excepting behind, where it adheres to the Diaphragm by Cellular Sub- stance. The Substance of the Liver is composed of several kinds of Vessels, the extreme Branches of which are in- termixed in such a manner, as to form numerous Pulpy Corpuscles, named Acini, which, when minutely exa- mined, are observed to be composed of Vessels in the form of radiated Villi or Penicilli. The Vessels of the Liver are, the Hepatic Artery, Ve- na Portarum, Vena Hepatica, Absu> bents, and Biliary Ducts.—It has likewise numerous Nerves. The Trunks of the Hepatic Artery, Vena Porta?, Bi- liary Ducts, and Nerves, with the Absorbents and Lym- phatic Glands of the Liver, form a large Cord, at its under part. The Artery is situated in the left part of the Cord, the Vein in the right, with the Trunk of the Biliary Ducts beforePart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 221 before it;—the Nerves and Lymphatics surrounding the great Vessels. The Cord of Vessels and Nerves is intermixed with much Cellular Substance, and covered externally by a Reflection of the Peritoneum, which has obtained the name of Capsule of Gljsson. The Branches of the Vessels and Nerves accompany each other through the Substance of the Liver, form- ing small Fasciculi, in a manner somewhat similar to the Fasciculus of which the Cord is formed by their Trunks. In their course through the Liver, the Branches of the different Vessels and Nerves, but particularly those of the Vena Portae, are inclosed in a large portion of Cellular Substance, which is also frequently called Cap- sule o/'Glisson, from that Author supposing it to be a continuation of the Capsule which covers the Vessels before they enter the Liver. The Hepatic Attery is derived from the Coeliac, and is dispersed throughout the whole Substance of the Liver, and also upon the Coat which covers it, and is so small, when compared with the Bulk of the Liver, as to have been generally supposed to be destined for the nourishment merely of that Viscus ; but from injec- tions passing from the Artery to the Biliary Ducts, and from other causes, it has been supposed by some Ana- tomists, that the Hepatic Artery is not only intended to nourish the Liver, but is capable of secreting part of the Bile;—and this supposition is farther confirmed, from the Vena Portae having, in a recent case, been found wanting, while at the same time the Hepatic .i Artery222 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Artery was larger than usual, and the Veins, which commonly form the Vena Portae, terminated in the Vena Cava. 'Phe Vena Porfce is named f om its situation with re- spect to the Porta of the Liver. It partakes of the nature of an Artery and a Vein :— Like the former, it carries the Blood from the Trunk to the Branches, and, like the latter, it carries it to the Heart;—or it is peculiar in the Blood flowing in one part from the Branches to the 'Trunk, and in another from the Trunk to the Branches. It is formed by the Veins of the Stomach and Intes- tines, joined to those of the Spleen, Omentum, and Pancreas, and approaches to the nature of an Artery in the thickness of its Coats, though it has no Pulsa- tion. It passes to the Porta, where, from its great size, it is named Sinus Fence Portce, and divides into Branches which accompany those of the Artery in their course through the Substance of the Liver, terminating at last in the Pulpy Corpuscles. 'The Vena Purtec serves to carry Venous Blood to the Liver, for the secretion of the Bile. The Fence Hepaticce are numerous. They are re- flected partly from the extremities of the Artery, and par* v from those of the Vena Portm. They unite by degrees, and accompany the other two Sets of Ves- sels ; but, at the root of the Liver, they form two or three large Trunks which terminate in the Vena Cava, where it is about to perforate the Diaphragm. They likewise send off 6ome small Branches which ter- minate225 Part IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. urinate in the Cava, where that Vein iies behind the Liver. The Venae Ilepaticae receive the Blood from the He- patic Artery and Vena Portae, after the Bile has been, secreted, and return it to the Vena Cava, to be convey- ed by it to the Heart. The Vessels of the Liver communicate with each other in such a manner, that, alter Death, a good In- jection may be made to pass from the Artery into the Vena Portae, Venae Hepaticae, and Biliary Ducts, though into these last with difficulty. The Lymphatics of the Liver are so numerous as to cover almost the whole of its outer Surface. They dis- charge their contents partly into the beginning of the Thoracic Duct, and partly into a Plexus situated be- hind the Sternum. The Nerves of the Liver are also numerous. They , arise from the Great Sympathetics and Eighth Pair, and accompany the Blood-vessels. The Biliary 1 nets arise by extremely minute Branches, 1 termed Pori Biliarii, or Tubuli Bilijiri, chiefly from the t extremities of the Vena Portae, in the Substance of the 'Corpuscles, through the whole ol the Liver. The Pori Biliarii run in company with the branches of I the Artery and Veins, and unite into larger and larger Branches, which aiteryvardsgo into two, and these again iinto a single Trunk in the. feinus Portarum, called Due- :(us Hepulicus. The Ductus Hepaticus serves to carry the Gall or Bile, which is of a yellow green colour, from the Liver,—and • to convey it, by the power ot the Pleart, Hepatic Artery, andOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 224 and Vena Portae, assisted by the pressure of the surround- ing Muscles, to the Duodenum, and partly to the Vesi- cula Fcllis. The Vesicula, or Ci/stis Fellis, or Gall Bladder, is a small, oblong, Pyriform Bag, consisting of a Fundus, Body, and Cervix, situated upon the concave side of the Great Lobe of the Liver, and placed in a transverse direction from behind forwards. It extends from the Sinus Portarum, where the Cervix is situated, to the anterior edge of the Liver, and, when full, advances beyond the edge of the Liver, so as some- times to have its Fundus opposed to the soft parts of the Abdomen, under the edge of the False Ribs. The Fundus is a little lower than the Cervix, when the person is in the erect posture. It then also incline* a little to the right side, and rests upon the Colon at the beginning of the Duodenum. It is composed of several Coats, the external of which is a continuation of the Membrane of the Liver: This, however, is only a partial Coat, covering that part of the Gall Bladder which projects beyond the Surface of the Liver.—It serves to give strength to the Gall-Blad- der, and to fix it to the Liver, Under the former Coat, a few pale scattered Fibres, running in various directions, are sometimes observed, which have been considered as a Muscular Coat; and under this there is some Cellular Substance, intermixed with a Plexus of Vessels, which has obtained the name of Nervous Coat. The Inner Coat, sometimes called Villous, is full of Reticular Rugm or Folds, which become extremely mi- nutePart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 225 mite towards the Cervix, where they run in a longitu- dinal direction. Tlio Surface of this Coat is every where perforated by the Ducts of small Follicles, which discharge a Viscid Mucus, to defend it from the Stimulant nature of the Bile. The Gall-Bladder is connected through its whole length to the Liver by Cellular Substance, Biood-vessels, and Absorbents. In many Brute-Animals, the Gall-Bladder is connect- ed to the Liver also by a set of Ducts, called Hepato- Cystic, which convey the Bile found in the Gall-Bladder immediately from the Liver. No such Ducts, however, are demonstrable in the Human Body, though, in for- mer times, the contrary has been maintained by diffe- rent Authors. The Gall-Bladder has Blood-vessels, Absorbents, and Nerves, in common with those of the Liver.—Its Veins pass into the Vena Portae. The Cervix or Neck of the Gall-Bladder is twisted and folded against itself, and afterwards contracts and sends out a Duct called Cysticus, which runs near the Ductus Hfpoticus, and then joins it, at a sharp Angle, to form the Ductus Communis Choledochus. The Ductus Cysticus is smaller than the Ductus Hepa- h'cus, and differs from it also in having a number of im- perfect Partitions or Plica?, running in a somewhat spi- ral direction, and forming it into Ceils, which retard the flow of the Bile. The Gall-Bladder serves as a Receptacle for the Bile, when the Stomach and Intestines are empty, and have VoL. II. P BOOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 226 no need of it, and retains it till wanted for the purpose of Digestion.—It is afterwards discharged from the Gall- Bladder, when the Stomach is full, into the Ductus Communis, and from that to the Duodenum, chiefly by the pressure of the surrounding Viscera, and partly, as some Anatomists suppose, by a small degree of contrac- tile power in the Gall-Bladder itself. The whole of the Bile contained in the Gall-Bladder, is found, by experiment, to pass from the Liver through the Hepatic Duct to the Ductus Communis, and from that by the Cystic Duct into the Gall-Bladder. The Bile returning from the Gall-Bladder, is observ- ed, from the thinner parts being absorbed, to be thicker, more acrid and bitter, and of a deeper colour, than that which flows from the Liver. The Ductus Communis Cholcdochus is about the size of a Goose quill, and is considerably larger than either of the Ducts which open into it. It descends at the posterior and left side of the first portion ol the Duodenum, and passes for some way ob- liquely between the Muscular and Inner Coats of the Gut,—the Obliquity answering the purpose of a Valve. It terminates in the left posterior, and nearly in the under part of the second turn of the Intestine, by a pro- jecting Orifice, which is rounded above, and pointed below. The StructuVeof the Ductus Choledochus, and of the Biliary Ducts in general, is of the same nature, being entirely Membranous. The Inner Surface of the Ducts . also agrees in being perforated by numberless Pores, whichPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 227 which are the Mouths of Mucous Follicles, similar to those upon the inside of the Gall-Bladder. The Bile serves to mix the different parts of the Food properly together, for the formation of the Chyle,—to correct too great a disposition to acidity,—and to excite the Peristaltic motion of the Intestines. SPLEEN. The Spleen is a soft and very Vascular Substance, and of a purple colour. It is'somewhat depressed, is of a long oval form, and of considerable size, but varying in this respect in dif- ferent Subjects. It is situated under the Diaphragm, and almost ver- tically, in the Left Hypochondriac Region, between the large extremity of the Stomach and corresponding False Ribs;—its under end lying behind the Colon, and over the top of the Left Kidney. The situation of the Spleen varies a little, according to the state of Respiration, and to the fulness or emptiness of the Stomach ;—rising or falling as the Lungs are less or more dilated, and becoming more oblique in its si- tuation,—with its inferior extremity turned more for- wards,—in proportion as the Stomach becomes more dis- i tended. Its form and size also vary a little, according ' i to the degree of pressure it receives from the Stomach. Its External Surface is convex and uniform, like that of the Ribs, &c. to which it is opposed. Its Internal Surface, or that next the Spine, is irre- gularly concave, and is divided into an Anterior and P 2 PosteriorOF THE VISCERA, See. [Part IV. 228 Posterior Plane, by a longitudinal Groove or Fissure, where the Vessels and Nerves enter. The Anterior Plane is more concave than the Poste- rior, corresponding to the contiguous convexity of the Stomach. The Spleen has frequently deep Fissures upon its edges ;—sometimes it lias small Appendages attached to it, and not unfrequently there is one or more Small. Spleens connected with it. At the inner side, it is fixed to the Omentum, and by means of that and Blood-vessels, to the Stomach and Pancreas.—Behind, it is connected to the Diaphragm, and below, to the Left Kidney and Colon, by Reflec- tions of the Peritoneum, and by Cellular Substance. It is covered by a double Membrane, one Layer of which is a production of the Peritoneum, the other pro- per to the Spleen itself, but so closely connected to the common Coat, that they appear to be one and the same Membrane. The substance of the Spleen is remarkably soft, and it is by much the most tender of the Abdominal Viscera. It consists of a Congeries of Blood-vessels, Lympha- tics, and Nerves, joined together and supported by a large quantity of Cellular Substance. The extreme Branches of the Blood-vessels put on the appearance of Penicilli, which hnve been mistaken for Glands. These Vessels are so tender, that when an Injection is forcibly thrown into either Artery or Vein, particularly the latter, it bursts into the common Cellular Substance, and gives the appearance of Follicles or Cells. ThePart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 229 The Blood-vessels of the Spleen are among the largest of the Body, in proportion to the size of the Viscus on which they are dispersed. The Artery is a principal Branch of the Cceliac.—It runs in a serpentine direction, and, after sending Branch* es to the Pancreas, &c. and the Arter'ue Breves to the left end of the Stomach, it goes into the Substance of the Spleen, where it is subdivided into Branches, which arc crowded together, and run in every direction, form- ing at length Plexus and Penicilli, which terminate in the Branches of the corresponding Vein. The Vein, like that in most other Viscera, is larger than the Artery: It receives the Blood immediately from the terminations of the Artery, without the intervention of Cells. The Splenic Vein receives the Vena; Breves of the Stomach, the Pancreatic Veins, &c. and forms one of the principal Branches of the Vena Portae. The Lymphatics from the superficial parts of the Spleen join the deep-seated Absorbents at the Fissure where the Blood-vessels enter, and afterwards pass through several Conglobate Glands lying over the Splenic Artery. They intermix with Lyrhphatics belonging to several other Viscera, and terminate in the Thoracic Duct. The Nerves of the Spleen, which are small, but con- siderable in number, are Branches of the Great Sym- pathetic and Eighth Pair, and form an irregular Plexus which surrounds the Vessels, No Excretory Duct has been found to proceed from the Spleen, in consequence of which very various opi- P S nioniOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 230 . nions have been entertained with respect to the use of this Organ. Many of the Ancients were of opinion,—that besides the Bile of the Liver, there was an Atra Bilis, or Black Bile, and that the Spleen was the receptacle of it. Others have thought a particular Menstruum was se- creted in it, and conveyed to the Stomach for the pur- pose of Digestion. Others again,—that the Blood of the Spleen promotes the sluggish circulation of the Blood of the Vena Portae. The late Mr Hewson, who has written particularly on the Spleen, was of opinion, it concurred with the Thymus and Lymphatic Glands, in forming the red Globules of the Blood, and that these Globules were rendered complete in the Spleen. It has been also supposed,—that as the Stomach be- comes full, the Spleen is compressed by it, in conse- quence of which a greater quantity of Blood is sent to the Pancreas, for the secretion of the Pancreatic Juice. But the present most prevalent opinion is,—that the Blood undergoes some change in it, which renders it uselul in the secretion of the Bile; and the opinion is supported from the great quantity of Blood with which this Organ is known to be supplied, and from its Vein, not only in Man, but in other Animals, passing to the Vena Portae. PANCREAS. The Pancreas is a long flat Gland of the Conglome- rateIPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 251 i rate kind, and of the same nature with the Salivary i Glands, of which it may be reckoned the largest. It is situated in the Epigastric Region, and is placed i transversely in the back part of the Abdomen, between the Stomach and Spine. It has a large or Right Extremity, and a small or Left one, an Anterior and Posterior Surface, and an Upper and Under Edge. The Right Extremity is attached to the left side of the second turn of the Duodenum, or to that part where the Intestine is about to go across the Spine. From the under part of the Right Extremity, the Pancreas sends down an Elongation or Process, which adheres closely to the Duodenum. This Process was discovered by Winslow, and term- ed by him Pancreas Minus.—It is also called Head of the Pancreas. The Body of the Pancreas passes before the upper edge of the transverse portion of the Duodenum, and over the Aorta, Vena Cava, and part of the Splenic Vessels, to all of which it is attached. It becomes gradually narrower and thinner towards its Left Extremity, which is rounded, and is fixed to the Spleen, through the medium of the large Omentum. The Pancreas is covered anteriorly by the two Layers of the root of the Meso-colon ;—posteriorly, it is only covered with Cellular Substance, which connects it to the Vertebrae. It is of a pale red colour, bordering upon yellow, and is composed of Acini, which form small Glands or Lobes, that are connected loosely by Cellular Substance, P 4 inOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV, 232 in such a manner as to give an appearance of uniformity and smoothness to the External Surface. By a good Injection, each of the Acini is found to be composed of an assemblage of Blood-vessels, and of the origins of an Excretory 'l ube. The Arteries of the Pancreas are derived, partly from the Hepatic, but chiefly from the Splenic, by several small Branches, which pass at various places into its Substance, in a transverse direction. The Veins correspond in name and course with the Arteries, and assist in forming the Vena Portae. The Lymphatics run to the Splenic Plexus, and ter- minate in the Thoracic Duct. The Nerves of the Pancreas are small. Like those of the other Viscera of the Abdomen, they arc derived from the Great Sympathetic and Eighth Pair. From the different Acini of the Pancreas, small Ducts ari e, which join into larger ones, running transversely in the Substance of the Pancreas, and forming a com- mon Duct, called Ductus Pancreaticus. The Pancreatic Duct, termed also Ductus Wirtsitn<5-1, after the Discoverer of it in the Human Body, is remark- ably thin, of a white colour, and semi-transparent. It begins at the Left Extremity of the Pancreas, runs somewhat Serpentine in the Substance of the Gland, a little below its middle height, becoming gradually larger in consequence of receiving the different Branches which compose it,—and is at last about the size of a Haven’s Quill. At the Right Extremity of the Pancreas, it receives the principal Duct of the Pancreas Minus, and termi- natesPart IV.] OF THE ABDOMEN. 23S nates obliquely in the Duodenum by an Orifice common to it and the Ductus Communis Choledochus.—In some rare cases, however, it terminates at a little distance from the Biliary Duct; and sometimes also, the Duct of the Pancreas Minus ends separately in the Duodenum. The Pancreas secretes a Liquid, resembling Saliva in quality and appearance, and discharges it by its Ex- cretory Duct into the Duodenum. The Pancreatic Juice incorporates the Bile with the Alimentary Mass, and may be said also to answer the same purpose to the Contents of the Intestines, which the Gastric Juice does to those of the Stomach ; or, it -finishes that Digestive Process in the Intestines, which was begun in the Stomach. TABLE\ * : tit | t • * * > . ■ ► , •*. * *' 1 -i % * ■285 Part IV.] ORGANS OF URINE. e? THE ORGANS OF URINE AND GENERA- TION IN THE MALE. KIDNEYS. The Kidneys are two Glandular Bodies, of a pale red colour, situated in the upper and back part of the Ab- domen, in the Lumbar Region. They are placed one on each side of the Spine, ex- tending from the eleventh pair of Ribs to near the Ossa Ilia, and rest upon the Diaphragm, large Psoae, Qua- Hrati Lumborum, and Transversales Abdominis. The Right Kidney is situated at the under and back part of the large Lobe of the Liver, behind the Colon, and is commonly a very little lower than the left. The Left Kidney is placed at the under and back part of the Spleen, and behind the left portions of the Stomach, Pancreas, and Colon. The Kidney is about five or six fingers-breadth in length*OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 236 length, but considerably less from the outer to the inner side, and less still from before backwards; or, it is com- pared in shape to a French or Kidney Bean. It is rounded anteriorly, flattened posteriorly, convex and uniform at its outer margin, and has a deep De- pression or Sinus towards the Vertebrae, surrounded with unequal edges, where the licnal Vessels and Nerves enter. It is a little broader behind than before, and a little broader and more curved above than below ; from v hich circumstances, but more particularly from the disposi- tion of the Vessels, to be afterwards mentioned, it is easy to distinguish the Right from the Left Kidney when taken out of the Body. The Right Kidney is connected to the Liver and Duodenum, the Left to the Spleen, and both to the Muscles on which they are placed, and to the Renal Glands and Colon, by Cellular Substance, and by the Peritoneum. They are also connected to the Aorta and Vena Cava by their Blood-vessels, and to the Bladder of Urine by the Ureters.—They accompany the motions of the Liver and Spleen, in the different states of Re- spiration. Each Kidney is surrounded by loose Cellular Sub- stance, which commonly contains a considerable quan- tity of Fat, from which it is termed Tienica Adiposa. The Turned Adiposa covers not only the Kidney, but the large Vessels, and defends them from the pressure ®f the surrounding Viscera. Urider the Tunica Adiposa, there is a Membrane com- posedPart IV.] ORGANS OF URINE. 2S7 posed of the original proper Coat and Cellular Sub- stance incorporated, which adheres closely to the Kid- ney, and is reflected over the edges of the Sinus, to be joined to the Pelvis and large Vessels. The Substance of the Kidney is commonly smooth and uniform, though sometimes it is irregular, in con- sequence of the Lobes which originally form it not be- ing completely incorporated. It consists of an outer part called Cortical, and an inner termed Medullary. The Cortical Substance, termed also Secerning, sur- rounds the Kidney, and forms about a third of its breadth. —It likewise sends in partitions which separate the Me- dullary parts from each other. The Medullary, termed also Uriniferous Substance, is of a paler colour than the former, and is divided into a number of distinct Columns, each of which terminates in a Projection called Papilla, or Processus Mcimmil- laris. The Papillce are merely the continuation of the Uri- iflferous part, though frequently considered as a third division of the Substance of the Kidney. Each Kidney has one, and sometimes more Arteries, which run transversely from the Aorta, and a Vein still larger than the Artery, which terminates in the Cava. —They enter at the Sinus of the Kidney, and are in- cluded in Cellular Substance, which accompanies them throughout their course. The Right Renal Artery is longer than the Left, in consequence of the Vena Cava, behind which it passes, being placed upon the right side of the Aorta. The Artery, as it approaches the Kidney, is divided , intaOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. into Branches, which are afterwards minutely distribut- ed through the Cortical Substance, forming Arches and Anastomoses ; but these are found to be much less fre- quent than are commonly described ; for a fine Injection thrown into a Branch of the Artery, fills only the ra- mifications belonging to that Branch. The small Branches, after turning and winding in various directions, pass partly towards the Surface of the Kidney, where they form irregular Stars, some of which supply the proper Membrane. Others turn inwards in a waving direction, and form Corpuscles, disposed somewhat after the manner of Clus- ters of small Berries, which can only be seen distinctly by the assistance of Glasses, after a minute Injection. The Corjruscles were considered by Dr Nichols as - the Globular Terminations of Blood-vessels, and termed by him Globuli Artcriarum Termini,• but these Globuli were afterwards observed by Mr Hewson, and others, to consist of small Vessels intimately intermixed. The Veins returning from the extremities of the Arte- ries, unite in the Cortical Substance ot the Kidney. The Branches of the Renal Vein are much larger than those of the Artery; they communicate freely, especially on the Surface of the Kidney, but correspond with them in their course.—They form a large Trunk on each side, which lies anterior to the corresponding Artery, and runs transversely to the Cava; the left, which is the longer of the two, passing across the fore part of the Aorta. The Lymphatics of the Kidney run from without in- wards, and terminate in the Lumbar Glands, and after- wardsPart IV.] ORGANS OF URINE. 239 wards in the Thoracic Duct.—The Superficial Lympha- tics are so small as seldom to be seen, excepting in the diseased state of the Kidney. The Nerves are from the Semilunar Ganglion formed by the Great Sympathetic and Eighth Pair. They com- pose a Plexus which surrounds the Blood-vessels, and accompanies them in the Kidney. From the minute extremities of the Renal Artery, in the Corpuscles seated in the Cortical Substance, the Uri- niferous Tubes arise. They are mixed with some ex- tremely small Blood-vessels, and constitute the Medul- lary Substance of the Kidney. By degrees they unite into larger Tubes, which run in a radiated manner, the direction being from the outer edge or circumference, towards the Sinus or inner part of the Kidney. The Radiated Tubes, becoming still larger in their passage, terminate in the Papillae, which are of a com- pressed Conical form, and at a little distance from each other. f The Papillae are twelve or more in each Kidney, the number varying according to that of the Original Lobes of which the Kidney is composed, and likewise from some of the Papillae being incorporated with each other. Upon the Points of the Papillae are the Terminations of the Uriniferous Tubes,—large enough to be distin- guished by the naked Eye,—through which the Urine distils from the Substance of the Kidney. Round the root of each Papilla, a Membranous Tube arises*240 Or I HE VISCERA, &c. [pAnTlV, arises, termed Infundibulum or Cali:v, which receives the Urine from the Papillae. I he Infundibula are commonly the same in number with the Papillae; the number, however, varying in dif- ferent Subjects, two or more of the Papillae sometimes opening into the same Infundibulum. The infundibula join into two or three larger Trunks, at the Sinus ol the Kidney, which afterwards form a Dilatation of considerable size, of the shape of an in- verted Cone, and termed Pelvis of the Kidney. The Pelvis is placed partly within, but the greater part of it without the Body of the Kidney, and con- tracts into a long Tube, about the size of a writing-pen, called Ureter. The Ureters are commonly one to each Kidney, though in some rare instances they are double on one or on both sides. The Artery of the Kidney is placed uppermost,—the Vein in the middle and fore part,—and the Pelvis and beginning of the Ureter at the under and back part of the Blood vessels; which disposition of the Vessels serves as a distinguishing mark between the Right and Left Kidney, when separated from the Body. The Ureters descend in the Loins obliquely inwards behind the Peritoneum, and go over the Psoae and Iliac Vessels, opposite to the anterior and lateral part of the Os Sacrum. They pass afterwards into the Pelvis, and terminate in the under, outer, and back part of the Bladder. In their descent, they do not run in a straight, but in a waving direction, somewhat similar to the Italic /,-— neither241 Part IV.] ORGANS OF URINE. Vol. II. Q They neither are they cylindrical, as they form slight dilata- tions and contractions in their course, two of which contractions are more observable in their passage over the Psoae Muscles, and at their insertion into the Bladder. The Ureters are covered anteriorly by the Perito- neum, and composed of an External Membranous Coat, a Middle Muscular one, formed chiefly of Circular Fibres, and an Internal Coat, sometimes called Villous. The Inner Coat is very Vascular, and is perforated by the Mouths of small Ducts, which line it with a Mu- cus to defend it from the Urine. The Vessels and Nerves of the Ureters are from those of the contiguous parts. The Kidneys secrete the Urine from the Blood, and convey it by means of the Ureters to the Bladder. RENAL GLANDS. The Renal Glands, termed also Capsules Atrabilariee, Capsides Renales, Renes Succenturiati, and Glandules Su- pra-renales, are two small, flat, Glandular-like Bodies, i of a dark-yellow colour, lying in the upper and back ipart of the Abdomen. They are situated at the upper, inner, and fore part of the Kidneys, over the large Psoae Muscles and Dia- iphragm, and higher than the Renal Vessels.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Paiit IV. 24-2 They are of an irregular figure, somewhat triangular, and are about a couple of fingers-breadth in length, but much larger proportionally in the Foetus than in the Adult; in the latter case being only about a fifteenth part of the size of the Kidney. The Right one is connected to the Liver, the Left to the Spleen and Pancreas, and both to the small Muscle of the Diaphragm, and to the Psooe Muscles and Kid- neys, by Cellular Substance. They arc likewise retain- ed by numerous Vessels and Nerves which are spread over them. They are surrounded by Cellular Substance, which is part of the Tunica Adiposa of the Kidneys, and have a thin proper Coat, which adheres firmly to them. Their Inner Parts are softer than the Outer, are of a brown colour, and can be easily separated from the Outer, after which the Glands have the appearance of being real Capsules. They are frequently observed to be hollow, and to contain a dark-coloured Bilious-like matter, which is considered by many Anatomists as the Internal very Vascular and tender parts melted down by Putrefaction. Their Arteries come from those of the adjacent parts, particularly from the Renal, and also from the Aort3, and Diaphragmatic Arteries. Of the principal. Veins, the Right goes to the Veil* Cava, and the Left to the Renal Vein. The Lyntyhatics go chiefly to those of the Kidneys. The Nerves come principally from the Renal Plexus. They have no Excretory Ducts. The Renal Glands have been supposed to furnish Lymphns IPart IV.] ORGANS OF URINE. ELymph for the dilution of the Blood returning in the iRenal Veins, after the secretion of the Urine ; Or, to restore to the Blood of the Vena Cava* the iirritable parts lost in the secretion of the Urine and IBile; Or, to convey something useful to the Thoracic IDuct; Or, in the Foetus, to divert the Blood from the Kid- neys, and thereby lessen the quantity of Urine. But their use is still undiscovered; though it is sup* pposed, from their vicinity to the Kidneys, not only in ?Man, but in many other Animals, that they are subser* wient to these Organs, particularly in the Fcetus. VESICA URINARIA. The Vesica Urinaria, or Bladder of Urine, is a large SSac situated in the Pelvis, in the bottom of the Hypo- gastric Region. It is placed in the fore part of the Pelvis behind the (Ossa Pubis,—before the upper, and above the under [portion of the Intestinum Rectum. When empty, it is contracted into a small size, which uccupies the under and fore part of the Pelvis ; but, i when fully distended, it rises above the Brim of that Ca- vity, and sometimes, as in a suppression of Urine, It iscends to within a little distance of the Umbilicus. When moderately dilated, it is of a roundish, or rrregular oblong form, but a little flattened before, more “convex behind, and broader at its anterior and poste- ib Q 2 riortil* OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. rior than towards its lateral parts,—a little more capa- cious, also, below than above, especially at its posterior part. It is distinguished into Fundus, Body, and Cervix ; the first of which is placed upwards and a little for- wards, and the last at the under and fore part. It is connected below to the Rectum, and at the sides to tho Pelvis, by the reflected Peritoneum and Cellular Substance ; the former of which, when the Bladder is empty, has the appearance of lateral Ligaments. It is attached, at the fore part of its Body, by Cellu- lar Substance, to the Ossa Pubis, without the interven- tion of the Peritoneum. It is also fixed to the Umbilicus by three Ligaments situated between the Peritoneum and Abdominal Mus- cles.—They are formed of the Urachus running up- wards from the Fundus, and of the shrivelled Umbi- lical Arteries passing obliquely from the sides of the Bladder. The firmest connection is by means of a Ligamentous Expansion, which runs from each side of the Neck of the Bladder and Prostate Gland, to be fixed to the under and inner part of the Symphysis of the Ossa Pubis.— It is connected, also, at this place, to the Penis, by the Urethra. It is composed of different Coats joined together by Cellular Substance ; the first of which is only a partial one continued from the Peritoneum. The Peritoneal, or Common Coat, recedes from the Abdominal Muscles at the top of the Pubes, and passes over the superior, and down upon the posterior and la- teral245 EPart IV.] ORGANS OF URINE. tteral parts of the Bladder, to near the termination of :the Ureters, where it is about a finger’s-length from the /Anus, and is there reflected upon the Rectum and back rpart of the Pelvis. When the Bladder is much distended, it carries the IPeritoneum with it, and leaves a space between that JMembrane and the Pubes, of such length, that an In- clusion has frequently been made here, and large Calculi extracted from the Bladder, without penetrating into tthe Abdomen, or wounding the Peritoneum. The second Coat is termed Muscular.—It is composed oaf distinct Fleshy Fibres, interwoven with each other, :und forming Fasciculi. The External Fibres run chiefly in a longitudinal di- rection, and are connected, at the under and fore part Dof the Bladder, with the Ossa Pubis.. More internally, are Fibres which run in all directions, and are intermixed with each other in the form of an irregular Net-work. The Muscular Fibres are contracted about the Neck of the Bladder, and form what has been termed Sphincter Wesicce;—these, however, are merely the continuation jjf the other Fibres. The Muscular Coat, by its contraction, occasions the complete evacuation of the Bladder.—The Fibres about he Neck of the Bladder-, by acting separately from the rest of the Muscular Coat, prevent the involuntary dis- charge of the Urine. The Cellular Substance under the Muscular Fibres, s frequently termed Nervous Coat. The Inner Coat, though often called Villous, is smooth Q. 3 like246 OF THE VISCERA, kc. [Part IV. They like the inside of the Peritoneum, and, though thin, is so dense as to prevent the exudation of the Urine. This Coat is rendered somewhat unequal by the pro- jection of the Fasciculi of the Muscular Fibres ; and when the Bladder is empty, it forms large Wrinkles or Rugae. 'l'lie inside of the Bladder is very irritable, in conse- quence of which a desire to expel the Urine is occasion- ally excited. It is lined, however, by a Mucus dis- charged from its Arteries, which prevents it from being constantly irritated by that Fluid. The under part of the Bladder is perforated by three Openings; of which one is placed anteriorly, and two posteriorly. The anterior opening is the beginning of the Pas- sage called Urethra, and is surrounded by the Neck of the Bladder. It comes off almost at a right Angle from the lower part of the Bladder, without any tapering of that Vis- cus. The inner Lining of the Urethra at the posterior part of the Neck of the Bladder is frequently formed, in old people, into longitudinal folds. These, in the diseased state of the Prostate Gland, assist in the formation of the Lobes, which often project so much into the Cavity of the Bladder, as to have the effect of a Valve in clos- ing up the Orifice of the Urethra. The other two openings of the Bladder are formed by the terminations of the Ureters, which run obliquely forwards and inwards, between the Muscular and Inner Coat of the Bladder.Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 247 They terminate in the Bladder at a little distance from each other, and at the same distance behind the begin- ning of the Urethra, each by a somewhat oval opening, which is more contracted than the Ureter is immediate- ly above it. Each of these openings is fixed by a Retinaculum formed by the inner Coat of the Bladder. This passes obliquely inwards and forwards, but is more distinctly seen when a probe is introduced into the orifice, and the part gently raised. Between the terminations of the Ureters and the be- ginning of the Urethra, is a space of a triangular form, —the Trigone of Lieutaud. The Arteries of the Bladder come from various sources, but chiefly from the Umbilicalis and Pudenda Communis. The Veins return to the Internal Iliacs :—They form a Plexus of considerable size upon each side of the Bladder, particularly about its Neck. The Lymphatics accompany the principal Veins on the Bladder, and at the under part and sides, pass into the Iliac Glands. The Nerves are Branches of the Great Sympathetic and Sacral Nerves. The Bladder receives the Urine from the Ureters by drops, and sometimes by small Thread-like streams or squirts, till, by its accumulated quantity and acrimony, it forces that Viscus to contract and expel it. The Urine is expelled, partly by the contraction of the Bladder itself, and partly by the action of the Ab- Q 4- dominal248 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Pa*? IV, dominal Muscles and Diaphragm pressing the Intestines against the Bladder. The frequency of the evacuation depends upon the 6ize and sensibility of the Bladder, upon the quantity of Urine secreted, and the degree of acrimony it possesses. TESTES. The Testes, formerly termed Didymi or Gemini, are two Glandular Bodies situated in the Cavity of the Scrotum. The Scrotum, which furnishes an External Covering to the Testes, is a continuation of the common Integu- ments ; has the same structure with the Skin in general; but is more plentifully supplied with Sebaceous Follicles, has no Fat in its Cellular Substance, and is occasionally relaxed and corrugated in a greater degree than the Skin in the other parts of the Body. Upon the Surface of the Scrotum, there is a superfi- cial, longitudinal, projecting Liney which divides it into two equal parts, and has the name of Rajihe. The inner Surface of the Scrotum is lined with Cel- lular Substance, which is firmer and more Vascular than in other places. The Cellular Substance of the Scrotum, in conse- quence of its redness, Fibrous appearance, and supposed power of contraction, has, by many Anatomists, been considered as a Muscle, and called Dartos.—This opi- nion, however, has been rejected. The Cellular Substance of the Scrotum involves each TesticlePart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 249 Testicle singly, and forms a Septum between the two, which prevents Air or Water from passing readily from one side of the Scrotum to the other. The Vessels and Nerves of the Scrotum are chiefly from those of the neighbouring parts. The Blood-vessels are Branches of the Pudendal and Femoral. The Lymphatics go mostly to the Inguinal,—but some of them accompany those of the Testes to the Lumbar Glands. The anterior part of the Scrotum derives its Nerves from the Lumbar, and the posterior from the Pudendal and Sciatic Nerves. The Scrotum assists in supporting and protecting the. Testes. Under the Scrotum are two Membranes or Coats, pro- per to each of the Testes, the one termed Vaginalis, the other Albuginea. The Tunica Vaginalis, named from its forming a Sheath, is of the name nature with the Peritoneum, being originally a Process of that Membrane, which, in the Foetus, descends with the Testicle from the Ab- domen. It forms a shut Sac, which has no communication with any other part. It incloses the Testicle, as the Pericardium does the Heart, being only in contact with it, excepting behind, where it is continuous with the Albuginea. It is considerably larger than the Testis which it in- closes, reaching as far above and below it as to allow it a certain degree of motion. It250 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Fart IV. It is connected by its external Surface to the Cremas- ter, and partly by that Muscle to the inner Surface of the Scrotum. It assists the Cremaster in supporting the Testis, and by being constantly moistened within by a Fluid exhaled from its Surface, and from that of the Tunica Albugi- nea, it allows the Testicle to move easily. The Tunica Albuginea, so called from its white colour, is like the former Coat, a continuation of the Perito- neum, and invests the Body of the Testicle closely. It is a thick, strong, dense, and inelastic Membrane, of a glistening appearance. It is remarkably smooth on the outside, but internally it is rough and unequal, adhering every where firmly to* the Body of the Testis. It covers both the Testis and Substance called Epidi- dymis, connects them to each other, gives strength to them, and conducts their Vessels in the same manner the Mesentery does those of the Intestines. The Body of the Testis is of a yellowish colour, and has a pulpy appearance,—is of an oval form, a little flat- tened at its outer and inner sides ; and frequently one Testicle is a little larger than the other. The Testes are placed obliquely, with one end up- wards and forwards, and the other end backwards and downwards. 'The Epididymis is situated at the outer and back part of the Testis, and is inclosed in the same Covering. The Epididymis begins at the upper part of the Tes- ticle, immediately above the entry of the Blood-vessels j andPart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 251 and this part of it being large and of a round form, is termed Globus Major, or Head of the Epididymis. In its descent, it becomes somewhat smaller and flat- ter, and is attached behind to the Body of the Testicle where the Blood-vessels enter •, but it is loose at its fore part, the Tunica Albuginea dipping in this place, and forming a Cavity or Pouch between it and the Testicle. The under part of it becomes more firmly attached to the Body of the Testicle, and forms the Cauda, or Glo- bus Minor. It is then turned backwards upon itself, after which it sends out the Excretory Duct of the Tes- ticle. The Body of theTestis has numerous Arteries, Veins, Absorbents, and Nerves but is principally composed of a collection of minute, tender, elastic Filaments, intri- cately convoluted, termed Tubuli Seminiferi, or Vasa Seminalia. The Tubidi Seminiferi are disposed in Fasciculi or Bundles, between Partitions, which are formed of Blood-vessels and Cellular Substance. These Septulje begin at the root or Nucleus, some- times termed Corjms Highmorianum, situated at the back part of the Testicle, and extend in a radiated manner to the Tunica Albuginea. The Testis is fixed behind by its Vessels, which are collected into a Cord termed Spermatic, but is loose and free before, to prevent it from being pinched. 1 he Spermatic Cord, properly so called, extends from the Ring of the Obliquus Externus to the Body of the Testis, and is composed of the Trunks of the different Vessels belonging to it, and of a quantity of Cellular Substance.252 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Substance.—The Cord is covered by the Cremaster, and within it, by the same Process of the Peritoneum which lorms the Tunica Vaginalis Testis, and which is now called the Tunica Vaginalis of the Spermatic Cord. Here, however, the Process is so incorporated with the common Cellular Substance of the Cord, as to appear to form part of it. The under part of the Vagina of the Cord is separated by a Partition formed by the upper end of the Vaginal Coat of the Testicle, and by condensed Cellular Sub- stance, so that no Liquor can pass easily from the Cord to the Testicle, or vice versa. The Arteries of the Testes, termed Artericc Spcrma- ticce, and Artericc Preparantcs, arise, one on each side, from the fore part of the Aorta, a little below the Renal Arteries, opposite to, but at a little distance from, each other. The Spermatic Artery crosses over the Psoas Muscle and Ureter, and descends, behind the Peritoneum, to the under part of the Abdomen. At the lower part of the Abdomen, it perforates the Ring of the Obliquus Externus, and passes in the Sper- matic Cord to the Testicle. In its descent, it gives Branches to the adjacent parts, and is so interlaced with the corresponding Veins, as to have been supposed by the Ancients to have large la- teral communications with them. After passing the Ring, it divides into Branches which go to the Testis at its posterior edge. They are partly dispersed upon the Epididymis, but the larger Branches run253 Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. run in a serpentine direction into the Substance of the Testis, where they are minutely distributed upon the Surface of the Seminal Tubes. Besides the Spermatic Artery, there is a smaller one from the Hypogastric, and frequently also a minute Branch from the Epigastric Artery, which accompanies the Vas Deferens, and is dispersed along with the other Artery. The Veins are much larger than the corresponding Arteries, and have several Valves in them, especially without the Abdomen, contrary to what belongs to the Veins of the other Viscera. They form a Plexus, which accompanies the Artery on each side, and is sometimes called Corpus Pampgni- forme, from a supposed resemblance to the Shoots of the Vine ; or Corpus Pyramid ale, from giving a Pyra- midal form to the Cord. The Plexus ascends in the Abdomen, upon the Sur- face of the Psoas; and about the part where it recedes from the Artery, it forms a single Trunk, which, in the right side, terminates in the Vena Cava, nearly oppo- site to the origin of the Artery, and, in the left side, goes into the Renal Vein. There is also a small inferior Spermatic Vein, which accompanies its Artery, and ends in the Hypogastric Vein. The Nerves of the Testes are derived from the Re- nal, Aortic, and Lumbar Plexus, and, though very minute, they give the Testicle a more exquisite feeling than is bestowed on any other Secretory Organ. TheOF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV. ■254- The Tubuli Seminiferi in the Body of the Testicle consist of numberless extremely minute Ducts, which are of a Cylindrical form, have no division into Branches, and, when drawn out, are found to be several feet in Ingth. They are first collected into Bundles between the Sep- tula; of the Testicle, and these again into others still smaller, each of the smaller being formed of a simple Tube, coiled up into a Conical form, with its Base for- wards, and its Apex towards the posterior edge of the Testicle^ < From the convoluted Seminal Tubes, an equal num- ber of straight Vessels are sent out at the back part of the Testicle, under the name of Vasa Recta. At the upper and back part of the Testicle, the Vasa Recta communicate, and form an irregular Plexus or Net-work, called Rtte Vasculosum Testis. The Rete Testis sends out from twelve to eighteen straight Tubes, termed Vasa Efferentia, which carry the Semen from the Testicle to the Epididymis. The Vasa Efferentia soon become convoluted, and form Conical Bundles, termed Coni Vasculosi. The Coni Vasculosi are firmly connected by Cellular Substance, and are observed by Dr Monro, in his Treatise De Testibus, to compose somewhat more than a third part of the Epididymis. The Vascular Cones gradually unite into a single Tube, which constitutes the rest of the Epididymis, and though only about the size of a Hog’s Bristle, transmits the whole of the Semen. The single Tube becomes larger in its course and less convoluted,Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 255 convoluted, and at last, expanding its convolutions, it comes out greatly increased in size, and almost in a straight direction, under the name ot l as Dejerens. Besides the Ducts already described, a Fas Aberrant is sometimes observed, which is one of the Vascular Cones, wandering off, and terminating in the Epididy- mis lower than usual. At other times, the same kind of Vessel forms a Pro- cessus Ccecus, or Blind Duct, with a dilated Extremity, which does not communicate with any other part. The Vas Deferens is about the size of a Surgeon’s Probe, and is of a Cylindrical form through the greater part of its length. It has no inflections in its course, but such as are necessary for its arrival at the place of its destination. It ascends in the back part of the Spermatic Cord, having the Spermatic Blood-vessels on its fore part, but from which it is readily distinguished by the firmness of its Coats. At the under part of the Abdomen, it passes in through the Ring of the External Oblique Muscle, then separates from the Blood-vessels, and descends by the side of the Pelvis, covered by the Peritoneum. In its descent in the Pelvis, it gets behind the Blad- der, to which it closely adheres, follows the Curvature of that Viscus, gradually approaching its fellow till it arrives at the Vesicula Seminalis of the same side. In this course it passes between the corresponding Umbilical Artery and Bladder, and also between the Bladder and Ureter, where it increases considerably in size*256 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV, size, and becomes Cellular within. It continues under this appearance to near its termination, where it again contracts in its diameter, and becomes thinner and more tender in its Coats. VESICUUE SEMINALES AND PROSTATE GLAND. The Ve&icidee Seminalcs are two small white Pyriform Receptacles, situated between the under and lateral parts of the Bladder and the Intestinum Rectum,—a- bout HireeJingers-breadth in length, and the third part of that in breadth, and a little flattened. They are at a considerable distance from each other behind, but anteriorly they converge, and become con- tiguous to each other. Each of them is composed of a convoluted Tube, with irregular Processes, and surrounded by a quantity of tough Cellular Substance, and by many Vessels and Nerves, but they have no Muscularity. Internally, they have a Villous appearance, and are formed of irregular Cells, which correspond with the ir- regularities on their External Surface, and communi- cate freely with each other.—Their shape, size, and general appearance, however, vary in different Subjects, and not unfrequently in the opposite sides of the same Person. Between the Vesiculae Seminales, the ends of the Vasa Deferentia now become larger and Cellular, pass for- wards till they arrive at the Prostate Gland, where each Vas;£art IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 257 1 Vas Deferens again contracts, and joins the Ve.sicula of tthat side at a very sharp Angle, but communicates so freely with it, that injected Fluids readily pass from the cone to the other. From each Vesicula Seminalis and Vas Deferens of tthe same side, a small Canal, about afinger’s-breudth in Jlength, passes out, which is firmly connected to its fel- llow, without communicating with it, and becomes gra- dually smaller, piercing obliquely the Prostate Gland, .land terminating in the under and bac k part of the Neck cof the Bladder, a little before the beginning of the Ure- tthra. The Orifices of these Canals sometimes open in a ILacuna, which is covered behind by a Valve, which bias its concave edge forwards; but more generally the are separated from each other by a Caruncula, or round IProjection of the Membrane of the Urethra, termed Weru-montanum, from its supposed resemblance to a Ja- .velin of the Ancients ;—or Caput Gallinaginis, from its Kieing broad behind, and rostriform before, and there- fore compared to the Head and Beak of the Woodcock. The Vesiculae Seminales are commonly considered as Reservoirs of the Semen, receiving it from the Vasa Oeferentia, and afterwards,—by a power inherent in hemselves, assisted by the action of the neighbouring Muscles, particularly of the Levatores Ani,—propelling tt into the Urethra. The Semen is prevented from passing into the Blad- der, the Opening from it being shut while that fluid is xpelled. Various Experiments have been made on the Vesicu- Vol. II. R he25$ OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. kc Seminales by the late Mr Hunter,—from which he was of opinion,—that they are not Reservoirs of Se- men, but Glands secreting a particular Mucus;—that, with other parts, they are subservient to the purposes of Generation;—and that the Bulb of the Urethra is the Receptacle of the Semen, in which it is accumulat- ed previous to its ejection. The Prostate Gland, or Corpus Glandulosum, lies immediately behind the under end of the Symphysis Pubis, and rests upon the Intestinum Rectum. It surrounds and closely embraces the Neck of the Bladder, or beginning of the Urethra; but the greater part of it is placed posteriorly and laterally, having a Lobe projecting on each side. It is about the size of a Walnut, and of the figure of a Spanish Chesnut,—or it resembles a heart as common- ly painted on Playing-cards, with the Base towards the Bladder, and the point towards the Penis. The middle of the Base of the Prostate Gland, be- tween the common Seminal Ducts and Bladder, is sometimes, especially in the diseased state, of a round- ed form, and has been described by Mr Home, in the Philosophical Transactions 1806, as a Third Lobe of this Gland. The Prostate has a red Fleshy appearance, and is of a j Spongy substance, but is one of the firmest Glands of s the Body, and generally sends out Ten or Twelve Ducts, which open obliquely near the beginning of the Ure- thra, at the sides of the Caput Gallinaginis, the Ori- , fices of these Ducts surrounding the terminations of the Seminal Canals. t From259 Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. From the Ducts of the Prostate Gland, a thin white Liquor is discharged,—from the same causes, and at the same time with the Semen,—into the Urethra, and is supposed to be useful in the Process of Generation ;— or, according to some Authors, this Fluid facilitates the passage of the Semen through the Urethra. The Blood-vessels, Absorbents, and Nerves of the Vesiculae Seminales and Prostate Gland, are in com- mon with those of the parts which surround them. PENIS. The Penis consists of three Spongy Substances, two of which form the upper part and sides, or Body of the Penis, and are termed Corpora Cavernosa Penis; the third surrounds the Urethra, and has the name of Co?- pns Spongiosum Urethrae. The Penis is covered with a continuation of the com- mon Integuments, which are thinner here than else- where, and instead of Fat, there is, as in the Scrotum, a Reticular Substance only under the Skin. At the anterior extremity of the Penis, the Integu- ments form a loose Fold, termed Prepuce, which covers 'the part called Gians Penis, when the Penis is in a state of relaxation. The Prepuce is connected to the anterior and under part of the Gians, by a triangular Fold, termed Fraenum Preputii, which serves as a Liga- ment. The Corpora Cavernosa Penis resemble two equal but irregular Cylinders, or rather Portions of Cylinders, R 2 closely‘260 OF THE VISCE11A, &c. [Part IV. closely applied to the sides of each other, and each covered by a strong, elastic, Ligamentous Sheath, the Fibres of which run in a transverse, and partly in an oblique direction. They arise one on each side, by two blind Conical extremities, called their Crura, from the inner part of the Crura of the Ossa Ischia and Ossa Pubis, to both of which they are very firmly connected by Ligamen- tous substance, being in a manner confounded there with the Periosteum. In their ascent along the Bones, they approach each other, and at the under part of the Symphysis Pubis, they unite, and continue united till they reach the Gians, where they terminate in a rounded extremity. At the upper part of the root of the Penis, the Liga- mentous Sheath of the Corpora Cavernosa sends up a Process of a triangular form, to be connected to the Symphysis Pubis, under the name of Ligamentum Sus- pensorium, by which the Body of the Penis is support- ed, and prevented from pressing too much upon the Scrotum. By the union of the Corpora Cavernosa, a Groove is left above for the principal Vein of the Penis, and a Channel below, for the Spongy Substance of the Ure- thra. The internal Substance of the Corpora Cavernosa consists of loose Reticular Plates, somewhat similar to the Cancelli in the ends of long Bones, and, like them, readily communicating with each other. Upon the Cells of the Corpora Cavernpsa the Arte- ries are plentifully dispersed, and open freely into them, thePart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 261 r * • ; the Blood of the Arteries tinging the Cells in the relax- i ed state of the Penis, and filling them completely when it is distended. Cuvier considers the Corpora Cavernosa as being ; formed of a texture extremely complicated, of ramifica- tions of Blood-vessels, and particularly of Veins. The Corpora Cavernosa are united to each other by ja Sepiarn, formed by a continuation of the Elastic Li- igaments which cover these Bodies. The Septum Penis is composed of firm Tendinous-like (Cords, extending across, nearly in a parallel direction, tfrom the Dorsum Penis to the Corpus Spongiosum 1 Urethras, and thus guarding against an over-distension. Between the different Cords Fissures are left, through which the Blood, or an Injected Fluid, passes without (obstruction, from one of the Corpora Cavernosa to the cother, rendering the Penis in this manner one general (Cavity, separated by the Septum into two apartments. The Corpus Spongiosum Urcthrce is situated under and (between the Corpora Cavernosa Penis, but projects con- siderably beyond them. It begins a little behind the part where the Corpora (Cavernosa are united, adheres to them by condensed (Cellular Substance, and .terminates at the anterior ex- tremity of the Penis. It has an external Covering similar to that of the (Corpora Cavernosa Penis, but more delicate, and has more of a Membranous appearance. The posterior part of the Corpus Spongiosum is di- lated into a Longitudinal Prominence, of a Conical form, ituated within the Skin of the Perinoeum, and termed R 3 Pull>262 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Bulb of the Urethra. It extends from the root of the Penis to near the Anus, projects most towards the un- der and back part, and is divided anteriorly by a Sep- tum. •from the Bulb, the Corpus Spongiosum is continued along the under part of the Corpora Cavernosa, in a Cylindrical figure, and at the end of these expands into the Glims Penis, which is of an oval form, and placed obliquely. The Gians covers and incloses the ends of the Corpora Cavernosa. The Gians is separated from the Corpora Cavernosa by a continuation of the Ligamentous Sheath which covers them, and is encircled at its posterior part by a prominent Margin, called Corona Glandis; behind which is a Cervix. The Surface of the Gians is covered with a Plexus chiefly of Venous Vessels, and with Nervous Papillce ; and these are inclosed in the Skin, continued from the inside of the Prepuce, but now become so delicate, that the colour of the Corpus Spongiosum of the Gians ap- pears through it. The Nervous Papillas render the Gians the principal seat of the sensibility of which the Penis is susceptible. About the Cervix and Corona of the Gians, are many Follicles, termed Glandulcc Odorifercc, which discharge a Sebaceous Matter, to preserve the sensibility of the Gians, and allow the Prepuce to move backwards and forwards upon it with facility. The Internal Structure of the Bulb of the Urethra and Gians Penis, is of the same nature with that of the CorporaPart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 265 R 1 —including Corpora Cavernosa; and the Internal Structure of the rest of the Corpus Spongiosum differs from that of the Corpora Cavernosa only in this, that the Cells are small- er and of a more delicate texture. Some Anatomists consider the greater part of the Corpus Spongiosum as merely a Plexus of convoluted Blood-vessels, particu- larly of Veins. The Urethra is a long Canid, the Diameter of which is nearly equal to that of a writing-pen. It begins at the under and fore part of the Bladder, runs through the Corpus Spongiosum, and terminates in the point of the Penis by a longitudinal Orifice. At its Origin it descends a little, and then passes for- wards under the Symphysis of the Ossa Pubis $ to which it is closely connected by Cellular Substance.—It then ascends at the outer and fore part of the Ossa Pubis ; varying in the remainder of its course, according to the different degrees of relaxation or distension of the Cells of the Penis. There are commonly three Dilatations in the Ure-i thra; one of which is at the Prostate Gland, the second in the Bulb of the Urethra, and the third about the be- ginning of the Gians. In general, it has also the same number of Slight Con-> tractions ^ the first at its Origin from the Bladder, the second between the point of the Prostate Gland and Bulb of the Urethra, and the third at the point of the Gians. Between the point of the Prostate Gland and part where the Urethra penetrates the Corpus Spongiosum*264 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Taut IV. —including nearly the space of a finger’s-breadth,— the Urinary passage is entirely Membranous, and covered only with the common Cellular Substance. At the upper side of the Bulb, the Urethra enters the Corpus Spongiosum, in which it is inclosed to its termi- nation in the point of the Penis. The inside of the Urethra is lined by a very Vascular and sensible Membrane, continued from the inner Coat of the Bladder, but which is observed to possess a cer- tain degree of Contractility, and is therefore presumed by several Anatomists to be endowed with Muscular Fibres. Between the Corpus Spongiosum and Membrane which lines the Urethra, especially towards the Septum Penis, numerous Lacuna: of different sizes are situated j one or two of which in particular, next the Gians, are often considerably larger than the rest. They run in a longitudinal direction from behind for- wards, and, perforating the Urethra by Orifices large enough to admit a Bristle, they discharge a Bland Mu- cus for the defence of the Urethra. Besides the Lacunae, two small Bodies of a yellowish colour, each about the size of a Garden-pea, are fre- quenth met with, and are termed, from their Discover- er, Cowpeh’s Glands. They have likewise the name of Antiprostata and Prostata Inferiores. They are situated at the sides of the Membranous part of the Urethra,—between its Bulb and the point of the Prostate Gland,—and covered by the Acceleratores Urinap. EachPart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 265 Each sends out a small Duct, which terminates ob- liquely in the Urethra, at the bulbous part. They are observed to discharge a Fluid, which is sup- posed to serve the same purpose with that of the La- cunae. The Arteries of the Penis are chiefly from the Pudicaj Communes, which are Branches of the Internal Iliacs, and partly from the Femoral Arteries. Each of the Pudic Arteries having passed out of the Pelvis through the great Notch of the Os Ilium, runs between the Sacro-Sciatic Ligaments to the inner side of the Tuber Ischii, from which it passes along the Crus of that Bone and of the Os Pubis, to the root of the Penis. In its course, it furnishes Branches to the adjacent parts, and afterwards gives off three principal Branches, which belong to the Penis :—One of these goes to the Bulb of the Urethra, to be dispersed in the Corpus Spongiosum ;—the other two, which are larger than the former, go to the Body of the Penis ; one of them pene- trating its Crus, and running in the axis of the Corpus Cavernosum, as may be readily seen by a longitudinal section of this part; the other passing between the Symphysis Pubis and joining of the Crura Penis, and extending along the Dorsum as far as the Corona Glandis. The Branches of the Femoral Artery to the Penis communicate with those of the former, and are chiefly dispersed upon the Integuments. The Arteries of the Penis are divided into minute Ramifications, which communicate with each other, and with266 OF THE VISCER A, &c. [Part IV. with their fellows on the opposite side, and terminate partly in the corresponding Veins, and partly in the Colls of the Penis. The Veins arise, some from the extremities of the Ar- teries, and others by large open Mouths from the Cells of the Penis. 'Flic greater number of the Veins unite into a Trunk, called Vena Magna Penis, which runs in the superior Groove formed by the union of the Corpora Caverno- sa, and is furnished with Valves, and with thick strong Coats. The Vena Magna, at the under end of the Symphysis Pubis, separates into Right and Left Plexus, which pass to the corresponding Iliac Veins. To an obstruction of the course of the Blood through the Veins, by the pressure of the Muscles at the root of the Penis, together with an increased influx through the Arteries, is owing that accumulation of Blood in the Corpora Cavernosa and Corpus Spongiosum, which occasions a distension of the Penis. The relaxation of the Penis happens from the causes which produced the distension being removed; the elas- tic Ligamentous Membrane which covers the Penis a- gain forcing the Blood from the Cells into the Veins. Upon the Surface of the Penis, there are small super- ficial Veins, which communicate with those deeper seat- ed, and commonly terminate by one or more Branches in the Veins at the top of the Thighs. • These Branches assist in carrying on the circulation, and return part of the Blood during the distension of the Penis. CfPart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 2G7 Of the Lymphatics of the Penis, those from the Pre- Ipuce and Skin, in general, go to the right and left In- guinal Glands, while the Lymphatics from the Gians and Body of the Penis accompany the Arteries into the under part of the Pelvis. The Nerves of the Penis are large in proportion to the size, but are quite in proportion to the great sensi- bility of that Organ. They come from that part of the Spinal Nerves which gives origin to those termed Sciatic, and are distributed chiefly upon the Ligamentous Sheath which incloses the Corpora Cavernosa. The most considerable of them are large Cords, si- tuated upon the Dorsum Penis, more laterally than the Arteries which lie between them anti the principal Vein. For the Muscles of the Penis, see Part II. The Penis serves to eject the Semen into the Vagina, and to convey the Urine from the Bladder. The dis- tension of the Penis serving to give the proper degree of consistence for its introduction into the Vagina : The Gians, by Friction, exciting the feelings requisite for the expulsion of the Semen in the Male, and for conception in the Female, I TABLE4 . » v «* .Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 269 / OF THE ORGANS OF URINE, AND OF THE UNIM- PREGNATED PARTS OF GENERATION, IN THE FEMALE. The Kidneys, Renal Glands, and Ureters, have the same situation and structure as in the Male. The Bladder also has the same situation behind the Ossa Pubis, but rises higher when it is in the distended state. It is proportionally larger than the Bladder of the Male, and is broader from one side to the other, cor- responding to the Cavity of the Pelvis to which it be- longs. The Urethra is much shorter,—being scarcely two inches in length,—and straighter than in the Male, having only a slight bend downwards between its extre- mities. It is produced from the most depending part or Neck of the Bladder, and is directed almost horizontally under the Symphysis of the Ossa Pubis. It has no Prostate Gland, but is furnished, as in the Male, with Lacunce,OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part iV. 370 The Lacume, which open into it, and discharge a Mucus to defend it from the Urine. The Parts of Generation are divided into Internal and External. The former consists of the Uterus and its Appendages. Internal Parts. The Uterus, Matrixy or Womb, is a hollow Viscus, situated in the Pelvis, in the Hypogastric Region, be- tween the Bladder and Rectum, with which it is con- nected. It is naturally placed in an oblique situation, with its under end directed a little forward •, but the obliquity must vary according to the state of the Bowels, with which it is in contact. It is of a Triangtdar Figure, and a little flattened be- fore and behind, but more so anteriorly *, is large above, small below, and has two angles at its upper and lateral parts, called Corners of the Uterus. It is distinguished into Fundus, or upper part, which includes the space above the insertion of the Fallopian Tubes, the Body or middle, and Cervix or under part; the two last being nearly of equal length. The extent and figure of the Uterus varies consi- derably in different Subjects.—In Women who have never been pregnant, it is commonly about two inches and a half in length, from one inch and a half to two inches in breadth at the Fundus, and about half as broad at the Cervix.—It is near an inch in thickness, and is larger in Women who have born Children, than in Virgins.PartIV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 2ll The Cavity, like the external part of the Uterus, is of a triangular form.) but is small in proportion to the size of the Organ,—being scarcely capable of contain- ing the Kernel of an Almond,—and has its sides closely applied to each other. It is covered externally through its whole length with a smooth polished Coat, continued from the Peritoneum, which, after covering the beginning of the Vagina, es- pecially at its under or back part, is reflected forwards upon the Bladder, backwards over the Rectum, and la- terally towards the sides of the Pelvis. Its Substance is of a compact, cellular, and fleshy na- ture, and plentifully supplied with Blood-vessels : The Fleshy Fibres, however, are seen distinctly only in the Gravid Uterus. It is remarkably Vascular in its Body, less so in its Cervix, and is nearly of the same thickness throughout, excepting at its Corners, where the Uterine or Fallopian Tubes terminate. It is lined with a fine and very Vascular Membrane, of a somewhat Porous and Villous appearance, in which the Arteries terminate which discharge the Menstrual Fluid. The Cavity of the Cervix has tzzo small Longitudinal Lines projecting in it, one in the anterior, the other in the posterior part, on each side of which are numerous R/igce. The Llugce run in an oblique transverse direction, and are formed, not only of the inner Membrane, bin also by the Fibres whicli compose the Body of the U- terus. BetweenOF THE VISCERA, See. [PartIV. 272 Between the Rugae are many small Follicles, which discharge a Mucus for lubricating the parts near which they are placed :—Some of them, being of a roundish form, were mistaken by Naboth for Female Ovula. The under part of the Cervix projects into the Vagi- na, somewhat in form of the Gians Penis, and is per- forated by a transverse Slit, termed Os Internum Uteri; or, from the resemblance of this part to the Mouth of the Tench, Os Tinea;. The Os Tinea, in a Virgin Uterus, is about the size of the Orifice of the Urethra in the Male, but nearly twice as large in the Uterus of a Woman who has born Children. It is smooth on its external Surface, is placed ob- liquely, in a direction towards the back part of the Vagina, and is surrounded with several Mucous Fol- licles. The Appendages of the Uterus are, the Broad and Round Ligaments, the Ovaria, the Fallopian Tubes, and the Vagina. The Ligamenta Lata, termed sometimes Alec Vesper- tilionis, are two Membranous Productions or Doublings of the Peritoneum, sent from the edges of the Uterus and posterior extremity of the Vagina, to be fixed to the sides of the Pelvis. The Uterus and Ligamenta Lata separate the Pelvis into anterior and posterior Cavities, and arc themselves divided into large and small, or anterior and posterior Aim or Pinions. They contain and support the Ovaria and Uterine Tubes, with part of the Spermatic and Uterine Vessels andIFartIV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 273 :and Nerves; inclose a portion of the Ligamenta Rotun- cda, &c. connect the Uterus to the sides of the Pelvis, 3and assist in retaining it in its place. In the time of (Gestation they become effaced, by furnishing the Uterus with part of its external covering. The Ligamenta Rotunda are two long and slender (Cords, composed of Vessels and Ligamentous Fibres, ".arising from the Corners of the Uterus, immediately bbefore and below the Fallopian Tubes, from which they descend obliquely in the Ligamenta Lata, diminishing ii little in their course towards the Groins. They pass through the Rings of the Abdominal Mus- cles, in the same manner as the Spermatic Cords do in l.he Male, and are afterwards inserted by separate ranches into the upper and lateral parts of the Puden- lum, where they are insensibly lost. They assist the Ligamenta Lata in preserving the pquilibrium of the Uterus. The Ovaria, anciently called Testes Muliebres, are si- tuated at the sides of the Fundus Uteri, about an inch iistant from it, and are contained in the posterior Pi- iions of the Ligamenta Lata, which form a Coat to iem, similar to the Tunica Albuginea Testis. The Ovaria are plain above, and prominent and semi- wal below, flattened at their anterior and posterior lurfaces ; and the size of each, when in a state of the rreatest maturity, is nearly equal to that of half of the Hale Testicle. In the vigour of life, they are large, uniform, and mooth, but become small, unequal, and shrivelled, in | Id Women, and in those who have born many Chil- Vol. II. S dren.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV 27 * They (Iren. This unequal appearance is greatly owing to the habit of Body, as it is frequently met with in a young Adult Virgin. They are attached to the Uterus by the Ligamenta Lata, and by two small Cords, termed Ligamenta Ro- , tunda Ovarii, which were mistaken by the Ancients for Vasa Deferentia, carrying a secreted Liquor to the U- tcrus. They are composed internally of a loose whitish Cel- lular or Spongy Substance, intermixed with Vessels and Nerves, and contain a number of small Vesicles, called Ova, filled with a limpid Fluid which partakes of the qualities of the white of an Egg. These Vesicles differ much in size in the same Ova- rium ;—the largest of them are seldom equal to the size of a small Garden-pea, and are commonly placed near- est the Surface. The number of Ova is differently estimated by diffe- rent Anatomists;—from ten to twenty and upwards having been found in one Ovarium. According to experiments made by Mr Hunter, it is ascertained,—that the number of originally existing Ova in each Ovarium, whether that number be great or small, may be diminished, but cannot be increased. | ! The Ovaria serve for the nourishment of the Ova, which contain the Rudiments of the Foetus. The Uterine, or Fallopian Tubes, compared in shape, by Fallopius, to that of a Trumpet, are two Conical and Vermiform Canals, attached to the Corners of the Uterus, and terminating in it, each by a small Opening which scarcely admits the entrance of a Bristle.Fart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 275 They become gradually larger in their passage to- ' wards the sides of the Pelvis : Near their outer extremi- ty, they are convoluted and considerably dilated, but rare afterwards suddenly contracted, and terminate by (open Mouths, sufficiently large to admit the point of a 1 Goose-quill, Their outer ends are free and fluctuating in the Pel- wis, and expand into many irregular jagged or pointed I (extremities, called Fimbria, which are considerably I [longer at one side of the Tube than the other. They are commonly upwards of a hand-breadth in llength, and contained in a Doubling of the Ligamenta ILata.—In their natural situation, they lie near the Ova- Iiria; but when drawn out and extended, are a finger’s- Ibreadth distant from them. The Structure of the Tubes is nearly the same with ♦that of the Uterus, and, like it, they are capable of di- latation and contraction : Their inner side, however, lhas a different appearance, being furnished with many 1'small longitudinal Plicae, which have a Muscular ap- jpearance, and which are most conspicuous towards the (outer extremities. They have a very large proportion (Of Blood-vessels, which run between their outer and iinner Membranes. The Tubes are supposed to convey the prolific part of I!the Male Semen from the Uterus to the Ovaria, in order I to fecundate the Ova ; and by grasping that part of the i Ovarium where the ripest Ovum is situated, to carry the !Ovum according to some Authors, or its Contents only according to the opinion of others, to be mixed with the Male Semen, and to be lodged in theGavity of the Uterus. S 2 The tOF THE VISCEliA, &c. [Fart IV* •216 They The Vagina is a Membranous Canal, which extends from the Neck of the Uterus to the Opening of the Pu- dendum. It is situated at the under and back part of the Blad- der and Urethra, and over the under part of the Intes- tinum Rectum ; to each of which it is closely connected by Cellular Substance. It begins a little above the internal Orifice of the Ute- rus, which it embraces, but reaches higher at the poste- rior than anterior part; from which circumstance, toge- ther with a slight curvature it has backwards, the Canal is found to be longer in its posterior than anterior Surface. From the Os Tincae it passes downwards and for- wards, and terminates between the Labia Pudendi; the Axis of the Vagina forming a considerable Angle with that of the Uterus. .The dimensions of the Vagina correspond with the size of the Penis in the Male, but vary according to the temperament of the Body, and become larger in Wo- men who have born Children. The Body of the Vagina is composed of thick, strong, Membranous parts, which are very dilatable, and plen- tifully supplied with Blood-vessels. It is furnished in- ternally with numerous irregular Rugce or Wrinkles, and Nervous Papillae; the former of which considerably diminish the capacity of the Canal, and the latter add to its sensibility. The Ruga run in a transverse direction, and are so disposed as to divide the Vagina into anterior and pos- terior Columns, which join together laterally, and pro- duce a Raphe at the right and left sides.Fart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 277 They are deepest, largest, and most crowded upon the anterior and towards the outer part of the Vagina; are most conspicuous in Virgins, less so in married Women, and become more and more effaced in those who have born Children.—The Rugae augment the Friction dur- ing Coition, and facilitate the distension of the Vagina during Child-birth. The whole extent of the Vagina, particularly towards its outer extremity, is furnished with small Follicles, the Orifices of which can frequently be seen. They supply a Mucus, with which the Canal is always lubricated, and which is discharged, in time of Coition, in such abundance, as to have been formerly considered as an emission of Female Semen. The outer end oi the Vagina is covered, on each side, by a Substance composed of Blood-vessels and Cells si- milar to those of the Penis, and described by De Graaf under the name of Plexus Retcformis, and by later Ana- tomists, under that of Corpus Cavernosum Vogiv.ce. The Corpora Cavernosa are covered by the Sphincter Vagin®, the action of which, joined to the Dilatation of these Bodies, serves to contract the entry of the Vagina in the time of Coition. The Vagina receives the Penis and Semen, and con- veys from the Uterus the Menstrual Flux, the Foetus, the Secundines, and the Lochia. The Uterus, with its Ligaments, Ovaria, and Ute- rine Tubes, are supplied with Blood from the Sperma- tic and Uterine Arteries. The Spennatic Arteries arise from the Aorta, and, afi in the Male, descend for some way through the Abdo- S 3 men.OF THE VISCERA, &c. [PartIV. 27S The men. They run next in the Ligamcnta Lata, to be dispersed upon the Ovaria and Uterine Tubes, and after- wards upon the Fuudus of the Uterus. In the progress of their course, they have a Serpentine appearance. The Uterine Arteries are derived from the Internal Iiiacs, and are much larger than the Spermatics. They diiect their course, first to the under part of the Uterus, after which each splits into the proper Uterine and the Vaginal Arteries. The Uterine Arteries ascend along the edges of the Uterus, and near its upper part join the Spermatic Arteries. The Vaginal Arteries run along the lateral parts of the Inner Portion of the Vagina. Chiefly from the Uterine, and partly from the Sper- matic Arteries, many small Branches are furnished, which run in a Serpentine manner, and communicate with their fellows in the opposite sides of the Uterus, so : s to supply the whole Substance ol that Viscus. The Vagina is supplied on each side by the Vaginal Arteries from the Uterine, and by small Branches from the Umbilical, middle Hamiorrhoidal, and Pudic Arteries. The Spermatic Veins, in passing from the Ovaria and Uterus, form a complicated Plexus, d hey have the same termination as in the Male, but are considerably lamer.—The other Veins run into the Internal lliacs. The Lymphatics, like the Blood-vessels, run also in two Sets. Those of the one Set accompany the Sper- matic Blood-vessels, and, like the Absorbents ol the Testes in the Male, go to the Lumbar Glands. Those of the other correspond with the Hypogastric Blood- vessels, and terminate in the Glands at the lateral parts of the Pelvis.Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 279 The Nerves are from the Lumbar, Sacral, and Great Sympathetics. The Uterus receives from the Ovaria, by means of the Fallopian Tubes, the Rudiments of the Foetus,— nourishes it, and, after bringing it to maturity, expels it through the Os Internum Uteri and Vagina.—From the Inner Surface of the Uterus, the Menstrual Eva- cuation is also discharged. External Parts. The External Parts, called Pudendum or Vulva, are formed of two prominent sides, termed Labia Pudendi, Labia Externa, or Alee Majores. These are contiguous when the Limbs are not much separated, thereby pre- venting the access of Air to the Internal Parts, which they at the same time protect and conceal. The upper part of the Pudendum, named Pubes, or Mons Veneris, is situated on the fore side of the Ossa Pubis, and is covered with Flair similar to that in the Male, to prevent the Skin from being injured by the approach of the Sexes. In both Sexes, the Hairs be- gin to grow about the same period of life. The Pubes is composed of the common Integuments, under which a considerable quantity of Fat is situated, rendering it thick, soft, and prominent. The Labia Pudendi extend from the Pubes to within about an inch of the Anus, the space between the Pu- dendum and Anus obtaining the name of Perinccum, from a Moisture supposed to flow about this part of the Skin.—It is sometimes also called Anterior Perinccum, S 4 toOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 1260 the to distinguish it from that part which extends from the Anus to the Coccyx, termed by some Anatomists Pos- terior Perinceum. The Opening between the two Labia has the name of Fossa Magna.—It increases a little in size and depth as it descends, and forms a small boat-like Cavity at its under extremity, termed Fossa Navicularis. The Labia are thickest above, becoming thinner be- low, and terminate in a transverse Fold of the Skin, named Frccnum, Furcula, or Fourchette, which is fre- quently lacerated in the first Delivery. The Labia are composed of the Skin elevated by a large quantity of Cellular Substance and some Fat, and lined by a very Vascular Membrane, which is thin, ten- der, and red like the inside of the Lips, and furnished with numberless Sebaceous Follicles, secreting a Liquor whereby the parts are preserved smooth and moist. Between the upper ends of the Labia, is the Substance named Clitoris, and by some Mentula Muliebris,—not extending an inch in length, and little more than the third part of that in thickness, and tied down to the fore part of the Symphysis Pubis. It is extremely Vascular and Nervous, and is com- posed, like the Penis in the Male, of two Crura and Corpora Cavernosa, which are occasionally distended with Blood, and are contained in a Ligamentous Sheath, with a Septum between them. The Crura are upwards of twice the length of the Body of the Clitoris, and, together with Muscles be- longing to them, arise, as the Crura of the Penis do in28i Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. the Male, from the Crura of the Ossa Ischia and Ossa Pubis. The Clitoris is also provided with a Li”amentum S/ts- pensorium, by which it is connected to the Ossa Pubis, and with a Gians, which, like that of the Penis, is ex- tremely sensible, but has no perforation in it for the passage of the Urine. It is covered by a continuation of the Skin of the La- bia, which, at its inferior extremity, forms a Semilunar Fold, termed Preputmm Clitoridis. The Prepuce is furnished with Glandulce Odorifera mpon its inner Surface, and with a small Frcenum which ifixes it to the Gians. In the time of Coition, the Gians Clitoridis is sup- posed to produce nearly the same sensation in the Fe- :male, as the Gians Penis does in the Male. At the under and outer part of the Clitoris are two IBodies, called Nymphce ; which arise narrow from the IPrepuce and Gians, and run obliquely downwards and coutwards along the inside of the Labia, increasing in Ibreadth, but suddenly contracting again at their lower eextremity. They are chiefly formed by a production of the inside cof the Labia, have the same florid colour with them, and iin their natural state are contiguous, and cover the Ori- ifice of the Urethra. They are sometimes of unequal size, and not unfre- Djuently, particularly in warm Climates, they project bo i/ond the edges of the Labia. Their internal Structure consists of Cellular Sub- stance, with a large proportion of Blood-vessels : They have282 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV, have also many Nervous Papillae, which render them very sensible, and Sebaceous Follicles, the Contents of which, of a Foetid nature, prevent them from being in- jured by the Urine. The Nymphae assist in directing the course of the Urine from the Urethra, and in preventing the Air from entering the Vagina.—They also tend to enlarge the passage for the Child in the time of Parturition. Between the Perinoeum andNjmphae, there is a Ves- tibulum, or smooth Cavity, which is most complete in Virgins, and leads to two Passages,—to the Urethra above, and to the Vagina below. Tin Onjice of the Urethra is placed a little below the Glai . of the Clitoris, and between the two Nymphae, and is surrounded by a Spongy Eminence, which pro- jects at its under part,—called by some Authors Corpus Glandulosum, or Glandules Prostata Mulierum. The Corpus Glandulosum is perforated by Lacuna ; some of which are of considerable depth, and discharge a Viscid Matter round the Orifice of the Urethra. The Corpus Glandulosum directs the point of the Finger to the Orifice of the Urethra, in discharging the Urine by the Catheter. The Orifice oj' the Vagina, termed likewise Os Exter- num Uteri, is placed immediately under that of the Urethra, and is naturally straiter than the rest of the Canal; but in the Virgin state, is still more contracted by the Substance called Hymen, or Circulus Membrano- sus, which forms an incomplete Septum between the Vagina and External Parts. The Hymen is formed of a double Membrane, and is redPart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 283 red and sensible like the Vagina itself, the inner part beih<j derived from that Canal, the outer from the La- bia Pudendi. It approaches to a Circular Figure, but the Circle is frequently incomplete next the Orifice of the Urethra, or is of a Semilunar form, the broad part being turned towards the Perinceum. When the Flymen is ruptured, it degenerates into small Conical Papillae, termed Caruvailce Myrtiformes, from their supposed resemblance to Myrtle-berries. The Flymen has been considered as a test of Virgi- nity ;—but neither the presence nor the absence of this Membrane can be depended on as a certain criterion. About the Orifice of the Vagina are several Mucous Follicles, similar to those round the Opening of the Urethra. The Blood-vessels and Nerves of the External Parts are from the Pudic Branches, and are dispersed in nu- merous Ramifications upon the end of the Vagina, La- bia Externa, and Clitoris. The Absorbents pass partly to the Inguinal Glands, and partly to those placed at the sides ol the Pelvis, or upon the Lumbar Vertebree. OFQSi OF THE VISCERA, 8cc. [PahtIV. OF THE GRAVID UTERUS. When the Rudiments of the Foetus have been con- veyed from one of the Ovaria into the Cavity of the Uterus, through the medium of the corresponding Uterine Tube, whether in the state of a Fluid only, or of a complete Ovum, Impregnation is said to have taken place. Some days after Impregnation, an Ovumt consisting of a Vesicle filled with a limpid Fluid, is found in the Cavity of the Uterus. The Ovum, when first visible, is observed to have a smooth Surface, but in a short time thereafter it sends oflf flocculent Branches, the greater part of which arc by degrees converted into a Placenta at that part of the Uterus where the Ovum happens to be first attached ; the Branches covering the rest of the Ovum become matted together, and form part of what is termed Spongy Chorion. The Rudiments of the Foetus, however, are not al- waysPart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 285 ways conveyed to the Uterus after Impregnation, for sometimes a Foetus is found in the Ovarium; at other times in one of the Uterine Tubes ; and some rare in- stances have occurred, where the Embryo has dropped from one of the Ovaria or Tubes into the Cavity of the Abdomen, where a Placenta has been formed, by which it has been nourished. In these cases which are called Ex-uterine Conceptions, the Uterus is also found to be somewhat enlarged. The Ovum, at an early period of Gestation, consists of a thin Membranous Capsule, which incloses the Em- bryo or Germ with the Umbilical Cord and Waters j and the Capsule, again, consists of an internal Mem- brane called Amnios, on the outside of which is another, thicker and stronger than the former, termed True Cho- rion, which is covered with a Filamentous and Spongy Substance, named by Ruysch Tunica Filamentosa, and by more modern Authors, the False or Spongy Chorion. The Spongy Chorion is described by Du Hunter as consisting, in early Gestation, of two Layers ; one lin- ing the Cavity of the Uterus, and termed by him Mem- brana Decidua, from being supposed to be cast off from the Uterus; the other, covering that part of the Ovum which does not adhere to the Uterus, he terms Decidua Fhflexa ; the one appearing to be a continuation of, or reflected from, the other; of course, four Layers or Coats are found in the Uterus in the beginning of Preg- nancy. The Decidua is least distinct between the Uterus and Placenta. Near the edge of the Placenta, the Decidua and that part of it called lleflexa, are thickest and strongest,280 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Fart IV. strongest, and decrease in thickness towards the other end of the Uterus and Ovum, in proportion as these become more expanded. c The inner Surface of the Decidua, and outer one of the Decidua Reflexa, gradually approach each other, and unite into one Membrane in advanced Gestation. They have been supposed to be formed originally by an Efflorescence thrown out upon the parts on which they are placed, in the manner it is thrown out upon in- flamed Surfaces. Between the Amnios and Chorion, a large proportion of Gelatinous Fluid is contained in the early Months, which separates them at a considerable distance from each other. At this period a small Bag, filled with a milky-like Fiuid, is observed on the Amnios, near the insertion of the Umbilical Cord, and is termed Vesicula Umbiliculis vel Alba. The Vesicula Umbilicalis is connected to the Cord by a Filament consisting of an Artery and Vein, Branches from the Umbilical Vessels, which, with the Fluid and Bag, soon disappear. The use of this Vesicle, which has sometimes been mistaken for an Allantois, is not yet understood. In early Gestation, the Ovum is large in proportion to the Embryo; but towards the latter period of Preg- nancy, the proportion is reversed, as appears from the following Observations. No well-authenticated account has been yet received, of the Embryo being observable till near the end of the third Week, when it is found to appear like an oblong curvedPart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 287 curved Vesicle floating in the Limpid Liquor of the Ovum. In the fourth Week, the Ovum is about the size of a Pigeon’s Egg, and the Embryo not larger than that of a common Fly. At the end of the sixth Week, the Embryo is about the size of the common or Honey-Bee, with the I lead turned t forwards, towards the farther extremity of the Trunk. The size of the Head is almost equal to that of the rest of the Body. The Eyes and Mouth appear evident. In the eighth Week the Ovum is about the size of a Hen’s Egg, and the Embryo is about an inch in length. The Nose and Ears now begin to be visible; the Limbs extend beyond the Trunk. The Cord is at this period nearly as long as the Embryo, but the Ves- sels run parallel to each other, nor do they receive their twisted appearance till a few weeks afterwards. About the end of the third Month, the Ovum is of the size of a Goose’s Egg, and weighs eight ounces, while the Embryo is between two and three ounces in weight, and three inches in length; and the Head and Extre- mities being now distinctly observable, it obtains the name of Foetus, which it retains from this time till the end of Gestation. Towards the end of the fourth Month, the motions of the Child begin to be felt by the Mother, in conse- quence of which, the term Quickening has been applied. In the sixth Month, the Placenta and Membranes weigh seven or eight ounces, the Foetus twelve or thir- teen. It is then eight or nine inches in length, and perfect in all its external parts. In288 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. In the seventh Month, the FaStus is about a foot in length. At Birth, the Secundines weigh between a pound and a pound and a half. The Foetus is then six or seven pounds, and is from eighteen to twenty-two inches in Still, however, from the difficulty of ascertaining when Pregnancy commences,—from the difference of Foetuses of the same age in different Women, and in the same Women in different Pregnancies,—and from the Foetus being frequently retained in the Uterus some time after it is dead, as well as from the inaccuracy of many of the Figures representing these Parts,—the above Observations are not altogether to be depended on. Changes produced in the Uterine System by Impregnation. Immediately after Impregnation, a large Orifice is constantly observed in the Ovarium, leading to a Cavity in that part of it from whence the Rudiments of the Foetus have been derived. This Cavity appears first fiocculent, and is afterwards filled up with a Granulous Substance, which has the name of Corpus Luteum, from the yellow appearance it assumes, especially in Quadrupeds. The Corpus Luteum consists of an outer Vascular, and an inner Inorganic-looking Substance, which has been Considered by some Authors' as the remains of the Ovum. A I'eal Corpus Luteum is not found till after Impreg- nation,Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 289 nation, though diseased appearances of the Ova have sometimes been shewn as such. It continues during Pregnancy, and for some time after Delivery, when it gradually vanishes, but leaves a Scar in the Ovarium, which continues for life.—The number of Corpora Lu- Itea corresponds with that of the Ova impregnated. After the Embryo is received into the Cavity of the Uterus, the Uterine Extremities of the Tubes are closed lby the Membrana Decidua; the Os Tincae is shut up lby a Ropy Mucus secreted from the Follicles in the Cer- ivj’x Uteri, which excludes the Air, and prevents the (chance of Abortion ; the Menstrua cease to Jlo'jo,—and Ithe Uterus by degrees is changed from a triangular to |;an oval I'orm, though the oval appearance is not dis- tinctly observed till the latter Months of• Pregnancy. From the Influx of Blood, and the growth of the O- pvurn, the Cavity of the Uterus gradually enlarges from .a, size capable only of admitting an Almond, to that which contains the full-grown Foetus, the Secundines, rand Waters ; composing together a Mass equal to nine cor teq pounds in weight. Some time after Impregnation, the Fundus and Body rof the Uterus, being softer and looser than the Cervix, ffirst yield to the parts which it contains, but continue 'somewhat flat through the whole period of Gestation, iin conse quence of pressure from the anterior and poste- rrior parts of the Abdomen ; the fore part of the Uterus, however, continuing flattest. For the two first Months, the Uterus increases so 'little as to remain in the Cavity of the Pelvis, and it is Vol. II. T generally290 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV, The generally after the Third Month, before the Tumour formed by it can be felt above the Symphysis Pubis. About this period it has acquired so much additional size and weight, that it is found lower than formerly in the Cavity of the Pelvis; in consequence of which, the Os Tincae is felt projecting nearer to the Os Externum Uteri. After this time, its bulk increasing, it presses against the Pelvis, and ascends in the Abdomen, carrying the Os Tincae higher than its original situation ; at the same time elongating the Vagina. In the fifth Month the Uterus renders the Abdomen tense, and forms a sort of Ball between the Pubis and Umbilicus. It continues to rise through the whole period of Ges- tation, and atter ascending above the Pelvis, it com- monly inclines, with its Fundus, forwards, and is fre- quently also turned a little to one side ; but the ascent is observed to be more in the first Gestations, and the inclination greater in later Gestations, owing to the na- ture of the Integuments of the Abdomen. In the seventh Month, it reaches the Umbilicus, and at last touches the Scrobiculus Cordis, Stomach, and Colon, being now about a foot in length from the upper to the under extremity; occupying the whole of the Umbilical and Epigastric Regions, and having the In- testines at the upper, lateral, and posterior parts of it. In the progress of Gestation, the whole Uterus be- comes softer, looser, and more Vascular, and the Ves- sels arc greatly enlarged ; the proportional increase be- ing nearly similar to that of the Uterus.291 Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. The Arteries in their course are remarkably convo- luted,—fully as much so as they are previous to Con- ception,—and greatly more so than the corresponding Veins. The Veins are much larger than the Arteries, their diameters being such as to have distinguished them by the name of Sinuses;—and to them the great bulk of the Uterus is chiefly owing. The Substance of the Uterus was formerly supposed by some to be thicker, and by others to be thinner in the Gravid, than in the unimpregnated state •, but it appears now to be sufficiently ascertained, that it is nearly of the same thickness in both states, and during the whole term of Pregnancy, unless it be at the end of Gestation, where it becomes thinner towards the under extremity. After the third Month, the Cervix Uteri begins to become softer, wider, and more spongy, and continues to do so till the seventh or eighth Month, when it is completely obliterated. During all this period, the Os Tincae is undergoing similar changes. In proportion as the Cervix stretches, the Tubercle of the Os Uteri becomes less prominent, but its circumference is enlarged. At the latter Months it becomes thin, flat, and irregular on its edges, and the firmness of its texture is converted to the Spongy softness of the Body of the Uterus. Its Orifice is changed from a Transverse Slit into an oval Pit; and in Women who have born several Children, it is consi- derably dilated near the end of Gestation. There is now m.erely the Mucus as a Septum between the Uterus T 2 antiOF THE VISCE RA, &c. [Part IV. 292 and Vagina j this comes away before Parturition, the Follicles which form it, throwing out, afterwards, a thinner fluid, to lubricate the parts. The situation of the Appendages of the Uterus is also considerably altered. The Ovaria, with the Tubes and Ligaments of the Uterus, are situated lower, in respect to the Fundus Uteri, in proportion as it ascends. At the full time, they lie close upon the Surface, and the broad Ligaments, by assisting in forming a covering to the Uterus, are nearly obliterated. The Tubes descend by the sides of the Uterus, and are thicker and more Vascular, and have the Fimbriae more expanded than formerly. In the enlarged state of the Uterus, the Muscular Fibres, though pale, are distinctly seen.—They form Fasciculi which run in various directions, but cannot be traced far without interruption. They are variously described by different Authors ; their course, however, is such, that they are capable of contracting the Uterus in ail its dimensions during the time of Delivery. A description is given by Ruysch of a Circular Muscle in the bottom of the Uterus, for the expulsion of the Placenta ;—but the Placenta is found to adhere to other parts besides the Fundus Uteri; nor has such a Muscle been observed by later Anatomists. In Hun- ter’s Plates the Fibres are seen running transversely in the Body of the Uterus, and describing Concentric Circles about the Orifices of the Fallopian Tubes. The Muscular Fibres of the Uterus assist in the De- livery of the Child and expulsion of the Placenta; and in a few weeks after Delivery, the Uterus, partly by the contractilePart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 293 contractile power of these Fibres, and partly by that of the Blood-vessels, is restored to near its former dimen- sions. Contents of the Uterus arout the End of Pregnancy. The Contents of the Uterus, towards the end of Preg- nancy, consists of the Pectus, the Umbilical Cord, Pla- centa, Membranes, and Waters. The Cord, Placenta, and Membranes, are named the Secundvtes, or After-birth, with which some include the Waters, though these are discharged previous to the expulsion of the Child. The Cord is fixed by one end to the Umbilicus of the Foetus, and by the other it is attached to the Placenta at a little distance from its middle ; from which circum- stance the extraction of the Placenta is more easily ef- fected. It is commonly about two feet in length,—sometimes considerably shorter, and often much longer ;—but in general it is of sufficient length to allow the Birth of the Child, while the Placenta adheres to the Uterus of the Mother. Its thickness is nearly equal to that of one's Finger, but it is smaller and weaker at the extremity next the Placenta. It is seldom of a Cylindrical form, being marked with JSulci corresponding to the course of its Vessels. It is composed of One Vein and Two Arteries, which twist about each other in a spiral direction, from right T 3 tetm OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. to left, and frequently form short Coils upon themselves. Sometimes there is a Knot upon the Cord. The Cord is covered by a smooth Coat, derived from the Membranes. Neither Lymphatics nor Nerves have ever been demonstrated in it. The Trunks of the Vessels are inclosed in a Ge- latinous, Ropy, Cellular Substance, which adds to the strength and elasticity of the Cord, and allows the Blood to pass freely between the Foetus and Placenta, without being in danger of interruption from pressure. The Vein is much larger than the Arteries, its area being about equal to the area of both of these. It is destitute of Valves, and sends off no Branches till it reach the Foetus. It arises from the Substance of the Placenta, and, after perforating the Umbilicus, it passes in the inferior part of the Ligamentum Suspcnsorium, to the under side of the Liver. The Arteries arise from the Iliac Arteries of the Foe- tus, perforate the Umbilicus, and run to the Placenta, in the Substance of which they divide into their ulti- mate Branches. Here the one Artery frequently forms a large Anastomosis with the other, and the Ramifica- tions of the Arteries communicate with those of the Vein, in the manner Arteries and Veins do in other parts of the Body. The Cord, by means of the Vein, conveys pure Blood from the Placenta for the nourishment of the Foetus, and, through the Medium of the Arteries, returns what is not used in Nutrition, again to be mixed with the Blood295 Part IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. T 4 The Blood of the Uterus.—By the intervention of the Cord, also, the Placenta is more readily extracted. The Placenta, or Cake, is a Spongy Mass, of a round form, though sometimes oblong, or lobular, occupying near a fourth part of the Ovum, and is common to the young of many other Animals. It is about seven or eight inches in breadth, and up- wards of one inch in thickness; but is thinner at the edges where the Membranes go off. While attached to the Uterus, it is concave next the Child, and convex towards the Womb. i The External Surface, or that next the Uterus, is di- vided into Lobules with Fissures between them, while the Internal, or that next the Fcetus, forms a regular Mass, which has numerous large Branches of the Um- bilical Vessels dispersed upon it in a radiated manner. In the Placenta are to be observed,—on the side next the Child,—the Ramifications of the Umbilical Vessels forming the principal part of its Substance ;—on the side next the Mother,—Branches of the Uterine Arte- ries, almost of the size of Crow-quills, passing in a con- voluted manner between the Uterus, and Placenta, and terminating in the latter;—Veins corresponding with these Arteries, but flat and of great size, running ob- liquely from the Placenta to the Uterus,—and, in the Substance of the Placenta, an appearance which has been supposed by many Authors to be the common Cellular Membrane, of a tender nature, and easily ruptured by Injection, but which is considered by late Authors as a regular Spongy Substance, similar to that in the Body of the Penis.296 OF THE VISCERA, See. [PaiitIV. The Placenta is connected to the Uterus on one side by Blood-vessels and by the Decidua, and to the Foetus on the other, by means of the Umbilical Cord. The common place of attachment is near the Fundus Uteri; though it is found at different times adhering to all the other parts of the Uterus, not even the Os Tincae excepted. In the case of Twins, there is sometimes only one, but most frequently two distinct Placentae, adhering to- gether by the intervention of a Membrane in which the Vessels of the two Placentae occasionally communicate with each other. There are in this case also two distinct Apartments, separated by a Partition ; each Apartment containing its own Waters and Cord. The Placenta receives Blood from the Uterus, and, according to the opinion of modern Anatomists, puri- fies the Blood, as the Lungs do in the Adult, for the nourishment of the Foetus. The Membranes consist of the Spongy Chorion, the True Chorion, and the Amnios. They form a complete but slender Bag, which lines the Cavity of the Uterus, and incloses the Foetus, Um- bilical Cord, and Waters. The Spongy Chorion is a thick opake Substance, which adheres to the Uterus, and forms the outer Layer of the Ovum, but scarcely penetrates between the Lo- bules of the Placenta, though, in the early Months, it enters more into the composition of that Substance. Between the Uterus and Placenta, it is Jess distinct than elsewhere, being perforated there, and in some de- greeFart IV.] ORGANS OF GENERATION. 297 gree concealed by the Blood-vessels proceeding from the inside of the Uterus. It has a Spongy and Villous appearance, and is full of small Blood-vessels, which can be readily injected from those of the Uterus. The True Chorion is thinner, smoother, and much denser, than the former, is connected with the Spongy Chorion as far as the edge of the Placenta, where it separates from it. It is next reflected over the Suriaqe of the Placenta which is opposed to the Foetus, and is afterwards continued over the whole of the Cord. It is uniform in its texture, has a transparent appear- ance, adheres to the Spongy Chorion and Surface of the Placenta by a delicate Cellular Substance, and has no Vessels visible to the naked Eye, or which can be injected. I he Amnios lines the Surface of the True Chorion, and, with it, is reflected from the Placenta upon the Cord, which it supplies with an External Covering. It is thinner, (but at this period stronger), more dense, and transparent, than (he Chorion, to which it adheres every where by a tough Jelly. It is smooth and polished on the side next the Foetus, and is destitute of Blood-vessels. The Membranes, besides containing the Child and Waters, give origin to the latter, and, m the tune cf Labour, assist in opening the Orifice of the Uterus. The Waters, called Liquor Amnii, are thinnest and clearest in the first Months, after which they acquire some degree of colour and ropiness. The Liquor Amnii is chiefly composed of the Serum ofOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 29S of the Blood. In its natural state, it has all the cha- racters of the Liquor Pericardii, or of the Liquors ex- hal d from the Surfaces of other Membranes similar to the Pericardium.—It is supposed to be derived from the Exlialent Arteries of the Amnios. It is proportionally greater in quantity in the first than in the last Months •, at the full time there are generally about a couple of pounds $ the proportion and quantity varying consideiably in different Women, and in the same Women in different Pregnancies. Between the Amnios and Chorion, Water is frequently collected, but in much smaller quantity than in the Am- nios, and is termed False Water, or False Delivery.—It is frequently discharged sometime previous to the Birth of the Child, without any danger. The Liquor Amnii defends the Child and Umbilical Vessels from the pressure of the Uterus, assists in dis- tending the Uterus during Gestation, and allows the Foetus a certain degree of motion ; but forms no part whatever of the nourishment of the Child, that being accomplished entirely by the Blood from the Umbilical Vein. Nor does it appear that any part of the Liquor Amnii is swallowed by the Child, as full-grown Foetuses have in different instances been born without a Mouth. In the time of Labour, it also assists in dilating the Mouth of the Uterus, and, by lubricating the Vagiiia3 facilitates Delivery. PECU-Fart IV.] PECULIARITIES, &c. 299 In PECULIARITIES OF THE FCETUS. All the Bones in the Foetus, excepting a few, are soft, yielding, and imperfect, and many of them entire- ly in a state of Cartilage. The Gelatin in their compo- sition is observed to be in greater proportion than in Adults, in whom the Fibrin, and Saline Matter found in them, predominate. The Head is large in proportion to the rest of the Body, and the Bones of the Cranium are united by Membrane, which admits of some alteration in the form of the Head, whereby its Passage is facilitated in the time of Delivery. Between the Frontal and Parietal Bones, is the Mem- brane called Bregma, formed of a Membranous Sub- stance, which commonly disappears before the Child is two years of age, the margins of the Bones being then united. —The other Peculiarities of the Bones of the Foetus are taken notice of along with the description of the Bones of the Adult.— IOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 300 In the Foetus, the Fluids are proportionally larger in quantity, and the Solidsgenerally softer, than in the Adult. The Skin is of a bright red colour, in consequence of its greater degree ol Vascularity, and is covered with an Unctuous Substance, supposed to be secreted from the Vessels upon the Surface of the Skin. That part chiefly of the Cellular Membrane is Adi- pose, which is near the Surface of the Body ; scarcely any Fat being found in the more interior parts, where it gradual!) accumulates till the person arrive at a con- siderable time of life. The Brain, Spinal Marrow, and Nervous System, are proportionally larger., but softer. The .Sanguiferous System, and Glandular Organs, are larger. The Pupil of the Eye is occupied and completely co- vered by the Membrana. Papillaris, which arises from the inner margin of the Iris, and continues there till the seventh Month, when it gradually vanishes. It is a very Vascular Substance, and separates the Cameras from each other. According to Blumenbach, it keeps the Iris ex- panded during the rapid increase of the Ball of the Eye. The Crystalline Lens is almost Spherical, and has nu- merous Vessels dispersed upon its Capsule. The Meatus Auditorius is wholly Cartilaginous, and adheres by its extremity to an imperfect Bony Circle, in which the Membrana Tympani is placed. The Meatus Externus, and Membrana Tympani, are lined by a Mucous Membrane, which is cast off after Birth. The Thymus Gland, in the Foetus, is a large Sub- stance, situated in the upper part of the Thorax, be- tween the Layers of the Anterior Mediastinum. 1OF THE FOETUS. 301 Part IV.] It lies over the Pericardium, and occupies the space where the Aorta sends off the Carotid and Subclavian Arteries, and extends a short way into the fore part of the Neck. It has two Long Cornua above, and two Broad Lobes below, is of a pale red colour, and becomes afterwards of a. darker hue. A white Serous Liquor can frequently be squeezed from its Substance; but it has no Excretory Duct; nor is the use of the Fluid, nor of the Gland itself, yet ascer- tained. Some Anatomists are of opinion, that the white Fluid is Chyle sent by a retrograde motion from the Thoracic Duct, and that the Thymus Gland is a Diverticulum to the Chyle when too great a quantity of Lymph is sent to the Subclavian Vein. In the Adult, the Thymus Gland is so completely ab- sorbed, that scarcely any thing but Cellular Substance remains in its place. The Blood-vessels of the Thymus are Branches of the Subclavian and Internal Mammary; the Nerves come from the Great Sympathetics and Eighth Pair. Its Lymphatics have not yet been very accurately traced. The Lungs are small, firm, and of a dark red colour, and sink when thrown into Water, in consequence of the Bronchial Cells having not yet received Air. But if Air be admitted to them, by Putrefaction or otherwise, they swim in Water, in the same manner as if Air had been conveyed to them in consequence of Respiration. The Valve of Eustachius is distinct in the Foetus, but302 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV, but frequently Cribriform in the Adult; is larger in pro- portion, and is supposed to direct the Blood of the In- ferior Cava immediately through the passage termed Foramen Ovale to the Left Auricle. In the back part of the Septum, between the Right and Left Auricles, is the Foramen Ovale, nearly equal in size to the Mouth of the Inferior Cava, bounded by a thick Muscular Edge, termed Annulus Foraminis O- valis. Upon the left side of the Foramen Ovale, a Membra- nous Valve is placed, which allows part of the Blood of the Right Auricle to pass through this opening directly to the Left Auricle, but which completely prevents its return. The Blood going through the Foramen Ovale, assists in keeping up the balance of Circulation between the two sides of the Heart, till the Lungs be ready to re- ceive it. The Pulmonary Artery divides into three Branches, the right and left of which run to the Lungs, while the middle one, called Ductus Arteriosus, larger than both the other Branches, and its Area nearly equal to that of the Foramen Ovale, passes in an oblique direction to the beginning of the descending Aorta. The Ductus, or Canalis Arteriosus, forms nearly one half of the Aorta, carries part of the Blood of the Right Ventricle into that Artery, without allowing it to pass to the Lungs, and thereby assists the Foramen Ovale in keeping up the balance of Circulation till the Child has breathed; and the Aorta, formed in this manner, re- ceives the force of both Ventricles, by which it is more enabled303 Part IV.] OF THE FCETUS. enabled to drive the Blood through the Umbilical Ar- teries to the Placenta. The Stomach is of a rounder form than in the Adult, and commonly contains a small quantity of Gelatinous Matter. The Plicae on the inner side of the Intestines are only beginning to appear. The Appendix Vermiformis is larger in proportion, and is inserted into the extremity of the Colon, which at this time does not project to form a proper Caecum. The Colon, and frequently also the end of the Ilium, are filled with a greenish-black Fceces, of a viscid consist- ence, termed Meconium, which is considered to be a mix- ture of the Bile with the Secretions from the Intestines. The Liver is so large as to occupy both Hypochon- driac Regions. The Umbilical Vein passes from the Umbilicus, in a Duplicature of the Peritoneum, to the left Branch of the Vena Portae, and carries the Blood from the Placenta to the Liver. From the Trunk of the Umbilical Vein, where it ter- minates in the Liver, a Branch, called Ductus xc 1 Cana- lis Venosus, runs in a somewhat waving direction, and joins the Left Vena Hepatica, where that Vein enters the Cava. The Ductus Venosus is much smaller than the Trunk of the Umbilical Vein, and carries part of the Blood of that Vein directly to the Heart, without allowing it to enter the Circulation in the Liver. rIhe Umbilical Vein sends Branches to the Right Lobe of the Liver, but is principally distributed through the Left Lobe, while the Right Branch of the Vena Portas30* OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. In Fortas carries the Blood of the Splenic and Mesenteric Arteries to the Right Lobe of the Liver. Alter Birth, the Left Lobe of the Liver, which was formerly more particularly supplied by the Umbilical Vein, receives an additional proportion of Blood from the Vena Portarum. The reason why the Umbilical Vein goes partly to the Cava, and not entirely to the Heart, is not understood. The Kidneys are irregular on their Surface, being formed of Lobes, the number nearly corresponding with that of the Papillae in the Kidney of the Adult. Each of the Lobes consists of a Cortical, a Medul- lar)' part, and a Papilla, and is covered by a Proper Membrane. The Glandula Renalis is almost as large as the Kidney, but afterwards rather diminishes than increases in size. The Bladder of Urine is of a long form, and extends almost to the Umbilicus. The greater part of it is above the Pelvis, and is more particularly covered by the Peritoneum than in the Adult. The Urachus, which is of a Conical form, ascends from the bottom of the Bladder, between the Umbilical Arteries, anti between the Peritoneum and Linea Alba, to the Umbilicus, and vanishes by degrees in the Umbi- lical Cord. It is formed by a Production of the Fundus Vcsicae, and in the Human Body is a solid Substance, forming a Suspensory Ligament of the Bladder. It has been sometimes found hollow at its beginning, and has been said to be so, in one or two instances, throughout its whole length.Part IV.] OF THE FOETUS. 305 In the Foetal Quadruped, it is a large Tube, whicli transmits Urine from the Bladder to a Bag between the Amnios and Chorion, called Allantois. The common Iliac Arteries divide, on each side, into a small External, and large Internal Branch, in conse- quence of which, the Lower Extremities are less in pro- portion than in the Adult. The principal part of the Internal Uiacs is occupied in forming the Umbilical Arteries, which mount by the sides of the Bladder, on the outside of the Peritoneum^, and perforate the Umbilicus in their progress to the Umbilical Cord. Soon after Delivery, the Foramen Ovale, Ductus Ar- teriosus, and Venosus, with the Umbilical Vein and Ar- teries, begin to contract, and are, in general, complete- ly closed, and the Vessels shrivelled into Ligaments, within a vear after Birth. This Obliteration is produced by a contractile power in the parts, by a pressure in the surrounding Viscera, and by the Blood being directed through other chan- nels. The Pelvis of the Foetus is commonly so small, that the principal parts of its Viscera are contained in the open Cavity of the Abdomen. The Prepuce of the Clitoris is proportionally so much larger in a young Foetus than it is afterwards, that, in an Abortion, a Female Foetus has frequently been mis- taken for a Male. The Testes are lodged, during the greater part of Gestation, in the Cavity of the Abdomen, over the Psoae Muscles, and a little below the Kidneys. vVOL. II. U TheyOF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. 506 They constitute a part of the Abdominal Viscera, and, in a similar manner with them, are connected to the Body by a Production of the Peritoneum, which forms their Tunica Albuginea. Between the Testicle and Scrotum, a Fibrous and Vascular Substance, of a Conical form, is extended,— called by Mr Hunter, Grubernaailum, vel Ligamentum Testis, which he considers as a principal agent in direct- ing the course of the Testicle, and in making way for it in its descent. About the eighth Month of Pregnancy, the Testis, by means not yet completely ascertained, passes gra- dually along to the Scrotum, a Process of the Perito- neum preceding it, which afterwards forms its Vaginal Coat. The Testis, through the whole of its course, conti- nues to be covered by the Peritoneum, is connected to the parts on which it rests, and has its Vessels passing to it from behind forwards, the same as when situated in the Abdomen. While the Testicle is passing through the Ring of the Abdominal Muscle, the Ligamentum Testis is found to be in some measure inverted, and to form the under and fore part of the Vaginal Coat, on which the Cremaster is expanded. After the descent of the Testicle, the Peritoneal Pro- cess, which descends along with it, begins to contract at the Ring ; and a firm adhesion of its sides, to within a little distance of the Testicle, is commonly found to be produced by the time of Birth. Position0t>7 Part IV.] OF THE FCETUS. Position of the Fcetus. In the first Months, the Embryo swims in the Liquor Amnii, free from the pressure of the surrounding parts; —and from many Dissections and Observations made by the latest Anatomists, it is ascertained,—that the Head preponderates, and in general continues under- most during the whole time of Gestation. Formerly it was supposed, that the Embryo, in the first Months, was situated with the Head uppermost, and that, in the latter Month, the attitude of the Fcetus •was inverted. The Foetus is observed to be coiled up into an oval form, so as to be properly adapted to the Cavity of the Uterus. The Head is bent towards the Thorax, and the Arms are folded:—The Knees are drawn towards the Abdo- men, and the Heels towards the Nates. The Spine is bent into an Arch, and one side of the Body of the Fcetus is frequently turned forwards. The Head is placed diagonally, with its long diame- ter corresponding to that, of the Pelvis, and the Occiput opposed to the Os Tincae. Circulation of the Blood in the Fcetus. The Blood is sent by the Arteries of the Uterus to the Substance of the Placenta, from which, according to the opinion of most of the ancient Anatomists, it passes to the Umbilical Vein by a direct communication of Branches;308 OF THE VISCERA, &c. [Part IV. Branches ; or, according to that of the greater part of modern Authors,—by Absorption. By the Umbilical Vein, it goes principally to be cir- culated in the Liver; a small portion of it passing by the Ductus Venosus to the Right Auricle of the Heart. The Blood sent from the Inferior Cava is transmitted first to the Right Auricle, then, by the Foramen Ovale, directly to the Left Auricle; and that sent by the Su- perior Cava is transmitted to the Right Auricle and Ventricle, and from thence to the Pulmonary Artery. From the Pulmonary Artery one portion of it passes through the Circulation of the Lungs, and another goes by the Ductus Arteriosus to the Aorta Dcscendens. From the Lungs it is returned by the Pulmonary Veins to the Left Auricle, where it mixes with that coming from the Right Auricle by the Foramen Ovale, and is sent by the Aorta to the different parts of the Body. From the Iliac Arteries, it is conveyed by the Umbi- lical Branches to the Substance of the Placenta, where one portion of it returns by corresponding Veins to the Foetus, the rest going to the Uterus in the manner it was discharged from the Uterine Arteries to the Branches of the Umbilical Vein. END OF VOLUME SECOND. PILLANS & SONS, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.* IVOL. II. b, b, The A TABLE XVI. Views of the Brain and its Membranes. FIG. 1. 'After turning down the Integuments, and raising the Skull-Cap, the Dura Mater is shewn at the Upper Part of the Figure. On the Right Side, that Mem- brane is raised to shew the Pi a Mater, with the Con- volutions of the Brain shining through it. id, a, The cut edge of the cranium. ib, b. Part of the dura mater which covers the left hemi- sphere of the brain. c, t, A portion of the dura mater covering the right hemisphere. d, Some of the small pits commonly occupied by the glands of Pacchioni, e, e, The course of the superior longitudinal sinus. f, f. The right hemisphere of the brain, covered by the tunica arachnoidea and pia mater, and divided into convolutions, which appear of different sizes, and lengths in different parts of the figure. FIG. 2. A Section of the Cranium, giving a View of the Prin- cipal Processes and Sinuses of the Dura Mater. a, d. The cranium cut in a vertical direction, a little to the right side of the falx.TABLE XVI. CONTINUED. I b, by The right side of the cranium cut horizontally, n little above the tentorium. ends of the carotid arteries. ‘,1pm dy dy The falx adhering at its anterior extremity to thchl spine of the frontal bone, and crista galli of the eth-Lci sides of the tentorium the foramen ovale appears, where the tuber annulare was chiefly seated. g, g, The superior longitudinal sinus. hy The torcular IIerophili, or fourth sinus, at its ante- rior extremity receiving the inferior longitudinal sinus, which runs along the under edge of the falx. ?, The right lateral sinus, the left being concealed. fey The circular sinus, surrounding the sella Turcica. ly The seat of the right cavernous sinus. 7»y The superior petrosal sinus. 7?, The inferior petrosal sinus, in its way to the end of the lateral sinus. Gives a View of a Transverse Section of the Brain, upon a level with the Corpus Callosum, or near the Middle Height oj the Brain. cty a, The cranium, sawed at its greatest diameter. ly The dura mater turned back. c} c, Cy Cy The cortical or cineritious part of the convo- lutions of the brain, with fissures running between the convolutions. Cy Cy The foramina optica, behind which are the cutlet moid one. e, Cy The right side of the tentorium. 11 ^ fy The left side of that membrane. Between the two FIG. 3. dy dy TheTABLE XVI. CONTINUED. i d, The medullary part of the brain forming the cen- ttrum ovale. te, The corpus callosum, with a raphe in its middle, con each side of which is a longitudinal cord, and far- tther out, transverse streaks, of medullary matter. Arteries which were placed upon the corpus callosum, mow drawn towards the fore part of the brain. A •1 SI7 i/s xnr.TABLE XVII. Views of the Brain. FIG. 1. The Right Side exhibits a deeper Section than that shewn in Tab. XVI. Fig. 3. and the Left one a Section still deeper than that of the Right Side. The Cerebellum is cut in a vertical direction from before backwards, and. the Lateral Furl turned a little outwards. Right Side. ay a, The cat edge of the cranium. b, The frontal sinus, with its opening into the nose. c, cy The cut edges of the convolutions of the brain, with the fissures between them. d, The fissure which separates the anterior lobes of the brain. e, The corpus striatum, placed in the fore part of the lateral ventricle. fy The anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. ga The septum lucidum. hy The posterior pillar of the fornix, the anterior being concealed by the septum lucidum. iy The back part of the corpus callosum, joined to the fornix and septum lucidum. ky The choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, placed /Over, and concealing a large share of, the thalamus nervi optici. ly The taenia, or centrum semicirculare geminum. a 3 m, TheB L E XVII. continued, “’v^!nniDg °f th° inferior «"»«r U.. lateral ,P°Sterior co™u of that ventricle. Left Side. a> b, c, As on tlie right side. ?t,rhe n’edu,l“rypart of the brain, which surround, *y 1 iie corpus striatum. nds> f, A section of (he anterior pillar of the fornix. Qy iiic taenia semicircuiaris. by Tlie thalamus opticus. *• Th,e of t,,e “""l ventricle, at the fore and back parts of winch are observed two white lines, repre- senung the anterior and posterior commissures of the -i , Ihe left half of the pineal gland, with its correspond- g pet uncle pas,mg forwards at the inner edge of • lie thalamus opticus. One of die nates. m, The corresponding testis. «, A medullary lamina between the testes and vaive of jeussens, which covers the passage to the fourth ventricle. 0f d“ ,wo tnntlullary tracts, called Process,,! ad lestes, or Columna Valvules Vjeussenii. P,p’ T!'C Dledul,ar>' Pa« of ■'« cerebellum, termed Ar. bor Vitev. 1, The fourth ventricle, in the bottom of which is the furrow called Calamus Scriptorius. The choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. sys, The*1 > / TABLE XVII. continued. s, s, The surface of the cerebellum *, the dark lines re- presenting the sulci between the convolutions. \t, A perpendicular section of the brain. ,7i, The cornu Ammonis, or great hippocampus. The corpus fimbriatum. FIG. 2. The Head cut in a 'perpendicular direction from before backwards, close to the Right Side of the Falx Cere- bri and Septum Narium. It A, a, A section of the cranium. lb, Part of the right frontal sinus. lc, Part of the right sphenoidal sinus. (d, The septum narium, composed above of the nasal plate of the ethmoid bone, below of the vomer, and before of cartilage. te, The opening from the left nostril into the throat. if, The roof of the mouth, and teeth of the left side of the upper jaw. i[g, The cancelli of the cuneiform process of the occipi- tal bone. ih, The root of the falx, the rest being removed, to shew the convolutions of the inner side of the left hemisphere of the brain. :i, Part of the tentorium cerebelli, and the situation of the torcular Heropijjli. The termination of the superior longitudinal sinus. ! I, A section of the corpus callosum. J m, The septum lueidum, and situation of the right la- teral ventricle. n, The body of the fornix. o, Th eT ABLE XVII. continued. Oy The two anterior crura of the fornix, one of which is cut and turned forwards. ji, A section of the anterior commissure of the brain. <7, The passage by which the two lateral ventricles com- municate with each other, and with the third ventricle, s, The infundibulum, at the bottom of the third ven- tricle. ty The glandula pituitaria, lodged in the sella Turcica. «, A section of the right optic nerve. Vy A section of the right corpus albicans. •w. Part of the choroid plexus. .r, A vein running upon the right side of the septum lucidum, to terminate in the choroid plexus. i/y The pineal gland, at the root of which is a section of the posterior commissure of the brain. 2, A section of the nates. 1, A section of the testes. 2, The valve of Vieussens. 3, 3, The arbor vitas of the cerebellum. 4, A passage to the fourth ventricle. 5, The cavity of the fourth ventricle, the under end ,of which is shut by the choroid plexus, and pia mater. 6, A section of the tuber annulare, 7, of the medulla oblongata, 8, of the spinal marrow. 9, The basilar artery. FIG. 3. A View of the Base of the Brain. a, a, The anterior lobes of the brain. b, The division of the anterior lobes, on each side ol whichTABLE XVII. CONTINUED. which is a groove, where the first pair of nerves were situated. fCy c. The lateral lobes, separated from the anterior by the fissures of Sylvius. d, £?, The posterior lobes. gy The infundibulum, placed behind the union of the optic nerves, and before the corpora albicantia. fyfy The cerebellum, divided into its two lobes or hemi- spheres. g, g, The superior and anterior lobules, called ajso the superior and inferior vermiform processes of the cere- bellum. h, h, The crura cerebri. iy iy The crura cerebelli. Icy The tuber annulare, in the middle of which is an impression made by the basilar artery. Iy The medulla oblongata, composed of two lateral por- tions, with a fissure between them. I m, m, The corpora pyramidalia. ?i} n, The corpora olivaria.' ‘T A I X v III r ty )■T ABLE XVIIL Views of the Eye and its Appendages. FIG. 1. Represents the Right Eye with its Muscles, viewed obliquely from its Upper and Outer Side. Gy The eye-ball. by Part of the upper eye-lid. Cy The tunica adnata, adhering to the edge of the cornea. dy The integuments of the right side of the nose. e, ey The optic nerve. fy The four straight muscles, with the levator palpebr® superioris, and obliquus superior, embracing the op- tio- nerve where it enters the orbit, g, The levator palpebras superioris drawn aside. . hy The levator oculi. iy The abductor oculi. /•, The adductor oculi. /, The depressor oculi. m, The obliquus superior, or trochlearis. n, The trochlea of the superior oblique. o, The insertion of the tendon of the obliquus superior in the eye-ball. p, The inferior oblique muscle taking its rise from the superior maxillary bone. <7, The insertion of the tendon of the inferior oblique muscle in the eve-ball. FIG.FABLE XVIII. CONTINUED. FIG. 2. The Coats of tlic Eye dissected. cr, The optic nerve. by by The sclerotic coat, cut and turned outwards. Cy The sclerotic coat, cut and turned forward with, dy The cornea. Cy ey Half of the iris in its place, the other half being" removed. fy The pupil, with the crystalline lens in its place. gy The ciliary circle. 7i, It, The choroid coat. iy The ciliary processes seen in their place, by cutting off a portion of the iris. "ky A portion of the iris, cut and turned back. t, The floating points of the ciliary processes, also turn- ed back. m, The middle smooth part of the retina, seen by cut- ting a hole in the choroid coat. 71, The roots of the ciliary processes of the retina, to which the black paint of the ciliary processes of the choroid coat adheres. 0, The ciliary processes of the retina, inserted into the! capsule of the crystalline lens. FIG. 3. I The Natural Size of the Passages of the Tears. a. The lacrymal gland; shewing its natural situation with respect to the eye-lids. by by The eye-lids widely opened, r. The situation of the puncta lacrymalia. dy dy TheTable xviii. continue^ d, d. The ducts continued from the puncta lacrymalia. e, e, The angles the ducts form after leaving the puncta, f, The termination of the lacrymal ducts in, g, gt The lacrymal sac. hy The nasal duct, continued from the lacrymal sac. FIG. 4. Presents a Longitudinal Section of the Left Eye and Orbit. <?, The upper eye-lid shut. b, The cornea. c, cy The cut edge of the iris. d, The pupil. e, e, The cut edge of the sclerotic and choroid coatSj with the retina. f The crystalline lens. gy g, The ciliary processes, continued from the choroid coat. h, The optic nerve running in a waving direction to the ball of the eye. ?, The levator palpebrae superioris. A-, The levator oculi. I, The depressor oculi. 7M, A section of the obliquus inferior. ?i, n, A section of the blood-vessels and nerves, with a large quantity of fat surrounding the optic nerve.' • . • ; ■TABLE XIX. Views of the Ear. All the Figures belong to the Right Side of the Head. FIG. 1. The Ear, seenfrom its Outer and Fore Party in a Dried Preparation. a, A portion of the squamous part of the temporal bone. by The mastoid, and, Cy The styloid processes. d. The under end of the condyloid or articular cavity, concealing the passages of the carotid artery, and in- ternal jugular vein. e, f gy h. The outer ear; c. The helix ; f. The anti- helix ; gy The lobe of the ear ; h, The concha. iy i, i, The meatus auditorius externus, laid open to its bottom. ky The connection of the cartilage of the ear to the os- seous part of the meatus externus. I, The membrana tympani, fixed in an osseous groove at the inner end of the meatus auditorius, and hollow near hs middle; where it is connected to the under end of the malleus, which is seen shining through it, in, A section of the carotic canal. n, The point of the pars petrosa. At the inner side of the membrana tympani, the la- byrinth is exposed, with its passages laid open, of which the following appear in this view, viz. o, The superior or vertical semicircular canal. p, The external or horizontal semicircular canal. vol. n, b q, TheTABLE XIX. CONTINUED. <7, The vestible. r, r, The cochlea. s, The beginning of the canalis Fallopii, or the passage for the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves. FIG. 2. The Membrana Tympani, with the Small Bones of the Eaii, seen from the Inner and Fore Part ,• the Pars Petrosa being removed. a, a, The ring of bone which incloses the membrana tympani. b, The membrana tympani inclosed in that ring. c, Part of the tympanum. d, e,f, The malleus ; c> Its long process; j\ The point of the manubrium or handle of the malleus, bent to- wards the membrana tympani, and connected with it. g, The incus, connected to the head of the malleus. h, The basis of the stapes, the other parts of the bone being concealed in this fore-shortened view. i, iy The part where the pars petrosa was joined with the pars squamosa. k, The squamous part. ly The zygomatic process. FIG. 3. Shews the Natural Size of the Small Bones of the Ear, and their Articulation with each other. a, by Cy dy e, The malleus; o, Its head ; b, Its neck or collar ; Cy The short process -, d, The long or slender process. r. The-■v./ TABLE XIX. continuee). c, The manubrium, or handle, with its point bent out- wards and forwards. j, g> b, The incus; f, Its body; g, The cavity which receives the head of the malleus ; h, Its short crus ; i, Its long crus. Ic, The os orbiculare, or subrotundum. /, m, 7i> The stapes; l, The apex, or head, witli a small cavity, which corresponds with the os orbiculare; vi, The crura, of which one is longer than the other ; 71, The basis, which was fixed in the fenestra ovalis of the labyrinth. FIG. 4. The Temporal Bone of a Child, viewed from the Outer, and a little towards the Under sidcj—the Mem- brana Ti/mpani being removed. a, The squamous plate. b, The part which afterwards forms the mastoid process. c, The pars petrosa. d, The zygomatic process, e, The tympanum. f, The handle of the malleus. g, The long process of that bone. h, The long process, or crus of the incus. i, The stapes, with its basis fixed in the fenestra ovalis, lc, The fenestra rotunda. l, A groove for lodging the tensor muscle of the tym- panum. m, The foramen stylo-mastoideum, for the passage of the portio dura of the seventh pair of nerves. r/, Part of the Eustachian tube. t? 2 FIG,i A BLE XIX. CONTINUE®. FIG. 5. -Vhe Labyrinth shewn, by removing that part of the Temporal Bone which covers it.—This viewed from the Outer side. a—g, The labyrinth. a, b, c, The three semicircular canals ; a. The supe- rior, or vertical; b, The exterior, or horizontal; c. The posterior, or oblique. d, The vestible. c, The cochlea. f The fenestra ovalis. g, The fenestra rotunda. //, The margin to which the squamous part of the tem- poral bong was connected, z, Part of the tympanum. k. The jugular fossa. /, The canalis caroticus. m. Part of the Eustachian tube. FIG. 6. The Tympanum and Labyrinth viewedfrom the Upper and Fore Part, after removing the Osseous Substance which covered them. a, a. The membrana tympani, with the light shining, through it from the outside; shewing at the same time the boundary of the tympanum. b, The incus, with the os orbiculare at its under extre- mity ; thetstapes being removed, to procure a view of the vestible. c, The malleus, joined to the incus, and to the mem- brana tympani. I d> c,f TheTABLE XIX. CONTINUED. dy eyfy The three semicircular canals laid open ; dy The vertical canal. gy The vestible also laid open. hy liy A section of the auditoritis interims. iy The beginning of the canalis Fallopii. 1:—p. The different turns of the cochlea ; 1c, Tc, The scalae ; l, The lamina spiralis, complete behind ; the osseous part only is represented before ; m, The mo- diolus. fly The partition between the first and second gyri or turns of the cochlea, o, The second gyrus of the cochlea, in which are seen the two scalae, with the lamina spiralis between them, p, The infundibulum., with the hamulus, or termination of the lamina spi- ralis, projecting in it. q, The passage of the internal carotid artery. r, The point of the pars petrosa. s, ty The passage of the lateral sinus; t, The part where it goes through the cranium, liy ft. The cells of the bone. b 3TABLE XX .-Gives a Front View of the Contents of the Thorax and Abdomen, after removing the Parts which cover them. A, The right lung, part of which is cut off, to shew lanjc blood-vessels. B, The left lung. C, The right ventricle of the heart, with the point of the left ventricle. % D, The right auricle of the heart. E, The vena cava superior. F, F, The subclavian veins. G, G, The internal jugular veins. H, The aorta ascendens. I, The pulmonary artery. K, K,- The diaphragm. L, L, The right and left lobes of the liver, wjth the vestige of the ligamentum latum between them. M, The ligamentum rotundum. N, The fundus of the gall-bladder. O, The stomach, pressed by the liver towards the left side. P, The spleen. Q, Q, The situation of the kidneys behind the intes- tines. •R, R, R, The convolutions of the small intestines.. ' *T ABL E XXL Represents the Chylopoietic and Assistant Ciiylo- poietic Viscera, removed from the Body. A, A, A, The concave part of the liver turned up. B, The ligamentum rotundum. C, C, Its passage under, D, The isthmus of the liver. E, The vena portae. F, The arteria hepatica. G, The ductus hepaticus. H, The gall-bladder. I, The ductus cysticus. K, The ductus communis choledochus. The rest of the viscera are placed in the same manner as when in the body. L, The great, or left extremity of the stomach. M, M, M, The great curvature of the stomach, and gastro-epiploic vessels, the branches of which are re- presented too large. N, N, The small curvature of the stomach. O, The small extremity of the stomach, and seat of the pylorus. P, The duodenum. Q, The spleen. II, S, S, See. The convolutions of the jejunum and ilium. T, The intestinum caecum. U, U, &c. The colon, along which one of its muscular ligaments is seen. V, V, V, The mesocolon, with its blood-vessels and glands. W, X, TheTABLE XXI. CONTINUED. W, X, The sigmoid flexure of the colon, with the mus- cular ligament continued. Y, Y, The intestinum rectum. 2hy*y> The t^iree ligaments of the colon expanding upon the rectum. Z, Z, The levatores ani. &, Tiie anus, surrounded by the sphincter ani. The white spot above the sphincter ani points out the seat of the prostate gland.r AB.XXJ) '1' ABLE XXI a. \ View of the Abdominal Viscera of a Young A- dult, who suffered a Violent Death during the Sum- mer of 1812.—The Parts are in the perfectly sound State, and the natural situation is preserved as much as circumstances would allow. A Crucial Incision is made through the Integuments, Muscles, and Peritoneum, and the Flaps turned back. The Fore part of the False Ribs is cut and removed, and / their remaining Portions gently drawn outward, to obtain a more complete View of the Viscera at the upper end of the Abdomen. The Stomach and In- testines are slightly distended, by Air blown in at the CEsopiiagus. A, The outlines of the cartilago ensiformis. B, C, A portion of the upper convex part of the liver ; B, the right; and C, the left lobe. D, E, The stomach, lying nearly in the horizontal si- tuation ; D, the great; E, the small extremity. F, A portion of the omentum majus, the rest of it be- ing separated, to give a view of the parts which it covered. G, The spleen, brought a little forward from its natu- ral situation. H, H> II, The convolutions of the jejunum. I, I, I, Those of the ilium. \ K, TheTABLE XXLz. continued. K, The appendix vermiformis pulled outward. L, L, L, The intestinum caecum, with one of its longi- tudinal muscular bands. M, The right portion of the colon. N, N, The great arch of the colon, with its appendi- culae piuguedinosae. O, One of the longitudinal muscular bands of the colon, tucking it up into cells. P, The sigmoid flexure of the colon, with its fatty ap- pendages. Q, One of the bands of the sigmoid flexure. B, S, The bladder of urine distended. R, shews how far the peritoneal coat descends on the fore part of that viscus; S, the muscular coat of the bladder.TAB XXIITABLE XXII Exhibits the Viscera in the Upper, Back, and Under Parts of the Abdomen. A, A, The hollow, or inferior surface of the liver, turn- ed upwards and to the right side. B, The lob ulus Spigelii.—Between B and C, The porta. D, The ligamentum rotundum. E, The gall-bladder. F, The beginning of the cystic duct. G, The pancreas. H, The spleen. I, The ribs. K, K, The kidneys. L, L, The renal veins. M, M, The ureters. N, The aorta. O, The spermatic arteries. P, The beginning of the inferior mesenteric artery. Q, Q, The common iliac arteries. R, The inferior vena cava. S, s, The spermatic veins. T, T, The spermatic arteries and veins, closely em- bracing each other, in their way to the testes. U, U, The common iliac veins. V, The end of the colon. X, The beginning of the rectum. Y, y, y, The bladder of urine. Y, ThatTABLE XXII. continued. If, That part of the bladder which is covered only by cellular substance. 1/, j/» 2> Shews how far the peritoneum reaches down upon the fore part of the bladder, when it is mode- rately distended. Z, The urachus.z:i/l .11///TABLE XXIII. The Thoracic and Abdominal Viscera, seen fron* the Left Side. The Lateral Portion of the Diaphragm, over the Liver, Stomach, and Spleen, is cut off. The Left Lung ia turned towards the Spine, that its concave Surface, which accommodates itself to the Pericardium, the bare Surface of the latter, and the Vessels proceeding from the Heart, may appear. The Kidney is raised from its place. The Iliac and Spermatic Vessels, the Ureter and Sciatic Nerve, and the Peritoneum cover- ing this side of the Intestines, are dissected away, by which the Intestines and Omentum are brought into view. . A, B, C, The pericardium, containing the heart and ori- gins of the vessels ;—A, the apex and left ventricle of the heart appearing through the pericardium ;—B, the left auricle also somewhat conspicuous ;—C, the pulmonary artery. ID, The arch of the aorta, after emerging from the pe- ricardium. IE, The arteria innominata Loweri, and, IF, The left carotid artery arising from the aorta. Gr, H, The arteria and vena subclavia. ,, One of the four pulmonary vessels which terminate in the left auricle of the heart. K, The left lung turned towards the spine in such a manner, that what is naturally concave and embrac- ing the pericardium, appears here convex. •>, A portion of the diaphragm left in silu, after remov- ing/' A AT ABLE XXIV. Gives a Side View of the Contents of the' Male Pel- vis, in the distended state, after removing the Left Os Innominatum and Thigh. A, The symphysis of the pubis. B, The joint of the os sacrum with the os ilium. C, c, The bladder of urine inflated, rising a consider- able way above the pubes, c, The extent of the pe- ritoneum upon the bladder, in the distended state of that viscus. D, The ureter, with its termination in the bladder. E, E, c, The intestinum rectum, e, The peritoneum descending to the bottom of the pelvis. F, The levator ani turned aside. G, The fore part of the anus. H, H, The fleshy parts of the loins, with the integu- ments. I, The right thigh. K, The spermatic blood-vessels. L, The left testicle, covered by the scrotum. M, The vas deferens. N, The vas deferens enlarging and becoming cellular towards its extremity. O, The left vesicula seminalis. P, The beginning of the ductus communis seminiferis. Q> f he prostate gland, surrounding the neck of the bladder. ft, I he membranous part of the urethra. S, One of Cowpeh’s glands. C 2 T. T. ATABLE XXIV. continued* T, T, A section of the corpora cavernosa penis. U, A section of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. V, The cut end of the vena magna penis. \V, A section of the left crus of the penis. X, The bulb of the urethra. Y, A catheter introduced through the urethra into the ■ bladder.JAW V//.7I TABLE XXV. A Side View of the Contents of the Pelvis in a Young Female, the Left Os Innominatum and Thigh be- ing separated. • * A, The anterior surface of the os sacrum, covered by cellular substance. 33, The cartilaginous surface of the os sacrum, which was joined to the os ilium. C, The cartilaginous surface of the right os pubis, which formed part of the symphysis pubis. D, The large psoas muscle. E, A section of the muscles placed in the back part of the loins. F, A section of the pyriformis. G, A section of the glutei. II, The levator ani raised from its origin, and turned back, with a cut in it to shew, I, The point of the os coccygis. K, Part of the sphincter ani. L, The transversalis perinei separated from the os is- chium. M, The sphincter vaginae covering the corpus caverno- sum vaginae. N, The erector clitoridis. O, The left crus clitoridis. P, The body of the clitoris, and the angle which it forms with its crus. Q, The suspensorium clitoridis. B, The mons Veneris. ' c 3 S, The' i_ f.'I'.WXXT ABLE XXVI. Gives a View of the Uterus and Fcetus in the Fifth Month of Pregnane)'. The Uterus is fully opened, and the Foetus taken out, to shew the Proportions of the Child, the attachments of the Umbilical Cord and Placenta, with the dilated State of the Cervix Uteri at this period of Gestation. A, A, The opening made in the membranes, for the extraction of the child, through which is seen the in- side of the placenta around the termination of the umbilical cord. B, B, The collapsed amnios and chorion, covered ex- ternally with the decidua reflexa, which had not as yet contracted an adhesion to the decidua. C, C, The uterine tubes. D, D, The ligamenta lata. 1£, The decidua lining that part of the uterus where the placenta did not adhere to it. F, F, The section, from side to side, of the substance of the cervix uteri. G, The upper, narrower, and smaller part of the pas- sage in the cervix uteri, where the decidua was con- tinued down into the inner membrane of that passage. H, The lower, wider, and rugous part of that passage. II, The inside of the posterior ’ip of the os uteri. IK, The inside of the adjacent parts of the vagina.TAB. N'WO.TABLE XXVII ♦ In a Child born at the full time, the Integuments, Bones, and Muscles, covering the Fore Part of the Thorax, cut and removed, to obtain a View of the Viscera. The Blood-Vessels were injected with. Glue thrown into the Umbilical Vein. A, A, The cut edge of the integuments and muscles of the thorax. B, B, The upper part of the sternum, divided and drawn out. C, C, A section of the ribs and intercostal muscles. D, D, The flaps, formed by the under part of the in- teguments and muscles of the abdomen turned down. E, E, The two lobes of the thymus gland lying over the great vessels at the upper part of the heart; the cor- nua ascending some way in the neck. F, Veins descending from the thyroid gland. G, G, G, H, H, The three right, and two left Mies of the lungs, inflated. 1, The right auricle, and, K, The right ventricle of the heart. L, L, The cartilaginous margin of the thorax. M, The cartilago ensiformis. N, O, The right and left lobes of the liver, the left ex- tending into the hypochondrium of that side. P, The stomach. Q, Q, The small intestines. R, It, The colon. 3, The bladder of urine inflated. T, 'rimTABLE XXVII. continued. T, The urachus. U, U, The two umbilical arteries. V, The umbilical vein. W, ,The umbilicus. X, The collapsed umbilical cord.TABLE XXVIII. • I The Peculiarities of the Blood-vessels in the Foetus, shewn from the same Subject with that represented in the former Table. A, The thyroid gland. B, B, The lobes of the thymus gland turned up. C, C, The left lobes of the lungs. D, E, The liver dissected and turned over to the right side; the inferior surface seen; D, the great, and, £, The small lobe. As much of the substance of the liver is dissected away, as to shew the veins which enter it, or come out from it. F, The gall-bladder, with the trunks of the biliary ducts, G, The renal gland of the left side. H, The corresponding kidney. I, The ureter. K, Part of the right kidney. L, The bladder of urine inflated. M, The urachus. N, O, P, The heart drawn over to the right side; N, The right ventricle; O, The left auricle; P, The left ventricle. Q, The left branch of the pulmonary artery. R, R, The corresponding veins, with their termination in the left auricle. S, The left subclavian vein. T, The arch of the aorta, with the three great arteries sent off from it. U, The ductus arteriosus, passing from the trunk of theTABLE XXVIII. continue^. the pulmonary artery into the beginning of the de- scending aorta. V, The continuation of the aorta descendens. W, The coeliac artery. X, The superior mesenteric artery. Y, The right renal artery, with its corresponding \vein. Z, The inferior mesenteric artery. a, a, The two common iliac arteries. by The external iliac artery of the left side. r, The root of the internal iliac artery of that side. d, dy The two umbilical arteries running along the sides of the bladder. fy e, The common iliac veins. /,/, The vena cava inferior. g, The vena portae. hy hy The right and left branches of the vena portae. 7, iy iy The venae cavae hepaticae. by The collapsed umbilical cord. 1, The umbilical vein. 7/7, The umbilical vein sending branches to the right and left lobes of the liver, but chiefly to the latter. 77, The trunk common to the umbilical vein and left branch of the vena port®. Oy The ductus venosus. p, Its termination, along with the left vena hcpatica, in the vena cava, where that great vein is about to per- •forate the diaphragm. FIG. #TABLE XXVIII. continued. FIG. 2. The Right Auricle of the Foetus represented in the two last Tables, cut open to shew the Foramen Ovale. a, The vena cava superior, with its termination in the upper part of the right auricle. b, The vena cava inferior, with the venae hepaticae ter- minating in it. c, c, The right auricle cut open. d, The proper auricle. e, The valve of Eustaciiius over the mouth of the in- ferior cava, and its oblique situation seen with respect to the termination of the latter. The termination of the great coronary vein at the left side of the Eustachian valve. g, The beginning of the foramen ovale, which passes obliquely up between the septum of the auricles and its proper valve. h, A dotted line opposite to the upper edge of the valve of the foramen ovale. i, A dotted line at the root of this valve. lc, Jfj Two dotted lines marking the size of the passage through the foramen ovale. I, The annulus foraminis ovalis. The passage of the right ventricle.«. * •KING’S College LONDON GMSl Library f //Z / P^O(LL\r~> A cot^p£t^o^t^ of *TH£ yf- -tH^ £&C</ iga.-i&t 201096344 3 KING'S COLLEGE LONDON