75 CANCER. but it may be well to remember that occasionally the finger in the rectum -is able to ascertain that the actual or impending obstruction is caused by a fungating mass of growth, and not by an annular constriction, and that, under these circumstances, nearly the whole of the obstructing mass may be scraped away with a sharp spoon or snared off so as to relieve the obstruction completely, and the patient then is better off than after colotomy, as he retains full sphincteric action. In suitable cases— viz., those in which the disease is growing rapidly and in which the patient still retains sphincteric power, but has an objection to colotomy— this procedure is a proper and satisfactory one. We are strongly of opinion that there is no real evidence to show that any atrophy or even diminution in the rate of the growth of a cancer of the rectum occurs 'after colotomy. No doubt a normal rectum will undergo atrophy after a properly performed inguinal colotomy; but that a growth will diminish under similar circumstances is pure theory without any evidence at all to sustain it, and in our opinion it is certainly not a sufficient reason to urge for the performance of the operation. We should say that, as long as a patient suffering from inoperable cancer of the rectum remains comfortable without colotomy, it is very much better that he should continue as he is, but that of course he should be kept under observation, so that, if at any time it should be found that his colon is not being properly emptied or that obstruction is impending, colotomy may be done without further delay. The patient's comfort is materially interfered with after colotomy by the presence of the artificial anus, and sensitive persons may be intensely upset by it, and therefore, if this condition be brought about by operation without any tangible benefit to show in exchange for it, the operation is likely to become discredited. We feel very strongly that, although colotomy is of the greatest value in cancer of the rectum, it should not be resorted to unless there be some definite indication for its performance. Palliative treatment,—Should the patient refuse an operation, or should excision be deemed inadvisable and the time inopportune for a colotomy, palliative measures must be adopted to render the patient as comfortable as po.ssible. The first point is to see that the bowels do not become loaded, and with this object the diet must be regulated, hard, indigestible substances being forbidden and the quantity and quality of the food being so arranged that it shall reach the large intestine as completely digested as possible. There is no more fruitful cause of obstruction in cancer of the rectum than the lodgment of hard, indigestible masses, such as fruit skins, undigested vegetable material, portions of bone, etc., above the growth. Suitable laxatives must be employed to avoid the possibility of the fseces remaining long enough in the colon to become indurated, and a good plan is to give the patient a grain or two of extract of cascara every night in a pill, and to follow this up with a dose of an aperient mineral water in the morning, so as to obtain a fluid evacuation