127 CHOLECYSTITIS. administration of suitable laxatives. Occasionally small doses of morphine may be necessary for the attacks of colic. Should the affection persist in spite of these means and cause the patient much trouble, the suspicion that gall-stones are present becomes so strong (especially if the patient has at some time passed gall-stones) that the abdomen is opened. Even should no stones be found under these circumstances, operation is still the best method of treatment, as drainage of the gall-bladder (cholecystostomy) for a few weeks will generally cure the condition, the mucous membrane returning to its normal condition. The operation of cholecystostomy is fully dealt with elsewhere (see Chap. XV.), CHOLANGITIS. This affection is usually divided into the suppurative and the non- suppurative forms. About the latter we shall say nothing as it is simply the ordinary catarrhal jaundice which is strictly a medical affection. Catarrhal jaundice may also arise from simple catarrhal cholecystitis which spreads from the gall-bladder down the cystic and thus into the common duct. SUPPURATIVE CHOLANGITIS. — J'his affection is generally divided into two main groups. In the first, the suppuration affects the main ducts and is termed "suppurative cholangitis^'' whilst in the other the primary branches of the bile ducts are affected and the disease is termed " diffuse cholangitis." Both affections are bacterial in origin and the most frequent factor in their production is undoubtedly the presence of gall- stones. Occasionally foreign bodies, such as an intestinal worm or an hydatid in the bile passages may set up the affection, whilst it also occurs in connection with typhoid fever, appendicitis, pyaemia, or dysentery. When any of the latter group of causes is at work the affection is very apt to assume the diffuse form, whilst, when the mischief is set up by a foreign body, suppuration in the common bile duct is more common. Suppurative cholangitis is usually due to the presence of gall- stones in the common duct, the organisms finding their way up along this structure from the bowel. The symptoms are very similar to those of the diffuse form but are not so severe. There is high fever with deep and persistent jaundice, which however may vary considerably in degree from time to time. The liver is not enlarged and the gall-bladder is not distended. The patient may remain in this condition for a considerable time, the discharges from the duct finding their way alongside the stone into the duodenum and exacerbations may occur as the blockage becomes complete. On the other hand, the inflammation may pass on to acute suppurative hepatitis, the symptoms of which have already been dealt with (see p. 114). Diffuse cholangitis.—This is more common in connection with specific diseases, such as typhoid fever, appendicitis, pyaemia, or dysentery.