548 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LUNGS. of this affection is comparatively slight in this country but Australian surgeons report comparatively favourably of these cases. Treatment.—After the presence and situation of the hydatid has been made out, portions of one or more ribs should be removed in a suitable position and the further procedures will depend upon whether the hydatid cyst is adherent to the parietal pleura or not. If it be adherent, it is only necessary to incise the cyst and allow its contents to escape, after which efficient drainage is provided. If however there be no adhesion to the parietal pleura, the subsequent steps will be similar to those for opening an abscess of the lung or a bronchiectatic cavity (see p. 541); that is to say, the pleura must be carefully stitched to the lung before the cyst is opened. No washing-out of the cyst should be adopted. Good results have been obtained by simple puncture of the hydatid, but cases are known in which a fatal result has followed this procedure, the bronchi being flooded with the hydatid fluid. On the whole, treat- ment on lines similar to that for hydatid of the liver (see Chap. XIII.) is preferable. NEW GROWTHS OF THE THORAX. Tumours outside the thorax are of course treated on lines similar to those for tumours of soft parts elsewhere. Tumours of the lung are practically not amenable to surgical treatment and the only ones therefore which we need consider here are those in connection with the thoracic wall, particularly the ribs. TUMOURS OF THE RIBS.—These may be simple, such as exostoses or enchondromata, or malignant, the latter being either sarcomata or carcinomata. Extensive enchondromatous and sarcomatous tumours of the chest wall have been successfully removed, but it is a question whether it is ever worth while to attempt the removal of carcinomatous masses from this situation as these are generally secondary to scirrhus of the breast and the condition is most unfavourable. For our own part we do not advise operation under these conditions, although portions of the ribs so affected have been removed with partial success. In connection with the removal of tumours of the ribs, two points require consideration, in the first place the method of covering the wound subsequently, and in the second place the treatment of the pneumo-thorax that is likely to be produced. In removing these tumours it is absolutely essential that the wound should be closed afterwards and, if the case be one of sarcoma in which the skin is becoming involved over a consider- able area and this closure cannot be effected, the operation may be considered strongly contra-indicated. Even if the wound could be closed by flaps, the operation is of very doubtful value because a pneumo-thorax must necessarily be induced and, if the external wound cannot be closely sutured, the air in the pleural cavity does not become absorbed and permanent collapse of the lung may ensue. Hence we would lay it down