209 PYELONEPHRITIS. The distinction between pyelonephritis and simple pyelitis, is by no means .easy to make, but the former condition generally has the severer symptoms. Many cases of pyelonephritis begin as a simple pyelitis, and the treat- ment is practically the same in the two conditions, unless operative treatment seems possible. Treatment.—The possibility of the occurrence of these conditions must always be borne in mind in all cases of inflammatory disease in the lower urinary organs and in obstructions to the outflow of urine, which should, if possible, be completely and rapidly corrected. The worst cases are those of enlarged prostrate or paralysis of the bladder, in which patients often die of suppurative pyelonephritis, as it is a matter of great difficulty to prevent the occurrence of sepsis in the urine. The great point is to ensure complete asepsis of any instrumental or operative interferen<^e ; and, directly the urine is found to be undergoing decomposition, measures must be taken to render it aseptic. The precautions that have to be taken in operations on the lower urinary tract, and the best methods of diminishing the septic condition of the urine will be referred to in connection with diseases of the bladder and the prostate. When inflammation of the renal pelvis or of the kidney itself has set in, the first essential is absolute quietude and rest in bed; the diet should be limited, and the urine kept well diluted. The bowels should be kept open, preferably by salines, and the diet in bad cases should be purely liquid ; in less severe cases light solid food, such as fish or chicken, may be given. The ordinary diuretics are not of much value, but the slightly diuretic mineral waters, such as Contrexeville and Vichy, may be useful. The lumbar pain is best relieved by hot baths or fomentations, and in bad cases dry-cupping over the loin, or the application of leeches (see Part I., p. 5) is very advantageous. Internal antiseptics, such as salol, creosote, benzoate of ammonia, or ten- grain doses of boracic acid, seem to do good in some cases, but care must be taken to watch the effects of these drugs, as they may not only upset the stomach, but may irritate the kidney and aggravate the pain ; boracic acid is particularly irritating to the stomach, and should be administered in cachets. Quinine, in doses of five grains or more three times a day, either in a pill or floating upon milk, is distinctly valuable. Other drugs are of questionable value. The more chronic cases will derive benefit from a warm climate, where chills and congestion of the kidney are comparatively easily avoided. The condition of the bladder must always be carefully attended to, and the organ must be washed out if there be decomposition of the urine. These palliative measures often lead to marked improvement ifi the symptoms and, when the disease is merely pyelitis, may entirely cure it. They are practically the only measures that can be adopted in a case of surgical kidney, seeing that both organs are practically always affected, and that operation is not advisable. A circumscribed abscess of the kidney is occasionally met with, but rarely •diagnosed. Should such a thing happen, the obvious treatment is incision PT. VI. 2 o