257 METHODS OK UIAC.NOSIS. drips from the meatus independently of micturition and the urine is clear after the first few drops of urine have been passed. Bleeding behind the membranous portion however cannot find its way out on account of the contraction of the muscles and it therefore travels backwards into the bladder. If the hfemorrhage be slight, the blood only appears in the first portion of the urine or sometimes at the close of the act of micturition, the rest being clear. When it is profuse however, a considerable quantity may find its way into the bladder and the whole urine is uniformly tinted. Clots taking the shape of the prostatic urethra indicate bleeding from the neck of the bladder or the prostatic urethra, as does also a large amount of blood at the end of the act. When the blood comes from a vesical ulcer, it is intimately mixed with the urine. A test suggested for ulceration of the bladder is to inject a solution of iodide of potassium into the bladder cavity and to test the saliva with starch solution for the presence of iodine about ten or fifteen minutes afterwards. A normal bladder does not absorb at all and absorption only takes place from an ulcer on its surface; if therefore the saliva shows signs of iodine it indicates a breach of surface in the bladder through which absorption has occurred. Pyuria is very common in bladder affections but is also met with in diseases of the urethra and the kidney. Pus from the urethra behaves much as does blood from the same region. When the urine contains threads or clumps they are always urethral in origin, generally from the neighbourhood of the prostate. If the pus be due to urethritis and the urine be passed into three separate glasses the first portion is always more turbid than the second, whilst the last portion is quite clear. On the other hand, pus from the bladder makes each portion of the urine equally turbid; possibly the last portion may be even more markedly affected than the earlier ones on account of a collection of pus behind the prostate. It is not so easy to determine whether the pus comes from the kidney or the bladder. In the former case there is more albumen than the amount of pus warrants, and there will be polyuria of a low specific gravity with renal casts and epithelium. In pyuria of vesical origin the specific gravity of the urine is unaltered, the amount of albumen is slight, and corresponds only to the amount of pus present, and there is often ammoniacal decomposition; no renal casts are found, but bladder epithelium may be present. Bladder epithelium varies a good deal according to the layer from which it is derived; that from the superficial layer varies much in form and size, but is more or less flattened; that from the middle layer consists of polygonal cells, whilst that from the deeper one is of irregular oval cells. The epithelial cells from the renal pelvis are often tailed. A very valuable method of clearing up the diagnosis in hjematuria of doubtful origin by washing out the bladder has already been described (see p. 171). Inspection of the abdomen seldom gives any information except when the bladder is much distended, when a median ovoid tumour with its narrower end downwards may be seen extending upwards towards the umbilicus. PT. VI. 2. R