286 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. be left behind. ■ The silver solution may be gradually increased in strength, and may with advantage be alternated with perchloride of mercury (i-iooo or 1-500). When the scalding and frequency of micturition are excessive, the treatment will closely resemble that for the acute form of the disease (see p. 281), and it may even be necessary to employ continuous drainage. In the rare cases in which these methods fail, or when continuous urethral drainage cannot be borne, it may be necessary to open the bladder, and here it will undoubtedly be better to open the organ above the pubes (see p. 289), as there is not much danger of septic infiltration of the pre-vesical tissues, while at the same time the surgeon has the great advantage that he can inspect the interior of the bladder and may be able to treat some local condition that is keeping up the inflammation. Moreover, a perineal opening would be difficult to keep aseptic in these cases. The bladder is drained until the urine is free from mucus, pus, and organisms; this will generally be the case in about three weeks. In the female, the treatment will be exactly similar to that in the male, except that, in the cases where continuous catheterisation fails to effect a cure, the urethra should be over-distended, and temporary incontinence of urine established. Should this fail, a supra-pubic operation must be undertaken, and there will then probably be found some local condition that can be remedied. PEKI-VESICAL INFLAMMATION. This may follow extra-peritoneal rupture of the bladder due either to trauma or to perforation following grave cystitis. It may also arise in con- nection with inflammation of the seminal vesicles, the ureters, the pelvic bones or the Fallopian tubes. The most common seat of peri-vesical inflammation is the space of Retzius, which is bounded in front by the pubes and the anterior layer of the transversalis fascia, behind by the anterior wall of the bladder with its covering derived from the posterior layer of the transversalis fascia, below by the capsule of the prostate and the pelvic fascia, whilst above it is limited by the approximation of the two layers of transversalis fascia. Purulent inflammation in this region may burrow up under the recti or may pass backwards to the rectum or to the iliac fossa on either side, and the pro- gnosis is extremely grave. The diagnosis is comparatively easy; there are symptoms of suppurative inflammation accompanied by a brawny, painful swelling immediately above the pubes, which subsequently fluctuates. The treatment should be that for any other form of suppuration,—free incision and drainage and, should it be found that rupture or perforation of the bladder has also occurred, suitable treatment must be adopted for that.