337 ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. should have an indiarubber cork, and may be furnished with a metal case. The catheter thus remains in the fluid in which it has been boiled until it is again required for use. Disinfection of gum-elastic instruments is however a matter of difficulty. They are ruined both by boiling and by strong antiseptics such as 1-20 carboh'c solution, and, although i-iooo sublimate may be syringed through them and the catheter immersed^ in the solution for a short time with impunity, they must not be kept long in it, and they seldom last long even then. A usual method is to immerse the catheter, which is syringed through after use with warm water, in a long tube.containing a solution of i-iooo perchloride of mercury in glycerine where it is kept until required for use, when the sublimate is rinsed away with hot water. Of late formalin has been largely employed for the disinfection of catheters, and more recently a convenient plan has been introduced of exposing the catheter to the action of tri-oxy-methylene in suit- able receptacles. This is a powerful antiseptic and is likely to be valuable.^ The precautions necessary to avoid infection do not stop at the cleansing of the catheter, as a perfectly aseptic instrument may nevertheless introduce organisms into the bladder from the lubricant employed or from the urethra, etc. The usual lubricant has for its base either some oily substance or glycerine. Of these, glycerine is the safer and may be used either as pure glycerine or boro-glyceride, both of which are aseptic. The only objection to them is that, by the time the catheter reaches the bladder, most of the glycerine is washed off and the lubrication is imperfect, and therefore it may be necessary to withdraw the catheter more than once and re-lubricate it. This objection does not apply to greasy materials such as vaseline. The lubricant may be applied to the instrument by squeezing it out of a collap- sible tube, and this is a good method, the only objection being that the lubricant must be spread over the instrument by the finger, and that therefore the surgeon or the patient must carefully cleanse the hands before doing so. Another plan is to use sterilised oil, which is poured from a bottle over the catheter so that there is no necessity for touching the latter with the finger. Under no circumstances should the instrument be introduced either into an oil bottle or an ointment jar. The surgeon's or the patient's hands must be thoroughly disinfected before passing the catheter, and the orifice of the urethra must also be dealt with. The patient should always be strictly enjoined to wash the hands and disinfect them with carbolic solution, and the glans penis should also be washed, and the meatus mopped out with a small twist of cotton wool out of a 1-2000 sublimate solution. The strictest possible ' Formalin is a 40 per cent .solution of formic aldehyde in water and is used as a disinfectant in a strenylh of 2 per cent, to 10 per cent, watery solution. In using tri-oxy- methylene the drug is dusted over the bottom of an air-tight box or other suitable receptacle, and the catheters are exposed to its action by being laid upon shelves or trays which are made of gauze or of perforated metal. T-'ormic aldehyde is given oil" slowly when the drug is exposed to the air and has a ixivverful germicidal action. PT. VI. 2 Y