144 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. to the bowel, should be undertaken in simple cases of stones in the gall- bladder. Although this operation undoubtedly may have a legitimate field under other circumstances, we can hardly think that it is called for in the case of stones in the gall-bladder only, because, quite apart from the question of septic infection of the bile passages following the operation, the pro- cedure is more difficult than the methods above described. The steps of the operation will be found on p. 151. We may sum up the relative merits of these operations, as applied to the condition we are considering, as follows:—In the majority of cases the choice really lies between cholecystostomy and cholecystectomy, and undoubtedly the latter operation is the ideal one as it not only gets rid of the stones present but also removes any cholecystitis, and it is highly improbable that gall-stones will ever form again after it as there is only the hepatic duct left for them to form in. On the other hand, the operation is admittedly one of some severity and cannot always be employed. We would recommend that cholecystectomy should be done in all cases where the adhesions are slight and the patient's condition warrants the operation. The surgeon must also be certain that there are no stones present in the common duct. A stone in the cystic duct is no contraindication to the operation, as removal of the cystic duct may be combined with the cholecystectomy. Cholecystostomy on the other hand should be employed where there are extensive adhesions of the gall-bladder, where the patient is too feeble to stand extirpation, when there is much cholecystitis, and when there is any doubt as to whether the common duct is free from stones. The ideal operation, or cholecystotomy, is only available in a small number of cases. We have done it successfully in two or three cases where there was very little cholecystitis, where the walls of the gall-bladder were moderately thick, and where it was certain that there were no other stones present either in the cystic or the common duct. We have discussed the question of cholecystenterostomy above. 4. When there are g°all-stones in a much altered and adher- ent gall-bladder but the bile ducts are free.—Here the surgeon has the choice of two methods, either to drain the gall-bladder as long as may be necessary, or to remove it entirely. Of these the latter procedure is preferable, but if the gall-bladder be very adherent it may be impossible, and cholecystostomy will then be necessary. Both operations have already been described (see p. 141). 5. When there is a stone impacted in the cystic duct, the surgeon will go on, after removing any stones in the gall-bladder, to remove that in the duct. Suitable fine forceps or a scoop may first be introduced through the opening in the fundus and guided to the cystic duct by the fingers passed in through the abdominal wound and palpating the duct from the outside. In this way attempts are made to guide the forceps or the scoop along the duct and by it to withdraw the stone; these attempts may