URETERAL CALCULUS. 235 incision about the length of the stone is made parallel to the long axis of the ureter, commencing well above it and reaching only just down to the upper border of the calculus ; the incision should not be made over the stone itself, unless it be absolutely necessary, as the ureteral wall there is much thinned and distended, and the stitches employed to close the opening subsequently may cut through. After incising the ureter, the stone is manipulated upwards and extracted, and the incision is closed by two or three Lembert's sutures, care being taken not to invert the edges too much, as otherwise stenosis might occur. Some surgeons prefer not to use sutures for fear of this accident, and, as a matter of practice, it is found that, when the peritoneum and the abdominal contents fall back into place, the incision in the ureter is pressed against the loin and little extravasation occurs; we prefer however to put in a few fine sutures. A drainage tube should be introduced down to but not into actual contact with the incision, so that if any urine escapes it may be drained off. A probe should always be passed through the incision in the ureter and a second calculus felt for before the operation is completed. If one be found, it may either be removed at the same operation, if possible by squeezing it up to the first incision or failing that by a separate one, or else its removal may be undertaken at a later date. When the stone lies in the true pelvis the stone can still be reached by the " lumbo-ilio-inguinal incision," which is made by prolonging the nephrotomy incision downwards (see p. 219) and allows exposure of the ureter almost to its insertion in the bladder. In the female the broad ligament interferes with this procedure, and a vaginal incision must be employed ; a vertical incision is made in the anterior cul-de-sac of the vagina, the cervix uteri being dragged forcibly downwards and backwards with a tenaculum so as to make this tense. The bladder is then separated with the finger as far up as the vesico-uterine cul-de-sac, when the ureter containing the stone is easily exposed. A longitudinal incision is made for the removal of the stone, and after extraction it is usually unnecessary to suture the ureter. A few stitches in the vagina, leaving between them sufficient space for any leakage of urine, will be enough. When the calculus is impacted in the lower end of the ureter, but too high up to be got at through the bladder or vagina, the sacral route (see p. 220) should be adopted in the female; in the male this part can usually be got at by the " lumbo-ilio-inguinal incision " and is an unusual situation for the stone to be impacted in. The sacral route may be adopted in the male however if it be certain that the calculus is impacted in this situation, and there is therefore no reason to operate from the loin. When the stone is impacted close to the bladder or in the vesical wall itself, it must be got at from below and, when it is outside the wall of the bladder but close to it, the sacral route should be employed in the male. When the calculus is actually impacted in the vesical part of the ureter it may be removed from the bladder itself. In the male a supra-pubic