152 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. 5. Gall stones impacted in the common duct. 6. Occlusion of the common duct by new growths, cicatrices, etc. A persistent biliary fistula is of course a most unpleasant condition. When the trouble is in the cystic duct, the discharge from the fistula as a rule is merely a thin, mucoid fluid. When, however, it is in the common duct, bile often pours out of the fistula in large quantities. Although a non-biliary fistula does not cause irritation of the skin around, it is very inconvenient to the patient and requires constant attention, whilst a true biliary fistula may give rise not only to much annoyance from staining of the linen, but to irritation of the skin around by the bile. Therefore in the majority of cases surgical intervention will be called for. TREATMENT.—1. When the fistula is due to a stone impacted in the cystic duct, attempts should first be made to localise the stone by a probe and then to extract it with suitable forceps from the wound. Should this fail, the surgeon must open the abdomen and do a cholecystectomy if the condition of affairs permits (see p. 143) ; if not, the stone should be extracted through an incision directly over it, and then the entire mucous membrane should be removed from the gall-bladder and the cystic duct by cutting or scraping. Finally, drainage is provided until the cavity closes, as it will do if the mucous membrane be entirely removed. 2. When the fistula is due to kinking of the cystic duct or the neck of the gall-bladder, a laparotomy should be performed, the fundus freed from the abdominal wall and then, if the condition of affairs permits, a chole- cystectomy should be done, the cystic duct being removed with the gall- bladder (see p. 143). Should this operation be considered inadvisable (see p. 144), a laparotomy should be done, the fundus freed and then, after mak- ing quite sure that no stones are present in the gall-bladder or the cystic duct, the edges of the incision in the fundus are pared and united by Lembert's sutures, and the gall-bladder is dropped back into the abdomen, drainage being provided down to the seat of operation (see p. 141). When the fistula is due to adhesions about the cystic duct or the neck of the gall- bladder the only really satisfactory treatment is a cholecystectomy. 3. When the fistula is due to stricture of the cystic duct, complete extirpation of the gall-bladder is indicated. 4. When the fistula is due to want of closure from faulty suture after cholecystostomy a laparotomy should be done, the fundus separated from the abdominal wall, its edges pared freely and the wound in the gall-bladder closed by Lembert's sutures in the ordinary fashion. The sutured gall-bladder should then be dropped back into the abdomen, drainage being provided down to the seat of operation (see p. 141). 5. When the fistula is due to a stone impacted in the common duct, and attempts to get the stone passed on by the injection of warm olive oil and subsequently plugging the fistulous orifice are persevered with in vain for, say, three months, abdominal section should be performed and choledochotomy undertaken. Should that prove impossible, cholecystenterostomy may be done.