234 ^^'^ SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. end of the ureter; there is another slight narrowing where the ureter crosses the brim of the pelvis. The clinical symptoms however are rarely sufficiently definite to enable the diagnosis to be made with confidence unless the stone can be felt. When the stone is impacted in the lower end of the ureter it may escape into the bladder by ulceration. The ureter above the obstruction becomes thinned, and may be inflamed or ulcerated, and undergo sloughing and suppuration. Usually however it becomes much thickened and dilated. When a stone is impacted in this situation in the female, it is fairly easy to feel it per vaginam. In the male, digital examination of the rectum will not often lead to its detection but, when impacted in or near the ureteral orifice, the protrusion of the mucous membrane of the ureter may be recognised by the cystoscope. TREATMENT.—The calculus must be removed without delay, if possible, by an extra-peritoneal operation. The exact steps of this will depend both upon the seat of impaction and also upon whether the stone in the ureter be the sole lesion. In very doubtful cases a median exploratory laparotomy may have to be performed in order to ascertain the condition of both ureters throughout their whole length ; if this be done, the laparotomy wound should, if possible, be closed and an extra-peritoneal operation performed for removal of the stone from the ureter. When a stone is found in the ureter at the time of an operation for renal calculus, it is best to remove the ureteral stone forthwith if the patient's condition warrant it and if the calculus be easily accessible from the lumbar wound. The patient is generally fit to stand the necessary prolongation of the nephro-lithotomy if the calculus be impacted above the brim of the pelvis; when however it is situated lower down, this is not always the case. In the male it is advisable to proceed immediately to remove the stone, unless it be impacted close to the vesical orifice of the ureter, in which case it is probably better to wait a few days, unless there be already symptoms of complete calculous anuria. In the female however, when the stone is situated behind or below the broad ligament, it is always well to defer removal to a second operation, except under similar circumstances. When the calculus is situated in the upper part of the ureter, an attempt to press it gently back into the renal pelvis will frequently succeed, and it can then be removed without difficulty. When it is situated lower down, but still above the brim of the pelvis, the ureter is easily exposed by a slight prolongation downwards of the nephrotomy incision, which enables the peritoneum to be pushed forwards as far as the brim of the pelvis. There is no difficulty in tracing down the ureter, as, although it tends to be carried forward with the peritoneum, it can be traced from the renal pelvis, and the stone in it is at once manifest. In this situation it is usually impossible to press the calculus up into the pelvis of the kidney without unduly damaging the ureteral wall, and it must therefore be removed by ureierotomy. An