224 'T'^E SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. scalding. The bladder is irritable and the urine is passed frequently. In some cases there is a high temperature and great mental prostration, whilst the kidney and ureter are both tender on palpation. Suppression of urine may actually occur, due either to blockage of both ureters by stones, or to reflex action caused by the presence of a stone on one side. The attack frequently passes off quite suddenly when the stone reaches the bladder; on the other hand, the calculus may become impacted in the ureter, and then the acute pain passes off and leaves a dull aching in the region of the kidney or the ureter. Sometimes the stone may slip back again into the renal pelvis. The^treatment of the actual attack of renal colic is described separately (see p. 232). Hcemaiuria is frequently but by no means constantly present. It is comparatively slight in amount, and the blood is intimately mixed with the urine, while occasionally clots are passed, moulded in the ureter or the renal pelvis. The bleeding is aggravated by movement, and diminished by rest. Pus is generally found in the urine under the microscope, and the pyuria may be very considerable when there is a suppurative infection of the renal pelvis. The urine as a rule is acid and not offensive, except when there is severe pyelitis. Albuminuria is nearly always met with, but is usually accounted for by the pus present. There is enlargement of the kidney, ascertainable by palpation in a certain number of cases, especially in the later stages when there is suppuration in the renal pelvis. The diagnosis of stone in the kidney is not always easy. The pain may be confounded with that due to lumbar neuralgia, but in the latter case there is usually an entire absence of tenderness over the kidney. Biliary calculi may co-exist with renal stones. Neuralgia of the kidney is often present when the organ is movable; but in the latter case the absence of any haematuria, and the mobility of the organ will usually clear up the diagnosis. Intermittent hydronephrosis may be mistaken for renal colic, and so may appendicitis, especially the type known as appendicular colic. A condition most difficult to diagnose from renal calculus is renal tuberculosis (see p. 215), more especially as deposit of phosphates takes place upon the caseous material in some of the latter cases, so that a stone is actually present. A growth of the kidney is usually distinguished from renal calculus by the entire absence of a history of colic, and by the fact that the hcema- turia is not only very profuse but is apparently causeless, and is not improved by rest, while the increasing size of the tumour will soon clear up the diagnosis. Renal embolism from heart disease has also given rise to difficulty in diagnosis. Paroxysmal renal pain of unknown origin may closely simulate renal calculus, and the kidney has been exposed a number of times for this condition, and nothing found. Renal neuralgia accompanied by hasmaturia, may be due to malarial poisoning, and is a source of great difficulty in diagnosis. Examination of the blood, and a