514 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. Of prolapse of the lung.—Prolapse of the lung through the wall of the thorax is a rare complication and may occur either at the time of the accident or subsequently. It is most commonly met with in extensive injuries, such as shell wounds, and is probably due to the glottis being closed at the moment the injury is sustained. The prolapsed portion of the lung becomes caught between the ribs and fixed there and undergoes considerable congestion from the pressure; it may ultimately become gangrenous. Consecutive hernia, that is to say a hernia occurring through the seat of an injury some time after healing has taken place, is comparatively rare and results either from adhesion of the lung to the seat of the injury or from emphysema developing later or possibly from both causes combined. Treatmetit. —If the case be seen immediately after the accident the treatment is easy; all that is necessary is to disinfect the surface of the lung thoroughly, free it and return it into the thorax, bringing the wound together over it. If however the case be not seen until some time has elapsed and firm adhesions have occurred between the opposing surfaces of the pleura, reduction is impossible and is inadvisable even could it be done. The prolapsed portion should be left in situ and allowed to slough off. The process may be hastened by tying a ligature tightly around the base of the prolapsed portion and cutting off the necrotic area. Traumatic empyema.—This is a not uncommon complication after a penetrating wound of the thorax and when it occurs the sooner the thorax is opened and drained the better. The incision should be free and is best combined with resection of a rib (see p. 530). When the affection follows a wound it is probably best to enlarge this and to arrange for drainage through it; if however the primary opening be com- paratively high up in. the thoracic wall, it is well to pass a probe down through it to the lowest limit of the pleura about the posterior axillary line and to make a counter-opening in that position after excising a portion of the rib there also. A drainage tube can then be passed through from one opening to the other and the after-treatment will be similar to that for empyema (see p. 532). Foreign bodies, such as bullets, fragments of clothing, etc., may be met with in the pleura or in the lung. If they remain aseptic, as bullets sometimes do, they may gravitate to the lowest part of the pleural cavity and there become encapsuled. If not, and if they are not removed, an acute empyema or an abscess of the lung may form, according to the position of the foreign body, and the pus may be discharged either through the wound or into one of the bronchi, in which case fatal septic pneumonia is likely to occur. Treatment.—Should the object be opaque to the X-rays, it can be localised by them and cut down upon and removed, if it be in an accessible position. If it can be reached from the wound, the simplest