RETAINED TESTIS. 445 the shortness of the tissues forming the cord, but in this connection it is most important to remember that the vas deferens itself is nearly always long enough, provided that the testis has descended to the neighbourhood of the external abdominal ring. Indeed special care has to be taken in separating the testis from the hernial sac so frequently met with in these cases not to injure the vas, which generally coils over the sac and extends to a lower level than does the testis itself The tissues that are unduly short are the vessels, and fibrous structures and, if these be divided, the organ can be brought down satisfactorily. The structures of the cord are spread out over the funicular process and the latter has to be most carefully separated from them as low down as the epididymis. This is often a difficult matter as the process is very thin and the structures of the cord are closely adherent to it. The usual incision for the radical cure of hernia (see Part VI., Section I, p. 450) is made, and the external abdominal ring is exposed in the usual manner. Even when the testis is well within the inguinal canal a mass of tissue generally bulges through the ring, and corresponds to the fat outside the sac and the remain^ of the gubernaculum testis. The external spermatic fascia is divided and the external oblique aponeurosis is slit up as for a radical cure and the testis with the hernial sac and the structures of the cord are lifted out of the inguinal canal and cleared as far as the internal ring. The structures of the cord are then identified and the vas is isolated, and these structures are carefully and gradually peeled off the sac, which is then cut across below immediately above the epididymis and the upper end is cleared well up to the internal abdorhinal ring and clamped pending the treatment of the testis. The latter is now pulled downwards towards the scrotum so as to put the tissues of the cord upon the stretch and to ascertain which of them resist its re-position. Any constituents of the cord, except the vas, that offer resistance should be freely divided after being ligatured in two places. Practically all the structures of the cord may be divided, much as in the radical cure of varicocele, without damage to the testis; sufficient blood and nerve supply accompany the vas to prevent necrosis of the testis. When this has been done the parts will be sufficiently elongated to enable the testis to be carried down to the level of the bottom of the scrotum without any undue tension on the cord.^ When the cord has been sufficiently elongated, the finger is pushed down into the corresponding half of the scrotum and a pouch is made for the reception of the testis. A silk or catgut ligature of medium thickness ' II is recommended in most text-books that, if there he difficuUy in getting the testis easily down to the bottom of the scrotum, additional length should be obtained by separating the lower portion of the vas from the back of the epididymis as far down as its junction with the globus minor and then turning the testis upside down and so obtaining an inch or so more length. We have never found this manoeuvre necessary in any of the many cases upon which we have operated in children. It may occasionally be necessary when the operation is done in an adult, but even then in our experience only very exceptionally.