THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. rent found and temporarily covered by a flat sponge or abdominal cloth and all the urine present in Douglas's pouch rapidly mopped out. Then the Trendelenburg position is substituted, the rent in the bladder being still closed by a sponge in order to prevent urine running into the upper part of the abdomen; the intestines are packed off by abdominal cloths, the bladder is pulled well forwards and the seat of rupture is exposed. This is usually a clean tear and is readily closed by a double row of Lembert's sutures, the first being interrupted and passing through the serous and the whole thickness of the muscular coat avoiding the mucous membrane, whilst the outer layer is continuous and takes up the serous membrane only. When this has been done, the field of operation is carefully cleaned, the cloths are removed, the pelvic cavity is flushed out with normal saline solution and the abdominal wound is closed without a drainage tube. After-treatment.—The important question is whether the patient should be allowed to micturate naturally or whether a catheter should be tied in the bladder. The objection to a catheter is the risk of irritation and the passage of sepsis along it; on the other hand, there is a possibility of leakage under the strain of passing water, and undoubtedly the variation in size of the bladder as it becomes distended and empties itself must necessarily tend to loosen the stitches. Instead of tying in a catheter, some surgeons pass one at regular intervals for the first two or three days and draw off" the urine. There does not seem to be much to choose between the two methods and we ourselves usually tie in a soft red-rubber catheter for the first three days, after which we draw off" the urine at intervals whenever the bladder is getting distended. After the first week the patient micturates spontaneously. In extra-peritoneal ruptures also it is well if possible to tie a catheter in for the same length of time although, owing to the pre-vesical space being drained, there is not the same risk should leakage occur. During the first ten days it is well to administer internal urinary antiseptics, such as boracic acid (gr. x.), salol (gr. x.), or urotropine (gr. v.), thrice daily so as to keep the urine as aseptic as possible, and the patient should not be allowed to stand for at least three weeks after the operation, as otherwise bulging of the scar may occur, especially when a drainage tube has been inserted into the pre-vesical space; he should wear a well-fitting abdominal belt for at least six months afterwards. VESICAL FISTULA. A fistulous opening leading to the bladder may occur in various situations. Thus, after supra-pubic cystotomy a fistula may occur in the supra-pubic region ; severe pressure upon the bladder during parturition may be followed by sloughing and a fistulous communication between it and the vagina ; similarly a communication may occur between the bladder and the bowel either from the bursting of an abscess into both structures, as may happen in appendicitis, or a direct communication may be established from tuberculous