486 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. takes place and the latter become enlarged and microscopic cysts are formed. The great majority of these remain ciuite small, but one or two may attain a considerable size. Treatment.—The question of excision of the breast arises in these cases and, as we have said, French surgeons strongly advise complete removal of the organ. There is however no definite proof that cancer develops from this condition and, unless definite severe pain or discomfort be caused, the procedure seems to us to be too severe. Any cysts of considerable size may be tapped and injected (see p. 501) or the affected portion of the breast may be excised. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE BREAST. This condition is not so uncommon as is often supposed, and many cases of chronic mastitis, especially those ending in suppuration, are really tuberculous in nature. The disease commences around the acini and may involve a considerable number of lobules. The glands in the axilla soon become enlarged. Symptoms.—The onset of the disease is insidious. One or more irregular swellings appear and increase fairly rapidly; their centres soften and ultimately chronic abscesses and sinuses form. These sinuses have no tendency to heal, and the skin around becomes undermined in a characteristic manner. The condition is serious because it is likely to lead to destruction of the breast if not arrested by treatment, and it is also serious if the patient be still capable of child-bearing, for the milk may contain and convey the tuberculous virus. Treatment.—If the condition occur during the child-bearing period, the best plan is to excise the entire breast, as it must always be a source of danger to the children and anything short of excision at this period of life rarely suffices to effect a cure. In older patients, in whom the disease is limited to a comparatively small area of the gland, it may be justifiable either to excise that segment of the organ or, if, the patient objects strongly to such a procedure, to open up the sinuses thoroughly, scrape them freely and make them heal from the bottom by stuffing with iodoformed gauze. SYPHILIS OF THE BREAST. Syphilis in the breast may be met with in the primary stage. A chancre on the nipple is not at all uncommon from nursing a syphilitic child. It is a point of interest that, with rare exceptions, a syphilitic infant does not infect its own mother, although the latter may never at any time have displayed signs of syphilis, whilst a healthy wet-nurse will at once become infected. Chancres of the nipple are usually readily recognised, on account of the size of the sore and the induration of the base, together with the early enlargement of the axillary glands.