314 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. tion of sedatives locally to the bladder and generally to the nervous system. The htemorrhage may sometimes be kept under control by the use of gallic acid (lo grs.), turpentine (20 min.), piL plumbi cum opio (10 grs.) or liquid extract of ergot (i dr.) internally. The last drug how- ever must be used with extreme caution and it is best to reserve it for cases in which the haemorrhage is severe enough to threaten the patient's life as, owing to the advanced age and broken-down condition of the subjects of malignant bladder tumours, serious physiological effects may be produced. Locally the bladder may be irrigated with tincture of hamamelis (one part to three of water) or perchloride of iron (20-60 minims to the oz.); when the latter is used it should be washed away with boracic lotion after a short time. In cases of very severe bleeding, extract of supra-renal substance (gr. XX. ad 5 j) or a solution of adrenalin chloride (i in 1000) may be injected into the bladder, left there for a quarter of an hour and then washed out again with boracic lotion. Should the haemorrhage persist or should there be severe cystitis which is beyond control, permanent drainage may be established above the pubes, as the pressure of a catheter through the perineum is usually intolerable. An opening in this situation also enables the surgeon to investigate the condition of affairs and there is less risk of sepsis. Should the tumour be situated on the anterior surface of the bladder however the perineal route is the better. Both these operations have been described (see pp. 289, 309). Sometimes however the patient's condition may be so bad that either operation is out of the question, and in that case supra-pubic drainage may be effected by puncture. The patient is given an anesthetic, the bladder is distended with three or four ounces of fluid, a small median incision is made just above the symphysis pubis through the skin and superficial fascia, and then a suitably curved trochar and cannula is thrust in a direction somewhat downwards and backwards through the anterior vesical wall. When the cannula'has entered the bladder, the trochar is withdrawn and the cannula is fixed in position by tapes and worn for about a week, so that the opening may become established, when it is removed and a suitable india-rubber tube, provided with a shield and tubing leading into a urinal, is substituted. This small operation is hardly ever accompanied by bad results and may be performed with little or no shock to the patient, for whom it secuj-es permanent and thorough drainage. (b) Operative, (a) Of villous tumours.—^Vhenever the surgeon is of opinion that the tumour can be removed, it should be done by a supra- pubic cystotomy, which renders the interior of the bladder so accessible that the tumour can be dealt with almost as easily as if it were upon the surface. A median perineal section does not admit of this to anything like the same extent. The/operation has already been described (see p. 289). The bladder is opened by the usual vertical incision in the great majority of cases. Occasionally however the cystoscope may reveal a growth in such a position