211 PYONEPHROSIS. urine is usually alkaline, and there is much mucus. There is often a history of previous symptoms of renal calculus. This condition cannot well be mistaken for hydronephrosis, in which there is no pyrexia or pyuria. It may be difficult to distinguish from a peri- nephric abscess accompanied by pyelitis, but the most difficult thing is to diagnose a calculous pyonephrosis from a tuberculous kidney; a skiagram may possibly clear up any doubt. One of the most helpful points in the diagnosis of pyonephrosis is the discovery of a cause of obstruction to the out- flow of the urine. The lower urinary passages must be examined and stricture of the urethra, enlargement of the prostate, vesical stone, or a pelvic tumour, must be looked for. The essential points in the investigation of the condition of the kidneys themselves have been given (see p. i68); the condition of the opposite kidney is most important. Prog'nosis.—This depends on the cause of the distension and the possi- bility of its removal, and also upon the condition of the opposite kidney. If the latter be healthy and the cause of distension be removable, as, for instance, when the case is due to stone, the prognosis is good; if the cause be irremovable or the other kidney be affected it is very gloomy. Treatment, (a) Palliative.—When the condition is not urgent enough to demand immediate operation, or while the case is being thoroughly ex- amined in order to ascertain the exact cause of the mischief and the condition of the opposite kidney, general treatment, such as that already recommended for pyelonephritis, should be employed (see p. 209). Moreover, this should be persisted in whilst any obstructive condition in the lower urinary passages is being attended to. When the condition has been ascertained to be due to some mischief in the kidney, such as a stone, or when obstructive conditions lower down in the urinary organs have been rectified without improvement in the renal condi- tion, the question of dealing directly with the kidney, if only one be affected, will naturally arise. Time should not be wasted on palliative measures if they do not produce improvement, especially when there is much pyrexia. (b) Operative.—This takes the form either of simple nephrotomy and drainage, or nephrectomy. The object of the operation is twofold; in the first place the pus requires evacuation, and the abscess must be drained, and in the second place the obstructing cause must be removed if possible. Hence, the first thing to be done is a nephrotomy, and the question of nephrectomy will only arise under certain circumstances. Nephrectomy may be either primary or secondary. Nephrotomy.—The kidney is exposed in the usual manner, as for nephro- lithotomy (see p. 227), isolated and brought as far up out of the wound as possible ; when there is not much conden.sation of the peri-nephric fat, it may be brought entirely out on the loin. It is palpated in order to detect any cause of obstruction, such as a stone, and, before opening the kidney, it is well to isolate and palpate the ureter as far down as possible. Should peri-renal