419 SPASMODIC STRICTURE. A free exit for the urine from the bladder must also be established, and an immediate external urethrotomy should be done if the patient's condition be at all good. If however the patient be very ill, the opening in the urethra behind the stricture should be identified if possible, and should be enlarged if necessary to allow of the free passage of urine. In these gangrenous cases a catheter should not be tied in, as cystitis may be set up and may lead to the death of the patient, whereas increasing the opening in the urethra allows the patient to micturate readily through the perineal wound. Even when an external urethrotomy has been done, an instrument should not be tied in, but the wound should be left open until all the sloughs have separated. In these cases some surgeons prefer to do Cock's perineal section (see p. 413) and to open the urethra freely behind the stricture. This need only be done however when it is impossible to identify the opening through which the extravasation has taken place. The wounds should be left open, powdered with iodoform and stuffed with cyanide gauze. Large boracic fomentations should be applied outside and must be changed frequently. The patient will require tonic treatment until the sloughs have separated and the wounds are granulating. When the sloughing is extensive it is an excellent plan to keep the patient permanently in a warm bath until the sloughs have separated, keeping the water changed frequently and the temperature maintained. SPASMODIC STRICTURE. Complete retention of urine may occur without any organic change in the coats of the urethra and may be caused by reflex spasm of the extrinsic muscles of the urethra from irritation elsewhere; the membranous urethra is practically always affected. The condition is frequent after various operations, such as those about the anus, perineum or genital organs. It may also occur after operations elsewhere, especially in hysterical subjects, and spasmodic retention of urine may occur in women without any apparent cause. TREATMENT.—When the condition is met with after an operation, the treatment is two-fold; on the one hand it is directed to the relief of the retention itself and on the other to attempts to allay the spasm. The best way of allaying spasm is to apply hot fomentations to the pubes and the perineum or, better still, to put the patient in a hot bath and give him a rectal suppository of morphine. In many cases following an opera- tion however it is neither possible nor advisable to place the patient in a hot bath, nor is it desirable to wait for the effects of morphine, and there is no objection to relieving the retention at once by means of a catheter. When however the cause is hysteria, it is well to employ the other remedies first, and to refrain from using a catheter as .long as possible; should it be necessary to resort to it, a red rubber Jacques' catheter, carefully