310 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. the handle somewhat depressed towards the abdomen in order to render the convexity prominent in the perineum. An incision an inch and a half long is made in the middle line of the perineum, extending downwards to about an inch in front of the anus. When the superficial structures have been cut through, the surgeon introduces his left forefinger into the wound and feels for the groove in the staff as it lies in the membranous urethra. The finger-nail is sunk into this, and the knife is slipped over the nail until its point is engaged in the groove, and the membranous and prostatic urethra are opened by pushing the knife along it; the latter should be held horizontal throughout. The left forefinger is slipped out of the groove, but is kept in the wound, -serving to press the rectum and soft parts backwards, and the knife is pushed on until the bladder is nearly reached, when the knife is with- drawn, taking care not to depress the handle in so doing, as the rectum or other important parts may be damaged. A director or a probe is passed along the groove of the staff well into the urethra, the staff is withdrawn, and the surgeon passes his finger along the probe into the urethra and through the neck of the bladder, which he dilates sufficiently to allow a small pair of forceps or a scoop to be passed. When the blades of the instrument are well within the prostatic urethra, the finger is withdrawn and the closed forceps are slipped into the bladder; the stone is felt for, the blades are opened and the calculus is seized, "\^^hen the finger is withdrawn, the rush of urine through the wound generally carries the stone well into the neck of the bladder, so that there is no difficulty in seizing it at once. The stone should be grasped in its shortest diameter and, if this be not done at the first attempt, the calculus should be manipulated until it comes the right way, when it is withdrawn by gentle traction downwards and backwards so as to clear the arch of the pubes. If it should happen that the stone is too large to be extracted in this way, the incision in the prostate may be enlarged by carrying outwards a second incision similar to that for lateral lithotomy, and thus more room may be obtained. If the incision be kept strictly to the middle line there is no bleeding of any consequence. After-treatment.—A catheter is passed through the perineal wound and tied in; any oozing is easily stopped by packing gauze around it for some hours. The tube is removed in about four days, and the patient is allowed to pass urine per iirethram. This occurs gradually, all the urine probably passing through the urethra about the end of the fourth week. For the after- treatment of a case in which a stricture has been divided see External Urethrotomy (Chap. XL.). Lateral lithotomy.—This operation has now fallen into such entire disuse that it is not worth while taking up space by describing it. iVnyone wishing to become familiar with it should refer to text-books on operative surgery.