403 ORGANIC STRICTURE. that the instrument is in a false passage. A false passage bleeds freely immediately it is made, but instruments passed very gently along a false passage of some standing do not necessarily excite any bleeding. For treatment see p. 410. Catheter fever has already been described (see p. 338). It has been supposed by some that it is not tfie actual passage of the instrument through the stricture that gives rise to this condition but its contact with the prostatic urethra, and some surgeons have asserted that in patients who were subject to this complication they have avoided it by not introducing the instruments further than the stricture. The best prophylactic is to keep the patient in bed for 24 hours before instrumentation, and to administer two five-grain doses of quinine shortly before it. Epididymitis is a rarer complication of catheterisation and generally results from direct infection from the urethra when the stricture has been fairly tight and has been split by dilatation. Its treatment is described later (see p. 452). Cases suited for treatment by dilatation.—The majority of strictures can be treated in this manner, at any rate for a time, for, even if the treatment be not curative, it may be required as a preliminary to other operations, such as internal, and some forms of external urethrotomy. Ordinary strictures in the vicinity of the bulbous urethra are very suitable for treat- ment by intermittent dilatation. Those in the penile portion are usually of a more resilient character and should be submitted to operation. A stricture may be said not to be suitable for this method when it either is so rigid as not to become absorbed after prolonged attempts by intermittent dilatation or is so resilient as to relapse each time; there is then no alternative but to operate. Similarly cases complicated by numerous false passages, with abscesses or fistulse behind the stricture or with attacks of epididymitis and catheter fever are better submitted to operation. Finally of course the so-called impassable forms of stricture are not amenable to this method. Urethrotomy.—This is the alternative to treatment by dilatation and by it is meant division of a stricture either from within—internal urethro- tomy—or from without—external urethrotomy. Internal urethrotomy.—The cases suitable for internal urethrotomy are essentially penile strictures of the resilient type. These may be dilated fully at one sitting, but at the next they are as narrow as ever and no permanent progress is made by dilatation. Bridle or valvular strictures are also specially suited for treatment by internal urethrotomy as they do not yield to dilatation, and the same remark applies to irritable strictures. External urethrotomy is not a suitable operation for stricture in the penile portion of the urethra unless some complication, such as extravasation of urine, be present. Internal urethrotomy is only possible when the stricture can be dilated to at least the size of a 4 or 5 English previously, so as to allow the passage of the urethrotome.