MOVABLE KIDNEY. The mobility of the kidney may occur alone or it may be associated with other troubles, and this point is most important when deciding upon the proper line of treatment. It is not uncommon to find that other organs, especially the stomach and intestines, also descend to an abnormal degree in these cases,—the condition known as enter opto sis,—and in some cases also the liver may be unduly movable. The association of movable kidney with enteroptosis is of great importance because many of the symptoms may then be due rather to the condition of the general abdominal contents than to the mobility of the kidney and an operation which merely fixes the latter may in no way relieve them. The frequency with which these conditions are associated is variously estimated by different writers; Glenard, who described this condition of intestinal enteroptosis,—to which indeed the name of " Glenard's disease" has been given,—holds that practically all cases of mobility of the kidney are associated with it. Other authors on the contrary take quite a different view and, while admitting the occasional association of the two conditions, do not look upon them as being in any way necessarily combined. We must confess that in our experience the two affections are frequently associated, and we regard the recognition of this fact as of the greatest importance in treatment. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES—Ih considering the question of treat- ment the changes in the organ resulting from the undue mobility must be remembered. In many cases a movable or even a floating kidney is healthy, but, as the result of the undue mobility, changes may take place which seriously damage the organ. Perhaps the most important of these is the condition of intermittent hydronephrosis. In consequence of the undue mobility the ureter becomes bent or curved, especially in the downward form of displacement, and the result may be more or less complete kinking of the ureter with obstruction to the escape of urine and consequent distension of the pelvis and calices of the kidney; this distension is intermittent, con- siderable intervals elapsing between the attacks. In other cases there may be a twisting of the renal pedicle which interferes either with the arterial supply or with the venous return. These circulatory troubles damage the kidney, and hfematuria may occur when the venous return is interfered with. Again, a movable kidney is just as liable to disease as a healthy one, and possibly even more so to cancer. So that we may have to deal with a kidney which is fairly healthy, with one which is the seat of intermittent hydronephrosis, with one in which there are disturbances in the circulation, or with one which is the subject of some disease common to kidneys of normal mobility. SYMPTOMS.—Symptoms are often entirely absent in movable kidney, and the condition may only be discovered 'by the surgeon while examining the patient for something else. When however this condition is once dis- covered, it is remarkable how frequently symptoms arise, and a very striking point is the frequent association of this conditi6n with a general neurotic tendency. So long as the patient does not know that the kidney is movable,