378 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. It is very important to warn the patient as to the contagious nature of the discharges, and to urge upon him scrupulous personal cleanliness. The hands should not only be washed thoroughly after handling the penis, but they should also if possible be disinfected with 1-20 carbolic solution. Lint, wool, or dressings should be burned immediately they are removed, and care should be taken to prevent the discharges from coming into contact with the clothes or the linen ; a gonorrhoea bag should always be worn and should be changed frequently, the old one being burned directly it is removed. These bags may be bought ready-made, and should consist of some medicated dressing. They should have a little salicylic wool placed at the bottom so as to absorb the discharge more readily and they are best fastened to a band around the waist. From time to time the glans penis should be washed, the prepuce being fully retracted. Some advocate frequent irrigation of the urethra with warm water or salt solution as local treatment during the very acute stage, whilst others inject various antiseptics. To us it seems better to leave the urethra wholly un- disturbed during the few days of the very acute stage. The likelihood of antiseptics doing any good in the way of destroying bacteria is extremely slight at this period, and they will certainly cause much irritation. Even the possibility of effectually washing away the discharge by unirritating solu- tions is open to doubt, seeing the folds into which the mucous membrane is thrown during the acute stage, and it is essential at this period not to dilate the urethra sufficiently to obliterate these folds as otherwise the discharge will almost certainly be carried down into the posterior urethra. 3. During^ the stage of decline.—From the practical point of view this is the most important period of the disease, as during it the future of the case is probably decided, and if it be improperly handled, the condi- tion may go on to the chronic form known as gleet, which is very troublesome to cure. It is the stage during which the more vigorous treatment should be adopted. The general treatment, with regard to hygiene and diet, should be the same as before, but during this period drugs, such as cubebs, copaiba and sandal-wood, are of value; of these sandalwood oil is probably more useful as it causes less gastric irritation. It should be commenced in small doses and should be rapidly increased. During the first day one capsule containing five minims should be given three times a day, whilst on the following day the dose is doubled, and on the third or fourth day the patient may take a dose of 15 or 20 minims three times a day if there be no symptoms of gastric disturbance. Salol (see p. 377) is also valuable at this period and urotropine has also been recommended. The local treatment is of special value at this period and takes the form of urethral injections which may consist either of antiseptic or astringent drugs, the object being either to kill the bacteria or merely to attempt to get rid of the congestion of the parts. Urethral injections.—It is advisable always to begin with mild solutions