THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. When it can be clearly ascertained that the affection is due to gum- matous disease of the testis, the cure of that affection will generally lead to the disappearance of the hydrocele and, in the first instance at any rate, the testicular condition alone should receive treatment. This also holds good when the disease is found to be gummatous after tapping a hydrocele, and in these cases no further treatment directed towards the hydrocele will be required, at any rate until it is seen whether the affection will subside under anti-syphilitic treatment. Many methods .have been introduced for the treatment of hydrocele, of which we may mention the following: Simple puncture, puncture followed by the injection of irritants left in the sac, irrigation of the cavity with irritants such as 1-2000 sublimate solution which are allowed to escape again, incision and drainage, stuffing the cavity, and. excision of the tunica vaginalis. Of these, the only two that require any detailed descrip- tion are tapping followed by injection, and excision of the hydrocele sac. Simple tapping (see p. 471) does not lead to a cure. It may be advisable when the patient objects to more radical treatment, particularly when he is unable to afford the week or ten days during which he would otherwise have to lie up. The only advantage of simple tapping is that the patient is relieved of his discomfort for a time and can resume work. The objections to repeated tapping, quite apart from the question of inefficiency as a curative method, are the risks of sepsis, which however should not be great, and the risk of bleeding into the sac leading to the formation of a haematocele. The points to be borne in mind in simple tapping are that the disinfection of the instruments and the skin should be perfect and that any visible vessel should be avoided. Drainage was at one time much employed, but it necessitates the patient lying up for from ten to fourteen days and possesses no advantage at all over the really radical method of excision. The same remark applies to opening and stuffing the hydrocele, which is a very objectionable method because of the danger of sepsis and the prolongation of the cure. It is not even justified by the desire to obtain a radical cure, as this is more certainly obtained by excising the sac. Tapping follotved by i7ijectio7i no doubt often leads to a cure and is in some ways a less severe procedure than excision. There is no necessity for a general anaesthetic and possibly the patient is able to get about sooner. At the same time it is inferior to excision in that it is uncertain in its results and possesses a certain amount of risk, especially in old subjects who are in bad health, as the injection may set up more inflam- mation than is quite desirable; indeed it has even led to sloughing of the scrotum. We are strongly of opinion that excision is the ideal treat- ment for ^ny patient who desires a radical cure and can give up about a fortnight and especially if he be at all well on in years or feeble in health. It is a simple operation which, if carried out aseptically, has no risk and absolutely prevents recurrence. Moreover it will succeed where 4