THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. prevent the foreign body being driven deeper down. The object of the urethroscope is to see the exact size, shape and situation of the body and it may even be possible, when the 'object is small, to slip the end of the tube over one end of it, after which the body can be easily seized with forceps introduced through the tube, and removed. If this cannot be done, the urethroscopic tube should be withdrawn and a pair of urethral forceps should be passed down with closed blades until they touch the foreign body, which is prevented from slipping backwards by compressing the urethra behind it. When the foreign body is touched, the blades of the forceps are widely opened and attempts are made to gradually insinuate them between the body and the mucous membrane. If this is successful the foreign body is gently withdrawn. No attempt what- ever should be made to push the body along the urethra towards the meatus by squeezing the parts from outside, as this is not likely to succeed and can only damage the mucous membrane. No long time should be taken up in persisting with these efforts if they prove unsuccessful, as the mucous membrane is easily damaged even by the most careful manipulations with forceps. The case should at once be treated as if the body were impacted and the latter removed by incision. (b) When the body is rough, pointed or impacted or when the above treatment fails, removal must be effected through a clean incision. The foreign body is readily defined and fixed in position by compressing the urethra behind it when it lies in the penile urethra and all that is then necessary is to stretch the parts firmly over it and to incise the corpus spongiosum and the urethra cleanly in the middle line down upon the foreign body, which can be seized and extracted immediately the edges of the incision are retracted. Should the body be a long one, such as a piece of slate pencil, the best plan is to cut down upon one end, which is then seized and the body withdrawn. It is in connection with objects such as these that the urethroscope may afford valuable information and may enable the surgeon to tell which end is impacted, in which case the impacted end should be cut down upon in preference to the other. Two or three fine catgut stitches should be made to close the urethra after the foreign body has been extracted, and the skin incision should also be sutured except at one point where a fine drainage-tube is inserted for a few days in case any leakage of urine should occur. The patient may be allowed to micturate spontaneously. Occasionally large-headed bonnet- or carpet-pins are introduced into the urethra and there is a very simple and satisfactory method of getting them out without doing more than a minimum amount of damage to the urethra and without any cutting operation. These bodies are always introduced into the urethra head foremost and the head of the pin can generally be felt in the penile urethra. This is seized and fixed in position with the fingers whilst the penis is stretched and then firmly dorsi-flexed so as to thrust