CHAPTER XIII. HEPATIC ABSCESS; HYDATID OF THE LIVER : TUMOURS OF THE LIVER. ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. The only inflammatory affection of the liver coming under the notice of the surgeon is hepatic abscess ; gall-bladder suppuration is dealt with separately (see Chap. XIV.). VARIETIES.—Suppuration in the Hver may take the form either of small multiple abscesses scattered through the organ or of one, or at most two or three, large circumscribed collections of pus. The small multiple abscesses are practically always associated with pyaemia, either general or portal (sup purative pylephlebitis) and, as surgical measures are of no value for them, we need not discuss them further. The large circumscribed abscesses, however, are of great importance, and may be divided into two groups, viz., those met with in this country and resulting from a variety of causes, and those essentially associated with dysentery—the true tropical abscess. ETIOLOGY.—Suppuration in the liver sometimes, though rarely, occurs without any apparent cause—the so-called " idiopathic abscess" due to .micro-organisms, which probably find entrance along the portal vein. In the great majority of cases, however, a cause may be traced. Liver abscess is not infrequently associated with injuries of the head; here the infective material has apparently spread not in the form of true emboli but by the micro-organisms themselves, which for some reason get caught in the liver more often than elsewhere. Pylephlebitis, which occurs in connection with septic processes affecting the terminals of the portal vein, such as appendicitis or ulcerations of the bowel, may give rise to septic emboli and multiple abscesses. Foreign bodies, such as needles that have found their way into the liver, injuries to the organ or sepsis following injuries to other organs or operations in the portal area, such as those upon the rectum, are well- known causes of the affection; among others may be mentioned parasites in the bile ducts such as worms, echinococci, distoma hfematobium,