TUMOURS. incision into the bladder recommended by Kocher i^ide supra) will probably be required; all three incisions, viz., those through the skin, the abdominal wall and the bladder'may be transverse and excellent access is thus obtained. The actual mode of removing the tumour will be determined by the conditions met with. In some cases large portions not only of the mucous membrane and sub mucous tissues but of the whole thickness of the muscular wall and even of its peritoneal covering have been removed. In other cases an extra- peritoneal excision of portions of the bladder has been practised, whilst in others again the ureters have been grafted into the colon or the vagina and the remainder of the bladder has been removed- Attempts to remove the growth by tearing or scraping it away are to be deprecated; as it is impossible to remove the entire mass in this manner and the irritation it causes will probably only make the tumour increase more rapidly. The precise steps of the various operations are too varied to detail here. They will be found in Jacobson's Qperatioiis of Surgery. Speaking generally it may be said that, when the operation necessarily involves opening the peritoneal cavity, this should be done before proceeding to the excision. The peritoneum is opened just above the bladder, the patient is placed in the full Trendelenburg position and the intestines are packed off so as to isolate the bladder, which is then emptied of urine, and the growth is freely excised. The bleeding from the divided bladder wall is arrested, preferably by torsion, and the resulting wound is sutured as for a rupture of the viscus (see p. 271) the mucous membrane being united separately by a fine continuous catgut stitch, after which the muscular and serous coats are brought together by a double row of Lembert's sutures. The opening in the extra-peritoneal surface of the bladder is then temporarily plugged so as to prevent the escape of blood and urine while the abdomen is cleaned up, the cloths are removed and the peritoneum is closed in the usual way. Finall)', the wound in the anterior wall is sutured and the bladder is drained by a tube introduced above the pubes for the first few days so as to obviate any tension upon the stitches (see p. 291). When the growth is situated on the anterior wall of the bladder just above its neck, various procedures have been suggested for its exposure. In any case a transverse incision through the abdominal wall will be required, and this should be done by detaching a portion of the pubes (see p. 316) in preference to dividing the insertion of the rectus. Should the growth involve one of the ureters, this need not be in itself considered a bar to operation if there be a chance of eradicating the disease. The peritoneal cavity should then be opened, the ureter divided obliquely sufficiently far from the tumour, the growth excised, and the proximal end of the ureter grafted into the bladder (see p. 198). The entire bladder has been removed in women. The ureters are diverted into the vagina at a preliminary operation, while at a later date the entire bladder is removed. This does not seem to be a particularly difficult opera- tion. In a man the ureters would have to be transplanted into the sigmoid flexure.