CHAPTER IV. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. ACUTE PROCTITIS. Inflammation of the rectum is comparatively common as a sub-acute or chronic disease. The acute form is rarer and- may occur in connection with dysentery, ■with various operations about the anus or the lower end of the rectum, with injuries from foreign bodies, with ulcerative colitis or as the result of bacterial infection. Acute proctitis may also follow gonorrhoeal infec- tion, either as an extension from the vagina or as the result of pederasty. The acute catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane is accompanied by much congestion and results in bad cases in ulceration or actual sloughing of the mucous surface. The tendency however is towards cure, provided that the exciting cause be removed and proper rest given to the bowel. In very acute cases the infection may extend through the wall of the rectum giving rise to peri-proctitis (see Chap. VI.). Should the condition persist it passes into a chronic proctitis, either of the proliferative or ulcerative form {vide infra). SYMPTOMS.—There is distressing heat and weight about the rectum, discomfort in the pelvis and often considerable pain accompanied by tenesmus and the frequent passage of small quantities of faecal material mixed with mucus and often tinged with blood. If the disease be very acute and be going on to sloughing there may be actual suppuration from the mucous surface. Irritability of the bladder is also a frequent symptom, whilst the anus is generally painful and may be red. Digital examination is painful and, for a thorough investigation, a general anaesthetic is advisable. This is not only a valuable help in diagnosis but is of the highest importance in treatment, because the sphincter can then be thoroughly dilated, and this gives rest and does much to relieve the tenesmus. TREATMENT.—The first essential is to remove any cause, such as a oreign body, worms, etc. The patient should be confined to bed, the bowels should be kept open, at first by salines and afterwards by gentle laxatives.