CHAPTER XXXVI. ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. Enlargement of the prostate is very common in patients over fifty-five. It is rarely seen before fifty, and comparatively seldom commences after seventy. Its frequency is variously given by different authors; apparently a considerable number of men over the age of fifty-five are the subjects of the affection although only a comparatively small proportion have symptoms. Simple en- largement of the organ does not necessarily give rise to any symptom^ beyond some increase in frequency of micturition unless the enlargement be irregular or excessive or in some way interferes with the proper emptying of the bladder. The weight of the prostate may be increased from the normal (about half an ounce) to two or three ounces or more. The nature of the enlargement varies. In the rarer form it is a true hypertrophy, but it is more common to find an overgrowth of the fibrous elements so that the enlargement is mainly fibrous in nature. Local enlargement, which gives rise to definite tumours of the gland, also occurs and is frequently spoken of as adenoma of the prostate; the condition may involve a part or the whole of one lobe. The term, adenoma, is hardly correct, as the enlargements are rarely as completely encapsuled as a true adenoma is; they are more in the nature of lobular out- growths from the main body of the prostate to which they are connected by a pedicle. This particular form is most common in the so-called enlargement of the middle lobe, which is generally a polypoid outgrowth from one of the lateral lobes rather than a posterior enlargement of the prostate, and which is the form in which the enlarged portion falls over the orifice of the urethra and blocks it. The prostatic enlargement as a rule is very irregular and may lead to great distortion of the urethra and in that way may also interfere with micturition. There is always an increase in length of the prostatic urethra, and it is flattened from side to side; as the prostate enlarges the new tissue pushes its way upwards towards the bladder cavity inside the sphincter vesica;. A ring or collar is often met with around the neck of the bladder or there may be the so-called enlarged middle lobe projecting upwards and causing trouble.