ACUTE PROSTATITIS. 321 hot boracic fomentations and large'enemata of hot water ^ (ioo°-io5° F.). The diet should consist of milk, and large quantities of diluent drinks may be given. Alcohol should be avoided, and urethral medication should be stopped. No catheter should be used unless it be absolutely necessary, but if required a soft instrument must be employed. Digital examination of the prostate should be avoided as much as possible during the acute stage unless the symptoms point to the formation of an abscess. If this treatment fails to relieve the symptoms, it will probably mean that an abscess is forming ; this may be indicated by a fluctuating spot in the prostate felt from the rectum, or, in cases of peri-prostatitis by swelling in the perineum. As soon as there is definite evidence of suppuration, the abscess should be opened from the perineum ; if left alone, it will burst either into the urethra, which is usually the case with follicular abscesses, or into the rectum, the perineum or the ischio-rectal fossa. An abscess should always be prevented from bursting into the rectum if possible, as very serious and protracted suppuration may result. Operation.—Before opening a prostatic abscess from the perineum, the latter should be shaved and purified in the usual way, and the patient put into the lithotomy position under full anfesthesia. The forefinger of the left hand is introduced into the rectum with the palmar surface upwards and its tip resting upon the apex of the prostate, or upon the fluctua ting spot previously detected. A sharp double-edged knife, such as Cock's (see Fig. 66), is then thrust into the median raphe of the perineum about an inch in front of the anus, and pushed steadily onwards towards the tip of the finger in the rectum. The patient should lie with the symphysis pubis, the umbilicus and the point of the chin in the same straight line, and the long axis of the knife should be kept in this line. As soon as its point is felt to enter the capsule of the prostate, the knife is withdrawn, enlarging the skin wound upwards and downwards by a sawing move- ment as it does so, and a pair of sinus forceps is pushed in through the opening so as to tap the abscess, the finger being maintained in the rectum until this is done. As soon as pus begins to flow, the finger is with- drawn from the rectum and purified, and then the abscess cavity is opened up, the finger of the right hand being introduced to break down ^ If the patient be strong, the following mixture may be given : Fig. 66.—Cock's double-edged Knife for Perineal Section. Vini antim., m 10. grp. 25. 5ss, 5j. every three hours. Potass, bromidi, - Tincl. hyoscyami, Infus. buchu ad - PT. VI. 2 X