THE SURCxICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. upon the groin. It has moreover a peculiar tendency to undergo partial or complete torsion, so that the cord becomes twisted and the organ may become entirely deprived of its blood-supply and may undergo gangrene. Any attack of inflammation of the testis in this region is serious, because not only is there great pain and constitutional disturbance owing to the immediate proximity of the abdominal cavity, but the affection is frequently mistaken for a strangulated hernia. When torsion of the testis takes place and gangrene occurs, infection of the peritoneum is almost certain to occur Hydrocele and haematocele are not uncommon complications of this condition and it is said that a retained testis is more liable to become the seat of malignant disease than is a normally placed one. TREATMENT.—The foregoing facts indicate that it is advisable in all cases to remove the testicle from its abnormal position. Palliative treatment is of little avail. The old plan of applying a truss with a horseshoe-shaped pad so as to occlude the inguinal canal after the testis had been pulled down beyond the external ring and so to prevent it going back has little to recommend it. The hernia practically never becomes cured, neither does the testis descend into its normal position in the scrotum. Indeed we should be inclined to say that the presence of a hernia is rather an advantage than otherwise as far as the descent of the testis is concerned. The only rational treatment is by operation, and this may have one of three aims : i. To bring the testis into the scrotum ; 2. to replace it in the abdominal cavity; or 3. to remove it altogether. The factors influencing the decision as to which of these methods should be employed are mainly the condition of the testis, its situation, and the length of the structures forming the cord. When the patient is under observation from the first, it is perhaps best to delay the operation until the child is at least four years old, that is to say, until he is intelligent enough to avoid wetting the dressings. There is no urgency about these cases and therefore the operation should not be undertaken whilst the child is still an infant. Should a congenital hernia be present and should the child be able to be under constant medical supervision it is best not to employ a truss, as the hernia can always be cured at the time the operation on the testis is undertaken and the protrusion of the hernia not only helps to stretch the cord but pushes down the testicle in front of it and leads to the development of a cavity in the scrotum into which the testis is afterwards placed; it thus materially helps the success of the subsequent operation. If the child be under observation, any sign of strangulation may be observed at once and the necessary measures taken. (1) Re-position of the testis in the scrotum.—The chief difficulty in this operation is the imperfect development of the scrotum. This is most marked when both testicles are imperfectly descended and then, even though the testes can be brought down to the bottom of the scrotum, the latter is not large enough to contain them and the very elasticity of the dartos tends to squeeze them out again. The second difficulty is