197 INJURIES OF THE URETER. A drainage tube should be inserted down to the ureter, but not actually touching it; if no leakage or sepsis occur it can be dispensed with in the course of three or four days. A catheter should be retained in the bladder for two or three days in order to prevent strain upon the sutures by backward pressure of the urine when the bladder becomes distended. Ureteral grafting.—Ureteral anastomosis is not always applicable, even in recent cases; it is difficult to carry out when the ureter is wounded low down in the pelvis, and, when the operation is done for a fistulous opening, the difficulties are greatly increased by the involvement of the ends of the Fig. 46.—Van Hook's Mej hod of Uretf.ro-Ureteral Anastojiosis nv Latekai I.Mri.ANTATioN. The two right-hand figures show the appearance of the ureter when the anastomosis is complete. The X on the second figure is the point at which the ligature emerges from the lower end and is tied. {Morris.) ureter in the cicatricial tissue. Hence, when the ends of the ureter cannot be appro.ximated without undue tension, some other plan must be adopted ; the alternatives are grafting the ureter into the bladder, the intestine, or the vagina, or attaching it to an opening in the skin. The ideal operation is to graft the ureter into the bladder, and this should be done when the site of injury is quite close to that structure. Grafting it into the bowel is a much more serious operation, partly on account of the risk of stenosis of the ureteral orifice, and partly because of the danger of ascending septic infection. If the ureter is to be grafted into the bowel, it is better to implant it into the colon than into the rectum, as in the former case there is more room for accumulation of the urine, and therefore there is not the same necessity for repeated evacuations, while at the same time the contents of the bowel pass on more quickly, and are not so long in contact with the ureteral orifice. liringing the end of the