CHAPTER XXXI. VESICAL CALCULUS. The stones most often met with in the bladder are composed of uric acid or urate of soda; after them in order of frequency come calculi of phosphate of lime or triple phosphates, whilst those of oxalate of lime are less frequent and those of cystine or xanthic oxide are rare. The calculus may be composed of one of these substances alone but, with the exception of the two last-named forms, it is generally a mixture of more than one. A stone that has remained long in a bladder in which there has been cystitis is generally covered with a phosphatic deposit. Vesical calculi may be single or multiple and vary much in shape; single stones are usually round or oval, multiple stones are often facetted. Phos- phatic stones are usually smooth, whilst an oxalate, calculus is so rough that it has received the name of " mulberry calculus." Uric acid calculi are brownish-red in colour; uratic stones are of a duller sandy colour; phosphatic stones are white; mulberry calculi are of a dark claret colour. Vesical calculi may either form in situ or, more commonly, they descend from the kidney and increase considerably in size while in the bladder from deposit of fresh salts upon them. Stones forming primarily in the bladder generally occur in connection with some obstruction to the outflow of urine, as for example in enlarged prostate, and there is usually a foreign body, such as blood-clot or a portion of catheter which acts as a nucleus upon which the stone is deposited. The affection is more common in men than in women in whom no doubt small stones are much more easily passed and therefore escape notice. The causes are similar to those of renal calculus (see p. 222). A stone in the bladder usually lies in the neighbourhood of the trigone if it be of moderate size, and alters its position according to the movements of the patient. The position in which it is usually found is well down behind the prostate near the internal meatus. If the bladder be sacculated, it is not uncommon for the stone to find its way into one of the sacculi where it increases in size so that it becomes permanently encysted in it. Occasionally