THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. occur in these cases, the treatment is similar to that for the cases in which there is pyeHtis; the drainage must be continued until suppuration has ceased, and then the tube is gradually withdrawn. When a drainage tube is employed, care must be taken to see that it passes well through the lumbar muscles, as otherwise the patient may be subjected to attacks of deep-seated suppuration in the loin. The after-progress of the case depends essentially upon whether pyelitis is present. After the operation there is free hgematuria, and clots may pass along the ureter and give rise to renal colic. The bleeding gradually ceases after about 48 hours. There is often considerable shock and pain associated with the operation and the question of the administration of morphine for the relief of this is attended with some difficulty on account of the condition of the other kidney. At first the patient should be kept on a milk diet, but when the hgematuria has ceased, he may have plain unstimulating food, with a large quantity of fluid. The bowels should be kept empty by daily enemata. Convalescence may last from about a fortnight up to several months. The patient should be kept in bed as long as there is any suppuration but, when the wound has contracted to a small size and only emits urine, he may be allowed to go about wearing a suitable apparatus to catch it. Nephrectomy.—The cases for which this operation may be required, have been already indicated (see p. 227). The lumbar incision should always be employed so as to avoid soiling the peritoneum, and the "lumbo-ilio- inguinal incision" (see Fig. 49) is the best, as the ureter may have to be followed up for a considerable distance; if more room be required, it may be obtained by removing the last rib sub-periosteally (see p. 228). The abdominal route is only useful in nephrectomy for a tumour; in the great majority of cases of renal stone the organ can be removed perfectly easily through a lumbar incision, combined if necessary with the extension upwards already described (see p. 228). There are usually numerous peri-nephric adhesions from which the kidney has to be shelled out; in doing this the organ may be ruptured, and pus will escape into the wound whence it must be removed by irrigation as fast as it escapes. The pedicle is gradually exposed, and the kidney is drawn out of the wound if possible; this must be done most cautiously lest the pedicle be shrunken and unable to bear traction (see p. 218). If it cannot be got out on to the loin it must be cleared in situ, and when this has been effected the ureter should be sought for, isolated and clamped. An aneurysm needle carrying a long stout silk ligature is next insinuated through the middle of the pedicle either from behind forwards or from before backwards as near the spine as possible, so as to leave sufficient length of pedicle on the renal side of the ligature, and divided into two. Each half of the ligature is tied separ- ately and firmly, and finally one of them is carried round so as to enclose the whole pedicle, and its ends are left long so as to enable the ped'icle to be examined for bleeding afterwards. A point of importance is to put the pedicle on the stretch while passing the aneurysm needle, but to push the kidney