65 PROLAPSE. a very large prolapse where the mucous and submucous coats are alone concerned. The most trustworthy method is entire removal of the prolapsed portion, and the exact steps of the operation will vary according as the mucous membrane only or the entire bowel wall is involved in the prolapse. When the mucous membrane alone for/us the prolapse, the operation of excision is practically identical with Whitehead's operation for piles (see p. 51). An incision into the submucous tissues is made to follow accurately the muco-cutaneous anal margin, and the sleeve of mucous membrane is dissected up with scissors and fingers until the upper limit of the prolapse is reached. During the process of separation the everted mucous membrane becomes inverted once more. A circular division of the mucous membrane is made at the upper limit of the prolapse as in Whitehead's operation and the cut edge is united to the anal margih in an exactly similar manner. The after-treatment is also the same (see p. 53). The operation should be done with the prolapse down to its full extent, and when the section of the mucous membrane is made no traction at all should be exerted, so that the cut edge of the mucous membrane may lie easily in apposition with the skin around the anus and so there will be no tension on the stitches and no risk of a stricture. WJten the whole thickness of the bowel wall is in the prolapse, the operation is done as follows: The patient is put into the lithotomy position, the prolapse is protruded to its utmost limit and thoroughly cleansed with a i in 2000 sublimate solution, and then an incision is carried into the submucous tissue all around the anus at the junction of the skin with the mucous membrane. The incision is steadily deepened through the entire thickness of the prolapse, bleeding points being clamped as they are met with, and the mucous membrane being stripped somewhat downwards as before until the peritoneal cavity is opened. The opening must be small in the first instance lest small intestine should prolapse. Elevation of the buttocks will prevent this, the intestines falling away as air enters the peritoneal cavity. There is little risk of soiling the peritoneum as the gut becomes inverted again when the prolapse is divided all round, so that the mucous membrane is no longer outside. When the peritoneal cavity has been opened all round, the bowel is gently drawn down as far as it will come, and the cut edge of the parietal peritoneum is sutured to the peritoneal coat of the bowel, and the protruding portion of the latter is then cut off, the cut edges being sutured to the skin around the anal margin. The best way to do this is to divide it by a series of short snips following each division by suture of the divided bowel wall to the corresponding surface of the skin about the anus, and if necessary clamping and tying any bleeding vessels. As a rule there is very little bleeding except posteriorly where the large vessels run in the meso-rectum. The suturing must be very accurate and there must be no tension upon the stitches, while at the same time care must be taken to PT. VI. 2. E