INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. of the prepuce, or even in general septic infection commencing as a lymphan- gitis ; this is most likely to occur when the affection is due to venereal sores. Treatment.—The treatment is easy wlien it is possible to draw the prepuce back; all that is necessary is to bathe the parts freely with warm boracic or 1-6000 sublimate lotion, after which boracic lint is tucked between the glans and the prepuce so as to prevent the opposed surfaces from coming into contact and the prepuce is drawn forwards. If this be done several times a day the inflammation will subside in a few days. When however the prepuce cannot be retracted, the secretion beneath it must be removed by frequent copious syringing with warm boracic lotion. If the prepuce be swollen and lymphangitis be present, the entire organ should also be wrapped up in lint saturated with lead lotion. Under this treatment the condition will generally subside, and then the question of circumcision must be considered if the prepuce be unduly narrow or long and if the attacks of balanitis be of frequent occurrence. At any rate the preputial orifice should be slit up (see p. 427). When the inflammation persists or increases in spite of the above treatment, it is necessary to expose the glans freely, so as to enable the parts to be cleansed. This should be done by a median dorsal incision, but it is better not to perform circumcision, as the wound is septic and widespread sloughing might occur. The glans is thoroughly exposed and cleansed after the prepuce has been slit up, and boracic lint is inserted between the two; finally the whole organ is wrapped up in a large boracic fomentation which must be frequently renewed. HERPES PROGENITALIS.—Herpetic eruptions on the penis and prepuce are not uncommon ; they are often associated with gout and also occasionally with stricture or with granular patches in the urethra. They may cause much distress, as the patient is very likely to mistake them for venereal sores. The condition begins with itching beneath the prepuce, on retracting which a typical herpetic patch is found. The vesicles run together and form a pustule which byrsts and leaves a small ulcer which' is sometimes difficult to distinguish from a soft chancre; the condition may not be noticed until it has lasted for some time, when balanitis is set up and the ulceration may be considerable. Treatment.—The condition readily clears up under the treatment for balanitis {vide supra). PHAGEDENIC ULCERATION.—This condition has already been referred to (see Part I., Chap. XIII.) and is very serious indeed when the gangrene is of the rapid spreading type; it is then associated with considerable loss of tissue and may even end in the death of the patient. It is especially serious when there is either congenital or acquired phimo.sis. Treatment.—This has already been dealt with. Tiie patient should be anaesthetised as soon as the diagnosis has been made, and tlie whole