119 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. The diaphragm is now incised with a narrow-bladed knife which is slipped in along the needle. Whilst this is being done the assistant should press the liver firmly up against the diaphragm so as to approximate the two structures and prevent the escape of pus between them. After the diaphragm and capsule of the liver have been incised in this way, a long pair of dressing forceps is thrust along the needle until it reaches the abscess cavity, when the blades are expanded sufficiently to admit a drainage tube {vide supra). When the pleura has been opened it is well to pack the wound around the tube with gauze for 24 hours; when however it has not been opened this is unnecessary. The bleeding, although often free, practically stops as soon as the drainage tube is inserted, the pressure of the latter bringing about the arrest of hfemorrhage. The cases usually do quite well. HYDATID OF THE LIVER. The liver is a very common seat of hydatid cysts, nearly half of all cases of echinococcus occurring in this viscus. This is explained no doubt by the fact that the embryos may be present in large numbers in the intestine and, finding their way through the alimentary canal, get into the portal vein and are carried thence to the liver. They occur far more frequently in the right than in the left lobe; this is probably due to the arrangement of the portal vein. The cyst is usually single and may attain a very large size. There may however be many cysts scattered all through the liver, varying in size from a small pea to a large orange, or many cysts may be aggregated together and form a large lobulated mass. The cyst is surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue which forms a dense wall and is developed from the organ or tissue in which the cyst lies. Internal to this connective tissue capsule lies the true cyst wall, which is a laminated chitinous structure without any cellular or fibrous elements and which is apparently penetrated by the juices of the body by which the parasite is nourished. On the inner surface of the true cyst wall is a delicate parenchymatous layer in which are developed the young heads or scolices, which may number many thousands and may remain for a long time or even per- manently connected with this membrane or may become detached, so that there is a large cyst full of numerous smaller or " daughter" cysts; it is probable that these heads die when they are detached. Besides the solid contents there is a large amount of fluid in the cyst, mainly consisting of water containing some 2%-3% of solid material, half of which consists of chloride of sodium. There is no albumen, but succinate of soda seems to be a constant element in hydatid of the liver and a substancQ resem- bling sugar may also be present; this does not occur in echinococcus cysts elsewhere, so that it may have a certain diagnostic value.