THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. This operation may, if necessary, be done under eucaine ana3Sthesia; but it is far better to give the patient a general antesthetic, as the opportunity may be taken to dilate the sphincter and examine for internal piles, which, if necessary, may be removed at the same time (vide infra). If the pile be inflamed and thrombosed very acute pain may be caused, especially when the pile is large, as the parts are so tender that the patient cannot sit, stand, or walk in comfort. The indication is to remove the clot and relieve the tension at once, and this may be done by injecting a few minims of an 8% solution of eucaine into the base of the pile, and then transfi.xing it with a sharp curved bistoury in a line radiating from the anus, laying it freely open and turning out the clot; the congestion is at once relieved and the pain disappears in a very short time, while there is no bleeding, as the vein is thrombosed. A still better plan is to put the patient under a general anaesthetic and remove the whole pile, clot and all, in the manner recommended above, bringing the edges of the wound together with a suture. There is no objection to doing this, even though there be considerable inflammation about the part. This method has the advantage over mere incision that it gets rid of the skin tags that must otherwise occur, and which, in the case of a large external pile, may enclose a fairly large suppurating cavity, which takes some little time to heal. The after-treatment is very simple. A pad of boracic lint is applied at the time, and in twenty-four hours this is removed and the parts are washed with warm boracic lotion, after which equal parts of iodoform and boracic ointment are applied, and changed two or three times a day. Healing is usually complete within a week. (b) Of internal piles and of the mixed, form.—^In ordinary un- complicated cases it is always advisable to employ operative treatment when the palliative measures mentioned above (see p. 48) do not entirely relieve the symptoms. It is quite common for patients to suffer from piles for years and to persist without operative treatment in the hope that each inflammatory attack from which they suffer may be the last, when they should really be strongly advised to undergo operation. In favour of operation it may be urged that the length of time that the patient is laid up after it is quite trivial compared with the time lost by the various acute attacks to which these patients are invariably subjected, and which necessitate a considerable period of rest for their treatment. Again, there is no doubt that haemorrhoids produce a peculiar mental effect upon the patient and give rise to much irritability of temper and nervous depression which disappears entirely immediately after operation, so that the mental relief alone is indeed remarkable. Finally, operation is practically safe and almost painless, and patients are thereby relieved from all danger of attacks of inflammation and strangulation—accidents which are not only excessively painful, but actually dangerous. \\'e should advise, therefore, that operation should be performed in all cases of idiopathic piles where the patient is distinctly suffering, and operation is imperative when the patient is