537 EMPYEMA. especially those which do not extend far up the chest, the success is generally striking. In others, however, even the most extensive operation gives disappointing results. Considerable improvement generally occurs however for, even though the cure may not be complete, the main part of the cavity becomes obliterated and only a comparatively small sinus is left, generally at the upper part where closure is most difficult to obtain, and from this only slight discharge comes which does not do the patient much harm. 2. Decortication.—In view of the very unsatisfactory results that follow Estliinder's operation when performed for very bad cases, the suggestion has been made that the lung should be decorticated, that is to say, that the dense, fibrous layer of the pleura which covers it and binds it down into the vertebral groove should be peeled off so as to allow the lung to expand. We have followed this recommendation with success in more than one case where a previous Estlander's operation had failed. The steps of the operation are practically identical with those of thoracoplasty in the early stages, and indeed the operation may be looked upon merely as an addition to that operation, its object being to set the lung free to expand and so to meet the flap of soft parts halfway. After the cavity has been exposed by the removal of the thoracic parietes, the dense layer of the visceral pleura covering the lung is divided with the knife until the lung tissue is met with; the edge of the incision is then seized in forceps and stripped off the lung with a blunt instrument as far back as the edge of the vertebral groove. When this has been done it is striking to see how the lung at once expands. As a rule there is only moderate oozing. It is advisable that the separation of the visceral pleura should be effected slowly, as collapse of the lung, which was previously prevented by the dense adhesions, may occur during it and would resitlt in serious embarrassment to respiration. The opera- tion is finished by putting in a drainage tube and suturing the cutaneous flap as before. (f) Of tuberculous empyema.—The symptoms associated with tuberculous empyema are indefinite, and the condition may only be dis- covered when the physician comes to examine the chest. It may occur with or without pneumo thorax. In the former case there will probably be an acute onset corresponding to the perforation of a cavity into the pleura. When no such perforation occurs however, the symptoms may be quite insignificant and little or no pressure may be exerted; the patient simply goes about with a collection of fluid in the chest which, although not under great pressure, leads to collapse of the lung. The cases are very unsatisfactory. As a matter of experience it is found that evacuation and drainage does not lead to rapid healing ; the lung fails to expand, the chest takes a long time to fall in and, even with the greatest care, sepsis is prone to occur and then, in addition to the tuberculous empyema, the patient will suffer from a septic cavity and will