84 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. the bowel and, tying them firmly, to divide the gut between ; the upper divided end with the ligature still attached to it is then covered with gauze, and held out of the way by an assistant, whilst the surgeon takes the tape attached to the divided end of the lower segment and dissects this downward to the anus. This plan has the advantage that it is easier to separate the bowel from the structures in front than when dissecting up from the perineum. It has the disadvantage, of course, that the cellular tissue may be soiled by escape of intestinal secretion when the division is made but, if the bowels have been previously kept thoroughly emptied, and if the soft parts beneath are packed off when the section is made, no harm results. Attachment of the bowel iti the sacral region.—Nothing now remains to be done but to bring down the divided upper end of the bowel and fasten it to the skin. The latter is slightly freed from the subjacent tissues at the lower end of the sacrum and the end of the rectum, still occluded by the ligature placed on it before division, is brought down and stitched to the margin of this. Before inserting the sutures it is well to adopt the plan introduced by Gersuny, who gives the rectum a half or three-quarter turn around its own long axis in order to render the escape of faeces more difificult. AVe have done this in several cases with very satisfactory results, and can highly recommend it. The twist should not be carried beyond a three-quarter turn at the outside, as otherwise the lumen will be interfered with too much. The rectal wall just above the ligature is now fastened to the skin by silkworm-gut stitches that do not penetrate the mucous membrane. The remainder of the wound below the new artificial anus is cleansed and sponged over with a solution of chloride of zinc (40 grs. to the oz.). Free drainage is necessary in case infection has occurred ; a large drainage tube (No. 24) is inserted so that the end protrudes from the anal region, and the incision from the new artificial anus downwards is closed by silkworm-gut sutures inserted deeply so as to bring together the deeper parts of the wound as well as the skin edges ; the latter may, if necessary, be further approximated by separate sutures. The final point is the question of how the escape of intestinal contents shall be dealt with. Of course if this were allowed to take place freely over the wound septic infection would be inevitable, and serious pelvic cellulitis might ensue. We have tried two plans, and are satisfied with both. In the one the Hgature, fastened around the bowel before it is divided, is left in situ until it separates spontaneously. By its means the lower end of the bowel is occluded completely for at least two days, so that neither faeces nor flatus pass, and there is therefore no infection of the wound during this period. By the time the ligature separates a sufficient barrier will probably be provided by nature against septic infection. The disadvantage of this plan is that, since flatus cannot escape, the patient may be considerably inconvenienced, but, if the bowel has been freely evacuated before the operation, this is not very serious, and is of course relieved immediately the ligature separates. The other, and perhaps the more convenient plan, although it takes slighdy longer, is to substitute a large-size Paul's tube for the ligature around the lower end