EMPYEMA. 535 the opening has originally been made in the mid-axillary line and if it be found that a probe passed into the cavity goes readily downwards to a lower spot where pus can collect, a counter-opening should be made in that situation. The original opening should also be dilated, and it is a good plan to pass a drainage tube perforated laterally in a number of places from one openmg to the other. This may be stitched to the skin at both openings, but after about five days the sutures may be cut and the tube withdrawn, cleaned and re-inserted. When the tube is withdrawn for cleaning it is well to attach a long piece of silk to one end of it and then to withdraw it from the other end, so that the silk thread is drawn through the pleura and serves to pull the tube back in position after it has been cleansed. In about a week or ten days the tube may be shortened, the upper end being cut so that it no longer projects through the upper aperture, and in this way the sinus is gradually got to close. The cases in which there is imperfect expansion of the lung are much more serious. Here a cavity is left and, after the diaphragm and other soft structures have yielded as far as possible, the only possibility of its closing is the eventual falling-in of the thoracic wall. This is an extremely slow process and is generally imperfect, and in the meanwhile the patient gradually goes downhill from the continued sepsis. If there- fore closure be still defective after four or six months in spite of perfect drainage and good hygienic conditions, some operative interference must be undertaken. There are two methods at the disposal of the surgeon I. The operation of thoracoplasty or Estlander's operation, in which the ribs forming the outer wall of the cavity to be obliterated are removed bodily; and 2. Decortication, in which the thickened pleura, or at any ra:te the dense fibrous outer layer of it, is peeled off the lung so as to allow it to expand once more. The operation in common use at present is that of thoracoplasty. This is often a severe and difficult operation and does not always succeed, but it is absolutely necessary when a prolonged trial of other methods has failed and also when the case is due to tuberculosis. 1. Thoracoplasty.—The first step in the operation is to open up the sinus, insert the finger and ascertain exactly the limits of the cavity left. These are carefully marked out on the chest wall and the portions of the ribs lying in the space thus marked out require to be removed. If the cavity be small, possibly only two or three ribs will require this treatment, but with large cavities portions of several ribs have to be taken away. The method of exposing the ribs will depend upon circumstances, but as a rule it is best done by a flap which is so marked out as to expose the whole extent of the cavity. No precise rules can be given for the formation of this flap as it must depend on the conditions present. Probably the one that will lea.st interfere with the muscles, etc., will be a flap with its con- vexity forwards and downwards. The flap must be larger than the cavity