120 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. As the parasite grows it causes enlargement of the liver, while at the same time it destroys that portion of the organ in which it lies and may ultimately perforate some other structure, into which the cyst may burst. The larger vessels and the bile ducts are only rarely affected by the pressure, but cases occur in which ascites and jaundice are seen. An hydatid cyst may burst into the pleura, the intestine, the peritoneal cavity or, more rarely, into the pelvis of the kidney or the gall-bladder. Occasionally it dies and shrivels up, becomes calcified or remains stationary. On the other hand, suppuration and hepatic abscess may occur. SYMPTOMS.—Occasionally there are slight constitutional symptoms, such as attacks of urticaria, probably from escape of some of the fluid either into a vessel or into the peritoneal cavity. The liver becomes enlarged as the tumour grows, and may be tender and deranged in function. The enlargement may be uniform or irregular according as the cyst is situated deep in the substance of the liver or towards one margin. When it projects from the upper surface, an irregular line of dulness may be obtained on percussion. In other cases a distinct tumour may be felt in the abdomen, and then fluctuation can often be made out. Symptoms of pressure on the stomach, intestines or lung may also be met with according to the situation and size of the tumour. Should the cyst burst into the pleural cavity, there is a sudden violent pain in the side with great dyspnoea, followed by acute pleurisy, often rapidly fatal. Should the cyst be suppurating when it ruptures, there will be an empyema instead of a simple pleurisy. When the cyst bursts into the peritoneum, there is intense and prolonged collapse, and rapid death sometimes occurs. If not, violent peritonitis develops and there is usually urticaria also. The fluid from the cyst evidently contains some poisonous material, and not merely the innocuous ingredients that the chemical analysis would seem to imply, and this fact is an important contra-indication to treating a case by simple puncture because, quite apart from the possibility of infection by the booklets or by suppuration, the constant leakage of hydatid fluid into the abdomen may give rise to serious symptoms. A few words are necessary as to the diagnosis of hydatid of the liver, which is often very difficult, at any rate in the early stages. A slow- growing irregular enlargement of the liver, which is smooth in outline and fluctuates freely, is practically certain to be of this nature. From hydrops of the gall-bladder it may be distinguished by a recognition of the characters of an enlarged gall-bladder (see p. 132). From pleural effusion it may be distinguished by the length of the history, the insidious onset and the alteration in the level of the dulness during deep inspiration; in hydatid this descends during inspiration whilst it remains unchanged in pleural effusion. It is not easy to distinguish an hydatid of the liver from a tuberculous empyema until after a puncture has been made and some of the fluid has been withdrawn.