98 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS. opened and cholecystenterostomy has been done for the relief of per- sistent jaundice, have recovered, the probable explanation being that the case was one of chronic pancreatitis. Treatment.—The only surgical treatment beyond mere exposure for diagnostic purposes, which apparently sometimes does good, is the opera- tion of cholecystenterostomy for the relief of the severe jaundice that occurs when there is pressure on the common bile duct and, as we have said, this operation is sometimes followed by recovery. Cholecystenteros- tomy is described in connection with the affections of the bile ducts (see Chap. XV.). CALCULI IN THE PANCREAS. These consist essentially of phosphate and carbonate of lime; they lie in the duct and cause a marked alteration in the pancreatic tissues which sometimes takes the form of fatty degeneration, whilst at others it manifests itself as a chronic pancreatitis. Usually also the duct is dilated behind the calculi and a cystic swelling is formed. The etiology of these concretions is not clear. Probably some alteration in the consistency of the secretion or some interference with its flow or the presence of mucus in it may facilitate their formation. The diagnosis is almost impossible without exposure of the pancreas. The chief symptom is pain, which is either continuous or colicky and is most frequently referred to other organs, such as the liver. There may be pyrexia, and diabetes is not uncommon, and it is just possible that the presence of colicky pains in the neighbourhood of the pancreas together with the presence of sugar in the urine may lead to the diagnosis. When the obstruction is complete, fatty stools occur and sometimes jaundice is present when the calculus presses upon the common bile duct. As a rule however it is only after a laparotomy that the stone is diagnosed, and even then it may lie in the head of the pancreas in the midst of a mass of cicatricial tissue, so that a diagnosis of malignant disease is made. Should the presence of a stone be recognised however, there is no reason why it should not be removed by making an incision directly over it, extracting the stone and then subsequently stitching up the incision and providing free drainage through the anterior abdominal wall by means of a large-sized drainage tube packed around with gauze, so that pancreatic secretions shall not accumulate in the neighbourhood and there shall be no risk of necrosis. PANCREATIC C^'STS. The origin of these cysts is not yet clear. Occasionally they seem to definitely ■ follow an injury, when they are probably due to a collection of blood in the first instance; at other times they may follow inflammatory phenomena and occasionally also they arise without any known cause and are only detected when they have attained a considerable size. They are met