CHAPTER XXIV. NEW GROWTHS OF THE KIDNEY AND ITS PELVIS: PERI- AND PARA-NEPHRIC TUMOURS. TUMOURS OF THE KIDNEY. More than two-thirds of the new growths of the kidney are malignant, sarcoma being more frequent than carcinoma. Carcinoma usually occurs in older people, is accompanied by more profuse haematuria, the pain is usually greater and the cachexia occurs earlier. Of the benign tumours the most common are cystic degeneration and hydatid cysts. Simple tumours, such as myxomata or dermoids are very rare and are hardly ever diagnosed until the kidney has been exposed. SYMPTOMS.—These are often very obscure, the chief being haemorrhage, pain and the appearance of a tumour. Hsematuria may be one of the earliest symptoms of malignant disease of the kidney and is often the first that attracts the patient's attention. It occurs spontaneously, it is not affected by exertion, it is commonly profuse and it may last for some days, subsiding and re-appearing after a short time, its appearance often being ushered in by pain. The blood is intimately mixed with the urine but is apt to clot, and the clots may give rise to renal colic. There is no hsematuria unless the growth encroaches upon the renal pelvis. In a considerable proportion of cases however the first thing that is discovered is a tumour, and this is more especially the case in children. When the growth is situated in the lower part of the kidney or the kidney is movable, the tumour is discovered early. It is as a rule painless at first, but as it enlarges it tends to contract adhesions and causes a dull, aching pain from pressure, which is referred to the spine or some of the spinal nerves and closely resembles that due to spinal caries. Morris points out that the occurrence of a varicocele may be an additional aid to the diagnosis. The urine is but little altered in the early stages; later on, the urea may be markedly diminished in amount and pieces of malignant tissue may be found in it along with blood and blood-clot.