THE TREATMENT OF PULMONARY CAVITIES. should be consulted. As far as the surgeon is concerned, he attempts to find the pus by means of an aspirator after the approximate situation of the abscess has been ascertained. The operation should never be begun until the pus has been actually localised by aspiration. Aspiration for the localisation of a pulmonary abscess should be per- formed upon the operating table after all arrangements have been made for proceeding to incise and drain the cavity when it is found. The patient should not be under an anaesthetic and the operation is per- formed much in the same manner as for abscess of the liver (see p. 116). It is often exceedingly difficult to localise the abscess, a number of punctures may be necessary and no doubt there is a considerable risk of infecting the pleura during the search. When the pus has been found only a few drops should be drawn off, and the needle is left situ as a guide and is at once taken charge of by an assistant who prevents it being displaced whilst the patient is being ansesthetised. The assistant must in fact devote his whole attention to steadying the needle for, were it to slip out of position, not only would there be a great risk of the pleura becoming infected, but the difficulties of the operation would be enormously increased. Incision and drainage.—Only partial chloroform anaesthesia should be induced and, after the skin incision has been made, the administration is entirely suspended until the pleura has been reached, because there is a considerable risk of suffocation from the contents of the abscess finding their way into the air-passages; ether should not be employed because of the copious bronchial secretion to which it gives rise. The patient should lie flat upon the back upon the table and should have the affected side drawn well beyond the edge, or else he should lie upon the affected side itself as for the opening of an empyema (see p. 529)- Free space is required for the proper manipulations and therefore an inch and a half or two inches of the ribs immediately above and below the space in which the needle lies should be resected in the ordinary manner. The first point is to ascertain whether the visceral and parietal layers of the pleura are adherent; if this be so, an incision can be made along- side the needle without any fear of collapse of the lung occurring. If however there be no adhesions, the visceral and parietal pleura must be stitched together by a circle of catgut sutures inserted upon fully-curved needles of considerable size going a fair depth into the lung and arranged in a circle at least an inch or an inch and a half in diameter so as to leave as large an area for manipulation as possible.^ All this must be ' The simplest way of securing an air- and water-tight approximation of the two layers of the pleura is to unite them i)y a scries of locked stitches inserted in the same way as in needlework. The needle is inserted and brought out and the second insertion is made midway between the points of insertion and emergence of the first. The third insertion is made midway between the points of insertion and emergence of the second stitch, /.(•. chise to the point of emergence of the first, and so on. There is thus practically a double layer of stitches all round the circle.