METHODS OF DIAGNOSIS. 255 effect in tuberculous affections of the bladder. Frequency of micturition is practically always met with when the mucous membrane of the bladder is inflamed. Urgency of micturition is an important sign. When the healthy bladder becomes distended, the desire to empty it can be resisted for some time ; but in pathological conditions this is impossible, and the patient is compelled to empty the bladder the moment he experiences the desire to do so. Some- times this symptom is accompanied by fncreased frequency, and the patient complains that his water is constantly running away, and thinks that he has incontinence ; this is common in the so-called " irritable bladder," and is often termed "false incontinence" in contra-distinction to the true form in which the urine escapes as fast as it is secreted. Urgency of micturition, although strong presumptive evidence of an inflammatory condition of the bladder, is not absolutely pathognomonic, as it is met with in spinal disease, in dyspeptics, and in prostatic conditions even without cystitis. Difficulty ill micturition usually points to interference with the outflow of urine, and is therefore a usual accompaniment of stricture of the urethra, or of that form of prostatic enlargement in which one portion of the gland enlarges and blocks the neck of the bladder. Painfiil micturition is perhaps of the least value as far as the diagnosis of bladder affections is concerned, as it may not be due to trouble in the bladder at all, and is a frequent symptom of disease of the urethra or prostate or of affections outside the bladder altogether. When due to vesical disease it may be so bad as to make life intolerable, while, on the other hand, it may be very slight indeed, although the affection with which it is associated may be of the gravest importance. A study of this condition may occasionally lead to a correct diagnosis, as, for example, when the pain is not merely associated with micturition, but occurs in the bladder or penis after exertion and is entirely arrested by rest or by micturition in some unusual position, such as the dorsal, when it is almost pathognomonic of vesical calculus. If it be neuralgic, erratic in its onset, independent of movement and associated with deficiency in the outflow of urine, locomotor ataxia is probably its cause. The situation of the pain is of little importance. Some help may be obtained by ascer- taining the precise time during the act of micturition at ivhich the pain comes on. Pain at the commencement of the act ,is generally due to some obstruction to the outflow of urine; when it occurs during the act it is often caused by an acute urethral inflammation or by inflammation of the bladder in which the contraction of the inflamed bladder wall is extremely painful; when it occurs at the end of the act it is usually associated either with stone or with some inflammation at the neck of the bladder or the prostate, and is caused by contraction of the sphincter vesicas upon the inflamed structures. Alterations in the character of the urinaty stream are generally indicative of some obstruction either in the urethra or in the prostate. If the stream be forked, twisted or much diminished in calibre, while it remains normal in