448 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. removed. The radical cure of the hernia is then completed in the usual manner (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 450). Treatment of complications.—We have already discussed the treatment of hernia with which most of these cases are complicated. In ijiflatnvuition of the retained organ it is well to wait for the inflammation to subside before proceeding to radical treatment when, if the attacks have been severe or repeated, castration, followed by complete closure of the inguinal canal, will be the operation chosen. If the inflammation be very severe the surgeon may deem it advisable to remove the testis without waiting, and it sometimes happens that a retained testicle is cut down upon under the impression that the case is one of strangulated hernia. If this be done, the best plan is to complete the operation by removing it. When torsion of the cord has occurred or gangrene has set in, the proper procedure is immediate castration. ECTOPIA TESTIS. Here the testis, instead of passing from the inguinal canal into the scrotum, finds its way elsewhere. There are two chief forms of the affection, termed perineal ectopia, in which the testis misses the entrance into the scrotum and passes into the perineum, and crural ectopia, in which the testis, instead of leaving the abdomen by the inguinal canal, passes through the crural ring and lies either in the crural canal or turns up on the thigh over the lower part of Poupart's ligament after passing through the saphenous opening. Fubic ectopia is sometimes met with but is a very rare condition indeed. Here the testis passes upwards and lies in front of the pubic spine about the region of the root of the penis. In all cases of ectopia testis the corresponding half of the scrotum is ill-developed. The testicles however are usually well-developed and functionally active. TREATMENT.—As the testis is subject to injury in these abnormal positions, it should always be replaced if possible, and this is generally comparatively easy e.'ccept in the femoral form which is also the only one likely to be complicated with hernia. In perineal ectopia an incision is made from the external ring along the fold between the scrotum and the thigh, the cord is exposed and the testicle is pulled up from its bed in the perineum. If it be adherent there the remains of the gubernaculum testis may have to be divided. The organ is completely detached, and then a passage is burrowed down from the external ring into the bottom of the scrotum for its reception. In order to prevent it being extruded from this position the wire frame (see Fig. 102) is indispen.sable and with it an excellent result may be obtained. In femoral ectopia the treatment is more difficult. The testicle may be .so well developed that it is impossible to get it back through the crural canal without enlarging the crural ring and the question will arise as to