549 NEW GROWTHS OF THE RIBS. as an axiom that these tumours should only be removed when it is possible to turn aside a flap and replace it after the removal of the growth. The treatment of the pneumo-thorax does not present much difficulty. In the earlier operations, when sepsis was frequent, a fatal result generally occurred from septic empyema, and therefore strenuous efforts were made to maintain the pleura intact. Although this may be done successfully when the case is one of enchondroma, it should not be attempted when the tumour is sarcomatous in nature, and the surgeon must be prepared to remove the parietal pleura freely if necessary and so provoke a pneumo-thorax. The operation consists in turning aside a suitable flap so as to expose the whole of the tumour, which is well defined and cleared; the ribs should then be exposed all round it at the point where they will require division. The periosteum is peeled off, the ribs are resected in the usual manner and for convenience in working it is well to take out about half an inch of the rib all round so that, before there is any risk of opening the pleura, the tumour is isolated from the chest wall and is merely attached by the pleura and intercostal muscles. It now only remains to divide these structures. The pleura should be first opened by a very small puncture and a sponge wrung out of salt solution, so as to avoid irritation of the pleura with a strong antiseptic, should be placed over the opening and air gradually allowed to enter the thorax. The chief risk in inducing a pneumo-thorax is the sudden entry of air. If this be effected very gradually and the operation be suspended until a condition of equilibrium has been restored, the risks are comparatively slight. When the air has gradually filled up the thoracic cavity the surgeon can safely proceed to clip away the tumour with its attached portion of thoracic wall and pleura, the assistant meanwhile clamping each intercostal vessel as it is divided. Cloths wrung out of hot salt solution are thrown over the opening should it be found that the operation will have to be prolonged owing to adhesion of the tumour to the diaphragm or any other structure; of course should the surgeon have reason to believe before operation that these adhesions exist he would not attempt to remove the tumour. When the tumour has been removed and the bleeding arrested, the s^in flaps are tightly sutured, the air in the pleura soon becomes absorbed and the lung resumes its functions. Appropriate remedies may be needed to meet the severe shock that such an extensive operation will entail (see Part I., p. 139). Nothing need be said concerning tumours of the lung itself. Portions of the organ have been excised in tuberculous disease and it has been suggested that a similar procedure should be adopted for tumour, but the results are not encouraging and at present the operation can hardly be said to be a recognised procedure in surgery.