ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 335 early while the patient is in good condition would give better results both immediate and remote than could otherwise be obtained. This point at the present moment is exercising the minds of many surgeons, but sufficient experience has hardly yet been accumulated to enable any authoritative state- ment to be made upon the subject. (a) Palliative.—In the earliest stage an important point is to remember that the enlarged prostate is generally congested and that anything, however trivial, that may favour this should be therefore avoided. The diet should be light and non-stimulating, with regular meals and little alcohol; at most some light red or white wine may be permitted. The quantity of fluid taken should be diminished as much as possible, and effervescing liquids should ^e avoided. No food should be taken for two or three hours before bedtime and stringent precautions should be taken against constipation.- Exposure to cold and excessive bodily exercise should be carefully avoided. The patient should also never run the risk of placing himself in the position of being unable to evacuate the bladder when necessary, as it very frequently happens that the troublesome symptoms date from an occasion upon which retention has occurred from inability to empty the bladder when it was necessary. The bladder should be emptied at least every six or eight hours, or oftener if necessary. The act should always be performed in the standing position as the bladder is thus much more completely evacuated. The only drugs of any value seem to be ergot, tincture of cantharides and nux vomica. When there is irritability of the bladder the ordinary vesical sedatives, such as tincture of hyoscyamus in half-drachm doses, may be used. Many patients seem to derive benefit from a stay at some of the baths, such as Wildbad, Marienbad, or Vichy. Other methods, such as the application of nitrate of silver to the prostatic urethra, injections into the gland, massage, electricity and mechanical pressure exerted by passing large instruments, etc., have been recommended but are of little value. In the second stag'e—the period marked by definite "residual urine" but without cystitis—no patient should be allowed to go on long without having the bladder occasionally emptied by a catheter, as the presence of residual urine tends to increase the congestion and is a constant source of danger. The regular withdrawal of residual urine diminishes the congestion of the prostate, but at the same time it must be remembered that the employment of an instrument exposes the patient to a certain amount of risk. Dr. White of Philadelphia gives the following rule for cases in which the urine is aseptic :—If on examination the residual urine amounts to about three ounces, the catheter should be passed once daily. If it reach six ounces, the catheter should be passed twice a day and once extra daily for every two ounces above this quantity. Should there be complete retention, the instrument should be used at regular intervals, say every three or four hours. When the catheter is only used once or twice a'day it should always be pa.ssed immediately before the patient goes to bed so as to empty the bladder completely and make sure of some hours' rest.