70 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. spreads to the lumbar glands; the inguinal chain is only affected in cancer involving the anus. Secondary deposits eventually occur in the liver, and this is one of the common causes of death in this affection. Secondary growths usually increase more slowly than the primary one, especially when the latter is of the fungating variety. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms depend largely on the nature and pro- gress of the disease. In the constricting form the earliest symptoms are those of obstruction. The more common fungating form, however, will usually be diagnosed long before obstruction sets in. In the latter cases the earliest symptom is rectal uneasiness, accompanied by diarrhoea, most marked in the morning; when the patient goes to stool only a little mucus mixed with blood and debris passes, leaving a sensation that the bowels have been insufficiently relieved, so that a second attempt is necessary. The trouble is, however, often so slight that the patient takes little notice of it, thinking that he is merely suffering from some chronic diarrhoea. In other cases again there is alternate diarrhoea and constipation, and generally there are marked dyspeptic symptoms. One of the earliest characteristic symptoms is that the patient, although quite comfortable in bed, finds a mucous or foul discharge escaping from the anus directly he gets up in the morning. After emptying the rectum he remains fairly comfortable for a considerable time, but often has to seek relief more than once during the day on account of this spurious diarrhcea. When the growth is situated low down, the sphincters become relaxed, and there is often a want of complete control over the motions accompanied by a continuous mucous discharge from the anus which is sometimes acrid and may lead to excoriation of the skin ; this discharge is often blood-stained, but profuse bleeding is rare. Severe pain is a late symptom, and there is little or none so long as the growth is confined to the substance of the bowel, all that is complained of being a colicky condition and tenesmus, and the general discomfort associated with obstruction. When, however, the disease extends beyond the wall of the bowel, the nerves in the hollow of the sacrum become involved, and the patient suffers from a constant dull aching in the buttocks and thighs, which becomes excruciating as the nerves become more severely compressed. Digital examination of the rectum shows either a fungating mass confined to one segment of the bowel with healthy mucous membrane elsewhere, or else it reveals an annular narrowing of the gut, presenting a more or less central ragged opening closely resembling a split cervix uteri. The edges are densely indurated, and the opening itself is firm, and in many cases the finger cannot be passed through it. When the stricture is high up, the condition known as " ballooning " of the rectum may be present, accompanied by a more or less patulous condition of the anus. True piles may also occur, and should not be confounded with malignant masses protruding from the anus. It is also not uncommon for ischio-rectal abscess to form and to give rise to fistulje com- municating with the bowel about the upper limit of the growth.