ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. coccidia or actinomyces. Suppuration in the liver may also arise in con- nection with gall-stones, the affection here, however, being primarily gall- bladder or bile duct suppuration ; this is dealt with separately (see Chap. XIV.). The abscesses are due either to the ordinary pyogenic organisms or to the colon bacillus. Abscesses due to the above causes may also occur in tropical countries, but in addition there is a particular form known as " tropical abscess of the liver," which is of great importance. This affection begins to be met with about the 48th degree of north latitude, and increases in frequency further south ; it occurs sporadically, however, somewhat further north than this. In this geographical area acute and sub-acute hepatitis are common, and the inflammation of the liver may end in tropical abscess. The disease is essentially associated with true tropical dysentery, although it may come on a considerable time after the attack has passed off, and may even be found after all ulceration has completely healed. It is now held by many that true tropical dysentery is due to an amoeba, and this parasite has been found in large numbers in the wall of tropical abscesses, if not actually in the pus. In addition, the ordinary pyogenic and other kinds of organisms may be present, and the question of the etiology of these abscesses is, therefore, very complicated. The course of the affection is also modified according to the nature of the other organisms which find entrance simultaneously with, or subsequently to, the amoeba. Those who hold the amoeba theory con- sider that in all probability the amoeba alone produces a very slow breaking down of the liver without acute suppuration—the typical tropical abscess; whereas those cases marked by very acute inflammatory symptoms are due to a mixed infection, and the acuteness of the attack is, to a certain extent, proportionate to the severity of the infection by other organisms. Malaria is said by many to play an important part in the causation of the affection, but the abscess is not due to the malaria parasite. By its general effect upon the system and by its local effect upon the liver, malaria may pave the way for the true parasitic invasion which causes tropical abscess. PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY.—The great majority of tropical abscesses are single. In some cases, however, there may be two, three, or even five abscesses in the liver; when a larger number than this is present the case is probably of an embolic nature. In something like two-thirds of the cases the abscess is situated in the right lobe. As a rule it varies in size when it comes under surgical observation from an apple to a child's head; the average size is that of a fairly large orange. The abscess is usually spherical and contains ordinary pus, generally tinged with an admixture of blood and bile. Thus it may be yellow, greenish-orange, blood-red, or brown in colour, and it often contains dis- coloured clots and portions of broken-down liver substance. In the acuter forms the abscess wall is pulpy and contains broken-down hepatic tissue; in the more chronic ones there is a kind of thickened abscess wall. In PT. VI. 2. H