446 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. is then threaded on a nsevus needle and passed through the remains of the sac and tunica albuginea at the bottom of the testis and then un- threaded. One end of the suture is ne.xt threaded upon the needle again and passed down through the bottom of the pouch made in the scrotum, being guided down upon the finger. The needle is unthreaded and the stitch is left protruding from the bottom of the scrotum while a similar procedure is gone through with the other end, so that eventually there is a stitch looped through the bottom of the testis with its ends protruding from the bottom of the scrotum side by side and a little distance apart. Traction upon the ends of this thread will pull the testis well down into the bottom of the scrotum and put all the structures upon the stretch. The ends of the ligature are now caught in clamp forceps and are given to an assistant to hold, whilst the surgeon proceeds to finish the radical cure of hernia, which should be done on the principles already laid down (see Part VL, Sec. I., p. 450). The wound is then closed in the usual manner and a collodion dressing applied, outside which a larger cyanide gauze dressing is put on, the latter being prolonged well down to the bottom of the scrotum. The final step is the method for keeping the testis down in the scrotum and in this the wire frame shown in Fig. 102, has many advantages over the older plans of stitching the scrotum to the thigh.1 The cage is made of moderately soft wire and can be moulded to fit the particular patient. It is fastened on outside the dressing by means of tapes, one of which extends from each side of the base around the body between the crest of the ilium and the great trochanter, whilst two tapes are fastened to the apex and pass up in the folds of the buttock to the tape around the waist; when these are tied the apparatus is fixed in position and the transverse bar is immediately below the bottom of the scrotum. The ends of the silk ligature are now taken and are passed around the bar one on either side, and are tightened up to the desired extent and tied in a bow. This keeps the testis down in place with the scrotum stretched over it, and there is no chance of its receding as long as the stitch holds. A little extra dressing is applied outside, so that the whole apparatus is incorporated in it. The dressings are changed in about five days, when the skin stitches may be taken out and the traction thread somewhat tightened up so as to pull the testis a little lower down. This may be done at intervals of ^See Med. Society's Transactions, Vol. XIII., p. 497. Fig. 102.—Wire Frame for Rktained Testis. The testis is pulled down and the thread_ is fastened to the bar a. The base of the triangle lies over the symphysis, the apex in the perineum.