130 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. COURSE.—Gall-stones are so often met with in the course of other abdominal operations or at post-mortem examinations without having ever given rise to any symptoms or to any pathological changes in the gall-bladder, that we must conclude that they only cause trouble when they try to escape, when they interfere with the escape of bile or when they give rise to inflammation of the gall-bladder (cholecystitis) ; this condition has already been dealt with (see p. 125). When a stone tries to escape, its passage along the bile ducts is marked by hepatic colic (see p. 131). When a stone is impacted in one of the ducts, it may give rise to very severe symptoms quite apart from any cholecystitis that it may cause. If it be impacted in the cystic duct, the gall-bladder behind it will dilate and may contain pus, bile, or a thin mucoid fluid; the blockage usually occurs at the neck of the organ. When the stone is impacted in the common duct, there is well-marked jaundice which is generally absent in cases of impaction in the cystic duct; the depth and severity of the jaundice will vary with the amount of occlusion that the stone produces. The gall-bladder in these cases is usually not distended, and may even shrink up and almost disappear. The occlusion of the bile ducts is rarely brought about by the stone entirely filling the duct in which it lies, the final complete blockage being produced by inflammatory swelling of the mucous membrane. When the stone is impacted in the cystic duct, occlusion may be complete. In the common duct however there may be very considerable dilatation, allowing the bile to find its way into the duodenum alongside the stone, which thus acts somewhat as a ball-valve; the jaundice varies with the completeness of the occlusion. A stone impacted in either of the ducts may pass on into the bowel if small enough ; if it be too large to do this, it may eventually ulcerate through the wall of the duct, which becomes adherent to the bowel, and find its way either into the duodenum or the colon, thus giving rise to a fistulous communication. The symptoms subside as the gall-stone escapes into the bowel, unless of course other stones be present. COMPLICATIONS,—Cholecystitis and cholangitis have been already referred to (see Chap. XIV.). Adhesion of the gall-bladder or the bile ducts to surrounding structures is not at all uncommon, and is often accompanied by stricture of the pylorus or intestinal obstruction from kinking of either the colon or the duodenum. Another complication is intestinal obstruction which usually occurs from mechanical blockage by a stone that has found its way into the bowel (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 365). Suppuration in various situations may follow as the result of suppurative cholecystitis or cholangitis. Thus, it may occur in the sub-phrenic region and may be followed by a fistula about the umbilicus or in the right hypochondrium, or the abscess may burst into the peritoneal cavity. Fistulse may also occur between the gall-bladder or bile ducts and the pelvis of the kidney, the bladder, or