57 H.'F.MORRHOIDS. Internally, opium or morphine may be administered. At the end of the first week the patient can generally sit upon a hard seat, and can often return to work within a fortnight. When there are external piles, and these are not removed, there may be a good deal of swelling around the anus for some days after the operation, but this subsides as soon as the bowels are opened, and the external piles shrink up. Ligature.—This method was the one formerly chiefly in vogue, and it is still strongly advocated by some. The sphincter is fully dilated, the pile is pulled down by forceps, the mucous membrane around its base is snipped through with scissors and the pedicle tightly tied with a stout silk ligature ; if large, the pedicle is transfixed. The parts are then returned within the anus. The object of snipping through the mucous membrane before applying the ligature is to diminish pain. The chief reason urged in favour of this method is the avoidance of hfeniorrhage, but we must confess that in our opinion it does not bear comparison with either of the plans we have already described. The presence of silk ligatures in a septic part like the rectum must necessarily be a source of irritation and danger, whilst the sloughing of the pile and the- separation of the ligature are apt to be accompanied by septic thrombosis and a risk of secondary haimorrhage. We must confess also that what we have seen of the pain and discomfort 'following-this operation contrasts most unfavourably with the results of the clamp and cautery method. Treatment of hsemorrhage occurring in connection with piles.— This may be divided into bleeding occurring as a complication of piles and bleeding occurring as an accident, either during or after one of the operations for their relief. In the two latter cases it is a most troublesome and unpleasant complication, which however should be excessively rarely, if ever, met with when the operation is properly performed. In our own practice we have never had to deal with a case either of immediate or .secondary htemorrhage following operation. Haemorrhage complicating piles.—This is a mere symptom ; the removal of the heemorrhoids will cure the bleeding. Should however the patient decline operation, or should the latter be considered inadvisable, it may be necessary to employ local measures directed to the arrest of h?emorrhage. For this purpose the ordinary palliative treatment already described (see p. 48) must be adopted and, in addition, the u.se of astringents locally will be advantageous. Amongst the best of these is the tincture of hamamelis diluted with an equal quantity of water, half an ounce to an ounce of this being injected through the sphincter and left in the bowel each time after an action has occurred. In ordinary cases injections of cold water or of simple lead lotion may be useful, whilst in bad cases suppositories containing one to three grains of sulphate of iron may be tried. It is of course most important to take adequate measures against constipation, which is a most prolific cause of bleeding.