HYDROCELE. 469 The tunica vaginalis must be laid open freely as soon as the true nature of the condition is recognised. The skin is shaved and purified in the ordinary manner, a vertical incision is made over the outer and front part of the swelling or over any situation in which the abscess is pointing, and the pus is let out; the finger is introduced into the cavity to break down any septa present, a drainage tube is inserted at the most dependent spot and antiseptic dressings are applied in the usual manner, whilst the scrotum should be well supported as for acute epididymitis (see Fig. 103). Healing is generally complete in about a fortnight. CHRONIC HYDROCELE.—This affection has received different names according to the situation of the encysted fluid. Thus, there is the common variety termed hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; congenital hydrocele, in which the funicular process is patent from the abdominal cavity to the bottom of the scrotum; infantile hydrocele, where the process is closed only at the internal abdominal ring; hydrocele of the cord, in which the funicular process is obliterated at the internal ring above and in the neighbourhood of the epididymis below. There may also be a spermatocele or encysted hydrocele of the epididymis ; encysted hydrocele of the testis itself, which is generally a collection of fluid beneath the visceral layer of the tunica vaginalis, and a chylous or fatty hydrocele, in which there is a communication with the lymphatic vessels, may also be met with; occa- sionally the so-called diffuse hydrocele of the cord is met with and in this fluid is evenly distributed through the structures of the cord. (a) Chronic hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis.—The tunica vaginalis is distended with a clear, highly albuminous fluid, coagulating readily on the addition of red blood corpuscles. The condition is pro- bably associated with some inflammatory affection, of the epididymis. It is also not uncommon as a complication of gummatous disease of the testis and is met with in connection with long-standing hernise, varicoceles, etc. The tunica vaginalis may remain normal in appearance and in thick- ness for a considerable time, but, as time elapses, especially when attacks of acute inflammation supervene upon the chronic, there is an increased thickening of the wall which becomes rigid and after a time the hydrocele may develop into a hfematocele. Adhesions may also form between the opposed surfaces of the tunica vaginalis and divide the hydrocele cavity more or less completely into loculi. The diagnosis of hydrocele is simple, but it must be remembered that the affection is not infrequently complicated with a hernia and it is not uncommon to find that there is disease of the body of the testis or of the epididymis when the hydrocele fluid is drawn off. Treatment.—It is advisable in all cases to get rid of the hydrocele, as, although it does not trouble the patient materially when small, it tends to get steadily larger if left alone, until it becomes a source of great discomfort from its size and weight.