256 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. force, it generally indicates stricture of the urethra near the meatus; on the other hand, a stream normal in calibre but diminished in force is strongly suggestive of prostatic enlargement. Should the stream of urine be con- stantly interrupted during micturition and should this be accompanied by sharp pain, the suspicion of a stone in the bladder is very strong. Incontinence of tirine may be either true incontinence, when the urine dribbles away as fast as it is secreted, or a form of " false incontinence " which is really retention with overflow, that is to say, a condition in which there is an obstruction causing retention, so that the bladder becomes overfull and after a time the urine dribbles away. In this condition the bladder is always full whereas in true incontinence it is always empty. Examination of the urine is very important in the diagnosis of bladder affections. From forty-five to fifty-five ounces are passed in the 24 hours by a- healthy subject and if this amount be markedly altered there is probably some renal affection present. Its normal specific gravity is 1018-1022 and this is constant in all diseases of the bladder; if it undergo marked change it implies disease of the kidney. A diminution in specific gravity in cases of disease of the bladder points to the presence of pyelitis or pyelo-nephritis. Turbidity of the urine is generally met with in bladder affections and is most often due to cellular elements resulting from vesical catarrh, but it may be due to a deposit of urates or phosphates, the latter being caused by decomposition of the urine and disappearing on the addition of dilute acetic acid; turbidity due to catarrhal secretion is not affected by the addition of acetic acid. Ammoniacal fermentation is generally due to vesical catarrh accompanied by paresis or retention. Foul-smelling urine is very likely to be due to ulcerating growths in the bladder, whilst a feculent smell may indicate communication between that organ and the intestine, but may also occur in connection with purulent collections outside the bladder bursting into the latter without any connection with the bowel. Normal urine has a feebly acid reaction, but when there is disease of the bladder with ammoniacal decomposition the reaction becomes alkaline. It must not however be assumed that acid urine containing pus cannot come from the bladder, or conversely that alkaline urine may not come from the kidney. Ammoniacal decomposition in the bladder usually occurs after the passage of dirty instruments, and crystals of triple phosphates and numerous bacteria are generally found. In true phosphaturia both triple phosphates and bacteria are absent. If pus or blood be present in the urine, there will be albuminuria in proportion to the amount of these present; in disease of the kidney on the other hand, the albumen is present in a much larger proportion than is accounted for by them. It must however always be remembered that bladder diseases may be accompanied by albuminuria of renal origin, Hcematuria is a common occurrence in bladder affections, but the blood may also come from the urethra, the prostate or the kidney. \\'hen it derives its origin from the urethra in front of the membranous portion, the blood