148 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. compress it and interfere with the flow of bile. It is not at all uncommon to find after choledochotomy that jaundice becomes marked where it had previously been slight, probably owing either to some swelling of the mucous membrane of the common duct or from too tight suturing. This however usually passes off in a short time. The object of the gauze is to set up adhesions all around the operation area, which it does in a very few hours, so that a definite track is left along which any extravasated material may find its way without any risk to the peritoneal cavity. Whenever there is acute cholangitis or any doubt as to whether the patient can stand the necessary prolongation of the operation, suture of the duct may be dispensed with safely if drainage be provided. This is done in the same way as after suture of the duct, except that special care must be taken to pack off the area around so that the drainage tube is surrounded by a barrier of gauze. The end of the tube should lie over the openmg in the duct itself, so that bile does not find its way anywhere except along the tube. Some surgeons advise that a cholecystostomy should always be combined with a choledochotomy, so as to drain the gall-bladder and cure any chole- cystitis and thus to minimise the likelihood of recurrence of stone. On this point the surgeon will be guided largely by the condition he finds. If the gall-bladder be large and inflamed, and also if it contain stones, it is well to secure the fundus in the upper angle of the wound (see p. 141) and drain it. It is often impossible however to drain the organ, as it is shrunken, and no attempt need then be made to do so provided that it contains no stones; cholecystectomy, which would be the ideal method under these circumstances, will rarely be permissible on account of the patient's condition. It is perhaps well not to perform cholecystostomy in cases marked by severe bleeding, as the fewer incisions made into mucous membrane under these circumstances the better. After choledochotomy the abdominal wall should be united in three stages in the ordinary manner right up to where the packing emerges, and it is always well to insert a suitable number of silkworm gut stitches, taking up all the structures through the part of the abdominal wall where the packing comes out, so that, should no leakage occur from the sutured duct, they may be brought together subsequently and a ventral hernia avoided. The gauze is left out after the first dressing, which should be done about the second or third day under gas. The drainage tube is kept in until it is clear that the common duct has healed. Whe?i the stone is impacted in the terminal third of the duct, especially when it lies in the ampulla of Vater, it is out of the question to incise the duct directly over the stone without injuring the duodenum. The surgeon has several courses open to him. In the first place he may attempt to squeeze the stone higher up in the duct which may then be incised, as recommended above; this however is not usually successful. Others have attempted to crush or to needle the stone, but this has disadvantages that have already been referred to (see p. 146) and we cannot recommend it. The method