RENAL CALCULUS. 233 immediately put back to bed. The shoulders and thighs should be raised so as to relax the abdominal muscles. If the pain be too severe for these methods to allay it, inhalation of chloroform may be resorted to, but cases where this is necessary are very rare. As a rule the stone passes in a few hours, or goes back into the renal pelvis. Should it become impacted it must be removed as described below (see p 234). URETERAL CALCULUS. The surgeon may be called upon to deal with a calculus impacted in the ureter under two different sets of circumstances. On the one hand he may find that in the course of an operation for renal stone the ureter is blocked by a second calculus, which of course will require removal either at the time of the operation, if the patient's condition allows it, or at a subsequent period when the effects of the kidney operation have been somewhat recovered from. On the other hand the case may be primarily one of ureteral calculus, and there is therefore no necessity for cutting down upon the kidney itself, the stone in the ureter being the sole lesion. The diagnosis of a calculus impacted in the ureter, as distinguished from a similar condition in the kidney, is of course of great practical importance, as it is obviously of advantage not to practise more operative interference than is absolutely necessary. An important point in the diagnosis is that the escape of urine from the affected side is interfered with by the calculus impacted in the ureter, and it is easy to determine this fact by the aid of the cystoscope after injection of methylene blue (see p. 169). The coloured urine will be seen issuing from the sound ureter, while none comes from the affected one. This however does not tell the surgeon more than that the ureter on that side is occluded, and of course this may be due to a stone impacted in any part of its course. If the other kidney be healthy and there be no reflex anuria, dilatation of the ureter and pelvis of the kidney will occur above the obstruction, and there will be a tumour in the loin. Should the stone act as a sort of ball-valve at the commencement of the ureter, a condition of intermittent hydronephrosis will be established. When hydronephrosis is present, the blockage is incomplete; when the obstruction is sudden and complete, the kidney may undergo atrophy without hydronephrosis occurring. The condition set up by the blockage of one or both ureters by a stone is termed " calculous anuria." Occasionally, especially in spare subjects, the calculus may actually be felt through the abdominal wall, through the rectum, the vagina or the bladder, and it may be possible in suitable cases to get accurate information by means of the X-rays. The most common seats of impaction are the points at which the diameter of the ureter is smallest, viz., about two inches from the hilum of the kidney and at the vesical