56 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. After the surface has been thus thoroughly seared, the screw of the clamp is gradually relaxed and the blades are slowly separated so as to allow the base of the pile to escape piece by piece. Should there be any sign of bleeding, the blades can be pressed together again at once and a fresh cautery applied. If however the original cauterisation has been efficient, there should be no necessity for this. Each of the remaining piles is now removed in turn in a similar manner, and it is important to note that care should be taken not to include the skin around the anus within the blades of the clamp, as otherwise considerable pain is likely to result. After all the internal piles have been removed, attention is turned to the external ones, which are best treated by picking them up with forceps and snipping them off with a pair of scissors curved upon the flat. The scissors should be applied in a line radiating from the anu.s, and care must be taken to remove not only the skin but the projecting venous mass beneath it as well. Any bleeding from this source readily stops on pressure, and it is well to insert catgut sutures into each incision. It is not necessary to remove all the external piles, as they usually shrink up after the operation upon the internal ones ; only prominent ones need be removed. After the operation is finished, careful inspection is made to see that there is Tio bleeding, and a half-grain suppository of morphine is inserted into the rectum, a little iodoform is dusted over the parts, and a pad of salicylic wool is fastened between the buttocks with a T-bandage. After-treatnmit.—The patient is put back to bed lying on his side with the pelvis raised upon a pillow and the bowels are confined for four or five days if necessary by the administration of a little opium. During this time the diet should be fluid and should consist largely of milk. On the fifth day a dose of castor oil should be given early in the morning and just before the action of the bowels occurs a large enema should be administered, followed by the injection of an ounce of warm olive oil within the sphincters. This first action of the bowels is often somewhat painful, but if a large enema be given there is usually little trouble. Should the patient feel faint, brandy or sal volatile may be administered. From this time onward the patient may be allowed to get up and may be put upon an ordinary light diet, while a laxative should be given every other day so as to keep the bowels open. The best for this purpose is confection of senna or liquorice powder, and immediately previous to the action an ounce of oHve oil should be injected into the rectum which will minimise any smarting. As a rule the disturbance following this operation is very slight indeed. In some cases, especially in men, there is retention of urine, but this is usually transient and causes no trouble. Micturition can often be performed by allowing the patient to get on the hands and knees, and there is no objection to this being done. The pain is trifling, if care be taken to dilate the sphincter fully at the time of the operation. Any there is is due to spasm of the sphincter, which is best treated by the application of a large sponge wrung out of boiling water and firmly applied against the anus.