THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. half centimetres from the middle line on a level with the upper border of the second lumbar spine, while on the anterior surface it is four and a half to five and a half centimetres from the middle line on a line drawn round the body about one inch below the mid-distance between the upper border of the manubrium sterni and the upper border of the symphysis pubis. Another point given to indicate the commencement of the ureter is the intersection of a transverse line between the tips of the twelfth ribs, with a vertical line drawn upwards from the junction of the inner and middle thirds of Poupart's ligament. The ureter descends on the surface of the psoas muscle to the brim of the pelvis, where it crosses the lower end of the common or the upper part of the external iliac arteries (see Fig. 36). At the brim of the pelvis, the position of the ureter is indicated in front by a point corresponding to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the line indicating the course of the common and external iliac arteries. This line is drawn from a point half an inch below and to the left of the umbilicus to a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. It then turns backwards and outwards along the side of the pelvis to a point about an inch in front of the spine of the ischium; thence it passes for- wards on the upper surface of the levator ani muscle to its termination in the wall of the bladder. In its course it presents three constrictions and two intermediate dilatations. The first constriction is situated about two and a half inches below the hilum of the kidney, and this is the narrowest part of the ureter. The second constriction is at the point where it passes over the pelvic brim, and the third is at its termination in the bladder wall. Relations of the ureter.—The abdominal portion lies on the psoas and crosses the genito-crural nerve about half-way between the commence- ment and the brim of the pelvis. Anteriorly its upper part is in direct contact with the peritoneum and intimately connected with it. In the lower part the spermatic or ovarian arteries pass between the ureter and the peritoneum and are closely connected with both. On the right side Fig. 36.—The Surface Markinc; ok the Ahdominai. PORTION OF THE Uheteh. A. Commencement of ureter. B. Ureter at pelvic brim. C. Line of abdominal portion of ureter. D. Bifurcation of aorta. E. Mid-point between symphysis and ant. sup. iliac spine. The horizontal dotted line is the level of the tips of the last ribs ; the vertical one is drawn upwards from the junction of the inner with the middle third of Poupart's ligament. {Morris.)