* CHAPTER XII. TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER AND BILE PASSAGES. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. The inferior margin of the liver corresponds on the right side to the costal margin,^ and crosses the epigastrium from the tip of the ninth right to that of the eighth left costal cartilage, crossing the Hnea alba nearly midway between the sternum and the umbilicus, and passing up- wards and to the left to reach a point about the apex beat. The level of the upper surface may be denoted by a line from the base of the xiphoid cartilage to the right fifth rib in the nipple line, running thence to the sixth rib in the mid-axillary line and further back to the eighth dorsal spine. The liniits> of the light pleural cavity are of importance, especially when puncturing the liver or opening abscesses. In front, the pleura descends to just behind the right seventh costal cartilage near the sternum, whilst in the right axillary line it descends to a level two or three inches above the costal margin. Behind, it may extend just below the twelfth rib. By removing the tenth rib in the axillary line the pleura can be avoided and the diaphragm at once exposed. The relation of the peritoneum to the liver is also of importance. The organ is not covered by peritoneum posteriorly, and an abscess may there- fore be reached there without traversing the peritoneal cavity. The peri- toneum is reflected from the under surface of the diaphragm on to the convexity of the liver posteriorly as the anterior layer of the coronary ligament and passes round the inferior margin until it reaches the tran.s- verse fissure, when it is reflected downwards in front of the structures in the portal fissure to form the anterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum.- 'The level of the inferior margin is often much lower than this, especially in old people. It may reach an inch or more below the edge of the ribs. -To the right of the portal fissure it becomes continuous with the peritoneum in Iront of the right Uidney—sometimes called the '* hepato-renal ligament."