136 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. stone impacted in the common duct with or without any of the various com- plications already described (see p. 130), operation will be necessary. 4. When there is a doubt as to whether a case of profound and persistent jaundice be due to blockage of the common duct by a stone or to its occlusion by malignant disease, palliative measures should be tried for a few weeks in order to allow sufficient time to elapse for the diagnosis to be made certain. Should the case be one of gall-stones, there will be comparatively little change in the patient's condition in that time; should the mischief however be due to malignant disease, the patient will go downhill rapidly, a tumour will probably become evident in that time, and possibly secondary deposits will be evident elsewhere. On the other hand, if an attempt be made to clear up the diagnosis immediately by an exploratory laparotomy, the patient may no doubt be cured if the case turn out to be one of impaction in the common duct; but should it be malignant disease on the other hand, not only will no good be done, but the patient's life will probably be cut short, as death is very likely to occur from persistent bleeding. When an intensely jaundiced patient has also subcutaneous haemorrhage resembHng purpura hemorrhagica it will be better not to operate, as fatal bleeding is almost certain to result. It is difficult to ascertain beforehand the likelihood of this serious complication occurring as tests of the coagulating power of the blood are. unreliable. Palliative treatment mainly resolves itself into the treatment of an attack of biliary colic, which is best met by giving a full dose of opium and placing the patient in a bath as hot as can be borne. After immersion in the bath for ten minutes or so the patient should be put to bed and hot fomentations applied all over the abdomen, especially to the hepatic region; leeches to the right hypochondrium are said to give relief when there is tenderness on pressure over that area. As a rule this treatment will suffice for the relief of symptoms of moderate severity but, when the attack is very acute, repeated full doses of morphine are called for, and the best plan is to inject a quarter of a grain subcutaneously as the patient is often sick and cannot retain the drug by mouth. When there is no vomiting, two grains of opium may be given by mouth, combined with half a grain of extract of belladonna repeated as often as necessary. Occasionally in very neurotic patients the attacks are so acute that the administration of a general anaesthetic has to be resorted to. In the intervals between the attacks of colic the most important line of treatment is to regulate the diet, which should be easily digestible and without an undue amount of nitrogenous material. When the patient suffers from jaundice it is advisable that fatty articles of diet should be very sparingly partaken of as the absorption of fatty food from the intestines under these circumstances takes place very slowly. Saline aperients are generally required and proper exercise must be provided for. (b) Operative.—Operative measures should be employed in the following cases: i. In acute suppurative cholecystitis. 2. In chronic impaction of a