ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. I15 vexity of the orgcan there may be a diffuse bulging in the lower intercostal spaces and peritoneal crepitations may be heard over it. In smaller abscesses a lesser degree of bulging is best detected by standing behind the patient lying perfectly straight upon a flat couch or a table. Tender- ness on pressure may be made out, but fluctuation is seldom elicited unless the abscess has become subcutaneous or penetrates the thoracic cavity, when fluctuation may occasionally be detected in one of the intercostal spaces. The heart is generally displaced upwards and to the left. Some fever is almost always present in the early stages, but it may be absent in the chronic cases; in the very acute form it is high from the commencement. In the chronic cases it is often irregular, and not very high, while in malarial subjects it is of a more malarial type; rigors may also be present. When the suppuration is in the left lobe or in the smaller lobes on the concavity obstinate vomiting is frequently noticed. From a practical point of view the chief point of importance after the diagnosis of an abscess is its situation. The following points may be mentioned. When the abscess is on the convexity there are symptoms affecting the thoracic organs, such as increased dulness upwards, diffi- culty or pain on respiration, pg.in in the right shoulder, projection of the lower ribs and possibly fluctuation. When the abscess is situated in the centre of the organ, there are, in addition to the ordinary inflammatory symptoms, only moderate swelling of the organ and a little jaundice if the abscess be very large. In abscesses situated on the under surface of the liver there is marked projection of the organ downwards into the abdominal cavity, vomiting, pain in the right flank and hip rather than in the shoulder and frequently jaundice from pressure on the bile ducts. TREATMENT.—^The usual surgical rule of evacuating the pus as soon as its presence is determined must be followed, and the question to be con.sidered is how this shall be done. In the comparatively rare cases in which the pus finds its way into the abdominal wall it is clear that the swelling there should be incised, the track traced up to its point of emergence from the liver and sufficiently enlarged for efficient drainage. The difficult cases however are those in which the pus is still confined to the liver or has spread thence into the lung or the pleural cavity; the great difficulty here is the protection of the serous cavity. In a very large number of cases in which the abscess follows its usual course towards the convex surface, adhesions will have formed before the surgeon sees the case, but in others there will be none, and this may be the case also when the abscess is situated on the under surface, although surrounding structures, such as the omentum or the bowel, may be adherent to its surface; the condition is closely analogous to the deep-seated forms of appendicitic abscess (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 376), with the exception however that the pus in an hepatic abscess is usually not so virulent as it is in one from th^ appendix.