126 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. through the abdominal wall, either below the costal margin or more commonly in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. As a rule the adhesions prevent perforation into the general peritoneal cavity ; occasion- ally the abscess may perforate the bowel or may find its way into the sub phrenic region. Hepatic abscess may result from very acute cholecystitis. The pus then probably makes its way through the wall of the gall-bladder between it and the liver, and the liver abscess starts from this spot. This condition has already been dealt with (see Chap. XIIL). Perforation of the gall-bladder may also follow acute suppurative cholecystitis, generally when there are gall-stones present. The symptoms are much the same as in the preceding condition, and are mainly those ■of localised peritonitis, followed suddenly by symptoms of perforation and acute general peritonitis. Acute gangrenous cholecystitis is a very rare form, and is seldom diagnosed before operation. It may complicate gall-stones, but it more commonly follows specific fevers. The symptoms are very severe; the entire thickness of the gall-bladder is affected, its walls become gangrenous, and there is intense peritonitis. The proximity of the bowel to the gall- bladder accounts for the fact that some intestinal obstruction usually occurs in these cases; in fact, they are usually mistaken either for acute obstruc- tion or perforative peritonitis. Treatment.—The treatment of suppurative cholecystitis is operative, but the exact condition of affairs is generally not diagnosed before operation, which is probably undertaken on the assumption that gall-stones are present. . The treatment for empyema of the gall-bladder will be dealt with in connection with gall-stones (see Chap. XV.). The treatment of abscess of the liver has already been described (see p. 115). If the diagnosis be made, the treatment of perforation of the gall-bladder or acute gangrenous cholecystitis \vill be immediate laparotomy in the right hypochondriac region, followed by the evacuation of any extravasated bile, the removal of the remains of the gall-bladder if possible, and if not, free incision of it, followed in either case by efificient drainage. These operations are dealt with elsewhere (see Chap. XV.). NON-SUPPURATIVE CHOLECYSTITIS.—This usually occurs as a chronic catarrh of the gall-bladder, and may give rise to symptoms closely simulating those of gall-stones. The gall-bladder contains thick mucus which, in its passage along the cystic duct, gives rise to attacks of colic, often of considerable severity, and it is probable that this condition generally precedes the formation of true gall-stones. As a rule the condition is only diagnosed after operation, which is undertaken on the assumption that gall-stones are present. Jaundice is very rarely met with. Treatment.—Should the condition be diagnosed before operative inter- ference is undertaken, the treatment should be directed to carefully regulating the diet, prescribing proper exercise, and promoting peristaltic action by the