312 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. MALIGNANT TUMOURS—Sarcoma of the bladder is not at all un- common. It is usually of the round-celled type and occurs more often in •young subjects than in adults. Carcinoma of the bladder may be primary or secondary to carcinoma of surrounding structures, such as the rectum, uterus or prostate. Histologically it is a cylindrical epithelioma and the growth is usually slow in progress, so that the history may extend over two to four years. Occasionally the growth is much more rapid, and the patient may die from repeated haemorrhages or from septic decomposition of the urine. The most common situation of the tumour is the neighbourhood of the trigone or the orifices of the ureters, and the growth soon infiltrates the bladder wall. Infection of the glands and secondary deposits in other organs usually occur late and may not be seen, as the patient may die from exhaus- tion due to prolonged hjemorrhage. Symptoms, (a) Of benign tumours.—Haematuria is. often the only symptom and is generally the only one in the early stages. It is usually intermittent, lasting for a time varying from a few hours up to some weeks and is sometimes severe enough to produce profound anaemia. At other times there may be a mere discolouration of the urine at intervals, lasting for a very short time. This hfemorrhage is generally most marked towards the close of the act of micturition and is due to the contraction of the bladder wall upon the growth damaging the latter and squeezing out pure blood. The bleeding usually occurs without definite cause and is not provoked by moderate exer- cise, although undoubtedly it may be set up by very severe jolting. Examina- tion of the bladder with a sound or catheter, however carefully done, will generally give rise to a smart attack of haemorrhage. As a rule there is no pain in the early stages and this may be often absent throughout, and the •same may be said with regard to other bladder symptoms, such as frequency 'Of micturition. In the later stages, when the growth fills up the bladder to some extent, there may be pain, frequency of micturition and interference with the outflow, due to portions of the growth blocking the neck of the bladder. When there is markedly painful micturition, cystitis has usually supervened. (b) Of malignant tumours.—Haemorrhage is generally later in appearing than in simple tumours and is usually more persistent, although the blood is often present in smaller quantities than in cases of villous tumour. Pain is a niuch more constant symptom and may be due in part to the presence of the growth but chiefly to the fact that cystitis sets in comparatively early. The pain may be very severe and is referred to the supra-pubic region, to the perineum, to the bladder itself and to the thighs and loins. Micturition is unduly frequent and the patient's condition is extremely sad. Diagnosis.—In the early stages this is difficult, as it is hard to determine whether the blood comes from the bladder or the kidney, and the difficulty is increased when the pain is referred to the iliac region or the loin, as is not unlikely to be the case when the tumour implicates the ureteral orifice or is situated in its immediate neighbourhood. The surgeon must not be