THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. The operation itself may be performed in several ways. In one the stricture is divided from before backwards; in the other, from behind for- wards, and in both cases the incision in the urethra may be made either in the floor or in the roof. Of these methods, we ourselves prefer to divide the stricture from behind forwards and to make the incision in the floor of the urethra, as there is then less likelihood of doing unnecessary damage to the deep urethra and it is more easy to make certain of dividing the whole stricture. It seems advisable also to make the incision in the floor of the urethra because it is there that the main portion of the stricture is found; were the division made in the roof, only healthy mucous membrane might be incised and the stricture itself left untouched. A Fig. gi.—Two Types of Urethrotome. A is Thompson's instrument which we prefer; it cuts from behind forwards and in the floor of the urethra. B is Berkeley Hill's ; this cuts from before backwards and divides the urethral roof. The patient should be prepared beforehand, the stricture being dilated sufificiently to admit the urethrotome. Thompson's instrument (see Fig. 91) which we prefer, corresponds to No. 5 English, and therefore the stricture must be dilated up to that either by the intermittent method or by tying in a catheter for a day or two previously; the former method is preferable as the latter may set up urethritis. Another important point is to render the urine as aseptic as possible and this is done by the administration of urinary antiseptics (see p. 274) for a few days previously. The bladder should be washed out regularly with boracic lotion (see p. 282) if there be cystitis. The organ should be emptied immediately before the operation. The patient is anaesthetised and lies flat upon the back with the legs on the table. The exact limits of the stricture are ascertained by means of the special stricture-finders which accompany Thompson's instrument; these have a shaft graduated similarly to the shaft of the urethrotome and are furnished with a pyramidal head which is passed into the urethra until it rests upon the face of the stricture. The distance from the meatus