382 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. GLEET. In normal cases the discharge becomes steadily less purulent until it ceases in two or three weeks after the subsidence of the acute stage. Some- times, however, it persists for a long time, and the condition is then called gleet. Gleet is essentially due to the localisation of the gonorrhoeal mischief in the deeper layers of the mucous membrane or submucous tissue in some very limited area. The examination of a very large number of cases with the urethroscope has led us to the conclusion that in the majority of cases this area is a spot either in the penile urethra from three and a half to four inches from the meatus, or else in the deep urethra about the junction of the prostatic with the membranous portion. The local lesions met with at this stage are very various. The com- monest is the so-called "granular patch" which is seen through the urethroscope as a livid purplish area, somewhat raised from the surrounding mucous membrane, oozing readily on being touched and closely resembling granulation tissue. Next in frequency to the granular patch a condition of simple hypersemia of a particular area of the urethral mucous membrane is met with. This is most common in the neighbourhood of the bulb; the vessels are dilated and unduly numerous, and the mucous membrane is bright red instead of being of its normal pink colour. Another, but less common, lesion is ulceration of the urethra; this is most often seen in the fossa navicularis, while sometimes it is met with as a small fissure about three inches down the penile portion. It is very common to find evidences of inflammation about the orifices of Littre's glands; in the normal urethra these are barely visible depressions; in the subject of gleet however they form Hvid areas the size of a pin's head, usually in groups. Occasionally they exude pus, or there may be a distinct swelling caused by the bulging of a distended gland. Another condition that careful urethroscopic examination, especially with the inflating apparatus {vtde t'n/ra), may reveal, is the' existence of submucous induration, which shows itself as a series of fine rigid bands standing out in relief when the urethra is distended ; these bands are probably the forerunners of true stricture, although at the time they are first discovered the actual narrowing of the urethra is very slight indeed. Finally, there may be marked congestion of the prostatic urethra and hyper-secretion from its follicles. TREATMENT.—The treatment of this stage must be almost exclu- sively by local applications. When the disease has become really chronic drugs have little or no effect upon it. Any article of diet or any form of exercise that is found to increase the discharge must naturally be avoided, as must also sexual intercourse or excitement. Alcohol should be taken very sparingly, if at all, and in any case champagne, beer and heavy wines should be interdicted. Drugs by the mouth are of little value; the patient commonly goes on taking sandal-oil, but this practically never influences the urethral discharge at all, while it may upset the digestion and