l6o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPLEEN. all haemorrhage. Mere oozing points at the time of operation may continue to bleed and eventually lead to the patient's death. When the mobility of the organ seems to point to an absence of adhesion and the case is one of a large spleen hanging down into the abdomen, the organ is best reached through a vertical incision going through the outer edge of the left rectus. The incision should reach from the costal margin to well below the umbilicus. It must be large enough to allow the spleen to be delivered through it without the least traction. The edges of the incision are retracted and the spleen is examined to see if there be any adhesions ; should these be extensive, the operation is contra-indicated* because the great danger is the oozing from them which will persist after the wound is closed. When there seems a good prospect of removing the organ successfully, the spleen is delivered through the wound so that it lies upon the surface of the abdomen, and the remainder of the operation is performed outside the abdominal cavity. In delivering the spleen in this manner the greatest gentleness must be used, as otherwise fatal hsemorrhage may easily occur; if not sufficiently large, the wound must be increased so as to allow of this. In particular, traction upon the pedicle must be avoided, as the splenic vein is friable and readily torn ; moreover, traction upon the pedicle may cause profound shock from injury to the sympathetic plexuses. Before the organ is drawn out of the wound, the position of the pedicle must be carefully noted so that, should any accident occur, the surgeon can at once grasp it either between the thumb and forefinger or with a pair of long clamp forceps. The treatment of the pedicle must be very carefully attended to. If the patient be in good condition and there be no particular hurry, the individual branches of the splenic vessels may be isolated, tied in two places and divided between. In addition, the pedicle should also be tied off in sections by interlocking ligatures and all tension upon the pedicle is relaxed when these are being tied, as otherwise their hold may be insufficient. The number of ligatures will vary according to the breadth of the pedicle. They should be of moderately stout silk and, if the pedicle be not too broad, the whole mass should be surrounded by a final ligature in addition, the first knot of which is drawn tight by an assistant who keeps up traction while the pedicle is divided and ties the second knot when the spleen has been removed and when there is therefore no tension upon the pedicle. In cases of great hypertrophy the pedicle is very broad and the vessels are of enormous size; indeed some of them at first sight look almost like small intestine. The ends of the ligatures around the pedicle should be left long and a pair of Doyen's clamp forceps should be applied to the pedicle between them and the spleen before the latter is removed. The pedicle is now cut through between the forceps and the ligatures and is carefully examined to see that there is no bleeding, when the liga- tures around it may be cut short and the pedicle dropped into the abdomen,