196 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. (^r) End-in-end union; and {d) Lateral implantation. For a full description of these operations the reader is referred to Morris's work. End-to-eiid anastomosis may be dismissed by saying that, as it consists essentially of transverse union by sutures applied after Lembert's fashion, leakage is apt to occur and stenosis is almost certain to follow, owing to the narrowness of the canal and the inversion of the cut edges, increased by the cicatricial contraction of the tissues during healing. The ends of the ureter may also be cut obliquely and sutured end-to-end by mattress sutures inserted in Lembert's fashion (see Fig. 45), and this method is more likely to avoid a stricture than the transverse suture. End-in- end operations are only applicable when the ureter is much dilated, their object being to pull one end of the ureter into the other, and secure them together; the method however is apt to be imperfect. Lateral implantation.—This is the method which apparently gives the best results and the one we shall describe, as the surgeon must be acquainted with it, since he may have to practise it in an emergency. Van HooKs method is to ligature the distal portion of the ureter about a quarter of an inch from its cut end. A longitudinal incision is then made below this with sharp-pointed scissors, the length of the incision being double the diameter of the tube. The proximal end of the ureter is then slit up for about a quarter of an inch ; this enlarges its opening, and therefore allows for any subsequent contraction. Two needles, armed with a single catgut thread, are then passed through the upper end of the ureter about an eighth of an inch from the cut edge from within outwards, the needles being j^th to ^th of an inch apart (see Fig. 46). The loop of catgut thus grasps the end of the ureter firmly. The needles are now carried through the slit in the lower end of the ureter down the tube for half an inch, and are pushed obliquely through the wall of the duct side by side. The catgut is pulled upon, the upper end of the ureter is drawn into the lower, and the loop is tied. A continuous Lembert suture finally surrounds the line of union of the two portions. The ureter is now carefully enveloped by peritoneum, or a fold of omentum is sewn over it; the former plan is the better. Care must be taken to avoid soiling the wound and the peritoneal cavity. The parts should be packed off and the ends of the ureter covered until the surgeon is ready to unite them; before proceeding with the union, the ureter should always be probed to see that it is patent. Fig. 45.—End-to-end union ok a DIVIDED UrETK.K AFTER OHLIQL'E SEC- TION. The endsare uniled both by mattre.s.s sutures and by interrupted stitches. The method is that described by Bovie. Morris.')