THE. SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. 460 performed in any case in the acute form of the disease, but that it should not be lightly undertaken and should only be done as a last resort save in exceptional cases. At the present time however many of the objections to castration are removed by the introduction of epididymectomy and the patient will probably allow this operation to be performed at a much earlier stage than he would castration, and the surgeon will probably be inclined to advise it early rather than persist with non-operative measures, seeing that success depends upon the earliness of the stage at which it is done. Castration is certainly the most effectual operation, especially when combined with section of the vas as high up as possible and, were it not for certain objections, would be advocated in preference to any other. The objections are chiefly that it is impossible to be sure that the removal of the affected organ will arrest the disease, for, even at quite an early period, the trouble spreads along the cord and affects at any rate the vesicula seminalis on the same side, and sooner or later the opposite epididymis becomes attacked in most cases. The propor- tion of cases in which both sides are affected is certainly large and the affection on the opposite side may occur either soon after the first or after a long interval. If therefore a patient cannot be offered a reasonable hope that the other side will not become affected it may be by no means easy to persuade him to have castration performed at a sufficiently early period in the disease to give a fair prospect of complete recovery. In some cases however, in spite of the objections urged above, castration is very advisable. It is for example the only possible way of checking the disease in acute tuberculosis of the organ and must then be done at the earliest possible period. It must also be done when there is great pain, especially when the body of the testis is largely affected. It it also called for in advanced cases where there is profuse suppuration which is telling upon the patient's health, and it may be required here even though there be disease in the vesiculse seminales and prostate. The objections mentioned above are those which apply to uni-lateral castration. Bilateral castration is a very serious matter indeed, at any rate in many cases. In young patients little or no effect may be produced by the removal of both testes, but patients who are getting on in years frequently lose interest in their affairs, become less acute business men and are lazy, irritable, morose and in some cases "actually demented or maniacal as a result of double castration. A considerable proportion of these patients have ultimately committed suicide. The mental disturbance is attributed by some entirely to the psychical effect of the loss of the testis and the fear of subsequent sterility, and surgeons have tried to deceive patients by introducing artificial substitutes, such as balls of celluloid or silk. Quite apart from the fact that healing does not always occur over these materials and that they have to be removed, these attempts have not met with much success and practically have been given up.