484 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. follows injury it is probably due primarily to a localised haemorrhage, but it may be the result of repeated slight injuries in large heavy mammae or of undue pressure, as for example by tight stays or from playing any instrument such as the mandolin, the end of which presses upon the breast. Symptoms.—There is usually comparatively slight, vague and vari- able pain. On examination a sensitive nodule may be detected, the outlines of the mass being diffuse and the tumour itself firm and elastic ; this enlarges slowly as long as the original cause is in action. The swelling moves with the rest of the breast and the skin remains un- affected unless suppuration occurs. The axillary glands may be unaffected, but if enlarged they are usually of considerable size and the enlargement occurs much earlier in the disease than in the case of cancer. Suppuration occasionally occurs in these cases, when the pain and tenderness become more acute and the skin becomes adherent to the inflamed breast. These cases are often most difficult to diagnose and are confounded with cancer of the breast or vice versa. In cancer however the skin becomes pulled upon at a comparatively early period without any signs of inflammation and puckers when an attempt is made to push it gendy up from the tumour, or an actual dimple is found due to the pull upon the suspensory ligaments of the breast which are involved in the cancerous growth. Carcinoma is also more defined and harder and forms a prominent mass under the hand when the palm of the hand presses the breast flat against the ribs; whereas in chronic mastitis, even though a tumour may be apparent to the fingers, no definite hard mass is felt on doing this. Chronic mastitis usually occurs in younger subject? than cancer, and the pain is only comparatively slight and is different in character. Treatment.—The breast should be well supported by a handkerchief or still better by a breast bandage (see Fig. 107) and all causes of pressure or friction should be removed. The arm on the affected side should be kept in a sling and in bad cases even fastened to the side at first. If there be much pain, belladonna ointment or glycerinum bella- donnae may be smeared over the breast, but the best treatment is probably a succession of hot fomentations or poultices. The induration takes a considerable time to disappear but, as soon as it is yielding, pressure, best applied by strapping the breast, will promote its absorption. The organ should be well supported and strips of strapping about two inches wide- are firmly applied from below upwards, beginning in the region of the sternum in front and extending well behind the posterior axillary line. If there be the least doubt as to the nature of the swelling, the best plan is to cut down upon and remove the thickened mass, for after all this is the most effectual way of getting rid of the inflammatory area, while, if the mass prove to be cancerous, the diagnosis is made at a comparatively early period. We prefer to definitely excise the