506 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. three inches in width over the line of the fractured rib commencing just beyond the middle line in front and extending to beyond the spine behind ; this should be put on during moderate expiration. Outside this may be applied two or three more pieces crossing each other somewhat obliquely over the seat of fracture. There is no doubt that a support of this kind relieves the patient and keeps the parts steady. No bandage should be put on, as this must necessarily interfere with the movements of the opposite side. In old people, especially those who are subject to bronchitis, it is questionable whether any restrictive apparatus should be employed at all. At most two or three pieces of strapping applied as above directed should be used, and the patient should be propped up into the semi-recumbent position as early as possible; morphine should also be administered. The use of strapping should be avoided altogether whenever there is any suspicion of the ribs being pressed inwards, as it will only serve to increase the damage done by their fractured ends. After-treatment.—The patient need not be confined to bed after the first two or three days; vigorous exercise must be prohibited for two or three weeks and the arm on the affected side should be carried in a sHng. It is most important that old persons should be allowed to sit up as soon as possible as this is the best preventive of lung complications. When many ribs are fractured, especially when the fracture is due to direct violence, strapping should be entirely dispensed with ; the patient should be kept in bed in the semi-recumbent or the most comfortable posture and as a rule the pain involved in breathing will cause the affected side of the chest to be fixed involuntarily and sufficiently to prevent undue movement. In a few days, when a certain amount of consolidation has taken place, and the patient is able to get up, strapping the whole of the lower half of the affected side in the classical manner from below upwards will give considerable relief and will enable the patient to get about provided there be no bronchitis. The administration of opium or morphine is very important in fractures of the ribs; it eases the pain and diminishes cough, and hence it should be given freely from the first if there be no contra-indication such as renal disease, etc. When the fracture is compound it must be treated on the ordinary lines for compound fracture (see Part III., p. 31). The injury is rare and in it the pleura is generally opened and some of the various complications already referred to are usually present and will require to be treated on appropriate lines. Care must be taken in disinfecting the wound not to allow strong antiseptics to pass into the pleural cavity and also not to open up the rent in the latter unnecessarily. Should the injury have occurred some time before the surgeon sees the patient and should septic infection of the pleura have taken place, the ends of the fractured ribs should be excised and proper drainage of the pleural cavity established. This is practically similar to the treatment of empyema (see Chap. LIV.).