262 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. In the female a larger-sized cystoscope ma)- be employed, and a more satisfactory examination of the bladder may thus be obtained ; but on the QOWN BROS LONDON Fh;. 56.—Nitze's Cystoscoi'E fok Cathetekisation of the Ureteks. The upper figure shows the instrument fitted with the tube B for washing out the bladder. The lower one shows how the ureteral catheter is passed along the tube .4, which has been made to replace the tube S. The direction of the point of the catheter is altered by turning the screw A". whole, if an exhaustive examination be required, the better plan is to use Kelly's tubes (see Fig. 57), for which general ansesthesia should be employed, as the urethra has to be fully dilated; without it moreover the patient would undoubtedly object to the complete exposure that is necessary for the examination. If the patient be very stout, the knee-elbow position should be adopted ; otherwise an exaggerated lithotomy position suffices. The first step is to dilate the urethra fully so as to introduce a large-sized tube: the dilatation may be begun with Hegar's dilators, and is completed by introducing either the finger or the largest-sized urethral speculum (see Fig. 58). The largest-sized Kelly's tube that can be introduced is then passed Fig. 57.—Kelly's Fe.male Bladder .Si-kcl'LLM. The tubes are of different sizes and resemble the rectal specula (see Fig. 5). and the obturator withdrawn, when the bladder at once fills with air; it is useful to introduce two fingers into the vagina, so as to distend it with air also, when the posterior vesical wall becomes projected well forward. Any urine that has not been drawn off escapes through the tube, and the last few drops are mopped up with pads of cotton wool. The orifices of both ureters, the whole of the posterior wall and the greater part of the interior of the bladder, can now be inspected easily by moving the tube gently over the mucous membrane, mopping up the surface exposed and inspecting it by means of a forehead light. If the inspection be not satisfactory with the patient in the