THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. many cases, especially those of pneumococcal origin, the period required for drainage is so short that the question of regeneration of the rib is of no importance. On the other hand in cases due to streptococcal in- fection or in others in which the drainage is likely to be prolonged, regeneration may be prevented by clipping away the periosteum after the rib has been removed. The permanent loss of a portion of ^the rib seems to be of no consequence whatever to the patient, and the inflammation and necrosis of the ends of the bones exposed to the action of the pus which might be expected is almost unknown. We advise therefore that a portion of the rib should always be resected. The operation is generally done just as quickly, and in some cases more quickly, as there is less trouble with the bleeding, while the immediate investigation and clearing out of the cavity is much more satisfactorily accomplished. After the surgeon has settled which rib to resect, the skin is steadied and put upon the stretch by the forefinger and thumb placed above and below that portion of the rib, and the knife is carried right down to the outer surface of the bone along its centre, dividing all the soft structures and periosteum in one cut for a distance of two or three inches. The knife may then be carried along the incision a second time to make sure that the periosteum is completely divided throughout and then the latter is rapidly peeled off the front of the rib with a suitable rugine. When the incision is a short one it may be convenient to make small vertical incisions through the periosteum at each end of the horizontal one and this enables the periosteum to be peeled off from the portion to be resected without stripping it up from the adjacent bone; but this is not a matter of any great importance. After the periosteum has been peeled off the front of the rib, a curved rugine is insinuated around its upper border taking great care not to puncture the pleural cavity. The instrument is made to work from the upper border to the lower and, when it emerges around this, it is pushed along the rib between the periosteum and the bone and so bares the posterior surface of the whole of the portion of the rib to be removed. The rugine is pushed to one end of the incision and held in position so as to keep back and protect the pleura, whilst the rib is nipped across with a pair of cutting pliers. The rugine is then slipped up to the opposite end of the incision and the bone there is divided in a similar manner; this procedure is facilitated by lifting up the end of the bone first divided and steadying it in a pair of sequestrum forceps. When the resected portion of the rib has been removed, the periosteum with the parietal pleura covering it is exposed between the divided ends of the rib and in the centre of this space a pair of sinus forceps is pushed in until the pus is reached. The blades of the forceps are expanded very gently at first so as to allow the pus to escape quite slowly. It is not advisable to make a free incision in the first instance as otherwise the pus gushes out and there may be alarming syncope from the sudden relief of pressure.