26o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. made either under local or general anaesthesia. If the case be one of irritable bladder the patient should certainly have a general anfesthetic, and on the whole general ana2Sthesia is perhaps advisable ; when there is an objection to this however, local anaesthesia will often serve, and the best plan then is to wash out and empty the bladder completely, and to introduce two or three ounces of a 2 per cent, solution of eucaine into it. This is left in situ for about five minutes, when the solution is drawn off and warm boracic lotion or sterilised water is introduced in its place. If the bladder be at all irritable, some eucaine should be introduced into the deep urethra as well. There is no risk of absorption of the drug unless there be extensive ulceration of the bladder, and the solution be left too long in situ. The patient should lie upon his back upon a table or high couch, with the legs hanging over the end, and it is of advantage to raise the pelvis slightly upon a sandbag or a pillow. Fig. 55.—Elkctric Cv.sto.scoi'E. The position of the beak is indicated by the small ivory knob on the eye piece. The bladder is washed out immediately before examination until the lotion returns quite clear, and its cavity is distended with four or five ounces of warm boracic lotion; the catheter is now withdrawn, the penis being grasped to prevent the fluid escaping. It is essential not to lubricate either the catheter or the cystoscope with a greasy material, as otherwise the window of the cystoscope will be obscured ; we use glycerine or boro-glyceride. When the cystoscope has been introduced into the bladder, care must be taken that the current is not turned on until the instrument is felt to rotate freely in its interior. The instrument with the window in the elbow of the beak (see Fig. 55) is first introduced, the one with the window at the opposite angle being only employed for examination of the posterior wall. A systematic examination of the interior of the bladder should be made. The cystoscope is pushed in as far as it will go, the light is switched on, the instrument is held in the middle line with the beak turned backwards, and the handle is gradually raised so as to bring successive portions of the bladder into view, the whole instrument being gradually withdrawn until the beak lies near the neck of the bladder; it is then pushed back into