142 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. possible that a stone may become dislodged during the manipulations and be impacted in the common duct where its presence cannot be ascertained at the second operation, owing to the fact that the peritoneal cavity is now shut off. The best plan is, after having evacuated the stones, to pull the incision in the fundus well up into the abdominal wound and to stitch the peritoneal coat about half an inch from the ciit edges to the abdominal peritoneum and transversalis in its upper half; the lower half of the wound is closed as after an ordinary laparotomy. It is important not to suture the edges of the incision in the gall-bladder to the skin of the abdomen, as otherwise a permanent fistula is likely to result. If however they be sutured to the deeper structures in the manner described (see Fig. 33) gradual contraction of the wound takes place, and, unless there be some permanent obstruction to the bile passages, the fistula readily closes after the drainage tube is omitted. The material for suture should be ordinary absorbable catgut. A drainage tube of medium calibre (No. 16) is inserted well into the gall-bladder and packed lightly around with gauze; an ordinary dressing is applied outside. When the gall-bladder is too adherent or too small to allow of its being sutured to the abdominal wall in this manner, a useful alternative is to open the viscus after having inserted a circular running purse-string suture around the proposed seat of incision as is done previous to the insertion of Murphy's button for lateral anastomosis (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 263), and then, after removing the stones in the ordinary way, to insert a large gum-elastic tube (No. 18-20), and to tie the purse-string suture tightly around it. The tube is then packed round with gauze, and its end is made to emerge from the abdominal wound. A purse-string suture of this kind holds long enough for adhesions to form all round, and when it cuts its way out and the tube becomes loose, a track will be established through which the contents of the gall-bladder will flow without any risk to the abdominal cavity. It is well to leave the ends of the suture long so as to insure its subsequent removal. This plan is simpler and better than the modification of Murphy's button, recommended for drainage of the gall-bladder in these cases. The great objection to this instrument is that when the gall-bladder is large enough for it to be employed ordinary cholecystostomy by simple suture is possible and much preferable; when the latter cannot be performed, the gall-bladder is usually too small to admit Murphy's instrument. The after-treatment is usually simple. Any shock is suitably treated (see Part I., p. 139), and, beyond this, all that is necessary is to see that the ■drainage of the gall-bladder is not interfered with for from three to six weeks, according to the necessities of the case. The gauze may be removed at the end of three days, after which the drainage tube alone is employed; this should be kept in position until the discharge is merely clear mucus; the tube may then be left out and the fistula allowed to heal spontaneously.^ ^The gall-bladder maybe syringed out daily with normal saline solution to keep down the cholecystitis.