METHODS OF DIAGNOSIS. 263 lithotomy position, the knee-elbow one may be employed, and the posterior wall of the bladder may be rendered still further accessible by pushing it forward with a pad of wool in the vagina. By means of these tubes the examination of the ureters can be carried out with ease, as each ureteral orifice is brought into view in the centre of the field in turn, and a probe or catheter can be passed through the orifice, so that not only can the direction of the ureter be located in cases of operations upon it, but urine may be withdrawn directly from the pelvis of the kidney and accurately analysed. A Fig. 58.—Dilating Speculum for the Female Urethra. similar principle has been applied to the male bladder through a perineal wound, but this is much more difficult and dangerous, and only few can carry it out; in the female however it is comparatively easy. Digital examination of the interior of the bladder can also be practised in the female, and of course also in the male through a perineal wound; in the latter case however it is rarely practised for mere exploratory purposes. It is easy to dilate the female urethra so as to admit the forefinger, and then bi-manual palpation with the forefinger of the other hand in the vagina will allow the greater part of the interior of the organ to be examined. The dilatation of the urethra must be carried out very gently and gradually, and the sphincter vesicae must not be torn. There is usually some incontinence of urine after it, but this is soon recovered from, and in some cases is not present at all. It may even be necessary to nick the external meatus in order to allow the dilatation to be carried to its full extent, but this is a matter of slight importance. If digital examination of the interior of the bladder be required in the male, the best method is to perform a supra-pubic cystotomy, as this at once lays bare the whole interior of the bladder both to touch and to sight. The operation is described elsewhere (see p. 289).