365 RUPTURED URETHRA. should make pressure above the pubes over the bladder whilst the surgeon with a probe in his hand watches carefully for the escape of urine from the wound. As the urine escapes, its point of exit can be seen immediately and a probe may generally be introduced into the proximal end of the urethra without difficulty.. The next step is to pass a full- sized, gum-elastic, blunt-ended catheter down through the meatus and, when the end emerges from the distal end of the urethra, the margins of the proximal end around the probe are seized and steadied in forceps and an attempt is made to insinuate the point of the catheter along the probe into the bladder. As soon as this has been effected the next procedure will be to approximate and suture the torn ends if possible. Usually the laceration is very irregular, and accurate suturing is impossible, but even if only two or three stitches can be inserted so as to bring the ends more or less into contact, the subsequent stricture may be considerably diminished. The sutures should be of the finest catgut and, although theoretically they should not include the mucous membrane, it is practically impossible to avoid doing this and it is not really a matter of much importance. It may however be impossible to identify the proximal end of the urethra in this manner, especially when some days have been allowed to elapse be- tween the date of injury and the operation. Under these circumstances, a supra-pubic cystotomy should be done (see p. 289), and an instrument passed from it down through the internal meatus so that its point emerges in the wound from the torn end of the proximal portion, which is thus recognised at once. A probe is now passed from the wound into the bladder along the instrument, and the surgeon will then try to insinuate a catheter in the manner described above from the meatus into the bladder. If this should fail, a procedure that we have tried with success may be adopted. A silk thread is tied tightly around the end of the instrument that has been passed from the cystotomy wound through the neck of the bladder, and the other end of it is threaded through the eye of the catheter which is passed down through the penile portion of the urethra. The first catheter is then with- drawn from the bladder through the supra-pubic opening, and the silk thread is drawn through the proximal portion of the urethra into the bladder and out through the cystotomy opening. Traction on the thread will then pull the catheter in the penile urethra towards the bladder, and gentle manipulations of its point will generally allow it to pass along the proximal urethra into that organ. The subsequent steps for the repair of the urethra are the same as before. Should the urethra be only partially divided, the rent may be repaired accurately with fine catgut, and then the outlook is extremely good; very litde stricture, if any, is likely to result. It is best to leave the perineal wound open ; a small drainage tube should be introduced through it into the vicinity of the rupture in the urethra so as to drain off any drops of urine that may escape, and the wound is lightly