507 FRACTURES OF THE RIBS. (b) Of Complications.— It is only necessary to refer here to lung complications, such as bronchitis or pneumonia, and to emphysema. The other affections, such as pneumo- and heemo-thorax are considered elsewhere. Lungr complications, such as bronchitis or pneumonia, must be carefully watched for, and appropriate remedies, such as jacket poultices- and the use of a steam-kettle, combined with the administration of expec- torants and diffusible stimulants such as carbonate of ammonia, brandy, vinum ipecac, etc., should be employed as soon as the first symptoms appear, and the patient should be propped up as nearly in the upright position as possible. As the breathing becomes increasingly difficult from the engorgement of the right side of the heart, which will be denoted by lividity of the extremities and a full bounding pulse, venesection (see Part I., p. 4) from the arm to the extent of eight or ten ounces at a time will do much good and may be repeated if necessary in vigorous subjects; in those who are less able to bear the loss of blood, the inhalation of oxygen is very valuable if begun sufficiently early and may be maintained for a long time if it be doing good. Surgical emphysema.—This seldom calls for any treatment as the emphysema rarely does harm, the air being sterile, and becoming readily absorbed as soon as its further escape into the tissues ceases. It rarely interferes with respiration, as it usually spreads from the seat of injury over the affected side of the thorax and it only makes its appearance in. the neck when it escapes in large quantities. When the injury to the pleura occurs very high up, the air may extend upwards into the deep planes of the cellular tissue of the neck and may then so seriously inter- fere with respiration that it may be necessary to let it out. This can easily be done by puncturing the skin in several places with a tenotomy knife over the distended area. In doing this it is important not to withdraw the knife immediately the puncture is made but to turn it at right angles to the axis of the small incision so as to keep the aperture open and allow the air to escape. Small gauze and collodion dressings are applied over the punctures afterwards. DISLOCATION OF THE RIBS. The vertebral ends of the ribs are sometimes dislocated, generally as part of a very severe crush, and the accident is usually only recognised post vwrlem. Even were it recognised during life, it would be impossible to reduce the dislocation, and no special treatment apart from that of the .severe injury that caused the mischief will be necessary. FRACTURE OF THE COSTAL CARTILAGES. Under this heading may be grouped both actual fracture of the carti- lages and separation between them and the ends of the ribs. Fracture