l86 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms vary according to the nature and degree of the injury ; unless this be limited to the peri-nephric tissues there are certain symptoms common to abdominal injuries in general, and others special to the injury of the kidney. The symptoms common to abdominal injuries are mainly those of collapse, varying according to the extent of the injury, but generally profound and lasting a variable time from an hour up to some days; its severity is complicated by the question of haemorrhage. It is generally accompanied by vomiting, which in bad cases may be so severe as to be almost uncontrollable, while in milder cases it may only occur once or twice, but is easily excited. Very rarely the patient has a period of uncon- sciousness ; there is pain in the renal region or diffused over the abdomen. The special symptoms are due to the escape of blood along the ureter, into the tissues around the kidney or into the peritoneal cavity, and this may be so profuse that the patient presents all the signs of internal hcemorrhage (see Part I., p. 135). The amount and situation of the bleeding are most important indications of the nature and the degree of the injury. When the kidney itself has escaped serious bruising, there will be, in addition to a feehng of sickness and some collapse, merely tenderness in the loin, without any tumour and without heematuria. In all other cases hsematuria is present, and in addition there will be a tumour in the loin if there be extensive peri-nephric bleeding, or increasing dulness in the peritoneal cavity if there be free bleeding through a rent in the peritoneum. If there be hsematuria without a lumbar swelling or signs of fluid in the peritoneum, it points to the fact that the capsule of the kidney has not been ruptured, and that the injury is limited to the substance of the organ itself,— a comparatively slight form of injury, in which the amount and duration of the hcematuria vary Considerably. In slight cases the urine, which at first appears to consist of almost pure blood, becomes clear in the course of two or three days; the condition of the patient at the same time steadily improves, and he may be well in a week or ten days. There may however be profuse and persistent haematuria, and this is generally indicative of rupture of some considerable vessel; indeed the bleeding may be so free that immediate operation is called for. In these cases the blood clots in the bladder and may give rise to retention of urine, or it may clot in the ureter, when the patient will have attacks of renal colic and pass casts of the ureter; during these attacks the urine may be quite clear for a few hoars. Associated with the haematuria there is generally frequent micturition. In the course of ten days or so the urine may be free from blood, although it generally remains albuminous for some time longer. Nephritis may however occur, and there may be suppuration of the kidney or of the pelvis, the sepsis gaining access either from the blood-stream or by the passage of dirty instruments. In other cases suppression of urine may occur, due either to injury of both kidneys or to injury of one alone, in which case the suppression is reflex and is most likely to occur if the other kidney be diseased.