VESICAL CALCULUS. 299 mucous membrane and escape notice. Moreover, if there be cystitis the examination is much more painful if the bladder be empty. It is, however, advisable not to use more than five ounces as, if the bladder be too distended, the beak of the sound will not be sure to reach the bladder wall in the post-prostatic region, and a small stone may thus escape detection. If it be possible, the patient should be sounded for stone as an immediate preliminary to any surgical measure that may be necessary, as the risks of cystitis are considerably diminished if the whole matter be dealt with at one sitting. In any case the urine should be examined before it is decided to sound the patient, and, if it be foetid or ammoniacal, suitable treatment should be adopted to render it more healthy before the sounding is per- formed. The sounding should generally be done in the patient's own house, especially with elderly subjects, and it is well to confine him to bed for a few hours before and after it is done. During sounding the patient lies flat upon the back, and if he be elderly it is well to raise the pelvis so as to allow the stone to fall upwards away from the post-prostatic pouch. Full antiseptic precautions must be taken with regard to the disinfection of the sound, the orifice of the urethra, and the hands; these are dealt with fully later (see Chap. XXXVI.). It is well to employ a general anaesthetic, but this is not essential. A soft rubber catheter is passed, the urine is withdrawn, and three ounces of warm boracic lotion are thrown into the bladder. If there be much irritability of the organ and no general ansesthetic is being used, a small quantity of a 2°l^ eucaine solution may be added to this. The sound is then passed in the usual way, and may strike the stone immediately it reaches the bladder. Should it not do so, a systematic exploration of the interior of the organ should be undertaken. The beak is directed first to one side, and the instrument is made to sweep along the base of the bladder from before backwards in this position, so that the whole of that side of the base of the organ is explored. The beak is then turned to the opposite side, and a similar procedure is gone through. The whole of the base of the bladder is thus explored, and the anterior surface may also be examined by depressing the handle and sweeping the beak first over one half of that portion and then over the other. Finally the beak is directed downwards, and the handle is well raised so as to explore the post-prostatic region. The position of the point of the instrument is always known by the mark afiixed to the handle. Should the prostate be enlarged, a sound with a much bolder curve should be employed for the examination of the post-prostatic pouch, which may be rendered still more accessible by the introduction of a finger into the rectum, or, in very marked cases, by distension of the bowel with a rectal bag. W^hen the sound strikes the stone there is a characteristic sharp metallic ring, whilst a foreign body or a new growth gives rise to the sensation of something comparatively soft. Many difficulties are met with in sounding. A stricture of the urethra may grip the shaft of the sound, and prevent its proper manipulation. The