239 RENAL FISTULA. primary cause persists, no treatment will be of any avail that does not remove this. An important cause of these non-urinary sinuses is an operation on the kidney followed by suppuration and extrusion of stitches, or a sinus in connection with the upper end of the ureter after nephrectomy. They may also be caused by disease of the kidney itself, such as a peri-nephric abscess due to stone or tubercle and, although no communication may exist with the pelvis of the kidney, the wound may not heal on account of the original disease of the kidney which led to their formation. Treatment.— IV/ieu the persistence of the fistula is due to imperfect drainage this must be rectified. When a peri-nephric abscess is not opened until it has lasted a long time, it may have burrowed extensively, and healing may be delayed by imperfect drainage of the outlying recesses, or the part of the sinus passing through the lumbar wall may tend to contract before the deeper parts have healed. The treatment is dilatation of the external orifice and maintenance of a free exit for discharge from the interior. The sinuses may be either gradually dilated or they may be slit up ; to forcibly .tear open the sinus with forceps may lead to accidents, as the peritoneum or even the colon may be torn. The best way is either to gradually dilate them with bougies or laminaria tents or to enlarge them with a knife in the backward direction. Wheri the sinus is due to suppurating stitches or to a septic ureter., the proper treatment is to remove the offending stitches in the first case or in the second to expose the ureter if possible and dissect it out; short of that, scraping out the sinus and removing stitches is all that can be done. Whe7i the sinus is due to renal disease., the question of an operation on the kidney itself will naturally arise ; when stone is suspected, a nephro- lithotomy or a nephrectomy ; when the kidney is tuberculous a nephrectomy will probably be required. URINARY FISTUL.ffi.—These are the more important cases and may arise after operations, such as nephro-lithotomy, simple nephrotomy or operations for tuberculous kidney. We may classify the fistulee into two groups, namely, those in which the fistulous opening has been deliberately established for drainage of the pelvis of the kidney, as for example in pyelitis; and those in which the urinary fistula has accidentally followed an operation upon the renal pelvis. Before determining on treatment, it is of the highest importance to ascertain the condition of the opposite kidney, and also whether the urinary fistula is complete, that is to say whether all the urine from the affected kidney passes through the loin. The latter point is a very simple matter to determine by the methylene blue test (see p. 169); when the fistula is complete, the condition of the urine in the bladder will indicate sufficiently the condition of the opposite kidney. If it be incomplete, the ordinary measures already described must be had recourse to (see p. 171). Occasionally it may be possible to temporarily render an incomplete renal fistula complete by suitable methods of blocking the affected ureter by plugs, gauze, etc., but this is not easily done as the sinus may be very .small. Another very important point is