536 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. beneath it so as to give plenty of room, and it should take everything off the thoracic wall except the intercostal muscles, so that it may include the pectorals and the serratus magnus. When the flap is raised the bleeding points should be secured before going further. The finger is now introduced into the cavity and the exact extent of each rib that requires removal is ascertained. The periosteum over each is then incised and separated from the rib and the desired portion is removed exactly as for opening an empyema (see p. 530). The amount of each rib requiring resection will vary according to the irregularity of the cavity beneath. In bad cases this removal may have to extend quite high up, but it is never advisable to remove any portion of the first rib and it is doubtful how far removal of the second rib is beneficial; the required amount however of all the other ribs should be removed without hesitation. It is possible that the patient's condition may be so bad that it may not be safe to remove all the necessary ribs at one operation and in this case it will be better to attempt to obtain closure of one part of the cavity and leave the remainder for a second operation. After having removed the necessary portions of rib sub-periosteally in this manner, the next important step is to remove the whole of the periosteum and thickened pleura forming the outer wall of the cavity; these may be cut away with scissors in one piece. The incision should be commenced posteriorly so that the intercostal vessels may be caught behind as they are divided and thus the bleeding will be less. As a matter of fact there is generally very slight haemorrhage, as the intercostal vessels are often partially or entirely obliterated by the great thickening that is present. There is in any case no difficulty in arresting the bleeding as there is plenty of room to seize the vessels, provided that the ribs be excised sub- periosteally and separately in the manner above described before any attempt is made to remove the pleura. After the pleura and periosteum have been removed, a cavity is left, the floor of which is formed by the thickened visceral pleura covering the collapsed lung. This cavity is now cleaned as thoroughly as possible and, if thought desirable, the granulation tissue upon it is scraped away with a sharp spoon, although this is not essential. Decortication (see p. 537) may now be carried out if desired, but this is not an essential part of Estlander's operation, the object of which is to allow the soft parts to fall into contact with the collapsed lung rather than to promote the expansion of that organ. The flap of soft parts is now laid back in position and, if a sufficient amount of the thoracic parietes has been taken away, the flap will come into contact with the visceral pleura everywhere. It is well however to insert one or two moderate-sized drainage tubes at the most dependent spot beneath the flap so as to provide drainage, as these cases are generally septic. The results of'this operation are extremely variable. In small cavities.