37 FISTULA IN ANO. then generally be gently manipulated along the canal until it emerges from this opening. Unless this precaution be taken, it is quite easy to push the probe through the mucous membrane at some other spot, and this may be mistaken for the true internal opening when an operation is performed and a portion of the track may thus escape proper treatment; this is of the greatest practical importance. TREATMENT.—Whenever it is possible, which will be in the large majority of cases, the fistulous track should be laid open from its external to its internal opening. This treatment should always be carried out in the slight muco-cutaneous varieties to which allusion has been made (see p. 34), and also in the ordinary form in which the fistula does not penetrate the sphincter but passes below its lower edge and then burrows up beneath the rectal mucous membrane. The operation is done as follows: The rectum is emptied by a purgative administered over night and the bowels are washed out by a large warm-water enema three or four hours before the operation. It is best not to give the enema immediately before the operation, because the bowels may continue to act and the manipula- tions will be much hampered by liquid material escaping. Even if this does not happen, a similar trouble may occur immediately after the operation and the dressings may be much soiled. The perineum should be shaved and the operation should always be done under general anaesthesia. Gas does not, as a rule, give sufficient relaxation, nor does the anaesthesia last long enough for a proper examination of the fistulous track to be made. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position with the buttocks well raised on a pillow, and the first step is to dilate the sphincters (see p. 6). The mucous membrane of the lower end of the rectum is everted and irrigated, and the internal opening of the fistula is identified either by inspection or palpation, and a Brodie's flexible probe-director (see Fig. 12) is passed into the external opening and made to emerge through it. When the point emerges through the internal opening it is hooked forward with the forefinger and pulled out through the anus, so that a bridge of soft parts lies across it; this is divided with a knife or scissors from the groove in the director until the latter is free. If a Brodie's probe be not at hand an ordinary probe may be passed through and its point hooked out through the anus in a similar manner. The bridge of soft parts may then be divided by cutting down upon the probe until the latter is cut out. The next point, after having stopped any bleeding, is to examine the cut surface carefully to see whether the entire fistula has been laid open or whether there are diverticula. A careful examination is made both by in.spection and by the probe, and any undermined mucous membrane is slit up with scissors and any diverticulum is followed up with the probe and laid well open. Finally, the sinus is scraped with a sharp spoon, or, if the walls be very indurated, the whole track may be excised, after which the surface is sponged with a solution of chloride of zinc (grs. 40 to the oz.) and sprinkled with iodoform. Strips of iodoformed gauze are finally laid in so as to prevent