THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. 474 collodion dressing is substituted and this is left on until it comes off spontaneously; if non-absorbable sutures have been used they should be removed at the first dressing. The patient may be allowed to get up at the end of the first week and should have the scrotum well supported by a suspensory bandage or by a mass of wool in the perineum kept in position by a St. Andrew's cross bandage. (b) Congenital hydrocele.—Here the funicular process is open from the peritoneal cavity down to the bottom of the scrotum, and the hydrocele fluid is in direct communication with the peritoneal cavity. The aperture into the abdomen varies much in size; it may be large enough to allow the descent of a hernia or it may be a mere pin-hole. There is a distinct impulse on coughing if the communication be at all free, and in any case the fluid will return into the abdomen simply by the effects of gravity when the patient lies down; the rate at which this disappears may give some sort of indication as to the size of the communication. Treatment.—These hydroceles are generally noticed very soon after birth, and the question of treatment will arise quite early. It is undesirable to perform a radical operation on infants or very young children, and it is obviously inadvisable to inject irritants lest they should find their way into the peritoneal cavity. On the other hand it is not an uncommon experience that, after evacuating the fluid with a, fine trochar and applying evaporating lotions over the part, followed ip the course of a few days by an efficient pad and bandage, the fluid does not re-accumulate, the walls of the sac become adherent and the communication with the peritoneal cavity becomes obliterated. If necessary the puncture may be repeated more than once and is best done with the exploring needle of an ordinary hypodermic syringe. If this treatment be ineffectual, the surgeon should wait until the child is at least nine months old, and preferably until he is about two or three years of age, and then proceed to excise the sac. Excision is advisable for several reasons. In the first instance injection is out of the question because of the communication with the abdomen; in the second place, the aperture of communication may enlarge and a congenital hernia may result, and this is greatly facilitated by the distension of the inguin"kl canal, which results from the presence of a hydrocele traversing it. Excision.—The incision is similar to that for the radical cure of hernia (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 450); the cord is raised, the testicle drawn from the scrotum and the hydrocele sac identified, clipped off on a level with the epididymis below and stripped up from the other structures of the cord like a hernial sac as far as the internal abdominal ring. The rest of the operation is exactly similar to that for the radical cure of congenital hernia (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 454). (c) Infantile hydrocele.—Here the funicular process is open from the internal abdominal ring down to the bottom of the scrotum, but does not communicate with the abdomen. There is often an impulse on coughing.