THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. 10 (a) Of a septum between the rectum and anus.—These are the simplest cases to treat as the rectum and anus are well developed, and there is merely a diaphragm between the two. The finger passed into the anal dimple will usually feel the bulging of the lower end of the rectum when the child cries or when pressure is made upon the abdomen, and it is easy to make the two communicate by pushing a tenotome or small bistoury through the septum and dilating the puncture with sinus forceps. An opening just large enough to allow the escape of the meconium should be made at first, and this may be enlarged two or three days later by making a cross-cut through the septum and stretching it fully. The opening is kept dilated by a well oiled finger passed gently upwards through it two or three times daily. These diaphragms are usually thin, and a free crucial division usually gives quite good results if proper dilatation be maintained afterwards. At least twelve months should be allowed to elapse before there is any attempt at discontinuing the dilatation, and then the finger should be passed at gradually increasing intervals in order to ascertain that no stricture is present. Should contraction occur, the case will become one of stricture of the rectum (see Chapter IV.), and must be treated as such. (b) When there is no indication as to the position of the lower end of the rectum.-—Here the anal dimple may or may not be present, but in either case the treatment is the same, for the first step is to make a careful search for the blind end of the gut from a median perineal incision which is gradually deepened until the bowel, if developed, is met with. py/ien the distended end of the gut presses down the perinetim and bulges forcibly beneath the skin every time the child cries, it will be obvious that the rectum is fully developed and that only the anus is wanting. All that is then necessary is to make a median incision from the tip of the coccyx to the centre of the perineum and the end of the bowel will almost immediately present, showing its characteristic dark bluish-black appearance. A small incision is made into the centre of it with a tenotomy knife, the meconium is allowed to escape, and the edges of the orifice in the bowel are seized with tenaculum forceps, pulled down and secured by a few silkworm-gut sutures to each side of the skin incision. When there is no hilging in the perineum to indicate that there is a rectum developed at all, the treatment becomes more difficult; in any case there will then be a fairly considerable thickness of soft parts between the skin and the blind end of the gut. The incision, which should be similar to that described above, must be steadily deepened, and the end of the rectum will be found fairly frequently at a depth of from half an inch to an inch. When this is not the case, the surgeon must gradually burrow up in the hollow of the sacrum in search of the gut, which, when found, should be seized with catch forceps on either side, gently separated from the surrounding structures, and brought down as far into the wound as possible before any opening into it is made. Stitches, through the muscular wall of the rectum only, are then sub- stituted for the forceps, and their ends are passed through the skin on either