NEW GROWTHS. 465 the whole to prevent any chance of it slipping. The li^ture should be tied as tightly as possible, so as to completely strangulate the nerves and avoid pain afterwards, and it is well before dividing the cord to clamp the lower end with a pair of forceps so as to prevent the escape of anything from the divided vas. Should the operation be done for tuberculous disease and should the vas be found thickened at the proposed point of division, this structure should be separated from the other constituents of the cord and traced back as far into the abdomen as possible, the peritoneum being pushed aside in doing so, until an apparently healthy spot is reached, when it should be ligatured and divided. In this way the vas may be traced down a considerable way towards the bladder. The divided cord is now pulled well down out of the inguinal canal and the latter is immediately repaired, by suturing the external oblique and the external ring as thoroughly as possible. Unless there has been a hernia present it will not be necessary to suture the deeper muscles or the conjoined tendon. The tumour can now be removed from the scrotum and, as there is no advantage in leaving a large mass of scrotal tissue on that side, it is always well to take away an elliptical portion of the skin so as to reduce the size of the wound afterwards. This is of course imperative if the tumour be adherent to the skin, but in any case it is well to remove enough to prevent any large cavity being left. Therefore two semi-elliptical incisions should be carried downwards from the lower end of the upper incision to the bottom of the scrotum and made to enclose a sufficient amount of skin. In the case of tumour of the testis, the tunica vaginalis should always be removed as well as the testicle and, after the skin and dartos have been divided, traction on the organ by means of the cord will usually enable the entire mass to be removed after a few touches with the knife. The wound must be gone over most carefully after removal of the testis, and every bleeding point clamped and tied. Oozing into the scrotum gives rise to much trouble on account of the laxity of the tissues and the long time it takes for the clot to become absorbed, and moreover the wound is near to sources of infection. When all bleeding has been stopped, the wound is sewn up, taking special care to see that the edges do not become inverted, as the edges of a wound in the scrotum often tend to do. The wound should be put on the stretch with a blunt hook at each end of the incision and either a running or a button-hole suture will close the cavity. It is not necessary to use a drainage tube unless the case was septic originally or unless it is impossible to stop the oozing. Dressings very similar to those for radical cure pf hernia (see Part VI., ■ Sec. I., p. 452) are applied. Castration should be employed in most cases of malignant disease of the testicle unless definite secondary tumours are present, as, even though the operation may be obviously unable to arrest the disease, the patient PT. VI. 2 2 G