CHAPTER LVI. PERICARDITIS: PULMONARY ACTINOMYCOSIS: NEW GROWTHS OF THE THORAX. PERICARDITIS. This may be simple or suppurative, acute or clironic, and is a medical question except in so far as the removal of the fluid is concerned. In simple serous pericarditis the embarrassment of the heart's action may be so great that paracentesis pericardii may be required. Paracentesis of the pericardium.—This is performed by inserting an aspirating or large exploring needle an inch to the left of the margin of the sternum in the fifth intercostal space. This point is chosen so as to avoid the internal mammary artery and it will also avoid the pleura if the pericardium be distended. The greatest care must be taken with the aseptic precautions, and it is well to divide the skin with a knife as a preliminary measure, so as not to have to thrust the needle violently through it. The needle should be passed in slowly and steadily, and the aspirating bottle should be attached to it during its progress, so as to show at once when the fluid begins to escape; a sudden thrust might injure the heart. The small puncture is closed by a collodion dressing. For purulent pericarditis, however, incision and drainage of the peri- cardium are required. Drainage of the pericardium.—This is usually effected through an incision in the fourth or fifth left intercostal space, but better room is obtained if a portion of the fifth costal cartilage be excised. An incision should be made over the whole length of the fifth costal cartilage ^ and particular 1 Mr. Herbert AUinghani has suggested that the pericardium should be approached from the lowest point between the xiphoid cartilage and the costal cartilages, and in the Lancet for March 2ist, 1903, a case is recorded in which Mr. Pendlebury operated successfully in this way. lie describes the operation as follows : " A vertical incision some four-and-a-half inches long was made with its centre at the lower border of the seventh costal cartilage parallel with, and one inch from, the