369 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE URETHRA. without a history of injury and without gonorrhoea it is very characteristic of an impacted stone. When the latter is situated in the fossa navi- cularis it can easily be felt b.nd often seen through the meatus. When it is in the penile portion it can be grasped between the fingers, while, if it be situated lower down in the neighbourhood of the triangular ligament, pressure over it causes a sharp cutting pain. It is always well to bear in mind that painful micturition followed by urethritis without any obvious cause, occurring either in children or in elderly subjects, is very likely to be due to this accident, and the largest-sized sound that the urethra will admit should always be passed, when the calculus can be detected easily. In passing a sound for diagnosis it is important not to- use force, as otherwise the stone may be more firmly impacted, or laceration of the mucous membrane may be caused; the stone may also be driven downwards into some less accessible portion of the urethra. TREATMENT.—It is essential to remove the foreign body as soon as possible, either along the urethra or, if necessary by an external incision. Severe urethritis, retention of urine, urethral abscess and extra- vasation may follow if the foreign body be allowed to remain. The exact steps of the treatment are determined by the size, nature, shape and situation of the body and the cases met with in practice may be divided into two large groups, namely, i. Foreign bodies in the penile urethra, which in turn may be subdivided into (a) Those in which the foreign body is smooth and unimpacted and (l^) Those in which the body is rough, pointed or impacted; 2. Foreign bodies in the deep urethra. 1. Of a foreign body in the penile urethra, (a) When the body is smooth and unimpacted, and especially when it is a stone, a useful plan is to direct the patient to compress the lips of the meatus firmly between the finger and thumb and then to attempt to micturate. The pressure is kept up for a few moments until the urethra becomes dis- tended by the efforts to micturate and then, if the pressure be suddenly relaxed, the foreign body may be swept forcibly out from the distended urethra along with the urine. This manoeuvre may be facilitated if it be done when the patient is sitting in a hot hip-bath. Should it fail, some other method must be adopted. IV/ten the foreign body is lodged in the fossa navicularis it is only necessary to slit the orifice downwards sufficiently to enable the body to be squeezed or drawn out with forceps; the small incision is allowed to heal without treatment. U hen the foreign body is further down the peftik portion, it should be withdrawn if possible along the urethra. The patient should be fully anjesthetised and a urethroscopic tube (see Chap. XXXIX.) should be passed down to the situation of the foreign body, after taking the precaution to compress the urethra immediately behind the latter in order to PT. VI. 2 2 .\