ANATOMY OF THE URETER. 167 the upper part is covered by the third part of the duodenum, while lower down the right cohc and ileo-colic arteries,, the terminal part of the ileum and the vermiform appendix pass in front of it. On the left side the ureter is crossed anteriorly by the left colic and the sigmoid branches of the inferior mesenteric artery and by coils of jejunum, while the inner border of the colon may overlap the ureter if the former be distended. Lower down it is crossed by the commencement of the rectum. The pelvic relations are the most important owing to the depth at which the ureter is situated and the consequent difficulty in gettmg at it. In the male, after crossing the pelvic brim, the ureter passes downwards and back- wards along the side wall of the pelvis at a point an inch to an inch and a half in front of the spine of the ischium. It lies immediately in front of the internal iliac artery and externally is in contact with the pelvic fascia covering the obturator internus and it crosses the obliterated hypogastric artery and the obturator vessels and nerve. Internally it is covered by peri- toneum which separates it from the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left and from the terminal portion of the ileum on the right. In the second part of its course in the male pelvis the ureter runs forwards and inwards to the base of the bladder, lying beneath the peritoneum upon the upper surface of the levator ani muscle. It lies against the side and base of the bladder below the level of the obliterated hypogastric artery. Before it reaches the bladder it comes into relation with the vas deferens, which passes between it and the side wall of the bladder, and it enters the bladder wall immediately in front of the upper end of the vesicula seminalis. I71 the female the pelvic portion of the ureter may also be looked on as consisting of two parts, an upper and a lower. The upper part passes, as in the male, from the brim of the pelvis downwards and backwards on the lateral wall to a point an inch or an inch and a half in front of the ischial spine. The second part runs forwards and inwards on the upper surface of the levator ani muscle and beneath the base of the broad ligament It is accompanied by a dense plexus of veins from the lower part of the uterine and the upper part of the vaginal plexuses. It crosses below the uterine artery, crossing the side of the cervix uteri and above and in front of the lateral fornix of the vagina ; it enters the base of the bladder in the undis- tended state at a point three-quarters of an inch from the middle line and a quarter of an inch below the anterior fornix. In the bladder in both sexes its course is obliquely downwards and inwards for about three-quarters of an inch and the ureter lies nearer the inner than the outer surface of the bladder, the muscular coat being posterior to it throughout nearly its whole length. The vesical orifice is slit-like, with its long axis directed backwards and outwards; it is frequently situated on the summit of a small elevation from three-quarters to one inch distant from its fellow and about the same distance from the orifice of the urethra. Between the orifices an elevation is seen on the inner surface of the bladder formed partly by a band of the longitudinal muscular fibres of the ureter and