364 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. advantage of immediate urethrotomy is that the urethra can be repaired forthwith, so that more rapid and perfect healing is obtained, with a corresponding diminution in the extent of the subsequent stricture; indeed the stricture may be quite slight if the urethra be incompletely divided at the time of the accident and if the rent in it can be accurately sutured. This advantage is entirely lost if time be allowed to elapse and the wound be opened up after an interval on account of septic infection or urinary infiltration, as, apart from the sloughing which will probably have occurred in the tissues by this time and which renders the repair of the urethra impossible, there is the further difficulty that the ends of the urethra will be firmly imbedded in lymph and cannot be approximated and sutured as they can in a recent case. Moreover the ends of the urethra themselves are beginning to granulate and will be too soft to hold sutures. For these reasons we strongly advise that, whenever there is evidence of marked injury to the urethral wall, and a fortiori when the symptoms point to the latter being torn partially or completely across, an immediate external urethrotomy should be performed and means taken to suture the rent in the urethra. The procedure is as follows : The patient is anaesthetised and placed in the lithotomy position as soon as possible after the diagnosis has been made, and the perineum is shaved and disinfected in the usual manner. It is advisable not to empty the bladder immediately before the operation, as the presence of urine in the organ may be of considerable assistance in identifying the proximal end of the torn urethra {vide infra). A median incision is made from the root of the scrotum to within half an inch of the anal orifice and this is deepened in the middle line through the contused structures, and any bleeding points are clamped and ligatured. A full- sized metal bougie is now passed down the urethra until it reaches the seat of rupture, and its point is then carefully exposed in the perineal wound. It is essential to make the incisions in the soft parts as free as possible, and the various layers should be divided to the same extent, so that with good retraction it may be possible to see the state of matters clearly ; a powerful electric light may be required. The end of the instrument protruding through the torn urethra will at once lead to the identification of the distal end of the urethra, but the recognition of the proximal end is by no means always easy, as the parts are frequently much obscured by the infiltration of blood and possibly urine. The best plan in the first instance is to flush out the wound with warm salt solution. If the stream of fluid be projected fairly forcibly into the parts, the clots are turned out and the torn proximal end of the urethra may be identified, as it will probably pro- ject somewhat from the surrounding parts and may be seen floating in the lotion. If this manoeuvre fails to identify the torn end at once, no time should be wasted in searching with a probe, but the assistant