332 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. Practically nothing is known concerning the etiology of this affection and none of the suggestions need be discussed, as they have no real bearing on treatment. There may be various important changes in the uri?iary organs secondary to the affection ; their nature and degree depend on the amount of obstruction and the length of time that it has lasted. As the affection causes a certain amount of difficulty in evacuating the bladder, the muscular wall of the organ becomes hypertrophied in order to overcome this. The cavity of the bladder remains of normal size or becomes larger than usual, whilst the muscular bundles become much hypertrophied and the condition known as "fascicu- lated bladder" occurs. In this the hypertrophied muscular bundles stand out prominently on the surface of the bladder and between them the mucous membrane forms marked depressions. If the obstruction continue to increase, the mucous membrane in these depressions tends to be forced outwards and form saccules which project from the outer surface of the bladder and communicate with its interior by comparatively small orifices between the muscular bundles. These are of importance because they may reach a large .size and a stone not infrequently becomes deposited in them; they are lined with mucous membrane and the submucous tissue is generally considerably thickened. If the obstruction continues unrelieved, the hypertrophy of the bladder will give way to atrophy and dilatation, so that the bladder becomes much distended and thinned and its surface is smooth and without fasciculi, although any sacculi that have already formed remain. In advanced cases there may be ulceration of the mucous membrane. If the backward pressure be persistent, its effects rarely remain limited to the bladder. The ureters become dilated, their valvular openings being insufficient, and there is consequent dilatation of the pelvis of the kidney and a certain amount of hydronephrosis. This may lead to polyuria and nephritis. The pressure also tends to obliterate or flatten the ejaculatory ducts. This is a point not usually noticed, because the disease generally occurs in old men, and sexual desire is more or less lost in the advanced stages although it may be exaggerated in the early ones. SYMPTOMS.—These vary with the degree and nature of the enlargement. Sometimes a prostate which is felt per rectum to be very large may give rise to no appreciable symptoms, whilst on the other hand there may be very severe trouble in an organ that from the rectum hardly seems to be enlarged at all. One of the earliest symptoms is increased frequency of micturition, but this often passes quite unnoticed unless it happens to disturb the patient at night and even then he may say that there is no frequency during the day. It will however usually be found on enquiry that the daily frequency is as great as or even more marked than that during the night. A more prominent symptom is an urgent desire to pass water which cannot be resisted by an effort of the will; moreover the stream cannot be stopped during the act of micturition as is the case in a healthy subject. Besides this, the patient generally notices that urine does not flow immediately he attempts to pass