CHAPTER XXIX. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE BLADDER. This is not at all uncommon, although it is much less frequent than tuberculosis of the kidney. It may be primary or secondary, the former condition being so rare that its existence is doubted by some authorities. The secondary form may follow tuberculosis of the kidney, the prostate or elsewhere in the genito-urinary system. It may occur at any age, but it chiefly attacks young male adults and is predisposed to by any cause of cystitis, especially gonorrhoea. Its greater frequency in men is probably accounted for by the fact that in them the genital organs are not distinct from the urinary apparatus. Tubercles are deposited in the superficial layers of the mucous membrane, and ulcers, varying in size from a pin's head up to a sixpence or larger, occur early. The mischief generally commences in the trigone and is most advanced there, but there may be numerous characteristic tuberculous ulcers scattered over a large extent of the vesical mucous membrane and the patient may even die of uraemic poisoning. The bladder wall becomes chronically inflamed and thickened and its capacity is much diminished. The ulcers are usually limited to the mucous and sub-mucous tissues ; they may spread into the prostatic urethra and thence to the prostate itself. SYMPTOMS.—The first and most important sign is an apparently causeless and painless frequency of micturition. At first the patient empties the bladder every two hours or so, but the intervals become shorter, until in bad cases the organ may have to be emptied every five or ten minutes, and a kind of false incontinence is established ; this is particularly common in children. The frequency is as marked at night as during the day and the patient gets no rest. Micturition soon becomes painful, often unbearably so. The pain is worse at the commencement and end of the act and there is no scalding during it. Haemorrhage is a common and early symptom ; it generally occurs towards the end of micturition and is not influenced by rest; occasionally large quantities of l)lood are passed and the bladder may be filled with clots. Pus as a rule is small in quantity and mixed with