267 ECTOPIA VESIC/E. for the minor degrees. The second stage of the operation consists in sliding in flaps with their raw surface downwards to cover the united mucous membrane. Transplantation of the ureters.—This plan has been much recommended and the ureters have been transplanted either into the vagina or into the sigmoid flexure or upper part of the rectum, whilst the mucous membrane of the bladder is dissected out completely. The retentive power is better if the ureters be transplanted into the sigmoid flexure, as that organ is capable of holding a certain amount of urine whereas it continually dribbles away from the vagina. The great objection to transplantation into the bowel however is the risk of septic infection spreading up along the ureter, but experience shows that this risk is much diminished when the ureteral orifices are bodily transplanted and from this point of view the operation is there- fore much less dangerous than when the ureters are divided before they reach the vesical mucous membrane ; the valvular orifices of the ureters appear to be able to a certain extent to prevent the passage of infective material upwards. The operation has already been described (see p. 200). The actual grafting is preceded by detaching the mucous membrane of the bladder bodily from the peritoneum from above downwards after the most careful disin- fection ; and when this has been carried down close to the ureters, the peritoneum is divided and the former are traced down to their entrance into the bladder and the vesical mucous membrane is clipped away entirely except in the immediate neighbourhood of the ureteral area. A loop of the sigmoid flexure is then brought out on to the abdominal wall, the peritoneal cavity is carefully packed off and clamps are applied to the upper and lower part of the loop of bowel, the intermediate portion being emptied by pressure before the second clamp is applied. A longitudinal incision is now made into the bowel nearly corresponding in length to the strip of mucous membrane containing the two ureteral orifices and this strip is inserted into the interior of the rectum with the left ureter uppermost and secured in place by a double row of sutures, the deeper one being of catgut and uniting the mucous membrane of the bladder to the whole thickness of the intestine, whilst the superficial one brings together the peritoneal coat of the bowel over the transplanted portion. The abdomen is then closed in the usual manner. This operation has also been done extra-peritoneally by Peters of Toronto.^ He begins by dilating the sphincter, washing out the rectum with an anti- septic, and plugging the bowel as high up as possible with a sponge to which a tape is attached. A No. 5 Jaques's soft rubber catheter, cut obliquely above the eye so as to facilitate the entry of the urine, is now passed for about two inches into each ureter and kept in place by a stitch or two through the ureteral papilla. A circular incision is next made through the bladder wall around each ureter and deepened until the ureter is exposed, leaving the ' Brithh Mfdical foiinial, June 22, 1901.