THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. prostate and partly to the atrophy of the bladder wails, which have little or no muscular power left; here there may be a form of the so called " false incontinence " of urine, namely retention with overflow, the bladder becoming distended and the urine dribbling away. One of the most serious complications of advancing prostatic enlargement is cystitis, which usually occurs at some period of the case; the most frequent cause of this is the introduction of organisms upon imperfectly sterilised instruments. In ,a healthy bladder this would have very little harmful effect unless the organisms were very virulent, as they would be simply washed out again ; in the case of enlarged prostate however, with much residual urine and an unhealthy condition of the bladder walls, a single introduction of an imperfectly sterilised catheter will almost certainly lead to decomposition of the urine and grave cystitis. The gravity of this affection depends very largely upon the nature of the organism which gives rise to it; the most common is probably the colon bacillus. Pyogenic organisms may also be introduced and may cause a very severe form of cystitis, and it is possible that in very rare cases decomposition may be set up by bacteria which have been brought down from the kidney. Calculi may form in the post-prostatic pouch and are a very common and troublesome complication. Hcematiiria is very frequent at some stage of enlargement of the prostate even when no instrument has been passed; and it then probably comes from dilated veins about the vesical orifice. When it is slight in amount it causes little trouble, as it escapes by the urethra ; it may be severe however and much blood may find its way into the bladder where it clots and adds greatly to the patient's discomfort. Other complications are urethritis and epididymitis, which depend to some extent at any rate upon injuries caused by instruments after the com- mencement of ." catheter-life." Urethritis especially is a very serious com- plication as it renders the passage of a catheter painful and adds largely to the patient's sufferings. Prostatitis and prostatic abscess may also occur and may be followed by tiri?!ary infiltration. Urinary fever is also met with. TREATMENT.—This may be palliative or operative, the former method consisting of various hygienic measures, the administration of drugs and the use of catheters, whilst the latter aims at removing the obstruction. Choice of methods.—The determination as to whether any given case should be treated by palliative or operative measures is sometimes fraught with difficulty. In quite the early stages, when the symptoms are slightly if at all marked, it is not usual to think of operative interference. When, on the other hand, the patient's life is a burden to him and he suffers extremely from pain, restlessness and sleeplessness, and when ordinary palliative measures have failed, the question of radical treatment comes strongly to the fore. The difficult cases are those in the intermediate stage when it is obvious that the affection is definitely, although possibly slowly, progressing and when therefore there is a temptation to think that operative measures employed