THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LUNGS. 542 done before the pleura is opened, as otherwise the lung may collapse and cannot be reached. Should such an accident happen, the operation must be given up temporarily until the air in the pleural cavity has become absorbed; as a rule however the lung is consolidated in cases of pulmonary abscess and does not fall away from the chest to any material extent. A second row of stitches may be inserted outside the first so as to make the connection between the two layers of the pleura still more safe. When the layers of the pleura have been thus fastened together so that there is no possibility of leakage occurring between them,—which is generally indicated by the absence of sucking-in of air,—the further steps of the operation are proceeded with. Should it be found that air is sucked in at any spot, more stitches should be inserted there. The abscess is opened by passing a long pair of sinus forceps alongside the needle until the pus begins to flow, when the needle is withdrawn and the pus is carefully mopped up as it emerges. The opening in the lung should be kept quite small until most of the pus has escaped and should then be increased by separating the blades until the finger can be introduced into the cavity which is then carefully explored. The cavity should on no account be washed out, for not only does this do no good but the fluid may readily find its way into the bronchus and cause asphyxia. A mixture of equal parts of iodoform and boracic acid may be blown into the cavity with an insufflator after the wound has been swabbed out with chloride of zinc (40 grs. to the oz.). The largest sized drainage tube is then introduced into the cavity and is packed fairly firmly around with iodoformed gauze; the tube should only have holes in the portion that lies in the abscess cavity and should in every case be large enough to exert sufificient pressure upon the lung tissue surrounding it to check oozing. The wound is left open and a large dressing is applied. After-treatment.—The tube is left in situ for two or three days until its track is well established, when it may be removed, washed and replaced; it should be prevented from slipping into the thorax by passing a safety-pin through its outer end. The abscess cavity should never be washed out; insufflation of iodoform and boracic powder may be practised at each dressing and the tube should be retained until the discharge is mucoid in character and all expectoration has ceased. The prognosis is very bad, but a certain number of cases, may be expected to yield a good result when the condition is dealt with early and the abscess is confined to one lung or one lobe of a lung. Cases of gangrene and collapse of the lung due either to the pressure of an intra-thoracic tumour or to the escape of septic discharges into the air passages, as for example after cut-throat or tracheotomy, are beyond the reach of surgical drainage and should be left alone; even simple exploration with a hypodermic needle may give rise to an acute empyema in these cases.