191 INJURIES OF THE KIDNEY. cut laceration, there may be more than one laceration or portions may be partially detached ; finally, a part of the kidney may be badly pulped. The arrest of hjemorrhage is the first consideration, and it may be effected by tying bleeding points, by plugging the wound in the kidney or by firmly opposing the cut surface by sutures. The chance of tying the bleeding vessels is small, as ligatures will cut through the renal cortex and are useless unless some of the smaller branches of the renal artery are torn close to the hilum or in the capsule. Moreover ligature of the main branches of the renal artery will entail sloughing of a corresponding portion of the kidney, and hence in the great majority of cases the best method of arresting hsemorrhage is either by plugging or by deep sutures, and of these the latter plan is much superior and should be adopted wherever possible. Two or three mattress sutures of KiG. 44.—Methods of suturing a laceration of the Kidney. Two methods are shown. The two left-hand sketches show how an extensive laceration may he repaired by means of deep mattress sutures, reinforced by a continuous suture through the capsule. The two right-hand figures show how a smaller wound may be closed by deep sutures only. As .t rule the lacerations of the kidney are transverse to the long axis of the organ rather than vertical as depicted above. chromicised catgut or kangaroo tendon passed deeply through the kidney (see Fig. 44) and tied outside the capsule will press the torn surfaces as firmly together as can be wished, and will generally arrest the haemorrhage; the method is also applicable when there is more than one rent, provided that the kidney substance be not actually pulped-up. The sutures must not perforate the calices or the pelvis of the kidney and may be reinforced by a continuous catgut suture which unites the rent in the capsule. A great advantage of this method is that it not only stops the haemorrhage but also prevents the escape of urine into the peri-renal tissues. After the rent has been stitched up, two or three sutures should be passed between the capsule of the kidney and the lumbar muscles so as to anchor the kidney in place,^ and drainage tubes are inserted well into the peri-renal space .so as to carry off all urine or blood ; these may be removed in three or four days if there be no further accumulation. The abdominal wall should be repaired ' These stitches should be made to emerge through the .skin of the loin, so that they may l)e removed subsequently. It is well to avoid buried sutures as much as possible, in case suppuration should occur.