THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. When the bowel is at some distance from the perineum it will be impossible to bring it down and stitch the mucous membrane to the skin as described above. Under these circumstances dilatation alone must be relied on to keep the opening patent after the operation. When there is much tendency to contraction afterwards, a very useful plan is to cause the child to wear a small indiarubber plug or teat, fastened in position by a T-bandage; this and the stretching by the passage of a finger daily may suffice to keep the stricture open until the child is old enough for a plastic operation upon the stricture to be performed with some prospect of success. It is quite im- possible to do this at an early age owing to the smallness of the parts, and the child should be at least five or six years old before any attempt of the kind is made. The steps of the operation consist in separation of the mucous membrane above the stricture, excision of the latter, and suture of the separated mucous membrane to the skin at the anal margin. When diligent search shows that the rectum is not present iji the pelvis, and especially when the peritoneal reflection has been opened and still the end of the gut cannot be found, there is no alternative but to perform colotomy if the child's life is to be saved. This is a most serious procedure and, quite apart from the grave risks pertaining to it in a new-born infant, it is a terrible calamity to inflict on the child, and many parents will decline to permit, it when the situation is explained to them as fully as it ought to be. If colotomy be decided upon, it must be done through a median incision, because it is impossible to say how much of the lower end of the gut may be absent. A median supra pubic laparotomy is performed, the end of the bowel is found and brought out through the wound, a Paul's tube is inserted and the end of the bowel secured in position, as for an ordinary colotomy with immediate opening of the gut (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 325). Elaborate operations, such as bringing down the bowel to the anal opening after it has been found by abdominal section, are quite out of the question in infants a few hours old such as these are. There is nothing for it but to make an artificial anus, at any rate temporarily; should it be deemed possible to bring the rectum down at a later period, that may be attempted when the child is a few months older. It is hardly necessary to remark, however, that, even at this age, the child is scarcely likely to stand what must necessarily be a prolonged and most severe operation (c) When there are fistulous communications.—The only cases at all promising for permanent recovery are those in female infants in which the fistula runs into the vagina. The immediate treatment will depend on the condition present. When there is a fistulous communication with the vagina a fine probe bent at the end is introduced along the fistulous track from the vagina, and its point is turned downwards and pressed against the anal dimple or the skin in that region if no dimple exists. The point of the probe is cut down upon by a median incision from the centre of the perineum to the coccyx. When the bowel is found it is opened as alreadydescribed, sutured to the skin if possible, and kept dilated afterwards (see p. 11). The fistulous track