RENAL CALCULUS. 231 back and completely relax the pedicle as the ligature is tightened; unless this be done, the vessels may be incompletely compressed and may retract beyond the ligature. After the vessels have been tied, they are divided close to the kidney, and then the latter is brought out on the loin and the ureter examined and dealt with according to circumstances. The first essential here is to ascertain whether a stone be impacted in it, and this can be done by making a puncture into it below a clamp placed upon its upper end and passing down a ureteral sound; it may generally be assumed that there is no obstruction if the ureter be not dilated below the kidney; in that case it is ligatured about an inch below the pelvis and the kidney cut away. Finally the pedicle is examined to make sure that all the vessels are secured ; any oozing points may be caught up and tied separately. Furious hfemorrhage is occasionally met with in the course of nephrec- tomy. Sometimes it is due to too severe traction upon the pedicle, which tears across the renal vein or even tears it away from the vena cava. Occa- sionally it may be due to division of these structures by the knife or scissors, while sometimes the ligature on the pedicle may slip or may not be tight enough, and the wound at once fills up with blood, so that it is impossible to see its source. As the haemorrhage comes from the pedicle, the hand should be immediately thrust into the wound in all cases, and the pedicle of the kidney seized firmly, whilst the fingers may also compress the aorta and vena cava. This allows the blood to be sponged away, when the bleeding vessels can be seen and secured. The most dangerous hsemorrhage however comes from a lateral slit in the vena cava, most commonly produced by detaching the renal vein from it. If the orifice be small, it may be seized in forceps and a lateral ligature applied. Should that fail to hold, the best plan is to have the vein compressed above and below by an assistant's fingers or some flat instrument and to suture the slit with a fine continuous catgut stitch ; when this can be done it is most successful. Failing this, the only thing is temporary plugging of the wound ; luckily this succeeds in a good many instances, as wounds in the vein seal quickly after the kidney has been removed. Opinions differ as to the best method of dealing with the divided end of the ureter. Unless there be reason to suspect sepsis in the wound, it is well to scrape away the epithelium from the cut surface and touch it with undiluted carboHc acid ; it is unnecessary to invaginate the open end above the ligature. When the ureter is itself suppurating and there is therefore every prospect of sepsis, this plan is unsatisfactory, as the ligature may give rise to a troublesome sinus, and it is therefore better to bring the end of the ureter into the lower angle of the wound and stitch it there with silkworm-gut, which can be removed in four days, when the ureter has contracted adhesions. Occasionally it is impossible to tie off the pedicle as described above, and the best plan then is to apply a temporary ligature close to the kidney and remove the latter, leaving a portion of renal tissue attached to the pedicle. It may then be possible to apply a second ligature sufficiently far back to