FOREIGN BODIES. 17 elderly persons who are the subjects of habitual constipation with almost complete absence of intestinal peristaltic power. This fascal impaction may take the form either of one huge mass which dilates the lower end of the rectum and blocks up the anus like a ball-valve, or of distension of the rectum and the greater part of the large intestine with hardened masses which the bowel makes no effort to pass on. The other forms of foreign body met with in the rectum are those introduced through the anus, and an enormous variety has been met with from a small stone or marble up to a large object like a soda-water bottle. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms of a foreign body in the rectum are mainly those of the proctitis produced by it; namely, tenesmus and the passage of blood and mucus. The sharp bodies are apt to injure the mucous membrane and to produce an acute suppurative condition and frequently cause ischio-rectal abscess and fistula in ano. There may be obstruction if the body be large. Fsecal masses impacted in the rectum also set up a condition of proctitis which leads to an irritative diarrhoea with the passage of large quantities of mucus and a small quantity of fjEcal material. There is generally some absence of control over the anus, and the patient shows signs of stercoral poisoning and has all the symptoms of chronic obstruction. TREATMENT. —The removal of any foreign body should be effected as soon as possible and no special rules need be given. The patient must nearly always have an anaesthetic and the sphincter should be dilated ; then the body can be inspected and removed as may seem best. Small, sharp bodies can usually be extracted at once by forceps when the anus has been dilated, either through a speculum or not as the case may be. When the foreign body is a jagged object, such as a piece of broken glass, etc., removal must be effected extremely carefully lest deep-seated injuries to the rectal wall and peri-proctitis should occur. These objects are best broken up still further by cutting pliers and removed piecemeal. In cases of ftecal impaction, the mass must be broken up and removed with a spoon, forceps or any other suitable instrument, and the debris flushed out with a large enema. The operation should be done under an anaesthetic after full dilatation of the sphincter. The treatment of these cases is of course not completed by the removal of the impacted mass, for the predisposing condition, namely, obstinate constipation, requires careful treatment also. The use of strychnine and belladonna internally, combined with abdominal massage, which is very useful indeed, and the daily use of a weak Faradic current, one pole being placed over the sacrum and the other passed over the abdominal wall and introduced into the rectum, are very valuable. Dietetic and hygienic rules, for which the reader is referred to medical text-books, must also be imposed. Purgatives are of little value. PT. VI. 2 B