RENAL CALCULUS. 229 infundibulum, and the sound passed thence along the ureter. If a sound be used, it generally passes readily until the brim of the pelvis is reached, but some manipulation may be required to make it pass this point; with a gum- elastic instrument there is usually qo difificulty, but a metal probe is desirable in order to tell whether a given obstruction be inflammatory or due to a calculus. A stone in the pelvis of the kidney is generally fairly smooth and can be removed by lithotomy forceps. During removal the compression of the ureter must be kept up so as to prevent the possibility of a second stone slipping down into it. Smaller calculi may be removed by smaller forceps or a scoop, but very minute ones should be either flushed out or turned out with the finger. Branched calculi may cause much trouble, as their removal entire would involve extensive laceration of the renal substance, while, if broken up and removed piecemeal, fragments may be overlooked; the latter procedure is however the best plan. The treatment of a calculus in the ureter is dealt with separately (see p. 233). After the stone has been removed, the subsequent procedure depends upon whether the kidney is the seat of suppuration. JV/ien there is no pyelitis, the wound in the kidney is closed completely, which is advantageous in that it not only avoids a renal fistula but arrests the htemorrhage immediately ; the latter point however is not of great importance as bleeding can be kept under control during the operation by compressing the pedicle of the kidney, and the oozing from the cut surface is generally trifling by the time the opera- tion is concluded. Before suturing the organ it is well to flush the renal pelvis with a stream of boiled water at a temperature of about 105° F., both to cleanse the parts and to arrest oozing. The sutures in the kidney should be partly deep and partly superficial much as for a laceration in the organ (see p. 191). When this has been done, the kidney is fixed to the loin by one or two sutures, especially when it has been possible to completely free the organ and bring it up into the loin before incising it. A drainage tube is inserted through the lumbar incision down to the region of the kidney, and the lumbar muscles are accurately united by buried sutures. When pyelitis is present, no attempt is made to close the renal incision. A large drainage tube is inserted well into the pelvis, and a second one will generally be required to drain the peri-renal area; it is also well to suture the kidney to the lumbar wall so as to avoid displacement of the tubes. If the tube be of sufficient size, it will compress the renal tissue as it passes through the opening in it, and serve to check oozing ; if not, pressure by small strips of gauze along- side the tube will generally arrest it. All the structures in the loin are taken up by deep silkworm-gut sutures, and no buried sutures are used. When the kidney has been sutured and the case remains aseptic, the drainage tube may be removed on the third day ; should leakage of urine take place however, the tube should be retained until this has ceased, and care must be taken to keep the wound aseptic throughout. Should suppuration