PERI-NEFHRIC SUPPURATION. 205 pus contained in the abscess has often a fecal odour, although there may be no communication with the bowel, and it is not uncommon to find the colon bacillus present in large numbers. The duigfios/s is often difficult in the early stages, and the affection may be mistaken for hip disease, lumbago, spinal disease, empyema or pneumonia. If, however, the possibility of peri-nephric suppuration be borne in mind, a careful examination of the symptoms given above will generally enable a right diagnosis to be arrived at. It is more difficult to say whether the abscess has arisen primarily outside the kidney or whether it is secondary to renal disease. The points in favour of a diagnosis of a true primary peri-nephric suppura- tion will be chiefly negative, such as the absence of changes in the urine or other signs of renal mischief, while the diagnosis is greatly strengthened by a history of injury or exposure, or possibly a history of old appendicitis. TREATMENT.—This will vary with the period at which the case is seen. For the first few days after the commencement of symptoms the case must be treated as for the early stages of inflammation (see Part I, p. 3). The patient should lie absolutely at rest on his back with the knee on the affected side flexed over a pillow, while saline aperients and, if necessary, enemata should be given every day in order to keep the colon unloaded. If the pain be severe, morphine may be administered. In the early stages cold, either by means of an ice-bag or by Letter's tubes, may be employed. Tinc- ture of aconite and vinum antimoniale may also be given. Occasionally hot fomentations give more relief than the application of cold, in which case they should be used instead. Should the symptoms of brisk inflammation persist after five or six days, it may be assumed that suppuration has taken place, and an exploratory incision should be performed without delay. The incision should be made about half an inch below the lower border of the twelfth rib; it should commence above close to the edge of the erector spinas, and should run thence outwards and somewhat downwards for about three inches. It has been advised that the loin should be punctured first to ascertain if pus be present, but we cannot recommend this, as the needle may do damage or may fail to find pus that is actually present, and so may delay the necessary incision. The incision recommended above, i.e. that for nephro- lithotomy (see p. 227), should always be adopted, as the surgeon can never be sure that he may not have to deal with a stone in the kidney. It need not be so free as the ordinary nephro-lithotomy incision in the first instance, as it can be easily enlarged subsequently, should this be necessary. The soft parts are divided in the usual manner until the transversalis fascia has been opened, when the finger is introduced and the peri-nephric tissues are palpated. Palpation will indicate the whereabouts of the chief swelling, and either the finger or a pair of dressing forceps may be pushed in this direction in order to open the abscess cavity. It is well to palpate carefully before doing this, as the abscess may lie either at the upper or the lower end of the kidney, and might therefore otherwise escape. AVhen the pus begins to flow, the