223 RENAL CALCULUS. calculus seems to be successful. The stone does damage in several ways. It sets up a chronic nephritis which diminishes the secreting power of the organ, and the irritation may extend to the capsule and give rise to peri- nephritis with adhesions, or later on to peri-nephric suppuration. When in the pelvis of the kidney, the stone may block the ureter and give rise to distension of the pelvis and calices. Occasionally true hydronephrosis results, but this is rare as the blockage of the ureter is usually temporary. A stone may pass into the ureter and block it completely, when it gives rise to distension of the pelvis, and in some cases to complete suppression of urine from reflex action both on the same and on the opposite side. After a time sepsis generally occurs and there is suppurative pyelitis or pyelonephritis or sometimes pyonephrosis, and consequently more rapid destruction of the organ. A kidney that has long been the seat of stone may be converted into a mere bag of pus containing one or more stones. When suppuration has taken place in the kidney, peri-nephric abscess is likely to follow, and there may be a fistulous opening in the loin, while occasionally the stone escapes into the peri-renal tissues and is found in the abscess. The prognosis of renal calculus is therefore very serious and, as a rule, the sooner measures are taken to remove a stone the better it is for the patient. SYMPTOMS.—The classical symptoms of uncomplicated cases of renal calculus are pain and hsematuria. The pain is fixed and persistent, and is either a dull aching in the affected loin or severe pain causing the patient to keep the affected side rigid on stooping or moving; it is aggravated by exercise, and generally improves on lying down. When there is much pain there is also, as a rule, tenderness on pressure over the affected kidney, with. reflected pain down the ureter and into the thigh and testicle on the affected side. The pain may be occasionally referred to the bladder and give rise to frequent and painful micturition which may lead to a mistaken diagnosis of vesical calculus. One of the commonest symptoms of calculus is renal colic. A small stone may escape along the ureter without causing very much trouble, while if large it may remain in the kidney without giving rise to symptoms; but stones of intermediate size pass into the ureter and there give rise to a series of symptoms known as renal colic, which is due to the attempts of the ureter to expel the stone. True renal colic is nearly always due to the passage of a calculus, but it may occasionally arise from the passage of a clot along the ureter, or even from kinking of that structure in cases of movable kidney. Typical renal colic is a sudden attack of violent pain shooting down the branches of the lumbar plexus and felt in the bladder, the groin and the testicle on the affected side. It is paroxysmal and often excruciating, so that the patient screams and is doubled up by it. There is retraction of the testicle which may afterwards become enlarged and tender. The attack may be ushered in by a rigor, and is generally accompanied by vomiting and retching, with faintness and collapse. The urine is diminished in quantity and may be blood-stained and loaded with urates, and often give rise to