284 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. two ounces of glycerine, one ounce of bi-borate of soda and two ounces of water into the bladder, and leave it there. When there is a large quantity of viscid muco-pus which it is very difficult for the bladder to get rid of, the irrigation may be performed with a solution containing a quarter to half a grain of salicylic acid with two or three grains of bi-borate of soda to the ounce. The administration of urinary antiseptics (see p. 281) by the mouth is of gi'eat value. CHRONIC CYSTITIS. The causes of this affection are essentially those of the acute form although as a rule a cystitis does not become chronic unless there be some local cause requiring surgical treatment, and hence in the majority the treatment is mainly directed to such conditions as a stricture, enlarged prostate, stone, etc. Occasionally however ordinary acute attacks have a tendency to become chronic, and alternating attacks of acute and chronic cystitis are very likely to occur in patients suffering in this way. Chronic cystitis takes the form of a chronic catarrh in which the mucous membrane becomes thickened, and the sub-mucous cellular tissue is also affected. There may be erosion of the surface of the mucous membrane with hypertrophy of the muscular bundles and the formation of a trabecular bladder in which the mucous membrane prolapses between the muscular bundles and forms sacculi. In some of these cases the bladder becomes enlarged and ultimately thinned, while in others its capacity diminishes and walls are much thickened. SYMPTOMS.—These only differ in degree from those of the acute form. There is frequent painful micturition, with pus and mucus in the urine; the frequency as a rule is only slightly marked at night. The pain rarely amounts to more than a slight scalding on micturition and smarting at the tip of the penis. There may be some tenderness on pressure above the pubes and through the perineum or the rectum, but as a rule there is merely an uneasy feeling in the organ, especially when it becomes slightly distended. The urine contains most pus at the beginning and end of micturition, showing that the affection is chiefly confined to the trigone and neck of the bladder, and this is well seen if the patient be made to pass urine into three glasses ; pus will be found in the first and last, but will be almost entirely absent in the inter- mediate portion. The affection has to be distinguished from vesical tuberculosis and from vesical neuralgia of nervous origin such as occurs in locomotor ataxia. It also requires to be distinguished from suppurative pyelitis and pyelonephritis. In the last affection the frequency of micturition is as marked during the night as during the day, and the pus is intimately mixed with the whole of the urine. There is no scalding on micturition, and no tenderness on pressure over the neck of the bladder or when the organ becomes distended, whilst there is generally .some tenderness or swelling in the region of the affected kidney together with some rise of temperature, and the cystoscope will