2fi6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. as the comparatively frequent recurrence of stone after litholopaxy is usually due to leaving a fragment behind. The length of time that the operation occupies varies according to the size of the stone and the skill of the surgeon. Removal of all the fragments at one sitting, and the carrying out of the necessary manipulations so delicately that the bladder wall is not injured are the secrets of successful litholopaxy, and the surgeon should never be led into leaving behind a fragment of stone by a desire to finish the operation quickly. After-treatnmit.—Any shock owing to the length of the operation is easily met by the application of heat and the administration of stimulants. The patient should be kept in bed for a week or ten days, and it may be necessary to draw off the urine for the first few days ; frequently, however, he micturates quite comfortably from the first. The bladder does not as a rule require irrigation, but this may be necessary should the urine have been foul before the operation. Irrigation twice daily with a few ounces of warm boracic lotion will then suffice. The diet should be light, with plenty of diluent drinks; urinary antiseptics (see p. 274) should be administered internally. Most adults are convalescent at the end of a week, whilst children may be up two or three days after the operation. Complications occurring during litholopaxy.—i. Injuries to the lithotrite. There is no operation in the whole of surgery where the surgeon is so entirely happen, a supra-pubic cystotomy will be required for the removal of the fragments both of the lithotrite and the stone. This is far better than an attempt to seize the portion broken off in the bladder with a second lithotrite. A far more serious accident is bending of the jaws of a badly-tempered lithotrite; this renders it impossible to approximate the blades, so that a full- sized instrument cannot be Avithdrawn from the bladder by anything short of supra-pubic cystotomy followed by filing off the male blade. This accident is more likely to occur in children with large stones, for which, owing to the size of the urethra, a small lithotrite must necessarily be used. It is an argument against lithotrity in children when the stone is large. The commonest accident to the lithotrite however is clogging of the jaws with debris, and the open-ended female blade (see Fig. 65) has been adopted to avoid this. If the male blade becomes clogged, and it is difficult to screw the instrument home, the best plan is to release the button and convert the Fig. 65.—The Jaws of a fully fenestrated LnHOTRiTE. The male blade fits accurately into the female blade, and no debris can get between them and hamper their closure. dependent upon his instru- ment-maker. Unless the lithotrite be of the finest make, it is liable to fracture or to bend under the strain put upon it, and either of these accidents is most formidable. Fracture of the blade of the instru- ment has occurred more than once. Should it