237 SUPPRESSION OF URINE. as pressure on the ureter by a cancerous uterus. In most cases there is at first pain in the kidney on the affected side, but this usually subsides in a day or two; occasionally there is no pain, and no history of a previous attack of renal colic, and thus it may be difficult to determine on which side the blockage has occurred. There is usually a constant desire to pass water, and the anuria may be partial or complete ; in the former case the small quantity of urine passed is of low specific gravity, and does not suffice to delay the fatal termination. AVhen anuria occurs after an operation, the general condition is comparatively good, the mind is unaffected, and the pulse and .temperature are fairly normal. The patient may even be able to take food, there may be no vomiting or nausea, and the tongue may be clean, and is often moist. There is generally sleeplessness, but no definite restlessness, and little or no delirium and, whether the condition follows an operation or not, it may be eight or ten days ^ before symptoms of uraemia set in; indeed, death may occur without any characteristic symptoms of ursemic poisoning, but when they appear death follows very rapidly. The condition is markedly different from the non-obstructive form of anuria —the ordinary suppression of urine—and is readily diagnosed from it. There the headache, nausea, vomiting, slow pulse, dry tongue, early onset of ursemic convulsions and the drowsy and semi-delirious condition of the patient sufficiently indicate what has happened. The diagnosis 0/ calculous anuria from other obstructive conditions may be made by the sudden onset, the pain in the kidney, a previous history of renal calculus, and by the absence of any other obstructing cause, such as a tumour in the pelvis. Treatment, (a) Of obstructive anuria.—The treatment of calculous anuria is either to do a nephrotomy and allow the urine to escape through the pelvis of the kidney, or to remove the stone from the pelvis of the kidney or the ureter. Hence, the first point is to determine the side affected, and the second to ascertain the seat of the calculus. When nephrectomy has already been performed on one side, it only remains to ascertain where the impaction on the other side has taken place. Palpation along the line of the ureter, examination per rectum or per vaginam, examination of the ureteral orifice by the cystoscope in the male, or after dilatation of the ureter in the female, and the X-rays should be resorted to, and when the position of the stone has been • ascertained it is removed on the lines already laid down (see p. 234). Frequently the patient is not in a condition to stand a prolonged opera- tion,-and then the best plan is to do a lumbar nephrotomy and establish a temporary renal fistula. The sooner this operation is performed the better, as otherwise the kidney may not secrete again, and the patient may die in spite of the operation. When the anuria does not follow ' Morris states that as long as 25 days has elapsed after the onset of anuria before death took place.