GONORRHQiA. 379 in order to see whether they cause irritation. If this be the case it impUes that the treatment has been begun too soon, and the injections must be omitted for a time. It is most important that the fluid injected should get into contact with the whole mucous membrane of the urethra, whilst at the same time it is equally important that it should not run back into the bladder, as, were it to do so, the discharge would be carried into the deep urethra or even into the bladder itself. In the first instance mild astringents, such as sulpho-carbolate of zinc (grs. i-ij ad 5j) sulphate of zinc (grs. i-iij), chloride of zinc (grs. i-ij), protargol and nitrate of silver (1-6000 to 1-3000) or permanganate of potash (1-4000) are the best. In practising urethral injections it is important in the first place to prevent the fluid finding its way into the bladder, and in the second, to insure that it comes into contact with all the folds of the urethral mucous membrane. There are two ways of carrying this out. The most convenient plan, when the discharge is scanty and it is essential to distend the urethra so as to get the injection fully into contact with all its folds, is to compress the urethra in the perineum close to the bulb, thereby preventing the possibility of the injection finding its way further along the urethra than this point. The contents of a glass syringe previously filled with the fluid, holding only about a drachm to a drachm and a half, and having a bulbous nozzle that will entirely fill the external meatus are gradually injected down the urethra until the latter is put fully upon the stretch. The syringe is then withdrawn, the lips of the meatus are pressed together so as to keep the fluid in the urethra for about two minutes, when the fluid is allowed to run away and the process is repeated. The patient should always pass urine immediately before the injection is practised in order to wash away as much of the discharge as possible, and so that he may avoid having to perform the act again for some considerable time; the effect of the local application is thereby prolonged. The greatest gentleness must always be used in practising the injection so as to avoid any injury to the urethral mucous membrane. The syringe should be boiled each time before use, and the fluid should be used at the body temperature. Another plan, which is particularly useful when the discharge is rather more free, is to introduce a bulbous-ended catheter with a backward flow (see Fig. 78) down the urethra just beyond the posterior limits of the disease and then to flush out the front half of the urethra by copious injections through it after connecting the tube to the ordinary Higgin- son's syringe. There are two possible objections to this plan, one being that the bulb of the instrument may carry the discharge down before it, whilst the other is that it does not distend the mucous membrane sufficiently to obliterate the folds. In practice, however, there is found to be little risk of infection of the deeper parts of the urethra if micturi- tion be performed immediately before the irrigation is carried out, whilst, if it be desired to distend the urethral mucous membrane, it can easily