CHRONIC PROCTITIS. 21 terminal portion of the rectum is affected, there may be incontinence of fceces. These cases may persist for many years, but, after having lasted for some time, the general health suffers from the faecal absorption, and the patient becomes sallow, dull, and apathetic, with a bad appetite and exhales a characteristic offensive odour. As the stricture increases in tightness various complications may bring about death; the chief of these are septic complica- tions, such as ulceration and abscesses. The patient may also die from exhaustion quite apart from any actual attack of obstruction. The chief difficulty is to distinguish between a simple stricture and a malignant one, especially that form in which there is an annular constriction without much outgrowth into the rectum. The non-malignant stricture is usually fibrous and elastic to the feel, is very irregular and may be extensive, while there is not that definite induration characteristic of rectal carcinoma. The length of time that the affection has lasted is also of importance, and, in addition, a history of some previous inflammatory mischief can usually be obtained in non-malignant cases, which are generally of very slow develop- ment, whereas the malignant form produces obstruction very early. TREATMENT, (a) Of simple chronic proctitis.—This is much the same as that of the acute form (see p. i8). The cause should be searched for and removed. The bowels should be kept gently open, while the patient is put to bed and confined to a milk diet. The rectum should be frequently irrigated, first with dilute Condy's fluid or boracic lotion and later with such mild astringents as a solution of perchloride of iron (grs. 2 to the ounce), tannin (grs. 5 to the ounce), or nitrate of silver (gr. i to the ounce). In the intervals between the irrigations a suppository containing sub-nitrate of bismuth, 20 grains, and cocaine, half a grain, is often very useful, and there may be added a grain of opium to each suppository if there be much pain. (b) Of ulcerative proctitis.—The patient must be kept absolutely at rest in bed in the recumbent position and the bowels should be cleared out at first by a purge and afterwards by laxatives, whilst the diet should consist mainly of milk. Gas should be administered and the sphincter thoroughly stretched, and this should be repeated every few days as muscular power recovers. It may even be necessary in very bad cases to divide the sphincters, but this is a serious procedure which should only be undertaken as a last resort. For the treatment of bad tenesmus a starch and opium enema (see p. 19) may be given every three or four hours, and this may usefully be combined with irrigation of the rectum with warm antiseptics, followed, as the affection subsides, by weak astringents {vide supra) night and morning. Should the ulcers be sluggish in healing they may be touched with solid nitrate of silver through a glass rectal speculum. The action of the caustic should be neutralised after it has acted for a few minutes by thoroughly washing out the rectum with salt and water.