CHAPTER XXVIII. CYSTITIS. Cystitis may be primary or secondary to inflammatory conditions of other structures in the immediate vicinity of the bladder; it may also be acute or chronic. It is most common in adult and advanced life, and is very rare in young subjects. The explanation of this fact is that the various diseases so often complicated by cystitis only occur in adult life. All forms of true cystitis are due to bacterial infection, and in some this is the sole cause, while in others the disease is strongly predisposed to by other conditions such as stricture or enlarged prostate. The organisms pro- ducing it gain access from without, and most frequently find their way along the urethra, one of the commonest sources being the passage of instruments either to treat other conditions, such as stricture, in which case the cystitis is secondary, or to examine the bladder or draw off urine, in which case the disease is primary. The organisms may also reach the bladder from the urethra spontaneously, as in gonorrhoea, or they may possibly pass up the urethra, in cases of retention with overflow, while sometimes they find their way from the kidney when the affection is secondary to pyelitis or pyelo- nephritis, and possibly also sometimes from the blood in acute fevers such as typhoid. We may divide cystitis into three large groups, i. Those in which some pre-existing condition predisposes the bladder to infection. Here the cystitis is secondary and its treatment must be considered in connection with the primary condition ; examples of this are found in strictures of the urethra, enlargement of the prostate, vesical calculus, etc. 2. Those in which the bladder affection is part of a microbic disease, such as gonorrhoea or tuberculosis. These will be discussed in connection with those diseases. 3. Those in which the cystitis is the essential condition and may be looked upon as a primary disease. Here, however, there are also generally some previous conditions which favour the development of the organisms, chiefly