MOVABLE KIDNEY. '79 kidney, enclosed in the peri-nephric fascia, is exposed and usualfy bulges through the opening in the transversalis fascia directly it is made. Occasion- ally the quadratus lumborum may be unusually broad and its anterior margin requires nicking, but this is very uncommon. When the fatty capsule has been well exposed, it is advisable for the assistant to press the closed fist well up against the anterior abdominal wall just to the affected side of the spinal column so as to push the kidney and its capsule upwards into the wound. A broad retractor (see Fig. 39) is made to pull the transversalis fascia, carrying with it the peritoneum and the colon, well forwards, and the peri-nephric fascia is picked up in two pairs of forceps and opened, when the canary- coloured fat around the kidney at once becomes evident. The true kidney capsule is now cleanly exposed, and as much of the peri-nephric fat is stripped off it as possible, so that eventually none of it shall intervene between the surface of the kidney and the transversalis fascia when the two are brought in contact by sutures. In a healthy kidney the detachment of the peri-nephric fat is quite easy and should be carried far enough to enable the organ to be pulled well out of the wound, which should always be done, not merely to see that the posterior surface of the kidney is thoroughly cleared and to make out exactly the most suitable spot for the insertion of the stitches, but to enable the surgeon to examine the organ and the ureter in order to be sure that no disease is present and that there is no kink, stricture or faulty attachment of the ureter to the pelvis of the kidney. In protruding a very movable kidney, care must be taken not to twist the renal pedicle upon itself and not to mistake the upper end for the lower when returning the organ into position in the loin. Such a mistake should not happen with the exercise of the most ordinary care. Up to this point all the operations for nephropexy practically agree, the variations in the operation lying mainly in the special measures taken subsequently to fix the kidney in place. This question may be subdivided into two headings: the best method of obtaining adhesion between the kidney and the abdominal wall, and the material that should be employed for the purpose. As regards the best metliod of obtaining sound union, the main controversy turns upon the question of whether the true capsule of the kidney should be partially stripped off and the bared.renal substance brought into contact with the abdominal wall (decortication) or whether sufficient adhesion can be obtained without the kidney being decorticated. In the majority of opera- tions practised at the present time decortication in some form is the rule. Fir,. 39.—Retractor for op- EKATIONS UPON THE KiDNEY.