389 ORGANIC STRICTURE. of the obstruction varying at different places and giving the impression of a number of independent strictures. As a rule the canal between the strictures in these cases is also contracted. The prostatic urethra is never the seat of either a spasmodic or an organic stricture. When spasm occurs in its neighbourhood it is in the neck of the bladder itself and not in the urethral canal. VARIETIES.—The common stricture in the bulbous urethra is usually extensive and consists of dense newly-formed fibrous tissue and is sometimes spoken of as a callous stricture. The chief formation of fibrous tissue occurs in the floor of the urethra, the roof being scarcely if at all affected, so that the urethral canal is displaced upwards ; some- times however the thickening is lateral, so that the urethra is diverted to one side. Sometimes the material forming the stricture is extremely elastic and to this form the term resilient stricture is applied. These strictures are usually quite narrow and are most frequently met with in the penile portion. They are important from the point of view of treatment as, although they dilate easily, they do not undergo absorption as does the callous form of stricture. A third form is sometimes termed a bridle stricture. In this the inflammation is practically limited to the floor of the mucous membrane which becomes raised as a sort of valve or band across the lumen; these strictures occur in the anterior part of the urethra. RESULTS.— Organic stricture of the urethra is a most serious con- dition, as the interference with the outflow of urine causes changes along the whole urinary tract behind it. The urethra becomes dilated immediately behind the obstruction and in bad cases a large pouch may be formed. In this situation too the urethra becomes thinned and inflamed and may be ulcerated, so that actual rupture may occur when a patient with a tight stricture attempts to micturate; this leads to extravasation of urine (see p. 418). If rupture does not take place, the inflammation may extend into the peri-urethral tissues and give rise to an abscess communicating with the urethra, into which urine will be forced every time the patient passes water. In this way a urinary abscess is formed and extravasation of urine may occur when the abscess gives way; or the abscess may open in the perineum and a perineal urinary fistula may be established. Serious changes occur in the bladder itself owing to the difficulty in evacuating its contents. In the early stages there is hypertrophy and diminution in capacity, whilst the organ becomes atrophied and dilated in the later stages. The back-pressure causes dilatation of the ureters and the renal pelvis and sepsis is very common in cases of long-standing and pyelitis or suppurative pyelonephritis (see Chap. XX.) then brings about the patient's death. Cystitis is a common complication and may be very severe. It occurs apparently independently of the use of instruments, but the latter are