TUMOURS. too ready to assume, because there is no pain in the bladder region while pain is referred to the ureter or the kidney, that one of these two structures is involved, unless there be some other definite indication. The diagnosis will be made by a consideration of the characters of the htematuria (see p. 171) by microscopical examination of the urine, which often shows bladder epithelium in large quantity or fragments of tumour, and by cystoscopic examination which is better than any attempt at examining with a sound. Cystoscopic examination (see p. 259) under these circumstances must be carefully done otherwise, especially in villous tumours, haemorrhage is very apt to occur and obscure the view. A time should be chosen when the urine is comparatively free from blood. If a cystoscope be not at hand, useful information may sometimes be obtained by the use of a metallic catheter with a large eye. The instrument is introduced, the bladder is distended with three or four ounces of boracic lotion and the interior is examined carefully, when possibly a soft mass which is not as definite nor as hard as a stone may be felt, and its outline may be made out between the point of the catheter in the bladder and the. finger in the rectum. Then, when the examination of the interior is complete, the finger is suddenly removed from the end of the catheter and the fluid is allowed to escape rapidly, whilst the eye of the catheter is directed towards the trigone, which is the usual seat of these growths. A portion of the tumour may be washed into the eye of the catheter and may be pulled off as the instrument is removed. Sometimes important information may be gained by the fact that mere examination of the bladder with the catheter provokes free bleeding which is almost certain to be due to growth, generally of a villous •character, rather than to an inflammatory condition. By bi-manual examination, which should be undertaken under complete anaesthesia, one may feel thickenings in spare persons especially in the case of malignant tumours; even villous tumours may be made out as a softish increase of resistance at some particular spot. It is seldom necessary to perform a supra-pubic cystotomy for the mere purpose of diagnosis, as it is generally possible to determine in other ways whether a tumour be present. The supra-pubic exploration however, is valuable for settling the nature of the tumour. Treatment.—When a tumour of the bladder is diagnosed, the possibility of eradicating it must be at once considered, and no time should be lost if there seems any hope of doing this successfully. Waiting merely permits the patient to become worn out by repeated haemorrhages and possibly allows cystitis to occur and so renders operative interference much more serious. There can be no question that in the case of an innocent growth the sooner the bladder is opened and the tumour removed the better it is for the patient; when the growth is malignant, various other points have to be taken into account. (a) Palliative.—This is not very satisfactory and mainly resolves itself into attempts to keep the urine unirritating, combined with the administra-