226 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. calculi, but in whom there is no evidence of the presence of a stone, what they can do to prevent the formation of a fresh calculus. The preventive treatment of stone is largely hygienic and dietetic. A due amount of e.xercise, such as bicycling, horse riding or walking, should be pre- scribed, and the action of the skin should be promoted both by friction and by the occasional use of a Turkish bath. In the diet, excess of nitrogenous food, both vegetable and animal, must be avoided and only the white meats should be allowed. Alcohol in any large quantity should be forbidden ; with the exception of a little whisky and water it is best avoided altogether. When the urine contains an excess of urates, alkaline diuretics are of considerable service; bicarbonate of potash or soda, citrate of potash or lithia, benzoate of ammonium or acetate of potash may be prescribed.^ Urotropine is said to be a solvent of uric acid as well as an antiseptic and a diuretic and may be given in ten-grain doses; cystamine in five-grain doses is a good substitute. The mineral waters of Vichy, Royat, or Contrexeville are also much in favour, and the patient may with advantage spend some weeks each year at one of these watering-places. It is important that the bowels should be regulated. When there is an excess of phosphates—phosphaturia—this treatment is not efficacious. Any alkaline dyspepsia present must be corrected. A generous diet, and the treatment for neurasthenia should be adopted. If the phospha- turia be due to pyelitis, this must be suitably treated (see p. 209). Mineral acids, strychnine, bitter infusions, quinine and preparations of iron are the most useful drugs: antiseptics, such as urotropine, salol and boracic acid in ten-grain doses thrice daily may be called for when there is decomposition of the urine. In the oxalic acid diathesis, fresh air and exercise are of great importance. Vegetables rich in oxalic acid, such as asparagus, tomatoes, rhubarb, or goose- berries should be avoided. Plenty of diluents are also indicated, while stimu- lants are sometimes of value. Nitro-hydrochloric acid, bitter infusions, strychnine, quinine and preparations of iron are all of value. Contrexeville and other waters containing lime are to be avoided. (b) Palliative.—The above measures are also of value when small calculi are present and should be employed, according to the condition present, as a preliminary to more radical surgical treatment. It undoubtedly does some- times happen that a course of medical treatment causes the symptoms to disappear and averts an operation. Although probably in most of these cases the condition is one of gravel rather than of actual stone, it may happen nevertheless that a small stone may have its surface rounded off and may thus ' When there is a persistent excess of urates in the urine, the late Sir William Roberts recommended attempting the solution of a calculus in the kidney, but there is no real evidence that any true solvent action is ever exerted upon an actually existing calculus. His plan, which may be very useful in cases of " gravel," consists in administering citrate of potash in large doses. It is prepared freshly by adding, twelve drachms of bicarbonate of jiotash to eight and a half drachms of citric acid in twelve ounces of water: this will yield sixty grains of citrate of potash to the ounce, and an ounce may be given every three or four hours during the day.