538 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. go downhill rapidly. Hence, if the diagnosis of a tuberculous empyema can be made with certainty, it is better to avoid anything like a free incision; indeed in cases not marked by pressure symptoms it may be inadvisable to interfere at all, and, if anything must be done, it should take the form of occasional partial aspiration rather than free opening. The greatest care must be taken with the aseptic management of the case, lest a simple tuberculous empyema be transformed into a septic one. PYO-PNEUMO-THORAX.—Cases of simple pneumo-thorax com- monly follow injury and these are dealt with separately (see p. 518); this condition may be followed by suppuration, when a septic pyo-pneumo- thorax occurs. Most cases of pyo-pneumo-thorax however are due to the perforation of a tuberculous cavity, with the free passage of air from the bronchus into the pleural cavity followed by suppuration. Treatment.—Cases of tuberculous pyo-pneumo-thorax in which the ordinary pyogenic bacteria are absent may occur however, and they are then very chronic and do not cause severe symptoms. Should this be so, it is better to leave the case alone, as the results of incision are bad and the improvement is only temporary. The patient soon goes down- hill as it is very difficult to prevent the entrance of septic organisms and there is practically no chance of the lung expanding sufficiently to fill the cavity; moreover, the patient is too bad for any operation such as Estlander's. If however the symptoms be severe, the chest should be aspirated and this should be repeated from time to time if necessary. Should this fail to produce amelioration, Godlee suggests the employment of syphoning and describes the following plan : The patient is placed on his back with his side projecting slightly beyond the edge of the bed, and two perforated needles are introduced into the chest about the eighth or ninth interspace, one towards the anterior and one towards the posterior part of the chest. It should be ascertained that the lung is not adherent at the points selected for the introduction of the needles. To each needle is attached an india-rubber tube; that in connection with the anterior one passes to the bottom of a large bottle containing warm boracic acid lotion, Avhile an aspirator is connected with the other or it is simply allowed to fall into a basin which is placed on the floor and which contains enough boracic lotion to cover the end of the tube. The fluid is thus allowed to drain from the chest and its place is taken by the boric acid solution. When the solution comes through quite clear, the anterior tube is removed, as much as possible of the boric acid solution is evacuated by the aspirator or by the syphon action, care being taken to avoid the entry of air, and then the wound is closed. This procedure may be repeated from time to time according as may be necessary. SEPTIC MEDIASTINITIS.—When a penetrating wound of the anterior mediastinum does not lead to immediate death from hcemorrhage