ORGANIC STRICTURE. the best methods of affecting this are to administer suppositories containing morphine (half a grain) and extract of belladonna (a quarter of a grain) and to put the patient in a hot hip-bath. This will frequently result in spontaneous evacuation of the bladder. If however the distension be so great that it is obviously necessary to relieve the patient without delay, the surgeon's first efforts will be directed towards evacuating the bladder. In the first place the instrument employed should be a bougie, either soft or solid according to the predilections of the surgeon; it should not be a catheter. A fine catheter is unduly flexible and the difficulties of getting it through a tight stricture are almost insuperable; moreover, the passage of a very fine catheter is of little use for the purpose of evacuating the bladder, as the flow through it is so slow that it does not keep pace with the secretion of urine and the relief is therefore faulty. The best plan is to obtain a certain amount of dilatation by means of bougies passed under an ansesthetic. For this purpose graduated instruments should be used, either Lister's or some form of tapering whip bougie. If this plan be successful, the stricture may be quickly dilated up to a No. 4 or 6 and then a catheter of this size should be tied into the bladder for 24 hours. This not only evacuates the bladder but produces continuous dilatation and, by the time the instrument is withdrawn, the patient can micturate naturally and the stricture becomes amenable to ordinary treatment, preferably intermittent dilatation. When however instruments cannot be got in, and this is especially likely to be the case when false passages are present, some other procedure must be adopted. Two methods are at the surgeon's disposal, namely supra-pubic aspiration of the bladder or a perineal section which opens the urethra behind the stricture, the type of which is Cock's operation. The former plan is the simpler, especially if the surgeon be summoned in a hurry at night, as is frequently the case, and has not the necessary appliances, assistants and instruments. Moreover it is frequently found that after a simple aspiration the congestion of the stricture is relieved and the patient can subsequently pass water naturally especially if he be put into a hot bath. It is even well to aspirate the bladder (see p. 421) on two or three occasions before proceeding to more severe measures unless there be some definite reason for preferring to deal radically with the stricture by operation. Cock's operation.—Cock's perineal section, which was originally intro- duced for the cure of perineal urinary fistulte complicating stricture, but which is also very useful for relieving acute retention caused by a very dense and extensive stricture, aims at opening the urethra behind the stricture without touching the latter. As the stricture is always in front of the prostatic urethra, the operation consists in opening the urethra at the junction of the membranous with the prostatic portion at the apex of the prostate. This is not so difficult an operation as it might seem, for the membranous urethra is so dilated in long-standing tight, strictures that it