48o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. The affection generally increases steadily and it is said that sarcoma of the breast not infrequently follows it. Treatment.—When the breast has reached a size that makes it a source of great inconvenience to the patient, there is nothing for it but to amputate the organ as no treatment will bring the hypertrophy to a standstill. TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. These are unimportant, and merely require treatment on ordinary principles. Contusions of the breast may set up chronic mastitis, and in some cases the history seems to indicate that malignant disease has followed directly upon injury. t Fig. io6.—Elastic Operation for " Umuilicated Nipple." The crescentic shaded areas represent the portions of skin removed. The inner and outer edges of the crescents are sewn together. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. Inflammatory affections of the breast may be acute or chronic and may originate in the nipple or in the breast tissue itself INFLAMMATION OF THE NIPPLE.—Cracks and fissures and so-called " chapped nipples" are common during lactation and are not infrequently associated with some slight malformation of the nipple necessi- tating increased efforts on the part of the child in suckling. Imperfect attention to the toilet of the nipples after suckling is also probably an important cause, as cracked nipples are very liable to infection especially when the infant suffers from an aphthous mouth or purulent ophthalmia. The streptococcus, the organism of erysipelas, etc., easily find entrance through these cracks. The fissures are generally multiple and radiate from the centre of the nipple, to which they may be limited; they more commonly however extend on to the areola. They give rise to intense pain, which is set up by the slightest touch; they bleed readily and soon become infected, and therefore the child in suckHng may swallow not only blood but pus. Treatment.—The most important points are prophylactic. Should the skin be tender or the nipple deformed, the patient should either avoid