496 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. is gradually divided/ the vessels being seized as they are cut across. The breast, the pectoral fascia and the portion of the muscle to be removed come away as one piece and then the fascia over the serratus magnus is dissected back as far as the latissimus dorsi, avoiding damage to the termination of the nerve of Bell and also to the subscapular nerves. The breast, with the muscle attached to it, is now drawn over to the outer side and, after all bleeding points have been caught, a hot aseptic cloth is placed over the thoracic portion of the wound and the surgeon proceeds to deal with thq axilla. The separated portion of the pectoralis major is cut across at its insertion into the humerus and the axillary vein is exposed below the lower border of the pectoralis minor well down to the outer end of the axilla and then the fat and glands are stripped up off the axillary and subscapular vessels and nerves with a suitable flat blunt dissector. In most cases the intercosto-humeral nerve must be removed Fig. iio.—Incisions for removal of a Can- Fig. hi.—Incisions for the removal of a CEROus Tumour situated i.v the lower Cancerous Tumour situated in the upper QUADRANT OF THE BREAST. QUADRANT OF THE BREAST. but, when the axilla is only slightly involved, it may be isolated and left behind and this will add to the patient's comfort. Before going further in this region it is advisable to attack the apex of the axilla. The fascia is dissected off the pectoralis minor, the upper edge of the muscle is freed and then the dissection of the fascia is continued upwards until the vein is thoroughly exposed. The fat and fascia should also be.removed from the under surface of the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major. This exposes the vein right up to the costo-coracoid membrane and all the fat and fascia are peeled thence from the vessels and nerves as far down as the lower edge of the pectoralis minor. Search should also be made behind the vein above, as glands may be met with in that situation. Finally the fascia is peeled back from the under surface of the pectoralis minor, commencing at its lower edge and taking care to save its nerve supply, and then, by puUing this muscle upwards ' That is, if the e.xtenl or situation of the growth renders its removal necessar)-; if not, a layer of the muscle is dissected off with the pectoral fascia.