457 TUBERCULOUS TESTIS. seminales and cord rapidly become affected and from them the rest of the genito-urinary apparatus. Occasionally the body of the testis is alone affected in the first instance, the epididymis being free; in these cases the pain is very acute. The ordinary sub-acute or chronic tuberculous epididymitis varies much in virulence. There is usually some pain at the commencement of the disease, but it is seldom severe and is generally intermittent and of a dragging character, the chief complaint being of a feeling of weight and fulness in the testis. The gland is very tender on pressure and the vas is generally, although not invariably, thickened. Thickening of the vas, although usually given as a diagnostic sign of tuberculous epididymitis, is not invariably so, and its absence must not be taken as certain evidence of the non-tuberculous nature of the affection. The enlargement of the epididymis generally reaches its full extent in a few weeks, and it then remains stationary for a considerable period unless an abscess forms. The swelling is a characteristic horseshoe-shaped enlargement surrounding the testis and is largest at the globus major. It is common for an abscess to form in these cases and its occurrence is marked by an increase in the subjective symptoms, especially the pain; eventually sinuses form leading down to the epididymis. TREATMENT, (a) Of acute tuberculosis.—The only treatment that offers any prospect of success is immediate castration. Unless this be done quite early, the disease is almost certain to spread to the rest of the genito-urinary system and it is most important in performing the operation to isolate the cord and especially the vas deferens as far as possible (see p. 464). (b) Of sub-acute and chronic tuberculosis.—This, like the treat- ment of most other tuberculous lesions, may be considered under the headings of non-operative and operative measures. A considerable number of cases of tuberculous epididymitis become quiescent either without suppuration or after suppuration has occurred, and after a time the thickening may disappear almost entirely. It is however extremely difficult to .say in any given case that this is likely to happen. In the acute, rapidly breaking-down forms, especially those affecting also the body of the testis itself, it is fairly certain that the disease will not become quiescent, but in the more chronic cases, in which a firm and painless swelling has been found accidentally in the first instance, it is never possible to be quite certain ; some cases improve steadily under general treatment, whilst others, which at first looked equally promising, break down and suppurate. Non-operative.—If the case be very chronic when first seen, this may be employed when there is tuberculosis elsewhere in the genito-urinary system and when the local lesion has apparently a tendency to recovery. It consists essentially in putting the patient under the best hygienic conditions, supporting the testis well and guarding it from injury. The general treatment