FISSURE IN ANO. 43 pile can generally be seen and, by pulling aside the anal folds, the lower edge of the ulcer comes into view; even without seeing this, however, the condition is so characteristic that no mistake should be made in the diagnosis. TREATMENT.—The best plan is to administer a general anaesthetic, to dilate the anus and insert a large speculum, to snip- off the sentinel pile and to carry a knife through the base of the ulcer for about an eighth of an inch down to the external sphincter, but not through more than its most superficial fibres; the operation should be done with the patient in the lithotomy position. If the fissure be of long standing and much indurated, its surface may be scraped. A half-grain morphine suppository should be introduced into the rectum, a little iodoform dusted on the wound, and the bowels kept confined for a few days, after which they are opened daily by a laxative; as a rule the cure is complete. Simple stretching of the anus may suffice for a cure, but it is uncertain. Occasionally the patient refuses operation, and palliative treatment must be tried. This is most likely to result in a cure when there is no sentinel pile at the bottom of the fissure and when the latter is only recent and has no indurated edges. The bowels should be kept open daily by the adminis- tration of confection of senna (3i) or equal parts of confection of senna and sulphur (aa 3ss) every night, and the action of this may be reinforced by a mineral water taken early in the morning. Immediately after the bowels have acted, the parts should be carefully washed with warm water, soap, and a soft sponge, and an ointment containing ten grains of cocaine, two drachms of sub-nitrate of bismuth, and half a drachm of iodoform to the ounce of vaseline should be injected within the sphincter by means of a special ointment introducer (see Fig. lo). If there be much pruritus, extract of belladonna thickly smeared over the anus is also useful. If the fissure prove sluggish, an attempt may be made to promote healing, painting it with a solution of nitrate of silver (two or three drachms to the ounce); in recent cases this method of treatment will often produce satisfactory results. It is, however, hardly ever worth while to employ palliative treatment in preference to operative measures, as the time and trouble spent by the patient and the pain he must necessarily undergo are far greater than if an operation were undertaken. Should the fissure be in connection with a mucous patch of syphilitic origin, the patient must first of all be put on anti-syphilitic treatment and, ff this be combined with the palliative measures already spoken of, the fissure will often heal, unless it has existed a long time; should it refuse to heal, the ordinary operativey measures (^ide supra) should be undertaken. "Irritable ulcer of the anus."—This is a condition distinct from the ordinary fissure in ano, and probably arises from the irritation of hardened faeces as they rest against the mucous membrane of the rectum on the shelf formed by the top of the internal sphincter. It is often associated with piles, and there is as a rule not so much spasm of the sphincter as in the cases