INJURIES. 15 wound is penetrating or non-penetrating, i.e. perforates the entire rectal wall or only one of its coats; and lastly whether the penetrating wound passes into the peritoneal cavity or only into the peri-rectal cellular tissue. (a) Of lacerations associated with fracture.—When the bowel is torn across as an accompaniment of a fracture of the pelvis or sacrum the case is most serious. When the laceratmi extends into the peritoneal cavity the natural line of treatment is clearly to do a median sub-umbilical laparotomy, to find and try and repair the wound in the rectum and to thoroughly cleanse the peri- toneal cavity, as in any other case of wound of a hollow viscus. These cases are usually associated with extensive fracture of the pelvis and in the majority the patient's condition is too desperate to allow this to be undertaken, and death from septic peritonitis occurs. Should there be any prospect whatever of successfully carrying out this method of treatment it should of course be undertaken. The details of it are practically the same as for a similar injury to the stomach. The abdomen should be opened in the middle line immediately above the pubes and, after the extravasated faecal material has been removed from the pelvic or general abdominal cavity by the methods already indicated for the stomach (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 208), the patient should be put in the Trendelenburg position so that the intestines fall out of the pelvis, and the wound in the rectum should be searched for and sutured in the ordinary manner if possible. This may be excessively difficult especially when the rent is low down and is partly intra- and partly extra- peritoneal. Much the same remarks apply to the cases of extensive laceration of the rectum beloiu the rejlectioti of the peri/oneicw,— an injury which is more commonly associated with a fracture of the sacrum than of the pelvis as a whole; in the latter case the patient's condition will probably negative any attempt at operative interference, but when the injurv is due to a fracture of the sacrum and there is no marked shock the best plan is to cut down by the side of the bowel and try to reach the seat of injury from the perineum. This is done by a crescentic incision around that side of the anus on which digital examination shows the injury to be. The incision is deepened up into the ischio-rectal fossa until the rent is reached, and then the tissues are thoroughly opened up and packed with iodoformed gauze so as to provide for drainage and prevent as far as possible the septic cellulitis which will otherwise certainly occur; an incision of this kind gives free exit to any slough or discharges that may occur. (b) Of wounds caused by foreign bodies in the rectum.— When the wound is non-penetrating, that is to say, only injures the mucous and perhaps the sub-mucous coats of the bowel, the treatment is to dilate the anus fully under a general anseslhetic and to examine the mucous membrane thoroughly by means of Kelly's tubes (see p. 6). When the seat of injury is found, the heemorrhage is arrested by tying or under- running the bleeding point or, if necessary, by leaving a pair of clamp