454 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. two or three of the distended scrotal veins with a venesection lancet. Bleeding is then encouraged by applying hot fomentations and there is no difificulty in arresting the oozing. It will generally be necessary to administer morphine to relieve the pain and to check the restlessness that is associated with the inflammation and the maintenance of the dorsal position. It is best given in half-grain suppositories, to which may be added a quarter of a grain of extract of belladonna. Occasionally benefit may be obtained by the administration of ten-grain doses of salicylate of soda three or four times daily. The diet should consist chiefly of milk puddings and beef tea or soup. As the inflammation subsides, the scrotum may be enveloped in lint thickly spread with glycerinum belladonnas, outside which is applied a large mass of cotton wool kept on by a lace-up bag or a fairly firm bandage. Compression must be employed very carefully at first however because it may do harm if it be begun too early, and special care must be taken to see that the bandage is not drawn tightly' enough above the testis to interfere with the circulation. In a fortnight or three weeks the pain and tenderness will have dis- appeared, leaving a hard mass in the epididymis, and this is the period at which firm compression is very useful in causing absorption of the in- flammatory exudation. The old plan of strapping the testicle is here very valuable. The scrotum is shaved and cleansed, the affected testis is isolated from its fellow, and a narrow strip of boracic lint is wound around the scrotum above it. Over this a strip of strapping is applied circularly and tight enough to prevent the testis from slipping up through it, and .then a b Fig. 104.—Stkai'I'Ing the Testicle. The isol.ntion and preliminary fixation of the testicle is shown in n where a horizontal turn of strapping outside boracic lint is taken round the root of the scrotum. The method of applying the strips of strapping alternately vertically and horizontally is seen in b.