407 ORGANIC STRICTURE. a well-marked shoulder. On the convexity of the curve of the narrower portion there is a groove which is prolonged upwards a short distance past the shoulder. The staff is passed through the stricture until the shoulder hitches against the face of the stricture. The handle is then entrusted to an assistant, and the patient is brought down to the end of the table and put in the lithotomy position. The assistant should hold the staff perfectly vertical and pull the scrotum out of the way. The surgeon shaves and purifies the perineum, and makes a median incision from the root of the scrotum to about an inch in front of the anus. After the superficial structures have been divided, the left forefinger is introduced into the wound and feels for the staff in the urethra behind the stricture. A few touches of the knife expose the urethra, and then the groove in the narrow portion is felt for, and the point of the knife is slipped over the pulp of the finger until its point perforates the urethra and engages in the groove. The knife is now made to cut from this point upwards, dividing the stricture as it goes, and is carried to the full extent of the groove, that is to say past the shoulder of the staff. If care be taken to incise the urethra behind the stricture, the entire strictured area must be divided if the knife be made to travel forwards as far as the groove extends, because the shoulder of the staff lies upon the face of the stricture. The handle of the staff may now be depressed and the point of the instrument pushed on into the bladder. If the stricture has been completely divided, there will be no difficulty in doing this; if there is, some fibres of the stricture have escaped division and must be nicked. All bleed- ing is arrested, the perineal wound is swabbed out with chloride of zinc solution (grs. 40 to the oz.), the staff is with- drawn, and a full-sized gum-elastic catheter bent to the proper urethral curve on a stylet is passed and tied in the bladder, the point of the instrument being kept close along the urethral roof as it is passed. It is sometimes difficult to pass the catheter into the bladder in this manner as, unless the point be kept closely in contact with the urethral roof, it is very apt to emerge in the perineal wound; this is always likely Fig. 93.—Syme's Staff for External Ukethrotomv.