CARCINOMA. 493 cases. It is probable that here the cancer cells have been carried across the middle line by the lymphatics and that the tumour in the second breast is really secondary to the original one and not an independent development. The condition usually occurs when the primary tumour is situated to the sternal side of the nipple. In some cases indeed the lymphatic vessels may carry the disease to the glands in the opposite axilla without infecting the breast in their passage. TREATMENT.—Cancer of the breast should be removed as early and completely as possible. There may however be cases in which the disease is so advanced that there is practically no hope of eradicating it, in which cases the question of palliative treatment will arise. (a) Radical.—However small the tumour may be, the operation in all cases should aim at removing the entire breast and its correspond- ing lymphatic area as high as the apex of the axilla. The latter step is necessary because the disease gets into the lymphatic system at a very early period and becomes distributed throughout the lymphatic vessels in which it may be arrested at any point; in any case it infects the nearest chain of lymphatic glands. The lymphatic distribution in cofinection with the breast, according to Sappey's description, commences as small plexuses around the acini whence vessels run along the ducts, joining with others from the adjacent acini and forming plexuses around the ducts. These plexuses increase in size until they reach the nipple and thus lymph from all parts of the gland, even the most outlying lobules, is carried, according to Sappey, to the nipple in the first instance. In this region they form a plexus beneath the areola (the " subareolar plexus" of Sappey) and from this three or four large lymphatic trunks carry the lymph from the breast and the skin in its vicinity to the axillary glands. These lymphatic vessels run in the fat between the breast and the axilla in the neighbourhood of the lower border of the pectoralis minor. Since the publication of Sappey's description it has been found by pathological and clinical investigation that there are other paths by which the lymph may be conveyed from the breast. Thus, lymphatics run from the plexuses around the lobules of the breast along the suspensory ligaments of Astley Cooper to join the plexuses in the deeper parts of the skin, and plugs of cancer cells have been found in the vessels in these ligaments. Another very important distribution is by vessels which leave the deeper surface of the ioreast and join lymphatic plexuses in the pectoral fascia, running thence to the axillary glands. This seems to be one of the commonest paths by which infection spreads in cancer of the breast. The lymphatics in the pectoral fascia communicate with those in the pectoral muscle and thus the disease may be distributed throughout that structure. It is also probable that lymphatics pass into the mediastinum along the perforating arteries at the inner aspect of