376 THE SURCxICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. at true abortive treatment, that is to say the destruction of the bacteria, must be carried out before they have had time to penetrate the mucous membrane, where no antiseptic will reach them. Some twenty years ago, as the result of a number of experiments, one of us introduced a soluble urethral bougie ^ which, if introduced in the very early stage of the attack, often cuts it quite short. The advantage of this soluble bougie over the injections which are often used for this purpose is that its action is more prolonged and that it distends the urethral mucous membrane and so the drug is applied to the whole surface of the urethra. These bougies should be employed at the very commencement of the symptoms; if used after the first forty-eight hours they will probably do more harm than good because by that time the affection is firmly established and the application of antiseptics only causes irritation. When used before this period however much success has followed their use for, even if the disease be not entirely cured, the acute stage is often much mitigated and the disease becomes mild and amenable to treatment. The best way of using them is first to flush out the penile urethra thoroughly with boracic lotion and then to dip a bougie into eucalyptus oil and push it up the urethra until its end disappears well within the fossa navicularis. A small pad of dressing is applied over the meatus and a narrow strip of strapping outside that prevents the bougie escaping and keeps the material of which it is composed within the urethra as long as possible. The patient should not pass urine until he is compelled to do so. A second bougie may be used in a .similar manner 12 hours after the first, but none after that. At the same time large doses of sandalwood oil (see p. 378) should be given. If this treatment aborts the acute stage, as it often does, and only a thin discharge is left, astringent injections (see p. 379) may be used in two or three days' time and the sandalwood oil should be continued. The older plan for attempting abortive treatment was to inject strong solutions of nitrate of silver (i-iooo to 1-500 or less) at a similar period of the disease ; latterly injections of protargol have been similarly employed.- We have found the bougies to be not only more certain in their action than these injections, but also less irritating if they do not succeed. 2. During the acute stage. —Here the treatment must be largely general ; if local treatment be employed at all it must be unirritating, as ^The composition of this is iodoform, grs. 5, ol. eucalypti, m. 10, ol. theobrom. q.s. to make a cylinder foui-and-a-half inches long and of No. 10 English gauge (see Lancet, 1882, \'oI. II.). - Some years ago one of us n\ade numerous attempts to cut short the disease by applying various powerful applications methodically to the whole of the inflamed area through the urethroscopic tube. Although this method was more successful than the old plan of injection, it is open to the objection that it is not sufficiently certain in its results and that when it fails it is apt to increase the intensity of the aflfeclion to a very high pitch (see King's College Uospilal Reports, Vol. I. p. 118).