245 HYDRONEPHROSIS. intervals during which he is quite well and the kidney appears normal, and then, apparently without any cause, there is violent pain in the loin, sometimes accompanied by vomiting and gradually increasing distress, and a distinct swelling can be made out in the renal region. This swelling is often tender, and may go on increasing for two or three days, when it may gradually or even suddenly disappear. Accompanying the formation of the swelling there is a diminution in the amount of urine secreted, and there may be increased frequency of micturition and sometimes hsematuria. When the distension passes off, especially if it does so suddenly, there is an increased flow of urine of low specific gravity; the intervals between the attacks vary. Patients suffering from this condition are usually subject to mov- able kidney, sometimes to f a very marked degree. ' CAUSES.— A stone in the renal pelvis may temporarily block the en- trance to the ureter, and give rise to intermittent hydronephrosis, but the most frequent cause is some abnormal condition of the ureter itself There may be a stricture or a temporary kinking of the ureter in connection with movable kidney. A not uncommon condition is for the ureter to come off from the pelvis higher up than it should, so that a sort of valve is formed and distension of the pelvis with urine is accompanied by pressure of one side of the ureter against the other, preventing the exit of the urine (see Fig. 50). This condition may be congenital, but it can also be acquired as a result of repeated kinking of the ureter due to movable kidney; in consequence the pelvis becomes dilated, especially below, so that a sac is formed at a considerably lower level than the point of exit of the ureter, and the latter is apparently displaced abnormally high up on the side of the pelvis. It is not quite clear why this condition should give rise to intermittent hydronephrosis, but it is possible that when the upper part of the pelvis is considerably distended, this opens up the valvular flap, and so permits a certain amount of the urine to escape. This condition is of course very deleterious to the kidney, and may ultimately lead to complete blockage with true hydronephrosis. The patient usually suffers so much from these recurrent attacks that he is Fig. 50.—Diagram showing how faulty attachment of THE UrETEK may cause INTERMITTENT HYDKONEPHKQSIS. A shows how the lower part of the pelvis may become dilated as a result of the unduly high attachment of the ureter. This produces a valve-like pressure of one side of the ureter against the other, and still further distension of the pelvis. When this has reached a certain point, the valve is opened by the great dilatation and the urine in part escapes (5).