529 EMPYEMA. The position of the patient is of some importance and is determined to a large extent by the spot at which the incision is to be made. If this is to be in the sixth or seventh space in the mid-axillary line the patient should lie flat upon the table or bed, being drawn well to the edge; the surgeon can then work easily sitting down and facing that side of the ^orax. If however the incision is to be made in the ninth space just external to the angle of the scapula^—which is the most dependent spot when drainage is likely to be wanted for some time and is also the lowest spot at which the pleural cavity is most certain to be hit off without danger of the track becoming too oblique from the upward pro- trusion of the diaphragm—it will be necessary to turn the patient somewhat over on to the affected side and the surgeon will then face the sound side and operate leaning well over the patient, who should never be turned on to the sound side as otherwise the respiration might be seriously hampered. The parts should be rendered aseptic in the usual manner, and the whole operation must be conducted aseptically as, although bacteria are present in the abscess cavity, it is advisable not to introduce any fresh ones from without. Those in the pleura have probably largely lost their virulence, and experience has shown that with free drainage they quickly die out. This is most important in pneumococcal cases and in the chronic cases due to the tubercle bacillus. Much discussion has taken place as to whether the opening should be made through the intercostal space or whether a portion of rib should be removed as well. In favour of going through the intercostal space it is urged that in many cases there is quite enough room, especially when the chest is bulging, and that, although removal of a rib may be of temporary advantage,, it does not really give rise to any more perfect drainage because regeneration of bone occurs rapidly and the opening becomes small. This is quite true in many cases in children from whom the periosteum is not removed, but at the same time a much better opening is obtained by resecting a portion of the rib for the immediate purposes of the operation, because the surgeon can thereby introduce his finger into the pleural cavity and explore it thoroughly, and moreover in 'An incision in the fifth, sixth, or seventh space in the mid-axillary line is no doubt extremely convenient for reaching the pleural cavity as the ribs are almost com- pletely uncovered by muscle ; at the same time this is not the most dependent part of the pleural cavity either when the patient is lying down or sitting up, and it is not infrequently necessary to make a counter-opening subsequently about the ninth interspace in the scapular line 60 as to drain the most dependent part of the thoracic cavity. Although the ribs are covered by the latissimus dorsi in the latter position, only a small part of the muscle has to be divided and this is not a serious complication. In pneumococcal cases, that is to say the majority of cases of empyema in children, pro- longed drainage is not necessary and in them it will often suffice to make the opening in the mid-axillary line. In adults however, where the infection is generally streptococcal, and in any case in children known to be of the same variety, it is best to employ the posterior opening. This is a point upon which bacteriological examination of the pus beforehand is of great value. PT. VI. 2 2 L