303 VESICAL CALCULUS. The urine is first drawn off, and the bladder is washed out with warm boracic lotion until the fluid returns perfectly clear, and then six ounces of the lotion are injected and left in the bladder. The urethra should next be dilated with Lister's bougies (see Chap. XL.) up to a No. 16 or 18 English in order to facilitate the passage of the lithotrite, and the external meatus must be incised downwards if it be necessary to allow this size to pass. This preliminary dilatation is to avoid the risk of damage to the urethra in the neighbourhood of the triangular ligament. The beak of the lithotrite (which is generally a No. 16 to 18 English in size), is now lubricated and introduced into the urethra whilst the shaft of the instrument is held almost horizontal and parallel with Poupart's ligament, and the penis is drawn up over it until the beak is felt to reach the bulbous portion and cannot be pushed further down. The shaft of the instrument is now gradually rotated into the middle line, keeping the shaft .horizontal and the urethra fully on the stretch, and when it reaches this position the handle is gradually raised, so that the instrument becomes vertical and is allowed to slide on into the bladder by its own weight. No force whatever should be used; any difficulty will generally be due to the beak not having been pushed far enough down in the bulb. As soon as the former passes the triangular ligament there is no further difficulty, and, as it enters the bladder, the instrument suddenly slides in easily and can be rotated freely. The stone is now felt for at the base of the bladder with the jaws of the instrument closed. The movements of the lithotrite must be extremely gentle so as not to displace the stone, and the beak should not be allowed to jar against the sensitive vesical neck. When the stone is felt, the instrument is manipulated so that its beak touches the upper surface of the stone, and then the lithotrite is held firmly in the left hand and is rotated with the right so that the beak is turned away from the stone, when the jaws are separated^ and the instrument is then rotated back again so that the open jaws lie over the stone which they are made to grasp. The stone now lies in the jaws of the instrument which look directly down on to the base of the bladder. As soon as the stone has been firmly gripped, the lithotrite is rotated through 180° turning the stone right round so that the beak now looks well into the cavity of the bladder. If the stone has been carefully seized there will be no resist- ance in doing this, whereas, if a fold of mucous membrane has been caught between the jaws and the stone, the latter will not move and must be released and caught again. Therefore the greatest gentleness must be used in practis- ing this manoeuvre in order to avoid damaging the mucous membrane. The jaws of the lithotrite are now pressed firmly on the stone and locked. The surgeon commences to crush the stone by a series of quarter-turns of the handle until the stone is felt to give way. In very hard stones this may require great force, and there may come a time when the operator feels that if more force be used the lithotrite may give way before the stone. Under these 1 The amount of separation of the blades necessary for grasping the stone is known by the previously ascertained measurements of the size of the calculus.