CANCER. 85 of the bowel. This should be introduced and tied in in the ordinary manner (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 325). its end being plugged with a little cotton wool or a cork, until the dressing of the wound is complete, when the plug may be taken out and a length of indiarubber tubing fitted over the tube so as to convey the intestinal contents into a receptacle without fouling the wound or the dressings (see Fig 23). Through this tube the flatus escapes readily, and the patient therefore suffers absolutely no inconvenience. As a matter of fact fa;cal material rarely passes if the bowels have been sufficiently cleared out; nothing much reaches the rectum until about the time when the Fig. 23.—Method of using Paul's Tuue fok Excision ok thk Rectum. The bowel has been brought out beneath the edge of the sacrum and sutured to the skin there. A large drainage tube is inserted at the an.al end of the incision and a Paul's tube is tied into the projecting end of the bowel. ligature cuts through the bowel by ulceration, and the tube gets loose. If a Paul's tube be used in this way it should be introduced before the bowel is sutured to the skin below the sacrum. The end of the gut is pulled down by the tape fastened upon it, and the lumen of the bowel is occluded by an assistant's fingers as far above the line of section as possible ; the occluding tape is then removed from the cut end, and the Paul's tube is introduced in the usual manner and tied in with stout silk or fine tape. The bowel is then fixed to the skin as recommended above. Considerable care is necessary in fastening the bowel to the margin of the skin ; while in cases of healing by granulation the opening of the artificial anus is often so narrow as to require subsequent dilatation or division, it not infrequently happens that in cases healing by primary union the opening is too patulous, and this is a frequent cause of prolapse, so that the surgeon must be careful that the orifice of the artificial anus is slightly less than the normal calibre of the bowel. The slight contraction involved in healing will probably reduce this somewhat so that an opening of suitable size results.