250 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. incisions, which may take the form either of a trans-peritoneal operation through the linea semilunaris or the linea alba, or an extra-peritoneal one out- side the linea semilunaris. Trans-peritoneal operation.—The patient lies flat upon the back, and an incision about five inches in length is made, with its centre opposite the umbilicus, along the linea semilunaris on the affected side; this incision can be enlarged upwards and downwards, as may be necessary. The peritoneum is opened throughout the whole length of the incision, and the intestines are carefully packed over towards the opposite side, and the condition of the pedicle of the kidney and the glands in the neighbourhood are ascertained before the operation is further proceeded with. If it be found that the pedicle is not encroached upon by the growth and that the glands are unaffected, the operation is pro- ceeded with by drawing the colon inwards towards the middle line and dividing the outer layer of the meso-colon about an inch external to the b.owel over the whole length of the kidney. The peri- toneum is then gradually raised forwards, carrying with it the colon, until the pedicle is reached. After having made sure that the kidney can be removed, the surgeon proceeds to isolate the pedicle and ties and divides the ureter in two places, securing the pedicle subsequently in the manner already described (see p. 230). The kidney can now be rapidly shelled out of its bed and removed through the abdominal open- ing, the wound being packed with sponges, while the surface of the pedicle is examined to see if the vessels are properly controlled. All bleeding is arrested, the colon is replaced, and its meso- colon is stitched up. When there has been pus present in the kidney and there is consequently a risk of infection, the inner edge of the divided meso-colon may be stitched to the peritoneum on the inner edge of the abdominal incision at an early period of the operation, so that the main operation takes place practically extra-peritoneally. By this means a strip of peritoneum is shut off from the general peritoneal cavity, but that does net seem to be a matter of any importance. Extra-peritoneal operation.—The operation that we prefer in many cases is extra-peritoneal, and is done by making a similar incision to the above about an inch and a half outside the linea semilunaris (see Fig. 53). It is carried down to the peritoneum, and then the latter is gently raised unopened and pressed inwards along with the colon, so that the whole operation may be performed extra-peritoneally. The subsequent procedure is identical with that described above. The abdominal wall must be accurately sutured in both these operations, as otherwise a hernial protrusion will result. In order to avoid the possibility Fig. 53.—Incision for Extra PERITONEAL AnDOMINAL NE' PHKECTOMY.