THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. sterilised by boiling and passed with all the precautions as to disinfection already recommended (see p. 336), should be used. A cystitis set up in a subject of simple spasm of the urethra is a very serious matter, as the cystitis is apt to be aggravated by the co-existing spasm. The instrument should be a fairly large one (8-10 English) and, as gentle pressure may be required to overcome the spasm, a bl^ck olivary catheter may have to be employed; with a little patience however Jacques' instrument can generally be passed. As a rule there is no difficulty in passing the catheter as far as the membranous urethra, but when it reaches the opening in the triangular ligament it becomes arrested by the spasm, which is probably increased for the moment by the contact of the point of the instrument. Steady pressure should be kept up against the obstruction without moving the catheter, and in the majority of cases the spasm will relax in a few minutes and the instrument will pass into the bladder. Occasionally the catheter becomes arrested again - in the prostatic portion, and then the spasm is about the neck of the bladder; in some cases the spasm appears to be entirely in this situation. Steady pressure will usually succeed in passing an instrument whereas twisting it is apt to increase the spasm. A rectal suppository containing morphine and belladonna should be administered after the bladder has been evacuated, hot fomentations should be applied over the pubes and perineum, and the patient should be given hot drinks and kept in bed; he is usually able to pass water the following morning. If this be not the case, the bladder should be evacuated with a catheter three times a day until the spasmodic condition has passed off; with few exceptions the spasm does not last longer than the second or third day. Some patients however are very nervous and cannot pass water after an operation until they are allowed to stand up or at any rate to micturate when upon the hands and knees. The period at which this will be allowed is determined by the nature of the operation. CONGESTIVE STRICTURE. The typical example of this condition is acute retention of urine occurring during the course of gonorrhoea; it is essentially a combination of congestion of the mucous membrane with spasm of the extrinsic muscles of the urethra. The swollen mucous membrane offers a certain amount of impediment to the passage of urine and the obstruction is completed by the spasm which is due to the irritation of the inflammation. As a rule the spasm subsides easily if the congestive condition can be got rid of. TREATMENT.—Here the passage of an instrument along the urethra is a serious matter and should be avoided if possible; in the first place it tends to increase the irritation and, owing to the congested condition of the mucous membrane, haemorrhage may be set up. The pain and spasm are increased rather than diminished by it, and moreover in gonorrhoea the