MOVABLE KIDNEY. 177 abdomen, cand it should be shaped so as to lift the lower part and to give a uniform support all over. The pad over the affected kidney that is sometimes ordered instead of a belt is quite useless, because of the difificulty of employing sufficient pressure below the kidney to keep it up. If the kidney be very movable, a soft air-pad may be fixed to the belt on the affected side, the centre of the pad being about the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium. This pad, however, is quite of secondary importance, and the essential point is to provide a support to the whole abdomen. The belt must always be worn when the patient is about, and for the first few weeks, while the abdomen is very lax, it may be advisable to wear it in bed as well. Tight-lacing must be interdicted as well as over-exertion of any kind, especially violent strains or any exertion that will produce sudden deep descent of the diaphragm. At the same time, change of scene and avoidance of worry should be secured if possible. If treatment of this kind, carried out for a considerable time, improves the patient's condition very much, it is quite clear that operative interference is unnecessary; further, if the application of the support without any other treatment gives relief to the patient, it may be assumed that nephropexy will not be of much avail, because the fact that the general support relieves the patient implies that the symptoms are due as much to enteroptosis as to the movable kidney, and nephropexy will not affect the former condition. The patient will sometimes give a hint as to whether support will be successful by volunteering the fact that tightening the stays relieves the dragging pain. (b) Operative.—Operative interference will therefore only be called for: (a) When the measures above suggested fail to relieve the patient, and the pain is quite definitely referred to the kidney. {b) When the patient suffers from repeated attacks of renal colic; these may occasionally be so frequent and severe as to render life miserable, {c) When there are signs of intermittent hydronephrosis or interference with the circulation through the hilum. These two conditions may occur separately or together, and the latter is generally indicated by hematuria, {d) When there is evidence of disease, such as the presence of stone, in a movable kidney. The treatment of intermittent hydronephrosis from kinking of the ureter will be more appropriately considered in connection with hydronephrosis in general (see Chap. XXIII.). We shall therefore only deal here with the treatment of cases not benefited by support, rest, etc., with those of vascular disturbance, indicated by pain, enlargement of the kidney and hsematuria, and with those in which there is evidence of disease in the mobile kidney. In all these cases, it is necessary first to expose the kidney, and then, in the first two classes, to fix it properly in the lumbar region, whilst in the remain- ing set of cases the disease present requires to be suitably treated ; afterwards, if possible, the kidney is fixed. Operative interference takes the form of nephrorraphy or nephropexy, an operation of great value in suitable cases, although some surgeons object to It altogether. The reasons given for this opposition are two : in the first