INJURIES. into the tunica vaginalis in a horizontal position and where therefore it is easily twisted around its transverse axis. The accident usually follows some blow or violent strain and gives rise to much shock accompanied by vomiting, tenderness, local pain, and rapid swelling in the region affected. The condition may be mistaken for strangulated hernia. Treatment.—The best plan is to remove the testis. One or two cases have been published in which the torsion has occurred in the case of a testicle in the scrotum and the condition has not been very severe and the twist has been undone. The occurrence of the twist is easily recog- nised from the position of the epididymis which comes to the front or the outer side instead of lying behind and to the inner side. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. Either the epididymis or the body of the testicle alone may be affected by the inflammation, or both may be affected simultaneously. The inflammation may be acute or chronic, the latter form being especially associated with tubercle or syphilis. We shall describe the etiology and symptoms of acute epididymitis and acute orchitis separately, but, as the treatment is the same for the two affections, we shall consider that together. ACUTE EPIDIDYMITIS.—This usually originates in connection with some inflammation in the deep urethra and in the vast majority of cases is gonorrhoeal in origin. When it is due to this affection the epididy- mitis generally sets in during the third or fourth week of the disease, and preceding the attack there are signs that the gonorrhoeal inflammation has reached the deep urethra (see p. 375). Any other urethral inflam- mation may set up an acute epididymitis. It is not uncommon in connection with enlarged prostate in patients who lead a catheter-life. It may occur in connection with inflammation behind a stricture, with prostatic or impacted urethral calculi and after operations such as urethrotomy and lithotomy. It is very rarely of non-urethral origin but occasionally it follows an injury. The affection is seldom followed by suppuration when it is gonorrhceal in origin, but suppuration is not at all uncommon when it is due to injury to the prostate. There is generally tenderness and thickening along the vas deferens before the epididymis shows signs of inflammation, as the infective organisms spread along the vas or in the lymphatics in its wall on their way to the epididymis. This condition is soon followed by acute tender- ness and swelling of the epididymis, which surrounds the body of the testis like a horseshoe and is hard and extremely tender to the touch; the body of the testis itself is unaffected. There is often an acute hydrocele and the scrotum may be red and o^dcmatous. The pain is very acute when the patient is standing with the testis unsupported but subsides considerably when he is on his back with the scrotum well elevated. The pain extends