CARCINOMA. 491 years after the cancer has been discovered. Sometimes the growth extends with great rapidity and the patient dies a few months after the first discovery of the tumour. Every intermediate degree of malignancy is met with between these two extremes. Colloid cancer is also occasionally seen, usually in youngish women ; this form of the disease is generally less malignant than the ordinary one. The tumour is single at first, and it is only late in the disease that multiple growths are met with in the breast. From quite an early period, however, the lymphatics in and leading from the breast are found to contain cancer cells, and in a short time the nearest axillary lymphatic glands will be found infected also; it is said that this takes place within six months from the commencement of the growth in the breast. As the disease pro- gresses, the infection spreads along the axillary glands into the glands in the posterior triangle and thence down into the mediastinum, whilst at the same time cancer cells are carried to distant parts by the blood-stream and secondary tumours may arise in regions with which there is no direct lymphatic connection. It has been estimated that, after a cancer has lasted in the breast for about two years, there will be metastatic deposits in other parts of the body, but much depends upon the malignancy of the particular form of the disease. As the cancer cells spread towards the axillary glands they are apt to be arrested in the lymphatics, and this is a very important point to remember because it explains why it is not sufficient to remove the breast and the axillary glands ; the lymphatic channels between the two must be removed also. SYMPTOMS.—There is a tumour, seldom larger than a hen's egg and generally a good deal smaller, of stony hardness and ill-defined outline. The skin over the tumour is freely movable in the earliest stages and there is no retraction of the nipple but, as time goes on, the bands of fibrous tissue which connect the breast with the skin,— the "suspensory ligaments" of Astley Cooper,—become involved in the growth and are pulled upon by the contraction of the fibrous tissue, .so that before long the tumour does not move absolutely freely and on pushing it to one side the skin tends to be drawn in or puckered although it may not be actually infected. The skin actually becomes permanently dimpled as the suspensory ligaments become more pulled upon. If the tumour be situated near the centre of the gland, the lactiferous ducts become involved and pulled upon and the typical re- traction of the nipple occurs; this as a rule is greater on the side of the nipple towards which the tumour is situated. Retraction of the nipple however must not be looked upon as a very important sign; should the tumour be situated at the periphery of the gland, it may not occur for a long time, if at all, whereas, if the tumour be growing very rapidly and very little contraction be occurring, no retraction of the nipple may be met with, even though the tumour be actually in