199 INJURIES OF THE URETER. done by Novaro in the following manner:—The patient was placed in the Trendelenburg position, a median laparotomy was performed, the peritoneum opened and the intestines retracted. The ureter was traced down and its lower end freed from the vagina (Novaro's case was one of uretero-vaginal fistula). The lower end was split up for about one centimetre, and the bladder was then projected in the neighbourhood of the ureteral orifice by means of a sound introduced into it. An incision was next made into the bladder about two fingers" breadth above the normal ureteral opening and into that the end of the ureter was sewn by sutures taking up the whole thickness of the walls. The incision in the pelvic peritoneum was then closed, the peritoneum detached from the pubes backwards to the region of the anastomosis, and a drain intro- duced so that any leakage that might occur should be extra-peritoneal. In VVitzel's operation (see Fig. 47) a laparotomy was done and a small incision was made in the peri- toneum over the iliac vessels and the ureter isolated. By slight trac- tion the ureter was then defined in the broad ligament, Where an incision was made through the peritoneum oyer it and it was divided between two ligatures by an oblique cut. The distal end was buried, while the proximal end ,, , ■ I .1 • • • Fig. 47.—Witzel's operation of Uketero- was pulled out through the mCISlOn vesical Anastomosis. (Morris.) over the iliac vessels, and then a pair of long forceps was insinuated behind the peritoneum from the abdo- minal incision near the bladder up to this incision and the ureter was seized and drawn down to the bladder. All the incisions in the peritoneum were then closed so that the remainder of the operation was done extia-peritoneally. The bladder was distended with boracic lotion and brought over to the affected side so that the end of the ureter could readily lie upon its upper surface, and was fastened by a few sutures to the transversalis fascia. A small opening was next made in the bladder opposite the point where the lower end of the ureter touched it, and the latter was then attached to the bladder by two rows of sutures, the first uniting mucous membrane to mucous membrane and the second joining the muscular coats only. A fold of the bladder was made, parallel to the ureter, and the lips of this were united so as to form a complete canal in every respect resembling Witzel's operation for gastrostomy (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 221). A catheter was left in the bladder and a drain carried down through a separate opening in the abdominal wall.