THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LUNGS. bifurcation of the trachea and may be reached by a low tracheotomy wound, and these cases have already been dealt with (see Part V., p. 246). The foreign body impacted in the bronchus may give rise to pneumonia, dilatation of the bronchi behind it, breaking down of the lung and the formation of a burrowing abscess which may extend to the pleura and give rise to an empyema or may cause it to adhere to the thoracic wall and burst externally. \Vhen the foreign body is small and lodged deep in the substance of the lung, it may give rise either to an abscess in the lung tissue or else to a localised empyema. The treatment of a foreign body impacted in one of the larger bronchi has already been given (see Part V., p. 246). When the nature of the foreign body is such that it casts a shadow with the X-rays, a skiagram will greatly facilitate its localisation. Should it turn out that the body is imbedded in the lung substance, the surgeon may be called upon to explore that organ, which he will do in the manner already described for an abscess of the lung. Should he have to open an empyema from this cause, he will probably find on introducing the finger that, instead of feeling the smooth external surface of the lung covered by the thickened pleura, his finger goes into a ragged cavity which is obviously broken-down lung tissue ; careful probing may reveal a sinus leading in the direction of the bronchi, and may indeed actually detect the foreign body. If this be so, the opening in the chest wall must be enlarged, when the foreign body can probably be extracted by suitable forceps. If it is not thus detected and extracted, it may possibly find its way along the track left for drainage, which should always be of the largest possible dimensions. The after-treatment is similar to that for the other forms of lung abscess (see p. 542) but, although the immediate results may be very satisfactory and the constitutional symptoms may rapidly disappear and the discharge lose its purulent character, the final results are by no means always good, as a sinus discharging thin muco-pus may remain practically indefinitely.^ Conclusions.-—Godlee {pp. cit.) draws the following conclusions: 1. Gangrenous cavities of the lung should always be opened if possible; 2. So also should abscesses finding their way into the lung from elsewhere; 3. The same remark applies to abscesses due to foreign bodies; after an abscess of this kind has been opened, the foreign body may be extracted * We have had one very interesting case in which a boot-button was extracted through the chest wall after incision of an empyema which communicated directly with an abscess of the lung ; through this track the foreign body was felt with a probe and withdrawn. The abscess cavity rapidly contracted, but a sinus has persisted up to the present and has now existed for several years in spite of plastic operations and various other measures designed to obtain closure. The boy has however not suffered in any way from the persistence of the discharge, beyond the inconvenience of having to have it dressed repeatedly. He has no signs of lardaceous disease and the only trouble is a small sinus which communicates directly with the left bronchus and discharges a thin mucoid fluid but: practically no pus (see Kinifs College Hospital Reports, Vol. II., p. 97).