123 HYDATID OF THE LIVER. between the cyst and the under surface of the diaphragm there will be no further difficulty and the cyst can be laid open freely, its contents evacu- ated, and large drainage tubes inserted. If, however, adhesions are absent, the steps of the operation will be identical with those for the treatment of the cyst through a laparotomy wound, the edges of the cyst wall being pulled up through the opening in the diaphragm and attached to the deeper part of the wound. When an hydatid of the liver has burst into the abdominal cavity, the proper treatment is immediate laparotomy and thorough- flushing of the abdominal cavity in the usual manner (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 210), followed by removal of the cyst wall and drainage of the cavity left. TUMOURS OF THE LIVER. The majority of hepatic tumours are carcinomata secondary to similar disease elsewhere, and therefore not amenable to surgical treatment. Certain simple tumours of the liver, such as adenoma and angioma, and also primary malignant growths, particularly those of the gall-bladder and its neighbourhood, may however be removed, and Keen^ has collected 76 cases of partial resection of the liver, with a mortality of 14.9%. Little need be said as to the diagnosis and symptoms of the affection. In the majority of cases the diagnosis is made during an exploratory laparotomy to ascertain the nature of a localised enlargement. Should the physical characters point to an isolated solid tumour in the liver, it is always advisable to perform an exploratory laparotomy to ascertain the exact condition of affairs and to excise the growth if possible. Operation is contra-indicated if jaundice be present. TREATMENT.—It may be possible to excise small tumours situated . for instance on the anterior margin of the liver with a knife, and to control the haemorrhage afterwards by bringing the cut surfaces accurately together by deep sutures, as already described for laceration of the organ (see p. 108). As a rule however the anatomical conditions negative this, and more elaborate means must be taken to control the haemorrhage, which is the serious part of the. operation. Mayo Robson describes the following method : The portion of the liver to be excised is brought out through the wound, the margins of the parietal peritoneum are then sutured to the capsule of the liver all around the base of the tumour and long pins are thrust through the organ at right angles to each other; behind these an elastic ligature is tied tightly around the base of the tumour so as to control the circulation. The pins serve both to keep the liver projecting well from the abdominal wound, and also to prevent the elastic tourniquet from slipping forward. The projecting portion of the liver contain- ing the growth is then seared through by a Paquelin cautery at a dull red heat. When this has been done, the elastic ligature is gradually loosened ' Aniials of Sturdy, 1899, p. 267.