THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. circumstances it is well to screw down the instrument as firmly as possible and then to wait for a minute or two without attempting to increase the pressure, as it is found that the stone will sometimes fracture spontaneously under a steady strain. As the stone cracks, the fragments fall away from the jaws of the instrument which is then made to pick up fresh fragments exactly as it picked up the original stone, and these are crushed in their turn. As the fragments leave the jaws of the instrument they fall into the base of the bladder, and in that direction they are felt for by the closed instrument and picked up. The whole operation must be done methodically and each fragment must be located separately and grasped with the lithotrite. By proceeding in this manner the stone will be reduced to fragments small enough to be removed through the evacuating catheter. Just before re- moving the lithotrite to allow this to be done, it is well to rotate the instrument so that the beak looks up into the cavity of the bladder, and then to separate the blades for half an inch or so and, raising the handle of the instrument, to press the convexity of the jaws well into the base of the bladder; this may cause a number of small fragments to fall into the jaws of the instrument, and they can be crushed up still further. Evacuation should be practised as soon as a considerable proportion of the stone has been reduced to fragments. It is useless to attempt to crush up a large stone completely into minute fragments before evacuating any portion of it, as the debris gets in the way of the jaws of the instrument and interferes with the manipulations. The largest sized Bigelow's evacuating tube that the urethra will admit is passed and attached to the evacuating bottle (see Fig. 64). This should be filled with warm boracic lotion and attached to the tube, taking great care to see that the whole apparatus is full of lotion and contains no air. The tap is now turned on and, by gently squeezing the india-rubber ball, a stream of lotion is forced into the bladder, stirring up the sand and debris, which, on relaxation of the pressure, is sucked back into the evacuator. This performance is repeated again and again, the debris brought from the bladder remaining behind each time in the bottle; it should be repeated until nothing more is withdrawn. A small stone may be sufficiently reduced by one crushing to be removed entirely, but it will generally be found that,^after a certain amount of material has been removed, nothing more comes through, although fragments of stone can be heard striking the end of the catheter; should the evacuation have been complete, nothing will be heard as the fluid is sucked out except the rushing sound of flowing water, varied possibly by the sharp flap of raucous membrane against the eye of the catheter which is quite distinct from the metallic ring of a fragment of stone. During the evacuation the eye of the catheter should be turned in several directions so as to make sure that the whole area of the base of the bladder is searched by the stream of fluid. When the surgeon is satisfied that all the fragments are removed, the evacuating catheter is withdrawn and the operation is at an end. If there be fragments left behind that will not come through the evacuator, however, the latter is withdrawn, the lithotrite is introduced a