VESICAL CALCULUS. instrument into a sliding one, and then to jam the male down into the female blade sharply and repeatedly. Under no circumstances should an attempt be made to withdraw the instrument by force through the urethra until the blades are satisfactorily home. Sooner than this a supra-pubic cystotomy should be done. 2. Irritahiliiy of the bladder.—In some patients the bladder is constantly attempting to expel its contents even under deep anaesthesia, and this may not only lead to the ejection of the lotion and so to hampering of the working of the instrument, but fragments of stone may become impacted in the urethra and serious trouble may arise. The anaesthesia must therefore be profound, and in these cases it may be advisable to administer a morphine suppository prior to the operation. 3. Hemorrhage.—In a carefully-performed operation on a suitable subject no marked bleeding should occur. It is chiefly met with in cases of enlarged prostate or when there is a hard oxalate stone in a contracted and inflamed bladder, in which the sharp-pointed fragments injure the mucous membrane. Hjemorrhage due to damage of the bladder wall by the lithotrite, or from laceration of the urethra in dilating it or in introducing large instruments should never occur. Haemorrhage from an enlarged prostate may be unavoid- able, and may be so free as to lead to the abandonment of the operation in favour of supra-pubic lithotomy. Lithotomy.—There are three forms of lithotomy, viz., supra-pubic, and median or lateral perineal lithotomy. Of these the lateral operation, which was at one time almost universally used, has now fallen entirely into disuse, owing to the greater safety of the supra-pubic operation in the few cases in which a cutting is preferable to a crushing operation; the reasons are as follows : 1. The supra-pubic operation is the ideal method for very large hard stones that a lithotrite cannot crush, and also for multiple calculi. The incision into the bladder can be made of any shape or size that is desired, and the stone can be extracted without bruising the vesical walls, whereas attempts to draw a very large or rough stone through an inadequate incision by the perineal route leads to severe and serious sepsis. Further, supra- pubic cystotomy is very valuable for multiple calculi, because the interior of the bladder is open to inspection and a calculus cannot possibly be overlooked. 2. When there is an enlargement of the prostate, the supra-pubic operation is valuable because it enables the stone to be removed without damage to the gland. Moreover, operative procedures for. the cure of enlargement of the prostate may be carried out at the same time (see Chap. XXXVI.) without increasing the severity of the latter operation. 3. The supra-pubic method is absolutely essential for an encysted stone ; by no other means can the aperture of communication between the cyst and the rest of the bladder be properly seen, neither can suitable measures be taken for removal of the stone.