86 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. The great objection to the artificial anus in the sacral region is that it is difficult for the patient to manage for himself, so that he generally requires the services of an attendant. The f^cal stream is projected backwards from the lower end of the rectum instead of directly down- wards, and there is also some tendency to prolapse of the mucous mem- brane. Attachment of the boivel in the anal region.—It sometimes happens that the artificial opening can be made in the position of the normal anus, and this is such a gain to the patient that it should always be done if possible. It is most likely to be feasible when the growth is low down in the bowel and it is unnecessary to take away more than a very small piece of the sacrum. The early stages of the operation are the same as those already described : when the surgeon has freed the bowel and finds that the divided end of the upper extremity can be made to reach the anus, an incision should be carried through the muco-cutaneous margin of the anus, as in Whitehead's opera- tion (see p. 51), and the mucous membrane and submucous tissues dissected up as far as the top of the internal sphincter. Here the muscular wall of the rectum is cut across, and the dissection of the lower end of the gut from the surrounding tissues is carried out as in Kraske's operation (see p. 82) as high up as may be necessary. The rectum is now pulled well down until the proposed line of section is on a level with the anus. The bowel is then given a half or three-quarter twist on its long axis (see p. 84), the portion containing the growth is cut away and the divided edge of the upper end is sutured to the anal margin. To avoid bleeding this is best done by removing the affected portion of the bowel by a series of short snips with the scissors and then suturing each portion divided in succession to the skin with interrupted sutures of stout catgut, the ends of which are left long. This method both insures accurate coaptation and checks the bleeding from the cut end of the bowel. By this method the lower end of the rectum is not only joined to the skin in the normal situation of the anus, but its end is embraced by the internal sphincter so that more or less complete recovery of control may be looked for in suitable cases. The recovery of control is hardly complete, of course, because the nerve supply of the sphincter on the left side is apt to be inter- fered with during the operation, but if the half twist be given to the bowel the activity of the sphincter on the right side, combined with this gives very nearly complete control, and the method is an ideal one; the pity is that it is only feasible in a small number of cases. End-to-end union of the segments of the bowel.—In the rare cases where the growth is so small that only a limited part of the rectum has to be removed, and where in addition the situation is such that there is enough healthy rectum left below the growth to enable the ends to be brought together, the union may be effected in several ways. In our opinion the best plan is a modification of the one just described ; the mucous membrane of the open end of the lower portion of the bowel is dissected off for about half an inch