GALL-STONES. 149 we should advise, when an attempt to push up the stone has failed, is to incise the anterior wall of the duodenum directly down upon the stone by making an incision parallel to its long axis over the situation of the orifice of the duct, and then cutting directly down upon and extracting the stone through the mucous membrane of the posterior duodenal wall. This operation can only be done when the patient is in good condition. Before the incision is made into its anterior wall the duodenum should be clamped if possible on either side with Lane's intestinal clamps and emptied of its contents. If it be impossible to clamp it, it should be squeezed empty and occluded by the pressure of an assistant's fingers until the incision has been made, when the edges of the incision are held apart and pads of wool are pushed in on either side in order to prevent the escape of its contents. The posterior wall is now slit up from the orifice of the small papilla in which the duct ends; if that be indistinguishable, the surgeon cuts down directly over the stone. In slitting up or incising the duct in this manner it is very important not to carry the incision too high up or else the cellular tissue behind the duodenum may be opened up. After the incision has been made, the stone is easily removed with a suitable pair of forceps or with a scoop. A probe is then passed up along the duct to see if a second stone be present, which should be squeezed downwards ; this is not very important as in any case it would probably pass through the enlarged orifice of the duct. The pads are removed and the incision in the duct and the mucous membrane of the posterior wall of the duodenum is left unsutured; that through the anterior wall is closed as after enterotomy (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 366). IVhen choledochotomy is impossible on account of the extent of the adhesions, the depth of the duct or the weak state of the patient, something must be done to relieve the blockage of the bile duct, and the simplest plan is to open the gall bladder. If the obstruction to the duct be removable but the patient's condition is too bad to allow this to be done and time is of the utmost importance, a cholecystostomy (see p. 141) should be performed with the idea of possibly doing choledochotomy at a subsequent period, in which case the abdomen will be opened by a fresh incision and the stone removed. The biliary fistula resulting from the cholecystostomy will then gradually close, but this temporary plan should never be resorted to unless it is absolutely necessary, for two principal reasons. The first is that a stone in a fairly accessible situation at the time of the first operation may shift its position and become impacted further down, so that the subsequent opera- tion is much increased in difficulty. Moreover the adhesions resulting from the cholecystostomy will almost certainly seriously interfere with the subsequent operation. Therefore if choledochotomy can be performed it should be done in the first instance if po.ssible. The question of doing a cholecystenlerostomy {vide infra) must also be considered. After-treatment.—The after-treatment is in the main that for any severe laparotomy, and is especially directed to the relief of shock (see Part VI.,