523 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE RIBS. the thickened portion of the rib from which the abscess takes its origin. Another point to be remembered in dealing with these cases is that abscesses occurring in connection with caries of the dorsal vertebrae may also travel forward between the ribs and point in a similar manner and that therefore every chronic abscess pointing over the side of the thorax is not necessarily due to caries of the rib but may proceed from spinal disease. Prognosis.—This depends largely on the treatment adopted. The abscess will ultimately burst through the skin if left alone, and an in- tractable sinus leading down to carious bone will be left and the condition may persist indefinitely, fresh sinuses forming one after the other. When the sternum is affected the abscess usually points over the front of the bone. . Occasionally however the disease is situated more towards the posterior surface, and the abscess may then point between the costal cartilages immediately to one side of the sternum ; when this condition is met with the posterior surface of the sternum must be carefully examined with a probe in order to ascertain whether that is the situation in which the bone is diseased. Treatment, (a) Of tuberculous osteitis of the ribs.—This is most satisfactory if it be sufficiently radical. The incomplete methods of treatment such as opening the abscess and scraping the bone, are of little value and, even though heaHng may occur under them, they do not in any way compare with the surer radical method which we advise. Occasionally it is found that the abscess heals after a small opening into it has been made, the interior scraped out and iodoform and glycerine injected as for a spinal abscess (see Part I., p. 249). In these cases there is probably no necrosis present, but it is not a method of treatment that we would recommend. The only really satisfactory plan is to excise the abscess completely along with the affected area of the rib, and this is comparatively easily done unless the abscess be very large. The swelling is exposed by raising a suitable flap, and the wall of the abscess is carefully isolated from the surrounding soft parts without opening it until the area of bone from which it springs is clearly defined. It is often found that, when the soft parts have been separated, it is possible to lift the abscess wall off the rib for some little distance and that the area of bone from which it takes its origin is comparatively limited. The next step is to divide the periosteum at right angles to the long axis of the rib well in front of and behind the limits of the abscess; this structure is then peeled aside with a periosteum detacher from both surfaces and the rib is divided with cutting pliers clear of the abscess on both sides. It may then occasionally be possible to lift out the affected portion of the rib together with the unopened abscess, but usually the abscess cavity will have to be opened. If this be the case, the pus is rapidly flushed out of the wound with sublimate solution, the external