ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTA'J'E. 345 continue passing catheters ; should prostatectomy be declined or be inadvisable it may be necessary to establish permanent drainage (see p. 339). For free hcEtnaturia the best procedure is to introduce a large catheter in the first instance and tie it in, in the hope that its pressure will arrest the bleeding. When however there is much clot in the bladder, the eye of the catheter will get blocked, and the clots must be removed as soon as possible as not only will they lead to acute retention, but decomposition followed by very serious cystitis ^ill occur. As a rule this is easily done by attaching an evacuating apparatus to the catheter and sucking the clots up through the tube. After this the bladder and prostatic urethra may be irrigated with a solution of equal parts of tincture of hamamelis and water, with |-% solution of nitrate of silver, or with adrenalin chloride (i in 1000). Drugs given inter- Fk;. 68.—a Mf.thod of tying a Cathetf.r into the Bladder. The sketch shows the arrangement of the tapes round the thighs and abdomen and that of the threads that secure the catheter to the tapes. nally seem to have no effect on the bleeding and in any case where this is a severe symptom, radical measures should be seriously considered. It will rarely be necessary to open the bladder above the pubes for this condition; it may however be necessary if it be impossible to evacuate the clot as recom- mended above. The simplest method of tying a catheter into the bladder is to wrap a narrow piece of strapping around the catheter about half an inch in front of the meatus, leaving an end long on each side. The instrument is then covered with boracic lint between the strapping and the meatus, and the lint is made to cover the glans penis, over which the prepuce is pulled forward, and then the ends of the strapping are applied on either side of the penis and kept in position by a narrow strip wound horizontally around the organ behind the corona. Care must be taken not to fasten this circular strip too tightly and, should it cau.se any inconvenience, the tension can be overcome by slitting it up on the dorsum. Another method is to fasten the instrument to the limbs