501 CYSTS. connection with it and without an intra-cystic growth,— the so-called "simple serous cyst" of the breast. Cysts of this kind are supposed to arise after a localised mastitis leading to active overgrowth of the epithelium and blocking of the ducts. These cysts generally occur in the substance of the breast and form rounded, tense tumours in which it is seldom easy to get fluctuation on account of the tension under which the fluid is. They are painless and are generally single, but occasionally there are two or three large cysts as well as a number of small ones. On attempting to move the cysts the nipple becomes pulled upon owing to the intimate connection of the two structures. Treatment.—Isolated cysts can generally be readily cured by first tapping them and then injecting a few drops of undiluted carbolic acid. As a result the cyst wall becomes inflamed and the cyst fills up, but the fluid becomes absorbed in a few days and a cure results. Any fresh cysts can be treated similarly as they arise, and thus an operation is avoided. Some patients however may wish to avoid all chance of having to undergo a repetition of the treatment and moreover there may occasionally be reason to suppose that the cyst forms part of a fibro- adenoma, and then the simplest plan is to excise the quadrant of the breast containing the cyst. If tjhe breast tissue around be healthy, a radical cure will follow this procedure, but unfortunately it is not at all uncommon on cutting into the breast to find that smaller cysts aie scattered throughout its substance and if the patient wishes for a radical cure there is no alternative but to remove the main mass of the breast. It is for this reason that we would advise a trial of tapping and injection, at any rate in the first instance, as the procedure is painless and saves an operation, whereas on the other hand the only true radical operation is complete removal of the breast, which is a comparatively severe operation. Excision of the affected area of the breast very often ends in disappointment. GALACTOCELE.—By this term is understood a cyst containing milk more or less altered in character. The swelling is always formed during lactation and is due to dilatation of one of the larger ducts with partial obstruction to the passage of the milk. That the obstruction is only partial is proved by the fact that pressure on a galactocele as a rule leads to a discharge of milk from the nipple and partial emptying of the sac. Sometimes these cysts follow injury and are then supposed to be due to rupture of the duct. They are innocent tumours; fluctuation can generally be made out in them. Treatment.—The best plan is to excise the galactocele through an incision radiating from the nipple. It is sufficient to shell out the cyst itself and a radical (;ure results. If excision be objected to, tapping and injection with carbolic acid may be employed, but the result is not nearly so certain in these cases as in the ordinary simple serous cyst.