CHAPTER XXXV. PROSTATORRHCEA : AFFECTIONS OF THE SEMINAL VESICLES. PROSTATORRHGEA. In this affection there is a discharge of prostatic fluid accompanied by marked neurasthenic symptoms. In addition to the discharge of fluid, there may be other nervous conditions, such as spasm of the sphincter vesicae, with arrest of the flow of urine and some pain, and there is often great hyperaesthesia of the prostate, and a variety of abnormal sensations. The fluid that escapes from the urethra may be copious, and resembles white of egg, and its presence gives rise to profound mental depression in the mind of a neurotic patient, who generally reads quack literature on the subject, and is under the impression that he is suffering from what is called spermatorrhoea. There is generally some increased frequency of micturition and sexual irritability, and there may be a certain amount of chronic inflammation of the prostatic urethra; a history of antecedent gonorrhoea or masturbation is not uncommon. TREATMENT.—This is most difficult, as nearly every one of this type of patient deserts his medical man for someone else before he has been long under treatment. In the early stages benefit may be obtained by passing the largest-sized bougies possible, which press out the secretion from the follicles, and empty them for the' time being. The urethra should then be washed out, and topical applications can be made to the mucous membrane (preferably a strong solution of nitrate of silver) through the urethroscopic tube. This subject is dealt with more fully in connection with the treatment of gleet. Tonics should always be administered, and the patient's attention should be diverted from his condition as much as possible, and he should be assured that it is in no way serious. Due regard must be paid to general hygiene, and the bowels must be regulated, while cold water douches, shower-baths, and regular e.xercise are all advisable. Sandal- wood oil in lo-minim doses, three times a day after meals, belladonna,