THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS. affected area must be clipped away, the prepuce being slit up to enable this to be done. It is not uncommon to find that the prepuce has sloughed over a large area and that the glans penis projects through it. The raw surface left after removal of the sloughs should be destroyed thoroughly with a cautery at a dull red heat or by fuming nitric acid, which should be neutralised by douching with a solution of carbonate of soda after it has acted for about ten minutes. Boracic fomentations are then applied until the wound is granulating. Skin-grafting may be performed if a large raw surface is left. Internally, tonic treatment and the administration of stimulants will be called for. GANGRENE OF THE PENIS.—This is of rare occurrence and the gangrene is practically always of the moist variety, resulting either from constriction of the organ by some unyielding substance, such as a ring or a ligature, from very tight paraphimosis or from extravasation of urine following a calculus impacted in the penile urethra. It may also be a complication of specific fevers, such as typhoid or smallpox, and may ■occur in connection with diabetes, alcoholism or Bright's disease. Treatment.—When the gangrene is only slight, the penis should be ■disinfected and boracic fomentations should be applied until the sloughs have separated, after which skin-grafting may be required to cover the raw surface left. When the whole thickness of the organ is affected, the best plan will be to amputate the penis (see p. 434) well above the line of •demarcation. INDURATIONS OF THE CORPORA CAVERNOSA.—Extensive localised indurations of the corpora cavernosa may be met with and lead to difficulty in erection or to lateral deflection of the organ accompanied by much mental distress to the patient. These indurations may be due to injury or to gummatous infiltration, but in some cases no origin can be traced. Microscopic examination shows an increase of fibrous tissue accompanied by endarteritis. Except for the local inconvenience, the ■condition is not serious. Treatment.—-This is practically of no avail.for the cases in which no syphilitic or gouty origin can be traced. Operative interference is useless because the scar produces the same inconvenience as does the thickening, and moreover operative interference does not check the spread ■of the induration. When there is a gouty history, suitable medicinal treatment is indicated, while for syphilitic cases iodide of potassium is ^iven internally, and mercurial or iodide of potassium oiritments are applied locally.