THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. I04 The posterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum traced upwards is reflected on to the liver at the posterior margin of the portal fissure. Thence it passes upwards, covering the caudate and Spigelian lobes. The liver has five ligaments, termed the coronary, suspensory or falci- form, the round, and the right and left lateral ligaments. Of these the suspensory ligament is the only one of surgical importance as it serves to limit abscesses in the sub-phrenic region; it extends from front to back, and is continuous behind with the coronary ligament and wraps around the round ligament below. It consists of two opposed surfaces of peritoneum, and extends from the umbilicus, being reflected above on to the anterior abdominal wall and the diaphragm; it lies a little to the right of the middle line. There is a well-defined area of the peritoneum shut off from the general peritoneal cavity between the liver and the transverse colon, which lies directly in contact with the anterior abdominal wall, and extravasations from the liver may therefore be limited to this area without affecting the general peritoneal cavity, provided that the extravasation be slow enough to give rise to adhesions which will still more effectually limit this space; an extravasation in this area will find its way downwards towards the right, outside the ascending colon. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS. The position of the gall-bladder and its relation to other important structures in its immediate neighbourhood varies widely. When in its usual position, the fundus lies directly behind the ninth or tenth right costal cartilage, but it is sometimes well to the right of this spot. When the gall-bladder is small it may be very high up and entirely covered by the edge of the right lobe of the liver, whilst sometimes it is considerably enlarged and deflected inwards across the middle line; it has even been met with in the lumbar or csecal regions. These anomalies in position are due not only to changes in size of the organ itself, but also to alterations in the shape and size of the liver; they are also largely influenced by adhesions of the gall-bladder to neighbouring structures. As a rule the gall-bladder measures from three to four inches in length and from one and-a-quarter to one-and-three-quarters of an inch at its broadest part, which is usually about two-thirds of the distance from its neck. Its variations in size are extreme. It may be so large as to be mistaken for an ovarian cyst, whilst on the other hand it may be so small as to escape notice except after the most careful search. A point of practical importance is the marked variation in the thickness of its walls; these may be much thickened as the result of inflammation in the interior; on the other hand they may be as thin as paper, so that any suture introduced through the peritoneal coat must necessarily penetrate into the interior of the gall-bladder.