EMPYEMA. After the pressure has been thus gradually relieved and the pus simply ebbs and flows with respiration, the opening should be made just large enough for the finger to be introduced through it. It is most important that the condition of the pleural cavity should be investigated with the finger, as it is not uncommon to find large fibrinous masses which will plug the opening and prevent the escape of pus and which therefore require to be cleared out before the pus will flow freely; if left in the thoracic cavity they will no doubt break down and escape in fragments, but they will probably delay the closure of the wound considerably and therefore it is important to remove them all at the time of the operation. As a rule these masses can be brought to the surface with the finger, seized with forceps and pulled out; or they can be hooked out with a small spoon or a curved blunt instrument quite readily. Some surgeons strongly advocate washing out empyemata but we do not recommend this except in rare instances when the contents of the empyema are very foul. Immediate death has followed this practice, for reasons which are not at all clear, and we have found that washing out a cavity does not enable these masses to be removed any better than with the fingers or forceps aided by the expulsive action of the thorax as occurs when the child coughs. Another important point on which information may be obtained by digital investigation of the interior of the pleura is the condition of the lung. The next question that arises is that of drainage. Here again the bacteriology is of importance. It has been pointed out by Dr. Sutherland ^ that in many cases in children drainage is not necessary provided that steps be taken to secure expansion of the lung at the time of the opera- tion, and this appears to hold good for the cases due to the pneumococcus; in streptococcal infections, however, drainage must be resorted to as in the case of any acute abscess. In pneumococcal empyemata we have had ex- cellent results by following Dr. Sutherland's suggestion, the essential point of which is to endeavour to obtain expansion of the lung as soon as possible when the finger in the cavity shows that it is not too firmly bound down by adhesions. This is best done by allowing the patient to partially awake from the anaesthetic, when the irritation caused by the finger introduced into the pleural cavity excites coughing. Every time this happens air is forced into the lung and leads to its expansion. At the moment the child coughs the finger is slightly withdrawn from the opening and allows a little of the pus to e.scape and then immediately plugs it again during inspiration. This prevents air getting back into the pleural cavity and the lung may often be made to expand completely by continuing in this way. If the lung expands fully at the time of the operation and the case is pneumococcal in its origin, it is unnecessary to introduce any drainage tube at all and it will be sufiicient to lay a piece of protective about three inches square over the wound and outside this to apply a large ordinary antiseptic dressing. The protective acts as a valve, allowing the escape of 'See Lainrl, Jan. 27 and June 9, 1894.