463 NEW GROWTHS. potassium should be given in the cases occurring in the early stage and, as it is important to get the patient under the influence of mercury rapidly, it is best given either by inunction or by intra-muscular injection (see Part I., p. 233). When the affection is congenital, mercury should be administered (see Part I., p. 236). Little local treatment is called for; the testis should be supported and the enlargement in the early stages may perhaps be usefully treated by keeping the scrotum smeared with unguentum hydrarg. or 5% oleate of mercury. When the gummata are large and extensive they often do not clear up entirely even under prolonged anti-syphilitic treatment. NEW GROWTHS OF THE TESTIS. Tumours of the testis are comparatively rare and are more often malignant than benign. The malignant growths are either carcinomata which originate in connection with the tubuli seminiferi, or sarcomata of the round-celled or, more rarely, of the spindle-celled variety. Sarcoma of the testicle is apt to undergo cystic degeneration and the term "cysto- sarcoma" has been applied to some of these tumours. Malignant tumours of the testicle are very virulent. The 'sarcomata occur principally in young children, whilst the carcinomata occur between thirty and fifty years of age. As a rule the tumours, with the exception of the spindle-celled sarcoma, grow rapidly. At first they distend the tunica albuginea and the form of the testis is retained, but this is soon destroyed, and irregular bosses of unequal consistence and often fluctuating in parts are formed. The disease spreads up along the cord, which becomes thickened, usually at a later stage than in inflammatory affections, and the lumbar glands are early affected both by carcinoma and sarcoma. The chances of cure by operation are comparatively slight. In the early stages the diagnosis, especially from a syphilitic testicle, may be difficult, but the rapid growth of the tumour, its irregular outline and general characters and the absence of marked hydrocele soon settle the question. The tunica vaginalis becomes adherent to the testis and the tissues outside it are then invaded. Death usually occurs within a year of the time that the tumour is first noticed. Simple tumours of the testis are comparatively rare. The testis is one of the spots in which deposits of cartilage occur independently of bone and in some cases it is possible that these enchondromata are simple tumours. The great majority of them however appear to be sarcomatous in nature and, although perhaps not so malignant as other forms of sarcoma, nevertheless have a malignant tendency. They grow somewhat slowly and are hard and nodular. Cystic degeneration of the testis is sometimes met with, and the condition differs widely from the more common cystic affection of the testis known as cysto-sarcoma. It is usually not easily diagnosed before incision and.