GLEET. 383 make the patient very miserable. Astringent injections are also generally futile in these cases; cases undoubtedly clear up under their use, but in all probability they would have cleared up equally well without them. A study of the conditions giving rise to the affection leads to the conclusion that any injection strong enough to influence the local lesion must be too irritating to be applied to healthy mucous membrane. The only precise and logical method of treatment is first to discover the situation and nature of the actual lesion, and then to apply suitable medication to it and not to other parts of the urethra; for this purpose the urethroscope {vide infra) is the only satisfactory instrument. Such instruments as urethral injectors and various forms of urethral caustic-holders have been known for a long time, but they are not only clumsy in actual manipula- tion but uncertain in their action, as they do not necessarily reach the affected area. Fig. 79.—Inflating Urethroscope for use in Gleet. The instrument carries a lamp with a powerful parabolic reflector and is made with a short handle to facilitate working. The tube of the urethral inflating apparatus (a) is connected with a small hand bellows, and to use it the window at the proximal end of the tube is closed. This window is also shown in dotted outline as it falls back when probes or mops are passed down the urethroscopic tubes. Urethroscopy.—With the urethroscope however (see Fig. 79) the urethra can be examined minutely from end to end, and any diseased area can be directly illuminated, its surface cleaned and examined, and even the strongest drugs can be applied directly to it without risk to the surround- ing healthy mucous membrane. A properly performed urethroscopy forms as complete and accurate a method of examination and treatment as can be obtained at the present day. Certain precautions are necessary however before it can be used with success; care, gentleness in manipulation and a knowledge of the appearances met with in the healthy urethra are essential. The urethroscope is used as follows : A tube of the largest size that the meatus will hold is disinfected by boiling,^ warmed, lubricated with ^ Strong carbolic lotion should be avoided a.s it irritates the urethral mucous membrane. If it be used for disinfection, the acid should be washed away by dipping the tube in boric lotion or boiled water immediately before introduction.