252 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. albumen and salts with very little or no urea. They usually give rise to no symptoms until a definite tumour is formed, when they are easily detected, but may be mistaken for a hydronephrosis. Treatment.—Puncture has been recommended, but it is almost certain that the cyst will re-fill, and the proper line of treatment is either excision of the cyst or incision and drainage. If the cyst be small and single, the simplest plan is to excise it along with a thin layer of the renal perenchyma as the cyst is not easy to shell out. The bleeding resulting from this is easily stopped by passing deep sutures through the renal tissue (see p. 191). The ordinary lumbar incision is the best (see p 178). When the cyst is very large it may be considered preferable to lay it freely open and stitch the cut edges to the skin, and establish a fistula after sponging the surface of the cyst wall over with undiluted carbolic acid. Healing will take place after a time, but this method is distinctly inferior to excision if that be possible. Primary nephrectomy is quite unnecessary, but it may occasionally happen that a permanent urinary fistula is established in the loin, and for the cure of this the patient may insist on a secondary nephrectomy. HYDATID CYSTS.—These occur comparatively rarely, and follow the same course as hydatids elsewhere. The affection is usually not noticed until a tumour of considerable size has formed, unless the cyst bursts into the renal pelvis, when there will be attacks of renal colic and the passage of small " daughter-cysts." The diagnosis is often extremely difficult. If the cyst has burst into the pelvis, "daughter-cysts" will be passed; if the tumour be punctured, examination of the fluid will reveal its nature. Treatment.—This consists in stitching the cyst wall to the skin, drawing off as much of the fluid contents with a trochar and cannula as possible, and then laying the cyst freely open, washing out the cavity, and removing its contents; a drainage tube is inserted, and the cavity is irrigated daily with boracic lotion to remove any shreds of the cyst wall that have become detached. Occasionally, when the cyst is very small, it and the adjacent portion of the kidney may be excised, just as for simple serous cysts (vide supra) and this is followed by immediate and complete recovery; these cases however are rare. CYSTIC DEGENERATION OF THE KIDNEY.—This is also known as polycystic disease of the kidney, and is not amenable to surgical treatment. It is practically always bilateral although it is more advanced on one side than on the other. The cysts are very numerous, and the only really radical treatment is nephrectomy. As the disease advances symptoms of degeneration of the kidney set in and the patient usually dies of uraemia. It has been suggested that the kidney in which the disease is most advanced should be removed, but this, at any rate in some cases, has apparently been followed by a rapid increase in the degeneration on the other side. Mr. Henry Morris however is inclined to recommend a