THE TREATMENT OF PULMONARY CAVITIES. BRONCHIECTATIO CAVITIES.—The great difficulty here is to open the cavity at its most dependent spot, as a number of cavities often communicate and the drainage of one does not necessanly imply the free drainage of others. Unless therefore the symptoms point to the presence of one large cavity, surgical intervention is of very little value as it will generally' be found that, although the patient improves for a time and the foetid expectoration is much relieved, fresh collection occurs subsequently and the symptoms recur. The steps of the operation are similar to those already described (see p. 541). According to Godlee there is rarely any adhesion of the pleura, and therefore it is most important to suture the two layers together before the pleural cavity is opened, as otherwise the lung collapses and cannot be got at. Should this accident happen, the wound in the pleura must be closed and the patient must be left for the air to be absorbed before the operation can be proceeded with. When the bronchiectatic cavity is opened, it presents a characteristic feel to the finger, being smooth, firm and usually globular, whereas an abscess cavity is irregular, spongy and friable. Its contents are sticky muco-pus, usually copious and not always offensive. The after-ireatment is similar to that for pulmonary abscess (see p. 542). Should the patient derive no benefit, the tube should be removed, when the external opening will probably close and the patient will be left much in the condition in which he was before operation. TUBERCULOUS CAVITIES.—Hitherto surgical interference has not been much employed in these cases and, when it has been carried out, it has not met with any particular success. This is partly due to the fact that on the one hand, when the cavity is sufficiently small and localised to render surgical measures likely to be of value, the case is in a stage at which a cure by medical measures is most to be expected; whereas, when the patient suffers from distressing symptoms due to a cavity, the mischief is so far advanced that surgical measures are little likely to be of value. If the operation is undertaken its steps are similar to those described for pulmonary abscess (see p. 541)- CHRONIC NON-TUBERCULOUS CAVITIES—These are the most suitable cases for surgical interference, but they are only very occa- sionally met with in practice. When they occur they are usually due to abscesses that have formed elsewhere and have ruptured into the lung, the typical example being an abscess of the liver. It is obvious that if the abscess can be diagnosed and localised and the surgeon is able to drain it, the chances of recovery are exceptionally good, as the rest of the lung is healthy and drainage of the abscess may be carried out at its most dependent spot. The principles of treatment and after-treatment are exactly similar to those for pneumonic abscess (see p. 541). CAVITIES DUE TO FOREIGN BODIES LODGED IN THE BRONCHUS.—As a rule the foreign body becomes impacted near the