77 CANCER. of the feces may be of help when a portion of the rectum has been excised and the divided ends are reunited, but the colotomy opening has to be closed in order to complete the operation, and therefore a third formidable operation has to be added to the other two before the case is complete. Before proceeding to excision, every effort should be made to empty the colon and this is best done by the repeated administration of laxatives, particularly salines, and frequent enemata. The diet must also be regulated and it is well to wash out the rectum twice daily for two or three days before the operation so as to remove as much as possible of the putrid discharge from the tumour. For this purpose sanitas or a solution of per- oxide of hydrogen (lo vols, per cent.) may be employed. It is a mistake however to imagine that anything like true disinfection of the rectum before operation can be obtained. The question of the preliminary injection of anti-streptococcic serum has already been fully considered (see Part L, p. 183). Although other organisms come into play in the causation of the diffuse septic cellutitis after these operations, the streptococcus pyogenes is an active factor and the serum may be of value. Immediately before the operation, a sponge or a cotton-wool swab should be introduced through the anus right up to the lower end of the tumour, partly to prevent the escape of foul discharge and partly to distend the rectum slightly and to render it more easily defined during operation; the anus should be closed by a few sutures. While shock is not a very marked feature of these operations, except in the intra-abdominal forms, it is important to employ all the ordinary safe- guards against it; these are fully described elsewhere (see Part I., p. 138). The subsequent steps of the operation vary according to the route adopted. 1. Excision by the sacral route.—Excision of the rectum after removal of the coccyx was introduced some years ago by Kocher, and this was somewhat modified by Kraske who removed not only the coccyx but also a portion of the sacrum. Since then numerous modifications have been made consisting on the one hand in the removal of a larger portion of the sacrum, on the other in an osteo plastic operation in which the lower end of the sacrum is turned aside and subsequently replaced. In all of them the removal of the sacrum stops below the third sacral foramen in order not to injure important nerves especially those supplying the bladder. Kraske removes the left side of the sacrum by a curved incision running from the third left posterior sacral foramen to the mid-point of the lower margin of the sacrum. Hochenegg makes an oblique incision across the sacrum instead of a curved one. Bardenheuer cuts transversely across the lower end of the sacrum below the third sacral foramen. Rydygier performs an osteo-plastic resection of the sacrum dividing the attachments on the left side of the bone, and saws it across transversely just below the third sacral foramen turning the detached portion across to the right and then replacing it