CHAPTER V. SYPHILIS AND TUBERCULOSIS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Syphilis may be met with in these parts in all its stages. The Hunterian chancre at the anus is not very rare, and occurs more frequently in women than in men. It is generally seated about the anal margin, but may be actually within the rectum, usually in the sphincteric area. The diagnosis is most important as the sore may be mistaken for a carcinoma of the rectum. The appearances are almost precisely those of chancre elsewhere with the exception that, owing to the irritation of the faeces, there is more inflammation and ulceration and, when the chancre is situated well within the anus, the inflammation about the base may be so marked as to strongly suggest malignant disease. The size of the sore, its general characters, the absence of outgrowths from it must all be taken into considera- tion in making the diagnosis. The glands first affected in chancre about the anus are the inguinal chain, while in one situated within the bowel enlarged glands may be felt in the hollow of the sacrum. One of the chief points of distinction between carcinoma and chancre in this situation is the limitation of the ulceration in a chancre and the absence of the foul, sloughing irregular surface, which is common in carcinoma. In a short time secondary symptoms will of course occur, and then the diagnosis will be clear. Treatment. — This is the same as that for chancre elsewhere (see Part I., p. 230), but, owing to the great pain and irritation that the patient suffers, it is important to obtain the physiological effects of mercury as soon as possible and therefore one of the more rapid methods, such as inunction, fumigation, or intra-muscular injection should be chosen. Locally, supposi- tories containing calomel and opium are very useful, and if necessary they may be combined with a little cocaine. In the secondary stagre syphilitic affections are frequently met with about the anus; the rectum itself is rarely affected, except in the tertiary period. The typical manifestations are mucous tubercles or condylomata.