375 GONORRH(EA. stage is prolonged for an indefinite time, the inflammation becoming localised to one or two areas of urethral mucous membrane, generally in connection with folds or crypts on its surface, and giving rise to the slight mucoid discharge known as gleet. Complications.—Some of these are due to local extension of the disease, and some to infection of parts at a distance. Most of these complications are treated of elsewhere. Amongst the principal are balanitis, phimosis and paraphimosis, peri-urethral abscess, thrombosis, lymphangitis, bubo, epididymitis, prostatitis, vesicuhtis, cystitis, retention of urine, gonorrheal rheumatism and gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. Symptoms.—The first symptom is an irritation or itching about the meatus, the lips of which have a tendency to stick together. This is quickly followed by scalding on micturition and a profuse discharge of thick yellowish pus, the lips of the meatus being intensely red and swollen, and the affection often being accompanied by painful nocturnal erections, which may later assume the form of chordee {vide supra). Micturition is unduly frequent at first, probably owing to reflex irritation and not to extension of the disease to the bladder. The acute symptoms subside in from about ten days to three weeks, the discharge becoming thinner and more watery in character until it either disappears entirely or remains as the mucoid discharge known as gleet (see p. 382). When posterior urethritis sets in acutely during the early stage, there is usually a diminution in the amount of discharge and a feeling of distension and burning in the perineum with markedly increased frequency of micturition; there may be also a few drops of blood with the last drops of urine caused by spasmodic contraction of the compressor urethrse upon the inflamed membranous urethra. There is usually great sexual excitation, with erections which may last for a long time and are more or less painful according to the condition of the corpus spongiosum. If the urine be passed into two glasses both portions will be cloudy and will contain shreds of mucus and pus, the first especially. During the chronic period the discharge is best seen in the morning on separating the lips of the meatus and squeezing the [fluid along the urethra, when a drop of viscid or even purulent discharge will be expelled. In the intervals between micturition the discharge dries up over the meatus so that the lips stick together, and this is especially the case in the morning when a considerable time has elapsed since the last act of micturition. Treatment.—This must be considered in reference to the various stages, and will be divided into: i. The treatment at the commencement of the attack; 2. During the acute stage; 3. During the stage of decline; and 4. The treatment of gleet. 1. Treatment at the commencement of the attack.—Here the question of abortive treatment presents itself and many plans have been adopted with a varying amount of success. It is obvious that any attempt