348 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. extensive to be treated by stitching the mucous to the cutaneous surfaces this may be done by raising a small triangular flap from the frenum and interposing it between the cut lips of the meatus. The apex of the flap should be at the point of attachment of the frenum to the penis and the flap should be raised before the meatus is slit. The apex of the flap is then fastened to the distal end of the urethral mucous membrane with fine catgut and thus the cut surfaces are lined by skin, and contraction is avoided. Not only does an unduly small meatus exert injurious backward pressure but the patient will suffer severely should he contract any form of urethritis. Congenital strictures further down the urethra must be treated on the same lines as for the acquired form (see Chap. XL.). , HYPOSPADIAS. This condition is due to want of fusion of the lips of the uro-genital sinus which go to form the urethra and varies in degree from an unduly large meatus to a completely cleft urethra. It is noteworthy that this deformity, unlike the somewhat similar condition of epispadias, never extends into the bladder and incontinence of urine is therefore not one of its complications. In hypospadias affecting the glans penis the inconvenience that the patient suffers may be so slight as to be almost unnoticeable, but it increases the further back the cleft extends. There are two troubles in connection with hypospadias. In the first place the urethral opening is always unduly narrow, sometimes extremely so. There is therefore a certain amount of back pressure from which serious results may follow; it is always essential in treatment to see that the orifice is made of full size. The second important point is that the penis is always curved downwards when the cleft in the urethra extends any distance backwards and this incurvation is greater the further back the cleft extends. Attempts to straighten the organ are resisted by a fibrous band corresponding to the remains of the uro-genital groove and lying in the position of the normal urethral roof This incurvation produces much inconvenience, as the urine is projected against the down- curved organ, the stream is broken up and the patient is constantly wetted ; in children this often gives rise to troublesome eczema in addition to the offensive ammoniacal decomposition of the urine upon the clothes. When the incurvation of the organ is not extreme, the trouble may be avoided by lifting up the glans when passing water, and holding it out of the way of the urinary stream, but in marked cases this is not possible. When the urethral orifice is situated further back than the glans, coitus is practically impossible, as proper erection is prevented by the incurvation. When the cleft extends still further back and is associated with a cleft scrotum, the condition closely resembles hermaphrodism and the rudimentary organ is quite useless.