499 CARCINOMA. would dissent. Not only is the operation desirable but the results are extremely favourable and, although a patient the subject of atrophic scirrhus if unoperated upon does not necessarily die for some years, she is very apt to have much suffering in connection with the spread of the disease, and at any time the tumour may take on active growth. There seems no reason whatever why the patient should not be freed of the disease simply because it is slow-growing, and although formerly, when partial operations were performed, rapid recurrence often took place, we have never experienced recurrence in these cases when a suitable extensive operation has been performed. (b) Palliative.—When the surgeon is confronted with a case of cancer of the breast obviously unsuited for complete removal, the question arises whether anything can be done to relieve the patient and in the first place whether the breast should be removed even though there be no hope of eradicating the disease. Rapidly growing cancers of the breast left to themselves usually cause intense pain and trouble from the local spread of the disease in the breast and the axilla, and a patient will be freed from this by removal of the breast and death will be rendered much less painful if the local spread of the mischief be stopped. In cases of rapidly growing disease therefore, especially in youngish women, we would advocate free removal of the breast and axillary glands, even though there be indications that the whole of the disease is beyond complete eradica- tion ; and this we recommend in order to avoid the local ulceration and pressure symptoms which are sure to follow if the disease be left to itself. It is questionable however whether this is advisable if the skin be actually affected. In any case very free removal of the skin area should be adopted. Oophorectomy.—Much has been written lately concerning the value of oophorectomy for inoperable cancer and, according to the published cases, the immediate effect of the operation has been striking in some cases, the tumour diminishing in size and in parts entirely disappearing, whilst the patient has improved in health and the local disease has remained quiescent. In our experience however a time comes in from six months onwards when the effect of the operation seems to pass off and recrudescence of the disease occurs, and we know of no instance in which the patient can truly be said to have been cured by the operation. The best results that we have seen have been in cases where the local disease has been eradi- cated as freely as possible simultaneously with the oophorectomy, but even here we have seen striking instances of the futility of the procedure. Something seems to depend on the thoroughness with which the ovaries are removed, for it must be remembered that the ovarian structure extends •close up to the uterus, and the pedicle must therefore be secured absolutely at the uterus it.self, both tube and ovary being removed on each side. The conclusion we have come to concerning this method of treatment is that, should the patient be exceedingly anxious to have something more •done and be otherwise in good health and should it be possible at the