THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. 5i6 recovered. In actual practice the hernia apparently has been always approached from the abdominal cavity although it would seerri possible that it might be easier to get at it through the pleural cavity after resecting two or more ribs. Diaphragmatic hernia.—True hernia caused by protrusion of some of the abdominal contents through an abnormal opening in the diaphragm, is very rare but is nevertheless well known. In the majority of cases the condition has either been found post mortem or has been unexpectedly come upon in the course of a laparotomy for acute intestinal obstruction. The treatment will consist in an attempt to reduce the hernia after laparotomy and to suture the aperture in the diaphragm through which it has found its way. INJURIES TO THE PLEURA AND LUNG.—These are the commonest visceral lesions in severe contusions of the chest; the air does not escape sufficiently quickly from the lung when the compressing force is applied, and consequently its tissue is torn. This is most likely to happen when the lung is full of air and the glottis is firmly closed at the time the injury is received. The actual injury varies considerably. The visceral layer of the pleura may remain intact and blood may be extravasated, into the lung tissue, a certain amount finding its way into the bronchial tubes and so becoming expectorated. In more severe cases however the lung substance may be torn to a considerable extent and the pleura ruptured over it, and then blood and air will escape into the pleural cavity and a pneumo-hgemo- thorax will be established. The bleeding will probably be profuse when the rupture is extensive, and the amount of air present will then be of secondary importance. There will be dulness over a large area of the pleural cavity and over the seat of injury. In the latter situation there will also be crepitations and there will be heemoptysis. In mild cases there is merely some slight pain and cough and the patient spits up blood-stained mucus. The prognosis depends entirely on the extent of the injury. When this is comparatively slight and there is no serious pneumo- or haemo- thorax, recovery is usually rapid except in feeble or elderly subjects in whom the injury may form the starting point of pneumonia. When how- ever there is extensive damage, extreme shock, profuse haemoptysis and immobility of the affected side, the risk is very serious, not only from the immediate effects of the injury but also from the risk of infection of the extravasated material which occurs readily when the larger air passages are opened up. It would appear that infection does not occur when the terminal branches of the bronchi alone are in communication with the extravasated blood, as the bacteria are apparendy filtered out of the air by the time it reaches that part of the lung. Treatment, (a) Of uncomplicated cases. ^—^The first essential is absolute rest. The patient should be put to bed and, after recovering