VESICAL CALCULUS. 309 After-treatment.—If the urine be aseptic, the incision in the bladder may be sutured completely as for a rupture of that viscus (see p. 272), and a similar after-treatment is employed. If the urine be septic, the wound is treated as in tuberculous disease (see p. 291), and the bladder is drained for ten days. A loose stitch should be inserted where the tube passes into the bladder, and this is tied when the tube is withdrawn. If there be any delay in the closure of the supra-pubic wound, it may be ensured by tying in a catheter per urethram. Encysted stone.—This' may give rise to great trouble even with a large supra-pubic opening. When the communication between the pouch and the bladder is comparatively large, it may be possible to dilate the opening and insinuate a scoop around the stone, and thus to shell it out. If this cannot be done, the stone may be fractured in situ and the fragments removed, the stone being supported by an assistant's finger in the rectum, or upon a rectal bag. After all the fragments have been removed from the pouch, the latter should be forcibly flushed out with boracic lotion so as to avoid leaving the smallest fragment behind, which will otherwise certainly become the nucleus of a fresh stone ; the opening into the pouch should be fully dilated. When the prostate is much enlarged it should be treated appropriately at the time of the operation (see Chap. XXXVI.). If however the urine be foul and the patient be not in a condition to stand operative treatment, supra- pubic drainage should be employed until the urine is healthy and the patient's strength is re-established, when the wound may be opened up and the enlarged prostate enucleated. Unless this be done, a permanent supra-pubic fistula is very likely to occur, whilst fresh phosphatic stones are almost certain to be deposited in the prostatic pouch. Perineal lithotomy.—This is a very rare operation nowadays, although formerly it was the one of election. Almost the only cases in which perineal lithotomy is of advantage are those in which there is a stricture of the urethra, when a Syme's external urethrotomy may be combined with a median lithotomy, and the stone thus extracted. The median operation may also be useful for calculi impacted in the urethra and for prostatic stone; it gives a very small incision into the bladder however, and therefore should not be chosen when it is desired to extract a stone of any size, as then the supra-pubic operation will be the safer even if there be a stricture. Median peritieal lithotomy.—The operation is simple, and the results are usually satisfactory, as there is little bleeding, and little damage need be done to the soft parts if the stone be small. The patient is fully anaesthetised, the parts are shaved and purified in the ordinary way, and a suitable staff with a median groove is passed into the bladder, any stricture being, if necessary, dilated beforehand; the patient is then tied up in the lithotomy position. The staff is firmly held by an assistant, who pulls its concavity well up against the arch of the pubes, and also pulls up the scrotum. As a rule the shaft of the staff should be absolutely vertical, although some surgeons prefer to have