353 HYPOSPADIAS. is not wide enough to enable the flaps to be brought together in the middle line, and therefore an important modification of the operation has been introduced by Uuplay himself which is as follows (see Fig. 71): Experience has shown that it is not necessary for the whole of the new urethra to be lined with epithelium in the first instance, as any raw surface on the flap will become covered with epithelium as healing takes place. Duplay therefore makes vertical incisions nearer to the middle line than in the foregoing operation (see Fig. 71, I.), and dissects up the flaps very slightly indeed. Lateral incisions are then carried outwards from the end of each of the vertical ones, and lateral flaps of skin are Fig. 71.—Duplay's Operation for Hypospadias. I. Incisions for raising the flaps. II. The flaps raised. III. The method of inserting the sutures so that both flaps shall be secured and no buried stitches shall be used. IV. The flaps and sutures in position. There is a gap where the deeper flaps fail to meet; this is covered over by the approxi- mation of the skin or superficial flaps. dissected up (see Fig. 71, II.); these are similar to those already described except that they are larger, since the vertical incisions are nearer to the middle line and therefore the flaps are broader, and there is not the same tension and likelihood of giving way. The method of inserting the stitches is shown in Fig. 71, III. and IV. The needle is carried first through the skin flap, then it picks up the edge of the flap of mucous membrane, passes over the glass or metal rod laid in the new urethra, and takes up the structures on the opposite side in the reverse order, being finally brought out on the surface. The material for suture should be fine silkworm gut or horsehair, and the stitches should be inserted about a quarter of an inch apart; the edges of the skin are united by fine horse-hair in the intervals. In this plan no buried sutures are used, and healing generally takes place without trouble. It will thus be seen that only about two-thirds of the new urethra are covered with mucous membrane in the first instance, PT. VI. 2 7.