INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 48s swelling rather than to cut into it because, if it turn out to be malignant, there is a risk of diffusing the cancer cells over the wound if simple incision be employed. (b) Chronic lobular mastitis.—This form of the affection may occur at any age and bears no definite relation either to lactation or to injury. It is perhaps more common in multiparas who are approaching the climateric, but it may also occur at the age of puberty, and the nodules always tend to increase in size during the menstrual period. It is usually bilateral, but 'is commonly more advanced in one breast than in the other and as a rule the affection is only noticed by accident. The breast is usually enlarged, and on palpation is found to have lost its soft, elastic character and to be unduly firm. If pressed against the thorax it feels granular, with numerous small nodules scattered through- out its substance; the axillary glands are seldom enlarged. Occasionally there is considerable pain, giving rise to the condition known as maslodyniia, which is probably due to involvement of nerve-endings, but this is comparatively infrequent; when it occurs the patient has neuralgic pains beginning in the breast and radiating towards the neck, shoulder and back, often coming on in severe crises generally worse before the men- strual period. The condition is usually readily diagnosed, the only difficulty being to distinguish it from multiple cystic disease of the breast of which probably it is merely the early stage. Treatment.—There is comparatively little to be done, and as a rule it is sufficient to protect the breast from injury and to employ compression, which is best exercised by applying strapping and a b.indage firmly over a large mass of cotton wool; for the relief of pain a belladonna plaster or glycerinum belladonnfe may be indicated. Some surgeons, particularly in France, look upon this condition, especially when multiple cystic disease has developed, as a sort of epithelio- matous affection and advise excision of the entire organ affected, but to us such treatment seems unnecessarily severe. A free excision of the breast may be quite justifiable when severe mastodynia is present and the patient fails to derive benefit from local applications, combined with the use of the continuous electric current and provided that the condition of the pelvic organs reveals no cause for the pain. Even after this operation however the neuralgic pain is apt to persist or to appear in the opposite breast, and therefore a very cautious prognosis must be given. MULTIPLE CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE BREAST.—Chronic lobular mastitis commonly ends in this condition. Sometimes limited inflammation of the lobule appears to lead to the formation of a fibro-adenoma. On examining a lobule which is the seat of mastitis the chief change in the early period is in the inter-acinous connective tissue which undergoes marked proliferation. This may lead to atrophy of the epithelium, but proliferation of the epithelium of the acini not uncommonly