176 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. —and the surgeon should never inform her if he discover it accidentally, there may be no trouble, but, when once the patient knows, she is very apt to exaggerate the discomfort and to develop general hysteria. In other cases however, movable and floating kidneys give rise to very distinct symptoms. Those associated with mobility of the kidney alone consist essentially in pain of a more or less aching character, with dragging and a feeling of weight in the loin. Gastro-intestinal disturbances, such as nausea or actual vomiting, constipation, flatulence and a general dyspeptic condition are common. Actual dilatation of the stomach may occur and has been attributed to pressure on the duodenum. In some cases gastric crises,—spoken of as Dietl's crises,—are met with; they consist of violent attacks of colic associated with nausea and vomiting and often accompanied by abdominal distension and tenderness and sometimes by a rise of tempera- ture and signs of collapse. Among other symptoms are occasional attacks of jaundice. In addition to these general symptoms there are those especially associated with the kidney itself, such as intermittent hydronephrosis, renal colic, the appearance of a tumour in the loin, haematuria or polyuria; the symptoms may vividly suggest renal calculus. All ihe symptoms must not be put down to pure hysteria, and also it must be remembered that a good many of the symptoms, especially the dragging pain in the loin, may be due to general enteroptosis and not to the mere mobility of the kidney. TREATMENT.—The chief points in considering the question of treatment, and especially that of operation, are the association of the kidney trouble with enteroptosis, or with hysteria, and the presence of complications, such as intermittent hydronephrosis or hematuria, and lastly the question whether there is any disease of the mobile kidney or not. (a) Palliative.—The symptoms are often slight and do not call for special treatment and it is always well to see what can be done by other means before adopting operative measures. In treatment without operation the following points must be aimed at:— I. To improve the patient's general condition and to increase the fat. 2. To enable the abdominal muscles to give proper support to the abdominal contents. 3. To support the abdominal organs by a suitable abdominal belt. 4. To cure any anaemia or neurasthenia, to regulate the bowels and to prohibit over-exertion. In the first place a modified Weir Mitchell treatment will be of benefit. The patient is confined to bed for three or four weeks and has daily massage,—with special attention to the lumbar and abdominal muscles,— much as in an ordinary neurasthenia case. A certain amount of overfeeding should be practised, and large quantities of milk may be ordered with advantage. Cod-liver oil is useful, and should be combined with iron, if there be ansemia. The bowels should be properly regulated. In addition to this, and more especially when the patient gets up again, an abdominal belt is very useful. It should aim at supporting the entire