THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. Accidents attefidittg the passage of an instrument.—Several embarrassing and even serious accidents may accompany the passage of an instrument. Occasionally there is much shock, and the patient faints and remains collapsed for a time. This is especially the case with neurotic subjects and may occur even when the greatest gentleness is employed. When the patient is known to be very neurotic it is well to administer a small dose of morphine previously or to apply eucaine to the urethral mucous membrane; twenty minims of an 8% solution of eucaine are taken in a Guyon's syringe, the nozzle is introduced about an inch down the urethra, when a few drops are pressed out, and the nozzle is passed further on and more injected, and so on, until the whole of the urethra down to the stricture has been brought into contact with the drug. The lips of the meatus are pressed together so as to prevent the fluid escaping and in ten minutes the mucous membrane will be fairly insensitive. The administration of brandy or a diffusible stimulant, such as sal volatile, is called for when shock has actually set in and the patient should stop in bed for the rest of the day. There may be a good deal of hcemorrhage in some cases even without the formation of a false passage or the production of any serious laceration of the mucous membrane; it is most likely to occur in plethoric patients who have been over-drinking or over-eating and in whom the urethral mucous membrane is much congested in the neighbourhood of the stricture so that a mere touch with a soft instrument provokes bleeding. As a rule this trouble may be avoided if the patient be confined to bed for a few days before commencing the treatment, put on a low diet, purged freely with salines, and tincture of hyoscyamus administered. A very useful preliminary to instrumentation is the injection of eucaine (^ide supra') combined with a small quantity of adrenalin chloride (i in looo); after this has been done, it is well to fill up the urethra with sterilised oil so as to insure that the lubrication of the instrument is perfect. Soft instruments should be used in the early stages and metal instruments should be substituted when the stricture has been dilated up a few sizes. The surgeon meets with false passages under two conditions; he may make them himself and be conscious of doing so, or they may have been made previously by another surgeon or by himself. The existence of a false passage greatly complicates the case, for an instrument passed along the urethra almost invariably finds its way into the false passage because the opening of the latter is more in the direct line of the point of the instrument than is the passage through the stricture; moreover, the orifice is swollen and gapes. The surgeon can generally tell that the instrument is in a false passage by the fact that it passes well beyond the region of the stricture and yet meets with an obstruction and—if it be a metal instrument— cannot be rotated as it could be were it in the bladder; the finger in the rectum will feel the tip of the instrument close beneath the rectal wall. If a catheter be used instead of a bougie, the failure to draw off urine indicates