CHAPTER XXXVIII. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE URETHRA : URETHRAL CALCULUS. Calculi are the foreign bodies that are most often met with in the urethra and their treatment does not present any marked points of difference from that of foreign bodies introduced through the meatus ; of the latter the most common are portions of catheter broken off from a faulty instrument, pencils, bonnet-pins, pieces of wood, etc. A broken- off portion of catheter generally lodges in the deep urethra, but the other foreign bodies of this type are met with in the front half of the penile portion. Urethral calculi may lodge in one of three principal situations. The commonest is the fossa navicularis, but they may be met with anywhere in the penile portion or at the junction of the membranous with the prostatic urethra. The stones are generally small rounded or ovoid bodies of renal origin. When they come from the bladder they are generally small portions detached from a larger stone and are sharp and irregular and may cause much trouble from impaction. Impaction of a calculus in the urethra is of common occurrence in children; sudden retention of urine in a little boy is almost invariably due to this cause. SYMPTOMS.—When a foreign body has been introduced into the urethra there is partial or complete interference with the passage of urine followed by urethritis and, if impaction has occurred in the penile portion, palpation will detect the foreign body. The history will render the nature of the case quite clear. In cases of impacted urethral calculus however there is sometimes difficulty. Generally the patient is seized with a sudden sharp pain on micturition, accompanied by stoppage of the flow and partial or complete retention; if the urine can pass along- side the stone, the urinary stream is feeble and broken up. Profuse urethritis with blood-stained pus often occurs after impaction has lasted for a few hours and, when the calculus is sharp and is impacted in the urethral mucous membrane from the first, there may be oozing of blood from the meatus independently of micturition; when this occurs