158 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPLEEN. Treatment.—Theoretically, localised abscesses in the spleen admit of drainage, just as do hepatic abscesses and, if the diagnosis be made, this is the proper treatment. An incision would be made over the most prominent part of the tumour, if possible below the margin of the ribs. Sometimes it might have to be made through an intercostal space. The abscess would then be opened by Hilton's method and efficiently drained. Any free bleeding could be met by plugging. If an abscess occurs in the spleen and the latter does not become adherent to the abdominal parietes, it must be dealt with like any other non-adherent abscess within the abdomen (see Hepatic Abscess, etc.). In one or two instances the spleen has been extirpated successfully for this condition and splenectomy has also been suggested for cases in which there are numerous abscesses scattered through the organ, but these are usually cases of general pyaemia. SYPHILIS AND TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPLEEN. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPLEEN is always a part of tuberculosis elsewhere and does not call for surgical treatment. SYPHILIS OF THE SPLEEN is very rare and is more interesting from the point of view of diagnosis than of treatment. The latter is that for tertiary syphilis, in which stage the affection of this organ occurs. HYDATID OF THE SPLEEN. This affection is well known and several cases have been operated upon. The spleen may be implicated alone or, more usually, in conjunction with the liver or other organs. The cyst makes its way forward towards the abdominal wall and presents the typical hydatid characters (see Hydatid of the Liver) or it makes its way upwards and backwards, contracting adhesions to the diaphragm and eventually opening into the pleura or the lung. As in the case of the liver, aspiration will determine the diagnosis. TREATMENT.—This resembles that of hydatids elsewhere and consists essentially in opening the cyst with suitable precautions against infection of the peritoneal cavity, evacuating its contents and providing drainage (see Hydatid of the Liver). Splenectomy has been suggested for the affection but incision and drainage seem much more suitable. If the cyst be large, there will be considerable adhesions and an attempt at splenectomy will be accompanied by much shock and bleeding, while drainage is safer, simpler and gives equally good results. The treatment of a hydatid of the spleen, after it has opened into the thorax, is identical with that of a similar condition in the liver. TUMOURS OF THE SPLEEN. These are comparatively rare. They are generally sarcomatous in nature and spring from the capsule of the organ, the rest of the gland being quite