466 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. is saved by it froA a source of great trouble and discomfort owing to the ulceration and sloughing that must inevitably occur in the primary growth. HERNIA TESTIS. By a hernia testis is meant a protrusion of the tubular- structure of the organ through an aperture in the scrotum after giving way of the tunica albuginea, or more rarely a protrusion of the entire testis through an opening in the scrotum. This condition should not be confounded with the so-called fungus hfematodes, which is not a true hernia testis at all but a fungating malignant testicular growth. The term hernia testis ought strictly to be limited to cases in which the tunica albuginea has given way and allowed the tubular structure of the body of the testis to protrude, and should not be applied to the cases in which the scrotum has sloughed sufficiently to allow the entire testis to be herniated. A hernia of the testis may be caused on the one hand from the bursting of an abscess in the testis through the scrotal walls, as when a gumma softens and perforates the tunica albuginea and the dartos, or by the gradual deepening of an ulcer of the scrotum, generally gummatous, until first the testicle becomes adherent to its base and finally the tunica albuginea is destroyed and a hernia testis results. The most common cause of hernia testis is gummatous orchitis (see p. 462). Another fairly frequent cause is the extension of a syphilide of the scrotum to the testis. It may possibly occur in extensive tuberculous disease which affects the body of the organ very largely and in which an abscess forms in that situation and finds its way through the skin of the scrotum. The herniated mass consists of seminal tubules with a large quantity of granulation tissue. It forms a vascular mass, varying in size from a large pea to a plover's egg, which stands out from the scrotum and shows some constriction at its base where the aperture in the skin embraces it. It is covered with granulations and discharges a thin sanious fluid; occasionally it is in a sloughing condition. TREATMENT.—In syphilitic cases great improvement will follow dusting the surface thickly with one part of calomel to three of starch, or equal parts of calomel, oxide of zinc and starch, together with the internal administration of large doses of iodide of potassium, combined with mercury, as for tertiary syphilis (see Part I., p. 235). This treatment will sometimes bring about cicatrisation of the hernia and nothing further is 'needed. In other cases the mass is much reduced and, when the septic condition is got rid of, it may be returned into the scrotum. If this is to be done the best plan is to sponge the surface of the hernia with undiluted carbolic acid two or three days before the operation and to purify the skin around with 1-20 carbolic solution and then to apply compresses of 1-2000 corrosive sublimate for 24 hours over the hernia as a preliminary measure.