28o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE liLADDER. and there is anorexia, sleeplessness and low muttering delirium, which ultimately terminates in suppression of urine, coma, and death. In the third group, which may be termed the sub-acute cases, the symptoms are much less marked. The typical form is that due to gonorrhcea and slight cases of stone or those due to stricture of the urethra. Here the frequency of micturition is much less marked. There is pain at the end of the penis during micturition, with a certain amount of tenderness or uneasiness over the pubes or in the perineum, whilst the urine contains some pus and a large amount of mucus. The prognosis depends largely upon the cause, ^\^hen the disease is secondary to some obstruction to the outflow of urine, it usually subsides readily when the cause of obstruction or irritation is removed, provided that the mischief has not lasted long enough to cause serious changes in the kidney. Cystitis occurring in connection with puerperal or typhoid fever however is a very grave disease. Various complications may arise during the progress of the affection. Amongst the most common is ulceration of the mucous membrane, which is often due to direct injury to the bladder wall from the use of instruments, but which may also be due to sloughing from the severity of the inflammation, as in typhoid or puerperal fever. The ulcers rarely go on to actual per- foration of the bladder wall, but they may lead to considerable peri-vesical inflammation which manifests itself by pyrexia, often with rigors, and a gradually increasing area of dulness above the pubes, which gradually softens and suppurates, sinuses subsequently following. In the severest forms gangrene of the mucous membrane occurs, and this is practically always followed by death. Another serious complication met ^^^ith more often in the chronic forms of the disease is ascending pyelonephritis from direct extension of the inflammatory mischief to the ureters and the pelvis of the kidney; when this condition becomes established the outlook is unfavourable, as it is very rebellious to treatment (see p. 207). TREATMENT.—When the affection is secondary, the removal of the cause is always the first point of importance. In the cases however of which we are now speaking there is no definite primary cause to remove, and the treatment is directed to the relief of the inflammation itself. Prophylaxis.—In connection with cystitis it must always be remembered that the disease is frequently set up by introducing septic material into the bladder, and therefore any case requiring instruments either for ex- amination or treatment must be handled with great care. The precautions that should be taken before introducing instruments are referred to in detail in connection with enlargement of the prostate (see p. 336). When acute cystitis is established.—The objects of the treatment are first to give rest to the bladder, and secondly to render the urine bland and unirritating, and to make the bladder and its contents as unfavourable a soil for the growth of bacteria as possible. In all except the gravest forms of acute cystitis the treatment is mainly medicinal and general.