TUBERCULOSIS. 215 important point in operating, as the pedicle may be much shortened, and the vena cava may lie close beside the organ, and may be injured in doing nephrectomy. Symptoms.—These vary according to the stage of the disease and its mode of onset. In primary infection from the blood-stream there are practically no symptoms in the very early stages. The first signs are pain in the loins—usually moderate in amount and not much influenced by movement—frequent micturition, and polyuria, together with some diminution in the amount of urea and phosphates. An early symptom is also haematuria which may occasionally be severe and prolonged but which is generally small in amount, often requiring microscopical examination for its detection. It appears without apparent cause and is not increased by movement or improved by rest. As the affection progresses, the pain in the loin becomes severe and of a lancinating or boring character. There are exacerbations, probably due to the passage of small caseous masses along the ureter, and occasionally there may be a sort of intermittent hydronephrosis from blockage in this manner. The kidney becomes tender and is generally enlarged; in some cases this is the first symptom noticed. The organ may retain its normal outline but it more often has a lobulated feel. As the disease advances, the urine contains quantities of pus, some blood and often debris and cheesy particles ; when there is a mixed infection the amount of pus may be very large. Sometimes there is albuminuria out of proportion to the amount of pus, which indicates the existence of a chronic nephritis or of waxy degeneration. The tubercle bacillus may be found in the urine under the microscope after centrifugalisation, or, in doubtful cases, after inoculating guinea-pigs. Sometimes there is marked dysuria, which may lead to an erroneous diagnosis of disease of the bladder. It is however not uncommon to get a chronic non- tuberculous cystitis set up by the passage of the tuberculous material and pus through the organ ; there may also be co-existing tuberculous disease of the bladder. When the ureter is much thickened it may be felt through the abdominal walls in a thin patient, or the lower end may be felt through the vagina in the female. In the early stages the patient's general health remains fairly good, but later on there is loss of flesh, accompanied by hectic fever and night sweats and there may be marked toxic symptoms, such as anorexia and vomiting, and finally symptoms of septicaemia or pytemia. The more severe symptoms are probably due to secondary pyogenic infection rather than to the tuberculous disease itself. The diagnosis in the early stages may be extremely difl[icult. Should the tubercle bacillus be found in the urine, the nature of the disease is certain ; but in its absence the frequent micturition and the pain in the loin, both of which are unaffected by rest, together with the presence of pus and blood in acid urine, hectic fever, progressive loss of flesh, enlargement of the kidney, and possibly tuberculosis elsewhere, will generally lead to a correct diagnosis. The hcematuria of renal tuberculosis is not likely to be