107 INJURIES. probably from contamination of the bile by the colon or typhoid bacillus. Should the bleeding stop spontaneously and the patient recover, absorption of the extravasated material may occur or, on the other hand, a blood cyst may form. TREATMENT.—This will be influenced largely by the presence or absence of signs of active hjemorrhage. (a) Palliative.—If the bleeding be not marked, palliative measures may suffice. The patient is put on the back in bed with the knees flexed over a pillow to relax the abdominal muscles, and a large ice-bag or Leiter's tubes (see Part I., p. 9) applied over the right hypochondrium. Should there be vomiting it must be checked if possible by suitable drugs ^ as it not only distresses the patient but is an active factor in keeping up the bleeding. For the first two or three days rectal feeding should be practised. A careful watch must be kept for symptoms of severe loss of blood. It is not advisable to inject saline solution unless it be urgently called for by symptoms of severe bleeding, because the hemorrhage is apt to recur when the blood pressure is raised by the injection and the coagulating power of blood, when largely diluted with salt solution and mixed with bile, is very defective. These injuries should always be looked upon as extremely serious, and the patient must be carefully watched to see that no sudden hfemorrhage occurs after recovery' from the primary shock. Should this happen, the only chance is an immediate laparotomy. A similar procedure is required if the symptoms point to severe haemorrhage when the case is first seen, and this should be carried out whether there be a wound of the abdominal wall or not. (b) Operative.—It is sometimes said that it is advisable to wait for the patient to recover from the shock before operating for ruptured liver. If, however, the case be accompanied by severe haemorrhage, the patient will never recover from the shock and therefore, should the surgeon have reason to believe that active haemorrhage is proceeding, the patient's only chance is immediate operation irrespective of the amount of shock. Every means of dealing with the shock should be employed (see Part I., p. 138), and rapidity of operation is of primary importance especially in the early stages, so that the bleeding area may be reached and controlled as rapidly as possible. The abdomen should be opened by a free vertical incision immediately to the right of the linea alba. This exposes the central part of the liver and further room may be gained either by lateral incisions carried about a finger's breadth below the right costal margin or transversely outwards to the right through the rectus, just above the umbilicus. There must be no hesitation in making a free incision, so that the surgeon has plenty ^ .Such as acid, hydrocyanic, dil. in three minim doses every three hours, combined with carbonate of bismuth (grs. 20) and bicarbonate of soda (grs. 15); a tumblerful of water taken as hot as it can be borne is also useful.