ECTOPIA VESICAE. 265 whilst in the other the urine is diverted into the vagina in the female or into the sigmoid flexure in the male by transplanting the orifices of the ureters. Plastic operations upon the bladder.—Unfortunately the result of even the most successful of these is only palliative, as it is impossible to provide a fresh sphincter to the bla'dder so as to enable the patient to retain his urine. It sometimes happens that as much as three or four ounces may be retained in the freshly-formed cavity, but this is always liable to escape, and there is no true control over it. At the same time however a successful operation of this kind is very valuable as in the first place it protects the mucous membrane from irritation and so relieves the suffering enormously, whilst in the second place it enables a well-fitting urinal to be worn and this increases the comfort of the patient. Hence, whatever else is done, some attempt must be made to cover in the exposed mucous membrane. Wood's operation.—This consists essentially in turning down a flap from the front of the abdomen with its base close to the upper margin of the pro- truded mucous membrane and its cutaneous surface looking towards it. The raw outer surface of this flap is covered by two lateral flaps made to slide in from the side and meet in the middle line. This operation, although successful in closing the cavity to a certain extent, is open to the great objec- tion that hairs will grow from the reflected skin, and upon them phosphatic concretions will constantly occur, and prove an unending source of trouble; it is seldom used at the present time. Thiersch's operation.—A modification of W^ood's method is to close the bladder by flaps having their raw surfaces turned towards the bladder, but the difficulty has been to avoid sloughing in the long flaps necessary for the purpose. This difficulty Thiersch has tried to avoid by cutting a flap of proper size, undermining it, and leaving it attached at both ends for some days until granulation of the raw surface has taken place completely (see Part I., p. 180), when one end is completely detached and the flap is turned into place. When this has united, a second flap is fashioned if neces.sary, and so on until the anterior surface of the bladder is restored (see Fig. 59); finally Fig. 5q.—Thiersch's Operation for Extkoversion of thc Bladder. A shows the first flap, «, shaped but not completely detached. Protective or gold-beater's skin is placed beneath it until granulation is complete, when it is divided along the dotted line and turned down into place, as shown in B, where the second flap, b, is also shown. This is turned into position as in C, .and then nothing remains to be done e.\cept to remedy the epispadias.