CHAPTER XXI. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER. * The kidney is one of the commonest seats of genito-urinary tuberculosis, and the disease in it may be primary or secondary to a similar affection elsewhere. In primary renal tuberculosis the organisms reach the part through the circulation, and the affection may be localised or there may be a general tuberculosis of both kidneys, together with similar disease elsewhere. When tuberculosis attacks the kidney primarily it generally commences in the cortex, whereas the secondary form is an ascending affection and begins in the renal pelvis. It is most common between the ages of twenty and thirty, and seems to be more frequent in women than in men. The affection may be limited to one kidney, and this seems to o«cur in about 50% of the cases. When both sides are affected, the disease is usually much more advanced on one side than on the other. It is predisposed to by previous renal affections, such as nephritis or pyelitis, or by blows on the loin, alcoholism, etc. The tubercles are deposited about the bases of the papillas, and spread both towards the capsule and towards the pelvis. The tuberculous masses soften, forming cavities containing cheesy material, which after a time burst and discharge their contents into the pelvis and thence down the ureter. When this happens, the mucous membrane of the renal pelvis becomes the seat of tuberculous disease, and thus there is a typical tuberculous pyelonephritis, and often pyone- phrosis also. As the disease advances, the kidney becomes progressively disorganised, until finally it consists of a series of cavities containing cheesy material. . The affection spreads from the kidney to the ureter, which may become markedly thickened and diminished in calibre from the deposit of tubercles in its walls; this leads to interference with the outflow of the urine. Cal- careous masses are often deposited on the cheesy material in the renal pelvis and become renal .calculi, so that a combination' of tuberculosis with a calculous condition is not infrequent. The capsule becomes thickened and adherent, and peri-nephritis occurs and firmly fixes the kidney—an