THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. is fully dilated; attempts on the part of the patient may end in serious pelvic cellulitis which, if not fatal, will lead to extensive fistulse. When the stricture extends only a short distance, say half an inch or so along the rectum, an expanding rectal stricture dilator (see Fig. 9) may be used with advantage. The instrument is introduced through the stricture with the blades closed, and the latter are then cautiously expanded. The advantage of this instrument is that the dilatation can be gradually increased without having to withdraw one instrument and introduce a fresh one. It is only useful for limited strictures in which, however, it is of great value. Rapid dilatation or forcible stretching or splitting of the stricture has been practised, but cannot be too strongly condemned because, quite apart from the shock which must necessarily ensue, there is a grave risk of septic infec- tion of a severe type. Even if the patient escapes these risks, there is the certainty of increased contraction afterwards. Fig. 9.—Rectal Dilator. The blades, which are separated by a screw-action, are kept parallel throughout. Internal proctotomy.—This procedure, closely analogous to internal ure- throtomy, is of very doubtful value except when practised for a superficial cicatrix, which only involves the mucous membrane. Division of strictures involving the entire thickness of the rectal wall will lead to the introduction of septic material into the peri-rectal tissues and is not good practice. Electrolysis is apparently not of any permanent value. Exter?ial proctotomy, or free longitudinal division of the stricture pro- longed down through the sphincters and the skin of the anus externally has also been tried. The wound thus made is packed with gauze to prevent it from closing for some time, in the hope that epithelium will spread along the surface and so enlarge the calibre of the lower end of the rectum. When, however, healing is complete, the constriction is usually as bad as ever and the patient is in a worse condition than before because the sphincters have been seriously damaged. Excision of the stricture is theoretically the ideal radical method, but in practice it is not at all successful. The two main difficulties connected with it are that on the one hand the stricture, especially when following extensive syphilitic ulceration, may be so long as to render re-union impossible. The inflammation may spread up to the sigmoid flexure, the peritoneal surface of which may be so affected that the gut is bound down in the iliac fossa and an excision is out of the question. Moreover, the operation is necessarily accompanied by great danger of septic infection. Should infection occur