489 SARCOMA. orange. When they are large they are often lobulated in outhne from the presence of cysts. The axillary glands are not affected. The growth usually occurs towards the periphery of the gland and is firm, elastic and not tender. There is often some increase in size during the menstrual period and the tumour remains stationary as a rule after reaching a certain size and indeed in some cases tends to disappear. TREATMENT.—The only method of treatment is by removal, and it is well in all cases to recommend that this should be done immediately, not because the tumour itself is dangerous but because it may produce deformity if it increases in size, whilst its presence is always a source of anxiety to the patient; another reason is that, if seen in the early stage when there is no reliable history as to its rate of growth, it may easily be confounded with sarcoma, which naturally requires the promptest removal. The operation is perfectly simple; a free incision is made over the growth until the capsule of the tumour is seen and, if this be opened through its whole length, the growth can be readily shelled out. It is perhaps best to remove the capsule as well as the tumour, so as to be absolutely certain that no recurrence will take place, for a fresh tumour may occur in the situation of the old one after simple shelling-out. The incision as a rule should be made in a line radiating from the nipple, but, if the tumour be situated in the upper part of the gland, in which situation it is important to avoid scarring, the growth may be removed by making a crescentic incision along the lower border of the breast, pulling the latter upwards and forwards and enucleating the tumour from behind. When the growth is deeply imbedded in the breast it is well to insert a small drainage tube for a few days after the operation, as otherwise blood is apt to collect in the cavity left and give rise to a trouble- some haematoma which may interfere with union. SARCOMA OF THE BREAST. From 2% to 8% of breast tumours belong to this class of growth which is commonly of the round celled variety, but is occasionally spindle-celled. In the true sarcoma there is no growth of glandular tissue, but occasionally small portions may be found from accidental inclusion. The tumour possesses a spurious capsule and pushes aside and leads to atrophy of the surrounding breast tissue. These growths generally occur in young women and are seldom met with after the age of thirty. They form rounded tumours which grow rapidly and may lead to ulceration of the skin over them, and they then fungate through the opening. In the early stages the affection is not easily distinguishable from fibro-adenoma, but the greater rapidity of growth, the rounded form of the tumour and the tendency to ulcerate through the skin soon renders the diagnosis certain. The growth does not tend to become generalised but in some cases, particularly in the round-celled variety, the axillary glands may become the seat of secondary deposits.