296 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. PARALYSIS OF THE BLADDER. This may vary much in degree and may affect either the bladder walls or the sphincter or both. In a slightly paralytic bladder when the sphincter is intact, the organ is incompletely emptied, the urine flows somewhat slowly and is passed much better in the erect position. There is nearly always some residual urine. This condition may occur in connection with disease or injury of the brain or spinal cord, in connection with prostatic hypertrophy or from previous prolonged retention of urine, or it may be an accompaniment of old age. The patient, after taking a long time and a good deal of exertion to get the urine to fiow, finds that it simply trickles out without any force, and there is always a sensation of having imperfectly emptied the organ, while micturition in the recumbent position is much more difficult or even impossible. The existence of the condition is easily ascertained by passing a catheter immediately after the patient has passed his urine, when the existence of residual urine will be manifest. In these cases incontinence with overflow will follow if proper treatment be not adopted. When the sphincter is paralysed there will be true incontinence. TREATMENT.'—In the simpler cases massage to the supra-pubic region, douches to the perineum and the use of salt baths are of advantage. The patient should be instructed to empty his bladder as frequently as possii)le, and for this purpose slight diuretics may be administered ; ergot is also a valuable drug, whilst electricity is often extremely useful. The continuous current is the better, but a Faradic current may be employed. One pole is introduced into the rectum or applied over the loin whilst the other is intro- duced into the bladder by a specially insulated sound. When the paralysis mainly affects the sphincter, the current should be applied directly to it by a special sound introduced into the prostatic urethra. The greatest care must be taken here in the disinfection of the instruments, as a cystitis once set up is likely to lead to fatal pyelitis or pyelonephritis. The catheter should be passed regularly at least once a day, or oftener in bad cases, so as to make sure that there is no retention. If there be any decomposition of the urine, the bladder must be washed out two or three times daily, and the ordinary urinary antiseptics administered (see p. 281).