227 RENAL CALCULUS. pass more readily down the ureter. AVhen the diagnosis is clear however, operation must not be delayed in the hope that the stone will be passed thus because in the meantime the kidney may become seriously damaged. (c) Operative.—When the symptoms point to the existence of a stone too large to pass down the ureter, surgical intervention shoyld be undertaken in order to prevent disorganisation of the kidney. The surgeon has the choice between two methods, viz., (a) Extraction of the stone, i.e. nephro- lithotomy : and (<^) Removal of the kidney together with the stone, /.<?. nephrectomy. Nephro lithotomy is the ideal operation for all cases of stone and it is only when the surgeon finds during the course of the operation that it will mani- festly not meet the requirements of the case that nephrectomy should be resorted to. A disorganised kidney which is a mere abscess cavity devoid of renal structure clearly requires nephrectomy, as a nephro-lithotomy would probably give rise to a permanent fistula, and the patient would also run risks from sepsis. Nephrectomy must also be done if the ureter be occluded and there be no chance of restoring its lumen; these cases however are rare. For the above conditions, the operation will be a primary nephrectomy, but a secondary nephrectomy may be called for when a permanent lumbar fistula is left after a nephro-lithotomy and the other kidney is evidently healthy; the patient will probably insist on the affected kidney being removed because of the inconvenience it causes. In all other cases nephro-lithotomy is the operation of choice and it must be the operation of necessity when the opposite kidney is known or suspected to contain calculi or is markedly diseased, and where it is most important to restore one kidney to health as soon as possible and nephrectomy cannot be done on account of the condition of the other. Nephro-lithotomy.—The preparation and position of the patient are the same as for nephropexy (see p. 178). The incision corresponds to the upper part of the " lumbo-ilio-inguinal incision" (see P"ig. 49); it commences just internal to the outer edge of the erector spinas, runs parallel to and nearly an inch below the lower border of the last rib, and should extend nearly to the level of the anterior superior iliac spine whence it can be easily prolonged downwards if a stone be found in the ureter (see p. 234). The muscles should be cleanly divided, as it is seldom possible to get satisfactory room by simply splitting them. It is well however not to divide structures too freely until the condition of the kidney has been ascertained; then the parts can be opened up as widely as may be necessary. Additional room is rarely required in these cases, but it may be wanted when nephrectomy has to be done at the end of the operation or when the patient is very fat, and it may be obtained by carrying a vertical incision upwards over the twelfth rib ' ' As Morris remarks, this will not often be required if llie verlebro-costal ligament of Henle be divided beneath the last rib by a probe-pointed bistoury. This ligament is derived from the anterior layer of the transversalis aponeurosis, and runs from the tips of ilie lirst and second lumbar transverse processes to tlie twelfth rib, or to the eleventh when the former is rudimentary.