RENAL CALCULUS. 225 consideration of the temperature and the history of the patient should however lead to a correct diagnosis. When a patient suffers from gravel, that is to say the passage of small crystals down the ureter, all the symptoms of renal calculus may be met with. Here the prophylactic treatment, by which operative interference is generally preceded, will clear up the diagnosis, as the condition subsides entirely. At the present time some help may be gained by means of the X-rays. It must be remembered however that different forms of -stone vary in penetrability. For example, a uric acid stone only gives a faint shadow whilst the oxalates give a well-marked one. In very stout patients the thickness of the tissues may also interfere with a satisfactory result. A good plan in taking these photographs is to make the exposure only after deep inspiration. The patient fills his chest and holds his breath, and the exposure is made; the rays are then shut off whilst the patient empties his chest and fills it again, when they are again turned on. In a considerable number of cases an obscure diagnosis has been satis- factorily cleared up by means of the rays. In employing them it is well to take photographs on different occasions in order to see whether a constant result is obtained, as the shadows cast by the stones are frequently so faint as not to be characteristic, and imperfections in the plate, etc., may easily give rise to appearances which, if only a single photograph be taken, may be mistaken for a stone.^ In cases of renal calculus, as in those of tuberculosis, an important point is the determination of the conditio'n of the opposite kidney, and in renal calculus moreover it is obviously very important to know upon which side the stone lies. It is said that occasionally the pain due to a renal calculus is referred to the healthy kidney, and not to the side upon which the stone lies, but this must be extremely rare, and in practice one is almost safe in deciding that the mischief lies upon the side to which the pain, tenderness, and attacks of renal colic are referred. The question of the condition of the opposite kidney, although of importance, does not interfere with the question of operative inter- ference for the removal of the stone; indeed it rather adds to the urgency of the operation. The circumstances under which the condition of the second kidney is most important are when, on performing nephro- lithotomy, the affected kidney is found to be disorganised, and to require removal. This point has already been discussed (see p. 170). TREATMENT, (a) Preventive.—The surgeon is often asked by patients who have had attacks of renal colic followed by the passage of small ' We have had a most interesting case in which greasy material, presumably a metallic ointment upon the parchment of the table, caused shadows which might easily have been mistaken for stones if this precaution had not been adopted. This is a point that it is always well to bear in mind. Considerable practical experience is necessary to obtain satisfactory results on account of the variation in the penetrability of the different kinds of stone PT. VI. 2 P