THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. 458 is that for tuberculosis in general (see Part I., p. 245). In the local treatmettt belladonna ointment may be employed if there be much pain, while, if there be none, the testis should be supported by a suspensory bandage and it may be lightly strapped with simple strapping (see p. 454) or with mercurial ointment; it is however doubtful whether the latter exerts any really beneficial effect. The injection of iodoform and glycerine or of chloride of zinc into the epididymis does not appear to be of any special value. Operative.—Formerly this usually took the form of castration, but in more recent years less severe operations have been employed with success. This is particularly the case with the operation called epididy- mectomy, which aims at removing the disease by excision of the epididymis and cord, leaving the body of the organ intact. More partial operations than this, such as scraping, are also employed but they are not to be recommended. Epididymectomy.—The operator grasps the testis, turns it inwards so that the epididymis faces him, and makes an incision over it extending from the external abdominal ring ^ down to the lower limit of the testis. If the skin be adherent to an abscess or if there be a sinus, the incision must enclose the affected area. The tissues are divided until the cord, testicle and epididymis are fully exposed and the next step is to separate the two latter structures from one another. The separation is commenced at the body and globus minor, which is attached to the testis merely by fibrous tissue. Care must be taken in raising the epididymis to preserve the blood-supply to the testis which enters it chiefly on the inner side of the globus major, i.e. on the side away from the operator—and the vessels should be carefully pushed aside with the handle of the knife or a blunt dissector. The body of the epididymis is raised until the globus major is reached and here there is close organic connection between the epididymis and the body of the testis. The vessels are now carefully separated by a blunt dissector from the deeper surface of the globus major, and an examina- tion must be made to see whether the body of the testis is healthy; if it is, the attachment of the globus major to it is divided. If there be disease, wedge-shaped slices of the testicular structure should be removed until the portion left behind is entirely healthy. The epididymis and the vas deferens are now freed from the other structures of the cord and isolated up as far as the internal ring or higher if the cord be thickened there, and divided as high up as possible. Bleeding points are tied and the incision in the testis is closed by a few fine catgut sutures through the tunica albuginea; the tunica vaginalis need not be closed. A drainage tube should be inserted at the lower part of the wound for the first 48 hours if there be much oozing. The majority of these cases heal without trouble; occasionally in advanced cases a fistula is left and this may have to be scraped and treated on ordinary lines. In some cases the sexual functions improve. ^ Or higher up if ihe cord be definitely thickened.