POLYPUS. 69 more than one is not infrequently met with at the same time, and the removal of one may therefore not suffice to cure the symptoms. The pedicle must then be ligatured, and it is very important, especially when the polypus is large, to avoid any possibility of the ligature slipping, as that would result in severe haemorrhage high up in the bowel and only reached with difficulty. We are therefore accustomed to transfix the pedicle with stout catgut and tie it in two halves. Transfixion in the rectum is of course open to the objection that septic material may become absorbed from the ligature as it traverses the soft parts and we generally therefore apply a second ligature behind or on the proximal side of the first, surrounding the entire pedicle and so preventing any possibility of absorption. During the tightening of these ligatures all traction upon the pedicle must be relaxed so as to ensure complete strangulation. The polypus is then snipped off, the ligature is cut short and the patient kept in bed or on a couch for a few days whilst the bowels are kept confined for that period. After the bowels have acted the first time, the patient may be allowed to get up and a laxative may be administered every other day. If removal be practised in this way there is really no risk of haemorrhage. CANCER OF THE RECTUM. This is quite a common affection. It occurs more often in men than in women, usually after middle life, but it may be met with at an early age, in which case the growth is extremely malignant. The typical growth is a columnar epithelioma, but a squamous carcinoma may spread upwards from the anus into the bowel. True scirrhus of the rectum, formerly looked upon as common, is practically unknown ; sarcoma is extremely rare. A cancer of the rectum begins in the mucous membrane, usually on the posterior aspect of the lower end of the bowel, and may form a slow-growing mass gradually encircling the bowel and leading to marked constriction or, much more frequently, an extensive warty tumour undergoing ulceration, and involving a considerable area of the bowel. A long time often elapses before the bowel is completely encircled by this form of growth, and any obstructive symptoms are due to the mass fungating into its lumen rather than to narrowing of the calibre of the intestine. The disease infiltrates the muscular coat as it spreads, and ultimately reaches the peri-rectal tissues. Should it involve the peritoneum, it may cause a cancerous peritonitis, or it may involve structures such as the ovary, bladder, or other parts of the intestine, and give rise to a variety of troubles in conse- quence. When it spreads into the peri-rectal cellular tissue it fixes the intes- tine to the hollow of the sacrum, and constricts the nerves in this neighbour- hood giving rising to .severe pain. The glands become affected with a rapidity depending on the variety of the cancer. The glands affected are those in the hollow of the sacrum in immediate contact with the posterior rectal wall, and thence the infection