40 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. (which can be easily done from the interior of the bowel), and then a few buried catgut sutures should be passed between corresponding points in the deeper parts of the wound so as to bring them well together. When the sides of the gap in the soft parts have thus been more or less approximated, the suture of the mucous membrane of the bowel is com- pleted down to the anus, care being taken to bring the divided edges of the sphincter accurately together, and then the approximation of the deeper surfaces of the wound is completed by passing two or three stout silkworm gut sutures very deeply through the ischio-rectal fossa by means of large curved perineal needles; these may be either tied separately in the ordinary way or over a quill or a button (see Fig. 13). Lastly, the skin incision is accurately united by interrupted silkworm gut or horsehair sutures and a ^-grain morphine suppository is introduced into the rectum and ordinary gauze dressings are applied externally. After the operation the bowels must be kept confined for four or five days, after which they should be opened by suitable aperients every alternate day for the first fortnight, and after that laxatives may be given in order to make them act daily. The sutures in the mucous membrane become absorbed and do not require removal. Any cutaneous suture that shows redness around the track should be removed and, if any portion of the wound fails to unite externally, the aperture left should be lightly stuffed with gauze in the usual manner. This operation, if carefully done, gives a very satisfactory result. If the raw surfaces be accurately sutured, complete primary union frequently occurs and the patient is well in two or three weeks' time. Even when failure of union occurs in parts it is usual for the sphincter to unite by first intention, leaving only a small gap to heal by granulation. This method is really the only alternative to palliative treatment and must entirely replace the free division of the sphincter by the old method followed by granulation from the bottom, as some incontinence of faeces is almost certain to follow. An operation of this kind would of course also be applicable to fistulfe forming above a simple stricture of the rectum, but when the fistula compli- cates a malignant stricture, nothing can be done beyond seeing that the external opening is kept free so as to avoid accumulation of infective material along the track. In tuberculous fistulce it is often advisable to make an attempt at radical cure. When the fistula is situated low down, free division of the track followed by complete removal of its walls and allowing the wound to heal by granulation from the bottom may suffice, but in the majority of cases it is essential to aim at healing by first intention, and therefore the operation last described will be the best treatment. Should the fistula be extensive and complicated by numerous tortuous sinuses, or should the patient be in bad health or in the last stages of phthisis, palliative treatment alone should be undertaken. The best procedure is to see that the track is properly drained so that there is no accumulation of infective material in it to give rise to fresh abscesses. The best way to insure