GALL-STONES. 133 due to a permanent occlusion of the common duct which is perhaps most often due to cancer of the pancreas, duodenupi or common bile duct. A stone impacted in the common duct for a considerable time gives rise to persistent but variable jaundice, but here there is no dilatation of the gall- bladder ; on the contrary it may be markedly shrunken. When there is no tumour to be felt in the region of the gall-bladder and there is no typical hepatic colic, the surgeon must always think of a renal or alimentary origin for the pain that the patient complains of and, before finally making the diagnosis, the past history must be carefully taken into account as, although the patient may have very few symptoms at the time of examination, a history of past attacks of colic followed by the passage of gall- stones and the occurrence of jaundice may be very valuable in throwing light upon the nature of the case. The relation between gall-stones and jaundice.—Jaundice produced by gall-stones may be due to two distinct causes. On the one hand it may be caused by an inflammatory swelling of the mucous membrane of the common duct, probably set up by the passage of the gall-stones, which interferes with the passage of the bile. This form is usually mild and transitory and probably spreads downwards from the gall-bladder. The other form of jaundice is the deep and persistent variety which occurs when the common duct is blocked. Blockage of this kind is usually due to the impaction of a biliary calculus, but may also arise from the pressure exerted by tumours or from inflammatory affections in the neighbourhood. At the same time it must be remembered that impaction of a gall-stone in the common duct is not necessarily accompanied by persistent or profound jaundice, as the duct dilates above the stone and the latter may merely exert a sort of ball-valve action, slipping upwards occasionally and allowing bile to pass through the duct into the duodenum; occasionally, owing to the irregular shape of the stone, a channel may be left between it and the wall of the duct along which bile may find its way. It is probable that when jaundice is very profound in these cases complete occlusion is produced not so much by the stone as by the inflammatory swelling of the mucous membrane around it. Jaundice due to an impacted biliary calculus thus differs markedly in some respects from that due to malignant disease, and this is an important point to remember in con- sidering the indications for operation. Jaundice due to malignant disease is very intense and very persistent, and it usually does not vary in intensity except possibly to become steadily deeper. In bad cases of obstructive jaundice the presence of bile in the blood gives rise to defective coagulating power, and this is a point of great practical importance. It certainly forms a distinct contra-indication to hap- hazard exploratory operations in cases of obstructive jaundice due to malignant disease. If the cause of the obstruction can be relieved by operation, this want of coagulability of the blood soon passes off; but where this is impossible the patient has been known in several cases to bleed to