g6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS. internal bleeding and should the source of haemorrhage be difficult to determine, the pancreas must not be omitted from examination and, if haemorrhage from it be found, the bleeding point must be secured and under- run with catgut if possible, or long-handled forceps may be left on the bleeding point for 24 hours. The handles are made to emerge from the abdominal wound which is sutured tightly around them, and a gauze dressing is applied over all. At the end of 24 hours the dressing is removed, the handles are cautiously separated and the forceps removed. A loose suture should be inserted at the time of the operation through the gap left for the emergence of the forceps and this should be tied when the latter are removed. The best mode of gaining access to the pancreas is probably to tear through the omentum between the stomach and the transverse colon. Any collection of blood in or around the pancreas should be evacuated, so as to avoid the subsequent formation of a blood-cyst. When there is extensive crushing of the organ, it will probably be best to provide free drainage both by tubes and by packing the wound with iodoformed gauze, so that, should gangrene occur, there will be a free exit which is shut off from the peritoneal cavity. Among other lesions resulting from injuries to the pancreas accompanied by wounds, a traumatic hernia or prolapse of the organ has been met with. Should one of these rare cases come under notice, the prolapsed portion should be thoroughly cleansed and reduced and a drainage tube or gauze packing should be inserted down to the bottom of the wound. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS. Both acute and chronic inflammation of the pancreas are known, but, although extremely important they are very difficult conditions either to diagnose or to treat. ACUTE PANCREATITIS is rarely diagnosed during life, although successful treatment has been adopted in a few instances. The difficulty in diagnosis is that the symptoms closely simulate either acute peritonitis or acute intestinal obstruction. The affection is characterised by intense pain and vomiting, accompanied by severe collapse, frequent pulse, marked tympanites and some pyrexia, with a variable amount of constipation. These cases have been operated on under the impression that they were either acute peritonitis or internal strangulation, and even then the true condition has not always been recognised until a post-moriem examination has been made. The sequelae of acute pancreatitis may be gangrene, haemorrhage into the pancreas, necrosis or suppuration, the last of which is the only condition which concerns us from the surgical point of view. Acute pancreatic suppuration may occur either in or around the organ, and may be localised, or may take the form of a diffuse infiltration of the pancreatic tissues with pus, forming disseminated abscesses later on. In the latter case the affection is pyjemic, and here the true diagnosis