178 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. place it is said not to do good, and in the second it is said that a kidney that has been stitched is apt to become loose again before very long, and the symptoms therefore are likely to recur. The answer to the first objection is, that, although operation fails to benefit all the cases for which it is done, it is undoubtedly of the highest value in cases for which it is really suited. The second objection—namely, the recurrence of the mischief—can be met by suitable operative tactics, and in the great majority of cases it seems to us that there is no difficulty in fixing the kidney firmly and permanently in position. The risks of the operation are practically as the only one is that of sepsis. Necrosis of portions of the kidney, urinary fistula, etc., have been mentioned as possible risks of the operation, but we have no experience at all of such accidents. Nephropexy.—The patient should lie upon the sound side, whilst a firm bolster of horsehair or a large sandbag is placed under the loin, so as to open out the interval between the crest of the ilium and the ribs upon the affected side as much as possible. The kidney is best reached by a lumbar incision (see Fig. 38), which is made parallel to the last rib and about a finger's breadth below it, extending from just inside the outer margin of the erector spinae out- wards and downwards for about four inches. Another incision frequently used for this particular operation, and one that gives good exposure of the kidney, is an almost vertical one, commencing above over the centre of the twelfth rib and running downwards and a very little forwards to just above the iHac crest. In the former of these the latissimus dorsi is divided throughout the whole length of the wound and then the incision is steadily deepened from the margin of the erector spinae, the posterior edge of the external oblique being nicked and its fibres separated with the fingers and then the internal oblique and trajasversalis are similarly separated. Deeper still, the transversalis fascia is divided. After the division of the latissimus dorsi it is best to do as much of the operation as possible by separating the muscles in the direction of their fibres rather than by cutting them across, as a hernia is much less liable to follow this method. Moreover, the deeper parts of the incision need not be opened up to the same extent as the skin wound, as these structures are very elastic, and it is possible to get the kidney protruded through a comparatively small opening in the abdominal wall if the retraction be efficient. After the transversalis fascia has been divided, the fatty capsule of the Fig 38.—Incisions for Nei'Hkoi'exy. These are the two incisions described in the text. On the right side is the usual oblique one below and parallel to the last rib; on the left is the more vertical one.