82 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. it must be remembered that the peritoneum in the male is reflected from the bladder on to the front of the rectum just above the level of the prostate and it gradually envelopes the bowel more completely until opposite the third sacral foramen there is an almost complete investment; from thence upwards there is a true mesentery in which lies the inferior mesenteric artery giving off the superior hsemorrhoidal artery for the supply of the rectum. In dissecting out the bowel as little injury to the vessels as possible must be done, as otherwise sloughing of the lower end of the upper segment is very likely to occur. The next point is to examine for glands in the hollow of the sacrum and to remove the fat and fascia with the glands contained in them as completely as possible from this region. It is at this stage that injury to the blood supply of the bowel is most likely to occur. It is necessary to caution the surgeon to carry out this separation as gently as possible. It has to be effected at the bottom of a deep wound, and, if the surgeon becomes impatient and pulls too forcibly upon the rectum, its walls, which are often thinned above the growth, may tear through, and very dangerous extrava- sation will take place into the pelvic cellular tissue. After the rectum has been freed as completely as possible below the peritoneal reflection, the latter must be opened and the lateral reflections snipped through as far as may be necessary to allow the rectum to be pulled down. In dividing the peritoneal reflections care must be taken not to go too far back or the vascular supply of the bowel will be injured. If the pelvis be raised sufficiently there is no chance of the intestines prolapsing, and abdominal cloths may be packed in to shut off the peritoneal cavity, whilst the surgeon, having got the bowel sufficiently far down to enable him to divide it well clear of the growth, turns his attention to the treatment of the lower end. If it be impossible to bring down the bowel above the line of section and suture it to the margin of the anus, the best plan is to encircle the latter by an elliptical incision and to dissect out the rectum below the growth until the whole of the segment to be removed is completely free. Before making the elliptical incision around the anus it is a good plan to invert the anal margin and to pass stout silk sutures through it (see p. 77); when tied these will close the anal orifice and their ends may be left long and grasped in forceps, a procedure that will facilitate the handling of the bowel without any danger of infecting the fingers. A bougie is now introduced into the bladder in the case of the male, or an assistant's finger into the vagina in the case of the female, and the parts are carefully separated by the finger and snips of the scissors from the prostate and base of the bladder in the male and the vaginal wall in the female. The attachment of the levator ani around the bowel should be carefully cut through as close to the rectal wall as the limits of the disease will allow. An alternative plan is to divide the bowel transversely above the limit of the tumour first, and then to dissect out the lower en(i of the rectum from the