301 VESICAL CALCULUS. Some authorities recommend the injection of solvents into the bladder in these cases, but the only condition in which this method is at all useful is when there is a large phosphatic incrustation which cannot otherwise be detached; the frequently repeated injection of a weak solution of hydro- chloric acid into the bladder may end by loosening the phosphatic deposits, which may afterwards be washed out with an evacuator. Prophylactic—This is identical with that of renal calculus (see p. 225) as the stone is generally renal in origin. In order to prevent phosphatic concretions, when there is cystitis with mucus, the bladder should be washed out daily with warm saline solution or boracic lotion; this is especially necessary in cases of enlarged prostate. Operative,—At the present day the surgeon has the choice between removing the stone by a cutting operation—lithotomy—or by crushing— litholopaxy. The latter is the operation of choice, but cases are met with in which lithotomy is safer and better. Choice of method.—Roughly it may be said that litholopaxy is the operation of choice in all cases, whether in an adult or a child, in which the urinary organs are fairly healthy and the stone is not too large. It removes the stone satisfactorily and the patient's convalescence is rapid. Lithotomy however is advisable : 1. For stones whose longest diameter is three inches or more and which are therefore beyond the power of the ordinary lithotrite. 2. The nature of the stone may affect the question, for a large uric stone is much easier to crush than a much smaller oxalate one, and when there are two or three very hard oxalate calculi it is better to substitute supra- pubic lithotomy for litholopaxy. 3. Another condition demanding lithotomy is an insufficiently dilatable bladder, such as will occur in connection with a calculus that has been for a long time in a bladder that is the seat of advanced cystitis; here the bladder walls are thickened and the organ will barely hold more than the stone itself and cannot be dilated sufificiently to allow the lithotrite to be properly manipulated. 4. In stone complicating an enlarged prostate a supra-pubic lithotomy is the more suitable operation as, although the stone may be successfully removed by litholopaxy, the enlarged prostate keeps up a chronic cystitis and fresh calculi are formed soon after the patient has passed out of the surgeon's hands. By supra-pubic lithotomy however not only may the stone be removed but the enlargement of the prostate may also be treated (see Chap. XXXVI.) and the patient may be entirely cured. Even should this not be deemed advisable, the bladder may be satisfactorily drained and the cystitis kept well under and the deposition of fresh stone prevented. Moreover, the use of a lithotrite may lead to serious septic troubles when there is a very congested and enlarged prostate and foul urine. 5. In advanced renal disease supra-pubic lithotomy is preferable to litho- lopaxy as the free drainage afforded by the former improves the chance of