39 FISTULA IN ANO. enters the bowel above it, and this is particularly likely to be the case when the fistula runs from' the skin of the buttock through an opening in the levator ani into the rectum higher up. Here division of the fistula as above described of course involves division of both sphincters. This means an extensive operation with much bleeding and a long recovery under treatment by packing. In all probability also it will involve incompetence of the sphincters and incontinence of faeces afterwards—a very distressing condition which must be avoided if possible. Nevertheless, the fistula will not heal without complete division, and, therefore, an extensive operation is essential for a radical cure. When the patient is able and willing to undergo operation, excision of the fistulous track is probably the best procedure. This is done as follows: The patient is put into the lithotomy position and the sphincters are fully dilated (see p. 6). A probe is passed along the fistula into the rectum a Fig. 13.—Diagram to Ii.lustkate the Mkthod of Sutuking after Excision OF A Fi.sTULA in Ano. Ill A the fistulous track has been laid open into the bowel and entirely excised. The rectal mucous membrane is united by one series of sutures, a : the deep surfaces of the wound by a set of buried stitches, b ; while the rest of the wound is brought together by deep silkworm gut sutures, c. In B the wound is appro.ximated. The sutures are the same as in A, e.\cept that an additional set, d, is shown, .nppro.ximat- ing the skin edges. and the tissues are slit up upon it in the ordinary way (see p. 37), leaving a large gap into the bowel. Diverticula from the main track_ are then looked for and slit up until the entire fistulous area is laid open. The bleeding points are then secured and the lining wall of the sinuses is seized in catch forceps and completely dissected out preferably with scissors. The dense fibrous wall usually strips up easily from the loose cellular tissue in the ischio-rectal fossa. Great care must be taken not to leave any portions of the fistulous track behind, and the mucous membrane at the internal orifice must be trimmed so as to leave a firm surface for union. The raw surfaces are now brought together so as to secure primary union. Interrupted catgut sutures are first introduced through the divided edges of the rectal mucous membrane so as to slightly invert the mucous membrane towards the lumen of the bowel (see Fig. 13). These sutures are easily inserted by means of fully curved Hagedorn needles, and in- the first place only the upper two or three should be inserted and tied