228 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KipNEY. from about the centre of the oblique one. Excision of the last rib may also be required in a few cases, and the outer edge of an unduly broad quadratus lumborum may require nicking; in rare cases even the sheath of the erector spinse itself may have to be treated thus. The last dorsal and the ilio-hypogastric nerves should be avoided if possible but, if they must be divided, a portion should be excised in order to prevent the ends being caught in the cicatrix. The fatty capsule of the kidney is exposed exactly as in nephropexy (see p. 178). The assistant makes firm pressure from the front, and, after full retraction of the edges of the wound, the kidney is completely freed from the surrounding structures, so that it can be extruded from the wound. The organ should be cleared first below, and the separation is carried forwards until the ureter is reached, when a sponge may be pushed into the wound and made to compress the ureter against the loin and so prevent the escape of a calculus from the renal pelvis. If possible, the kidney should always be got out on the loin, as it enables it to be much more thoroughly examined, and the removal of a stone is thereby greatly facilitated. This however may be impossible in many cases owing to extensive peri-nephritis, and the structures in the hilum may have undergone so much shrinkage as to render traction upon the pedicle dangerous. If the organ cannot be brought out of the wound, it must be palpated very carefully, and it is well to turn the patient on his back to do this, so that the kidney may be supported against the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. The pelvis and substance of the kidney must first be palpated thoroughly, and if a stone be present in the pelvis it will usually be detected if it be of any size. In any case however the kidney should be incised, either to remove a stone previously felt or to investigate the interior of the organ when none is felt from outside; needling the organ is not only practically valueless, but is a waste of time, because the kidney must always be incised before the operation is completed. While incising the kidney, the pedicle should be compressed so as to control the bleeding, and also to prevent any calculus falling into the ureter. The incision, which should be long enough to admit one or two fingers, is made about a finger's breadth behind the convex border of the kidney, where the anterior branches of the renal artery meet the posterior ones and the vessels are smallest. The incision is carried into the pelvis of the kidney, the interior of which is examined by the finger, introduced through the opening. If the finger fail to detect a stone, a small bladder sound is passed through the wound and a thorough examination of the various calices made seriatim. If still no stone be found, one finger is passed into the pelvis and the fingers of the other hand palpate the kidney from each side to see whether there be a stone imbedded in its substance. Finally the ureter is examined, first by palpation as far as it can be reached, and subsequently by a ureteral sound. This sound can generally be passed through the opening in the cortex, but, if necessary, a puncture may be made at the back of the