482 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. IV/ien pus has formed^ as will be evident from the oedema and redness of the skin, from the length of time that the inflammation has lasted or from the presence of fluctuation, the abscess should be freely opened. In these cases it is of the highest importance that all recesses should be thoroughly opened up and drained, and in the majority of cases the patient should have a general anaesthetic. The incision should be free and made in a line radiating from the nipple ; the finger is subsequently introduced so as to break down any septa that may cross the abscess cavity. These are particularly numerous in the breast as the pus burrows among its ducts and lobules. A large drainage tube should be introduced and the strictest antiseptic measures employed. It is quite useless merely to make an incision through the skin at the spot where the abscess is pointing without opening up the recesses in the cavity, as fresh abscesses and sinuses will almost certainly form. Fig. T07.—Breast Bandage. The breast is pulled firmly upwards while a bandage is applied with turns going alternately over the shoulder and round the trunk. Very superficial suppuration may occur in conriection with a lobule of the breast and in these cases a single abscess forms between the breast and the skin and bursts through the latter if left alone. Incision and drainage of this cavity will lead to rapid healing. It is not uncommon for a patient to present herself with a number of fistulce in the breast resulting from a previous acute abscess followed by imperfect drainage. Unless these sinuses be opened up they will not heal, and the breast may become so disorganised as to be quite useless. Each sinus should be thoroughly opened up and the finger introduced so as to see that there is a free communication between them and that every recess is drained. A number of tubes should be passed through from sinus to sinus or into any recess, and the wound is dressed in the ordinary way. Syringing the sinuses is unnecessary and inadvisable and it will soon be found that under the above treatment the drainage tubes can be shortened