HYPOSPADIAS. 351 any length of time, a piece of gauze may be fastened over the glans with collodion when the wound has healed, and the two ends similarly fixed to the skin of the abdomen so as to make the organ lie flat upon the abdominal wall. The gauze will need to be renewed every three days or oftener, and, provided that the skin be not irritated by the collodion, the plan may be persevered with for a considerable time, in fact until all tendency to con- traction has ceased; the organ should be fully stretched each time the dressing is renewed. Formation of a new urethra in the glans.—The next step is to fashion a new urethra in the glans penis. Many surgeons do this simultaneously with the foregoing operation, but we prefer to leave it for a time, so as to be sure of having an intact organ to deal with when carrying out the after-treatment for remedying the incurvation. The second step therefore in the procedure that we adopt is to make a new urethra in the glans, and to enlarge the already existing urethral orifice if that be too small. In a complete hypospadias the glans is cleft and the urethra is represented by a broad depression. It is generally p,^. 70.-Restoration of the Urethra f^ncv tn mnVp n frp^h iirpthn hv rnrrvincr '^"^ Gi.ans Penis in a case of Hypo- easy to mafce a iresn uretnra oy carrymg spadias. i. The upper pair of tiotted lines in inricinn into thp t;iiht;t-nnrf nf thp indicates the incisions into the substance of the an incision into rne suosiance or me gj^^^ ^i^^ ^^^^^ p^i^ rendering the glans on each side from the edge of this edges raw, so that they may be approximated, o as in 11, groove for about a quarter of an inch (see Fig. 70); after they are made it will be found that the epithelial-covered surface can be pressed into the glans by a rod laid into the groove, and the soft parts approximated below it. The extreme edge of the furrow in the glans is then pared on either side, and the pared edges are brought together over a solid glass rod and united by mattress sutures.^ This provides a canal lined with mucous membrane in the natural position of the urethra. The rod is retained in position until healing is complete. Union generally takes place readily, as urine does not pass over the raw surface; no narrowing will occur because the new urethra is covered by mucous membrane, and the passage of bougies is therefore unnecessary. ' This plan may not succeed if the groove on the under surface of the glans be very shallow, and it has been suggested as an alteinative that the termination of the urethra should be dissected up and, when it has been sulficiently freed, a trochar and cannula of suitaVile size should be thrust through the glans from the apex to the corona .so as to make a canal through which the urethra is pulled, its edges being stitched to the edges of the opening at the apex of the glans. This is theoretically a very fascinating procedure, but practically the objection is that the urethra is scarcely ever long enough for this purpose, and that, if the plan be feasible, there will probably be a recurrence of the incurvation due to the pull of the short urethra. A better plan under the circumstances is to fashion the floor of the new urethra from the prepuce which may be transferred from the dorsal to the under .surface (see p. 354).