281 ACUTE CYSTITIS. I?i order to give rest to the bladder, the patient should be kept in bed with the pelvis raised and the knees drawn up so as to relax the abdominal muscles and diminish the pressure on the bladder. Raising the pelvis causes the intestines to gravitate upwards, and so further relieves pressure. The bowels must be freely opened so as to diminish congestion, and the patient will experience great relief from hot applications, the best of which are hip baths, as hot as can be borne, several times a day; immediately after the bath the patient should be put back to bed between blankets. In the intervals hot fomentations should be applied above the pubes and to the perineum, and in bad cases the rectum may be frequently irrigated with hot water. The distressing tenesmus is best relieved by opium, but the state of the kidneys must be carefully examined before giving it, and the drug should be withheld if the amount of albumen be out of proportion to the amount of pus in the urine, or if there be any other sign of renal disease. If the pain be very severe, injections of morphine may be necessary, but in most cases half-grain suppositories or an enema containing thirty drops of laudanum in two ounces of starch are more valuable. When the tenesmus is excessive, a catheter may be passed into the prostatic urethra, and fifteen drops of a 2 per cent, solution of eucaine instilled. I?i order to render the urine unij'ritating, the first essential is to dilute it freely, and for this purpose large quantities of diluent drinks should be given. Infusion of linseed, decoction of triticum repens, barley water, or toast and water may be used, and the diet in the early stage should be entirely milk. Subsequently fish, milk puddings, and white meats may be allowed, but spiced dishes and the red meats should be avoided altogether. When the urine is strongly acid, as it often is in the early stages of acute cystitis, alkalies such as bi-carbonate of soda (20 grains), or liquor potassje (10 minims), may be given frequently. Urinary antiseptics, such as boracic acid, salol, or urotropine in ten-grain doses are also of value, especially when the urine is foul, and particularly when the more acute condition is beginning to pass off. Quinine may be given internally in doses of three grains three times a day with advantage. .As regards local treatment, no irrigation is required or desirable in the ordinary cases of acute cystitis, but it may become necessary when much decompo.sing pus is present, and drainage through a catheter tied in the bladder may be called for if the bladder be not too sensitive. If irrigation be necessary, the best way is to employ a syringe, as in order to get rid of the pus it is important to distend the bladder .somewhat so as to dislodge the pus from the vesical folds, and this cannot be done efficiently by syphoning; a double-way catheter should not be used, as the fluid merely flows out direcdy it is injected, and does not really cleanse the bladder. As much distension should be effected as the patient can bear, and the forcible ejection of the fluid through the catheter will carry away the pus satis- factorily. Irrigation performed in this manner often arrests the decomposition very satisfactorily. The fluid used should be normal saline solution or boracic