282 THE SURC.ICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE IJLADDER. lotion at the body temperature. Strong antiseptics or astringents should be • avoided in the acute stages. In membranous or gangrenous cystitis the bladder is practically a foul abscess cavity into which urine flows, and nothing short of perfect drainage will give the patient a chance. Catheterisation, or irrigation of the bladder, will not meet the requirements of the case, and the bladder must be opened either above the pubes or from the perineum. Probably a median perineal section (see p. 309) is the best method. A large drainage tube should be inserted through it into the bladder, and to the end of this is attached a small piece of glass tubing, so that the flow of urine can be inspected, and from the end of this a long india-rubber tube is carried into a basin containing 1-2000 sublimate solution, so that the urine is carried off as fast as it is secreted. The perineal wound is packed around the tube with iodoformed gauze, and an antiseptic dressing is applied outside. If the patient can bear it, the bladder should be irrigated from time to time, and this is easily done by attaching a funnel to the end of the tubing and syphoning warm salt solution or boracic lotion in and out of the bladder. It is essential not to introduce any air into the bladder, and therefore in the first instance the tube and funnel should be filled with fluid before being attached to the glass tube, and during attachment should be held well below the level of the pelvis. It is then raised slightly above the level of the pelvis, never however more than a foot, so that the fluid runs in very gradually. As soon as the patient experiences discomfort, or a desire to evacuate the bladder, the funnel should be lowered and the fluid allowed to escape. As a rule the organ is so sensitive that it will not bear much distension, and only an ounce or two can be run in at a time. Strong antiseptics .should be avoided, as there can be no hope of carrying out anything like proper disinfection by their means. The tube may occasionally become blocked with shreds of membrane, which may require to be pulled out with a pair of forceps. Perineal is probably better than supra-pubic drainage, partly because the evacuation is more complete, and partly because of the danger of infiltration of the pre-vesical cellular tissue with the putrid urine. The tube and tubing should be changed daily, and the fresh tubes employed should be boiled before use. The patient's general condition is so bad that stimulants are usually required, especially when the pulse is soft and rapid, and there is great restlessness and muttering delirium. An ounce of brandy or whisky should be given every three or four hours in these cases, together with two or three grains of quinine every three hours, either in milk or in combination with dilute sulphuric acid. In these cases opium must be very cautiously employed, and bromide of potassium (30 grains), with 10 grains of hydrate of chloral, should be employed in preference. If these fail however opium must be resorted to. When the disease becomes sub-acute and the affection has almost subsided, but there is still a considerable amount of mucus in the urine, drugs