i6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIOxNS OF THE RECTUM. forceps in position should the spot be too high up to be amenable to ligature. In many cases it is sufficient merely to clean the surfaces, to rub in iodoform and to leave the injured part to heal. When the foreign body has penetrated the rectal wall below the peritoneal reflection, the peri-rectal cellular tissue behind it will require free drainage, as in similar cases associated with fradture of the sacrum {vide supra), as otherwise very fatal septic pelvic cellulitis is almost certain to occur. Drainage is best effected by the perineal route that has already been described for similar affections associated with fracture. It is well to confine the bowels for a few days afterwards in order to allow of healing, and then subsequently to keep them open by suitable laxatives. The wound should be thoroughly rinsed, and frequently syringed out with mild antiseptics, in order to get rid of all particles of faeces. Should the patient be in a condition to stand the operation well, a temporary inguinal colotomy, to be closed when the patient recovers, will increase the chances of recovery by diverting the intestinal contents from the wound, and this should certainly be resorted to in addition to the perineal operation just described when the rupture is extensive and the cellular tissue in the hollow of the sacrum is widely opened up. It not only diminishes the danger of bad sepsis but it gives a good chance of obtaining healing without any faecal fistula. In nearly all cases in which it is necessary to open up the pre-sacral tissues down to the wound in the rectum a faecal fistula results. If, however, the faeces be diverted for some weeks the tissues may heal without any such uncomfortable compli- cation, and this is a point of very great importance. The colotomy must of course be done so that the interruption to the passage of the faeces is complete and its repair subsequently will necessitate a complete end- to-end union of the sigmoid flexure. This, however, is a comparatively easy and safe operation (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 306). When the reiit runs into the peritotteal cavity the shock is much less than in corresponding cases of fracture of the pelvis, and a median supra- pubic laparotomy should be done, with the patient in the Trendelenburg position, and an attempt made to repair the injury (see p. 15). FOREIGN BODIES IN THE RECTUM. Foreign bodies may find their way into the rectum from above or from below; in the former case they are either comparatively small objects, such as fish-bones, which have been swallowed, or they consist of a gradual accumulation of indigestible material, such as the skins or pips of fruits, cherry-stones, or indigestible portions of vegetables which form a nucleus on which faecal material and salts are deposited so as to give rise to an enterolith. Apart from these causes, the normal intestinal contents may form a dense hard mass in the rectum, and this condition is most common in