EXAMINATION OF THE KIDNEY AND THE URETERS. 169 the patient. An enlarged mobile kidney may descend and become more noticeable when the patient is in the erect position, and one that is movable but not enlarged may thus be felt more easily. Moreover, by turning the patient over on one side a kidney may be felt which otherwise would escape observation. AVhen the kidney is very movable and the patient is put in the genu-pectoral position, the kidney will fall on to the hand placed over the front of the abdomen. Some information may be gained by eliciting the presence of tenderness, even though there be no enlargement, and sometimes the examination may set up hsematuria. Unless the result of the examination be thoroughly conclusive, a further investigation should be practised under an anaesthetic before leaving the patient ; this thoroughly relaxes the abdominal walls, and is especially valuable when the kidney is tender, the patient timid or the abdominal walls rigid. Percussion is of more value as indicating that a given swelling is situated in the renal region than as determining the condition of the kidney itself. As the colon lies in front of the kidney, a renal enlargement will always give rise to dulness in the flank with the colon resonance in front of it, whereas the dulness due to splenic and other enlargements is likely to be in front of the bowel. There is no resonance between the kidney and the vertebral column. Cystoscopy.—An important method of examination is inspection of the ureteral orifices either with special specula in the female or with the cystoscope in the male. By these means it may be possible to ascertain whether urine is flowing from both orifices, and also the character of the urine from each : for instance whether blood or pus is coming from one kidney. A good way to ascer- tain whether both kidneys are functionally active is to inject a cubic centimetre of a 5 % sterilised solution of methyl blue beneath the skin of the buttock and then to watch the flow from each ureteral orifice ; the drug gives rise to blue urine within an hour, and this increa.ses in intensity for several hours, and thus not only can the patency of the ureter be determined, but also the Fig. 37.—Method of fai.i'ating the Kidney.