232 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. allow this portion of the pelvis of the kidney to be removed; but if this cannot be done, the stump should be scraped and swabbed with undiluted carbolic acid and the ligature left long, with its ends hanging out of the wound, in case suppuration and separation of the ligature should occur. Should no suppuration occur, the ligature may be cut short by scissors as deep down in the wound as possible and the tissues allowed to close over it. This plan will obviate those troublesome sinuses, sometimes lasting for years, which so frequently follow the removal of a suppurating kidney when the ends of the ligature on the pelvis are cut short and the stump allowed to drop back deep into the loin. It will occasionally happen that the adhesions are so dense and the pedicle of the kidney is so short that it is impossible to free the organ sufficiently to remove it in the ordinary fashion, and a modified operation, sometimes called a sub-capsitlar nephrectomy, has to be performed. In order to do this, the proper capsule of the kidney is freely divided and the organ is enucleated from within it; while this is being done, the renal pedicle is compressed by an assistant, so as to check the bleeding. As much of the kidney as possible is shelled ouf piecemeal from the capsule, and finally the pedicle is tied up en masse and the kidney capsule is cut away, after which it may be possible to isolate and tie the individual vessels. This form of operation should only be done when nothing else is possible, and is inadmissible if the kidney be tuberculous. After the kidney has been removed and the ureter secured, a large drainage tube is introduced through the posterior angle of the wound, the rest of which is brought together by interrupted silkworm-gut sutures, taking up the whole thickness of the lumbar wall; buried sutures must not be used, as suppuration is likely to occur. The patient is put back to bed with the arm on the affected side bound to the trunk, and with the knees flexed over a pillow and fastened together. There is generally a good deal of shock, with considerable pain and abdominal tenderness, and to meet this there is no objection to giving injections of morphine if the other kidney be fairly healthy. The intense thirst so often complained of is best relieved by allowing the patient to suck ice or to take soda-water in small quantities by the mouth, and by hot saline rectal enemata, about a pint and a half at a time. There will probably be free oozing, and the wound will require dressing frequently in the first 48 hours. Treatment of renal colic.^—The first indication is to alleviate the pain and spasm, and thus to facilitate the passage of the stone along the ureter. Morphine injections should be given and repeated every three or four hours if necessary; it is well to combine them with atropine but, before using them, the urine must be examined and, if there be only enough albumen present to be accounted for by the pyuria, morphine may be given without hesitation. A bath as hot as can be borne should be administered, and the patient should be left in it until he feels faint; while Ln it he must be watched, and when he feels faint he should be