METHODS OF EXAMINATION. 5 of the internal iliac; the lower part is supplied by the inferior haemorrhoidal branch of the internal pudic. These vessels perforate the muscular coats and run down vertically to the anus in the sub-mucous tissue, anastomosing freely with one another by cross branches. The veins about the anus form the h?emorrhoidal plexus and run vertically upwards, passing through slits in the muscular walls ; they are without valves, and therefore the circulation in them is readily interfered with by distension of the bowel. The lower veins join the systemic circulation; the upper ones empty into the inferior mesenteric vein, and thence into the portal circulation. There is free communication between the two sets, so that an obstruction to the hepatic circulation may give rise to distension of the plexus, and consequently to haemorrhoids. The arrangement of the vessels above described is more particularly marked in the lower four inches of the bowel. The ly7nphatic vessels of the rectum proper pass into the internal iliac group in the lateral wall of the pelvis. From the sigmoid flexure they run to the glands in front of the sacrum between the layers of the meso-rectum. The nerve-supply is from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic, and this is reinforced by branches of the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves (see Fig. 3), the supply from the last-named being most abundant. EXAMINATION OF THE RECTUM. The physical examination of the rectum may be effected either by palpation or by inspection. Inspection of the external parts is effected by separating the folds of the anus and making the patient strain while he bends well over the back of a chair, the knees being kept extended; hjemorrhoids, a polypus, a prolapse, or a fissure of the anus are thus often easily detected. By means of digital examination of tie rectum nearly the whole of the rectum proper may be investigated, according to the position of the patient. Unless the rectal affection be a very painful one, an anaesthetic should not be used, at any rate at first, and the patient should lie on the left side rather than over on the face, and should have the knees well drawn up ; in other words, he should assume the ordinary left lateral gyncecological position. Previous to the examination the rectum should, if possible, be emptied by a purge administered overnight, and it is also well to wash it out thoroughly with an enema just before the examination is undertaken. The index finger, thoroughly lubricated, and with soap pressed well down into the cracks and folds about the nails so as to facilitate disinfection afterwards, is insinuated through the anal orifice, and as much of the rectum is palpated as is within reach. If the patient now be made to stand up or to strain somewhat, or if the surgeon compress the abdomen forcibly, an additional inch or so of the rectum can be brought down within reach of the finger. Any examination with a bougie is untrustworthy and not worth attempting.