439 INJURIES. present in the tunica vaginalis. In scrotal hfematocele the testicle, if it can be felt, moves independently of the swelling. Treatment.—The patient should be put to bed with the scrotum supported on a small firm pillow or on the apparatus recommended for acute epididymitis (see Fig. 103). Cold lead and opium lotion should be applied, but no intense cold, such as that produced by an icebag, should be used unless bleeding be actively proceeding, as sloughing in the delicate scrotal tissues is likely to occur under these circumstances. Should it be necessary to use intense cold, a double fold of lint should be interposed between the scrotum and the icebag. When the effusion has become stationary and the acuter pain has disappeared, the scrotum should be enveloped in a thick layer of wool outside which a firm elastic suspensory bandage is applied. The swelling often takes several weeks to disappear entirely and, if it be very large in the first instance and slow in disappearing, the progress of the case may be hastened by opening it, evacuating the contents and inserting a drainage tube under full aseptic precautions. This will also be required should septic symptoms develop. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. ECZEMA SCROTI.—This is a common affection and may be merely part of a general eczema or may be set up by some direct irritation such as the dribbling of urine which occurs in children from phimosis or stone or in adults from stricture or enlarged prostate. The condition is very prone to occur in gouty and diabetic subjects in whom it gives rise to much trouble. Treatment.—Any local condition giving rise to the trouble must be carefully searched for and remedied if present. When the parts are very irritable and weep freely, the patient should be kept in bed for a few days with the scrotum supported (see Fig. 103) and cold lotio plumbi con- tinuously applied to it until the acute symptoms have subsided. The lotion may be iced if necessary, but opium should not be added for fear of dangerous absorption from the raw surface. After the acute symptoms have subsided, the use of diachylon ointment is indicated, or equal parts of oxide of zinc and starch or two parts of oxide of zinc, one of boracic acid and two of starch may be used as a dusting powder in the milder cases. The insomnia, which is often a troublesome feature in these cases, may be met by the administration of a draught con- sisting of syrup of chloral (7jj), liq. morph. hydrochlor (in 10), and bromide of potassium (grs. 20). Should this fail, recourse may be had to a sup- pository containing half a grain of morphine with a quarter of a grain of extract of belladonna. When the affection is part of a general eczema, a stomachic tonic, such as rhubarb or gentian, should be administered in combination with a saline. Gout or diabetes must be looked for and appropriately treated.