l82 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. the kidney may be injuriously pulled upon owing to undue approximation of the sutures. In a large kidney two stitches may be inserted in the upper and more important pole of the organ, but in a vertical instead of a horizontal direction; one suffices for the lower pole (see Fig. 42). All the stitches are tied after the kidney has been returned into the abdomen. The stitches are first of all inserted into the kidney while it is protruded through the wound. The organ is then returned into its place and the ends of the sutures are passed through the lumbar muscles, but are not finally tied until the cut edges of the latter have been approximated. The assistant keeps the kidney firmly pressed in place, and all the peri-nephric fat is pushed away from between the opposing surfaces of the kidney and the transversalis fascia, while mattress sutures are passed through the cut edges of the lumbar muscles in the usual manner. Before these are tied, the pillow is removed from beneath the loin, and the assistant pulls the kidney up against the abdo- minal wall by traction on the sutures so as to prevent the protrusion of fat again. After the stitches uniting the edges of the lumbar muscles have been tied, the sutures holding the kidney are fastened just tight enough to secure the organ in position; if Fig. 42.—Methou of inserting three tied too tightly pain may be caused. SUTURES IN THE KIDNEV ilN NeI'HROI'EXY. . None of the sutures must approach the renal By proceeding thuS the abdommal pelvis. . . wall IS repaired before the kidney is attached to it, and a more satisfactory surface is obtained for adhesion. The sutures are cut short, and the skin is united without a drainage tube. // the kidney is to be fixed aftei- decortication, the following is the method that we are accustomed to employ. Many different ways have been suggested, most of which will be found in Morris's work; nearly all of them are modifi- cations of Tuffier's original plan. After the kidney has been brought up into the loin, a crucial incision is made just through the capsule on its posterior surface (see Fig. 43, A). This must not go at all deeply into the renal cortex as otherwise troublesome oozing may occur. The crucial incision divides the capsule on the posterior aspect of the kidney into four triangles, and the apex of each is seized in turn with a pair of forceps, the handle of the knife insinuated beneath it, and the triangular portion of capsule is raised from the cortex as far as the borders of the organ (see Fig. 43, B). Through these flaps are inserted sutures of medium-sized catgut in the manner indicated in Fig. 43, C. By this means a firm hold is obtained, and there is no risk of the stitches pulling out or the capsule tearing through.