THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. ECZEMA INTERTRIGO.—This condition occurs on the scrotum in stout persons and young children as the result of chafing of the opposed surfaces of the scrotum and the thigh. It is simply and effectually treated by using a dusting powder (see p. 439) and interposing a fold of boracic lint between the opposed surfaces; at the same time a suspensory bandage should be worn. ERYSIPELAS OF THE SCROTUM.—Scrotal eczema if neglected is apt to be complicated by septic infection, and the case then becomes one of erysipelas, cellulitis, or both. The affection occurs also in venereal disease or phimosis, in balanitis or in cases in which there is constant dribbling of urine. Grave and extensive phlegmonous erysipelas ■ of the scrotum may result from extravasation of urine or from injection into the scrotum of irritants destined for the interior of a hydrocele sac. The gravest form of the affection occurs in the subjects of Bright's disease or diabetes. The scrotum swells enormously, becomes red, tense and shiny, pitting deeply on pressure. There is a special tendency for widespread sloughing to occur. The redness passes into a dusky lividity which rapidly goes on to gangrene. Treatment.—This is similar to that for the affection elsewhere (see Part I., p. 218). Should it be necessary to make incisions into the tissues owing to sloughing or imminent suppuration, they should be very free indeed and, even should they completely expose the testes, no apprehension need _ be caused, as, when cicatrisation occurs, it is rapid and complete and the testicles are readily covered in. ELEPHANTIASIS SCROTI. This disease is rare in this country and we can say little of it from personal experience. We shall therefore merely indicate the chief points and, should the reader have occasion to deal with a case of this kind, it will be advisable for him to refer to the writings of those who have had special experience. True elephantiasis scroti is characterised by marked and persistent hypertrophy and oedema of the skin and cellular tissue and is due to repeated attacks of congestion associated with obstruction of the scrotal lymphatics. In true elephantiasis this obstruction is due to the filaria sanguinis hominis, but in a few rare cases it appears to be due to inflammatory blocking of the lymphatics as in tuberculous disease. Treatment.—In the slighter cases it is sufficient to support and compress the scrotum firmly in a good lace-up bag-truss. As the thickening advances, the weight of the tumour causes great inconvenience, and the scrotum becomes enormously hypertrophied until it may weigh a hundred- weight or even more. Excision of the hypertrophied mass is definitely called for under these circumstances. In excising the hypertrophied area it is very important that every part