4IO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. All oozing is now carefully stopped, and the orifice through the stricture is sought for with a fine probe or a canaliculus director. This is the difficult part of the operation and it is often a matter of the greatest trouble to detect the passage. The best plan is to pass the probe along the roof of the urethra and, if this fails, a useful procedure is to press upon the bladder above the pubes, when the escape of urine through the stricture will give a clue to its orifice. It is therefore well not to have the patient's bladder emptied before the operation. Immediately the orifice is detected, a probe is slipped in along it and kept in position. A powerful light is essential, as well as great patience and careful sponging. After a probe has been got through the stricture, the rest is comparatively easy. If the probe be a canaliculus director, a fine pi*obe-pointed tenotome or canaliculus knife is passed into its groove and the stricture is slit downwards throughout its whole length until it is large enough to admit a full-sized bougie. If a probe has been used, ft is almost equally easy to insinuate a tenotome or a fine canaliculus knife alongside it and slit up the stricture in a similar manner. A Teale's gorget should then be passed into the bladder from the perineal wound and, when all the bleeding has been stopped, a full-sized catheter is passed into the bladder and tied in position. The edges of the perineal wound are allowed to fall together and the dressings and after-treatment are the same as for Syme's operation (see p. 408). If any stitches are inserted they should be merely one or two fine catgut sutures in the urethra and peri-urethral tissues. The skin wound and superficial parts should be left open. It may be impossible, in spite of every effort, to find a track along which the probe may be passed, or so much time may be consumed in searching for it unsuccessfully that something must be done to terminate the operation speedily. Under these circumstances the best plan is to expose the membranous urethra behind the stricture and to operi it; the point of a curved probe may then be passed through the stricture from behind forwards and the latter divided as above. Some surgeons in these cases cut steadily through the cicatricial tissue in the middle line in the hope of striking the urethral canal, and thus make an artificial channel from the.penile to the membranous portion along which an instrument is passed into the bladder. This should not be done if it can be avoided, for the urethra may not be hit off and a new track will then be formed in the middle of cicatricial tissue, which is certain to give rise to subsequent trouble. Occasionally however it may be necessary to do this; when this is the case, special care must be taken to prevent contraction during healing. Some surgeons prefer to do a Cock's perineal section (see p. 413) under these circumstances, whilst others open and drain the bladder above the pubes; in both cases the treatment of the stricture is left to a subsequent period. (2) Of strictures accompanied by complications.—(a) Of stric- tures complicated by false passagres.—When the surgeon is