308 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. 4. When there is advanced renal disease or fcetid cystitis, the supra-pubic operation is most valuable because there is no risk of septic absorption from injury to the prostatic plexus, whilst at the same time free drainage is provided. 5. In children with stones too large for lithotrity the supra-pubic operation should be done, although some surgeons still prefer lateral lithotomy. With the former operation there is no danger of making too large an incision into the neck of the bladder and causjng permanent incontinence of urine; the bladder is largely an abdominal organ in children, and is therefore even more easily exposed than in the adult. 6. In women the supra-pubic operation is the one of choice if a cutting operation be desirable, as by it not only can the interior of the bladder be thoroughly inspected, but there is no risk of a vesico-vaginal fistula resulting. Supra-pubic lithotomy.—The reasons for preferring this operation to litho- trity have already been given (see p. 301), and the operation itself has been described in connection with tuberculous di^-ase of the bladder (see p. 289). The steps of the operation in the two cases are exactly similaf'up to the point at which the bladder is opened, and we need not therefore repeat that part of the description. As soon as the incision has been made into the bladder wall, a finger is introduced, and the stone is felt for and extracted with suitable lithotomy forceps slipped in along the finger. The opening in the bladder must be enlarged, if necessary, for the extraction, and in any case it must be steadied, as otherwise the forceps are apt to push it away from the abdominal wall when they are introduced into the bladder. The" finger feels for any second stone, which is removed if present, and then the edges of the opening into the bladder are held well up by an assistant, and the interior of the organ is flushed out with warm boracic lotion so as to remove any clot, and its interior is examined with a powerful electric light. The post-prostatic region especially must be examined both by touch and by sight; if necessary a caisson speculum (see p. 291) should be passed down, in order to make sure that no other stone is present. If the Trendelenburg position be assumed, the upper part of the bladder is drawn well away and does not project down- wards as it does if the patient be lying flat. The ordinary forehead lamp is usually sufficient, but occasionally a small electric lamp may be introduced into the bladder itself so as to examine its walls more minutely. If the prostatic pouch be very large, an assistant should push the base of the bladder forwards by means of a finger in the rectum, or a rectal bag may be used. In some cases the calculus is too large to extract through the ordinary incision, and then the latter will either have to be extended or the stone must be split. Kocher's transverse incision (see p. 316) may give more room here. Obviously there are objections to enlarging the opening into the bladder beyond reasonable limits, and it is better to split up a very large stone. This may be done either by a powerful lithotrite, or a hammer and chisel may be employed, the fragments being removed separately afterwards.