522 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. SYPHILIS OF THE RIBS OR STERNUM—This takes the form of gummata in the tertiary stage, and the sternum is very frequently affected. It generally occurs about the upper part of the bone, and, when it affects the ribs, the first rib is usually attacked near its junction with the sternum and the clavicle, and all three structures may be involved in the gummatous mass. As a rule it is not accompanied by any extensive necrosis. Treatment.—In the early stages this is similar to that of gummata elsewhere (see Part I., p. 235), and the free administration of iodide of potassium in combination with mercurial treatment often causes the gummata to disappear without giving rise to any necrosis. When necrosis has occurred and ah open wound is present which will not heal after the administration of iodide and mercury, it is well to remove the sequestrum and the diseased bone around in a manner very similar to that for tuberculous disease'(see p. 523). If this be done and if the anti-syphilitic treatment be kept up, the wound generally heals readily. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE RIBS, COSTAL CARTILAGES AND STERNUM.—This common affection usually starts beneath the periosteum about the insertion of the intercostal muscles, but it may occur as a deposit in the bone which is often set up by injury; the deposits are not uncommonly multiple and may occur at more than one spot in the same rib or, more frequently, in several ribs one after the other. The most common seats are behind the posterior axillary line or close to the sternum, at the junction of the costal cartilages either with the ribs or with the sternum ; the latter bone is also sometimes affected, generally at the junction of the manubrium with the gladiolus. Symptoms.—-These are generally very indefinite and the patient often does not realise that anything is wrong until a swelling is accidentally found upon the chest. In the early stages however there may be ill- defined thoracic pain followed after a time by an indefinite thickening over the affected area, which subsequently softens and gives rise to an abscess. M^hen the ribs are affected the abscess generally forms on the outer surface, but when it has attained any size it usually spreads to the deeper aspect of the bone and may lie not only between the rib and the superficial structures, but may burrow round between the rib and the pleura. This will give rise to a marked impulse on coughing in the tumour, and a mistaken diagnosis of localised empyema finding its way out through the intercostal space is not at all uncommon. When the abscess implicates the external surface of the rib only there is no such impulse on coughing. It is very important to remember that these abscesses may not point over the diseased area but may make their way forward between the intercostal muscles for some distance before they turn outwards, and therefore before operating a careful examination must be made to find