236 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. cystotomy will be required, and is preferable to a perineal cystotomy, as a good view is obtained, and the stone may be made to project by pressure from the rectum. In the female the urethra is dilated, a Kelly's .urethral tube is inserted, and the stone is projected forward from the vagina, so that the orifice of the ureter is rendered readily accessible. Bougies, or fine forceps, may then be introduced into the ureteral orifice, which is gradually and gently dilated, and then, with one finger in the bladder and one in the vagina, an attempt is made to squeeze the stone out into the bladder, or at any rate to protrude it sufficiently to allow it to be seized with forceps and extracted. Should this fail, the orifice of the ureter may be slit up with a probe-pointed bistoury, and a small scoop or curette used to get out the stone. Throughout any attempt of this kind an assistant should keep his forefinger in the rectum or the vagina to prevent the calculus slipping upwards from the ureteral opening. The enlargement of the ureteral orifice must be done carefully, as it is important not to cut completely through the muscular wall of the bladder, and allow urine to percolate into the cellular tissue. However, the obliquity and dilatability of the canal in the bladder wall will usually allow the stone to be extracted through a com- paratively small incision. In the male the procedure after supra-pubic cystotomy is similar, although it is not so easy. SUPPRESSION OF URINE. Among the complications associated with stone, especially after an operation, is suppression of urine, which may be either obstructive or non- obstructive. By obstructive suppression is meant blocking of the ureter or ureters—it is called " calculous anuria" ; by the non-obstructive form, a condition in which suppression is brought about reflexly by the shock of an operation acting upon kidneys already diseased. CALCULOUS ANURIA.—-This is the most serious complication of renal calculus and may occur independently of operation from blockage of the ureter by a calculus. Occasionally calculi block both ureters, but when calculous anuria occurs it usually implies that the patient has only one functionally active kidney, and that a calculus has blocked its ureter. As a sequela of operation it usually follows nephrectomy, a stone falling into the opposite ureter and blocking it; it is hardly likely to occur after nephro-lithotomy, unless the organ operated upon be badly diseased, because that kidney will go on secreting, provided there be free escape for urine either through the ureter or through the lumbar wound. When however little kidney substance is left, the blockage of the opposite ureter may lead reflexly to arrest of secretion in the kidney operated upon. At first the condition is simply one of obstruction, but very soon the secretion of urine ceases. Symptoms.—The symptoms differ in their mode of onset and in their character from those due to other forms of obstructive anuria, such