l8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. (g) Of strictures complicated by extravasation of urine.— Extravasation of urine following a peri-urethral abscess has already been described (see p. 415). Many cases however occur without any previous urinary abscess, the wall of the urethra becoming thinned and giving way either as the result of some local injury, such as a blow, or of excessive straining on attempting to pass water; the urine passes through the rent into the peri-urethral tissues. In both these cases the opening in the urethra will be in front of the triangular ligament, but the accident may occur behind that structure when it is associated with urinary abscess. The urine how- ever quickly finds its way in front of the triangular ligament where it forms a swelling limited by the attachments of the deep layer of the superficial fascia; this is attached to the lower margin of the triangular ligament behind and to the rami of the pubes on either side so that the urine does not extend beyond the middle point of the perineum behind but passes forwards into the scrotum along the penis and up on to the anterior abdominal wall, being prevented from passing down into the thighs by the attachment of the fascia to Poupart's ligament. Occasionally extravasation occurring in connection with a urinary abscess deep to the triangular ligament may pass backwards and form an ischio-rectal abscess. Sometimes it passes up between the bladder and the posterior surface of the symphysis and forms a brawny swelling in the hypogastric region. Symptoms.—^At the moment of extravasation there is often great relief, as the patient gets rid of a certain quantity of urine from the distended bladder, although this passes into the tissues and not through the meatus. The accident is usually accompanied by a burning pain in the perineum, and a swelling about the scrotum and penis is noticed almost immediately if much urine be extravasated. The extravasated urine, which is generally very septic, sets up symptoms of acute cellulitis within an hour or two, the pain increases, the patient has a high temperature, probably with rigors, the perineum, scrotum and penis become immensely swollen and, unless immediate relief be afforded, sloughing occurs and death results from septic absorption. Treatment.—Free incision and immediate evacuation of the extravasated urine must be effected as soon as the diagnosis is made. No palliative treatment is possible; it can only result in widespread sloughing of the wall of the urethra, the deep tissues and the skin, and usually in the death of the patient. Free incisions must be made into every infiltrated area, and the incisions must go right down into the tissues so affected. Usually a long, free median incision with a lateral incision on each side, extending from the front of the anus right up into the scrotum, are required, together with incisions along either side of the dorsum of the penis and free incisions into the abdominal wall. If this be done quite early after the extravasa- tion, the tissues will not be very severely damaged and recovery may occur with very little sloughing. If several hours be allowed to elapse however the tissues will be foul, and there will be extensive sloughing.