58 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. Haemorrhage during an operation for piles rarely causes trouble, provided that the surgeon has fully dilated the' sphincter. The area from which the bleeding comes is then always under inspection, as the whole pile-bearing area can be protruded easily through the anus, and the bleeding point can either be picked up with forceps and tied or it can be touched with a pointed cautery and the bleeding effectually checked. If a cautery be employed in this manner, it will be necessary to protect the rest of the circumference of the bowel by introducing a large bivalve speculum. Haemorrliage immediately after an operation, when the patient has been put back to bed, may prove very serious unless it be recognised early, for it must be remembered that very free bleeding may take place into the bowel without any external sign, and the rectum may be enormously distended with clot without the appearance of any blood externally. Indeed the first symptom may be that the patient faints and shows all the signs of severe haemorrhage, such as breathlessness, restlessness, etc. (see Part I., p. 135). It is of cardinal importance to see that all bleeding has ceased before the patient is sent back to bed. When bleeding has occurred the treatment must be prompt. The patient should be anaesthetised, the sphincters fully dilated, and all the clots should be turned out of the rectum. The surgeon then seeks, with the aid of a good light, to identify and secure the bleeding spot. As a rule this is fairly easy, as little or no inflammatory swelling will have taken place; the parts may be readily protruded through the anus and the bleeding point actually seen, when it may be suitably treated by ligature, under-running, or the application of a cautery. True secondary haemorrhage, which comes on at any period from the fifth to the tenth day, when the sloughs or ligatures are separating, is however very difficult to treat effectively. Here the bleeding, although as a rule not so profuse as in the accidental form, may be so persistent as to place the patient's life in jeopardy within a short time, and it is therefore urgently necessary to arrest it. In the first place an attempt should be made to secure the bleeding vessel, which should be done by fully anaesthetising the patient, dilating the sphincter, everting the parts, and trying to see where the bleeding comes from. Here however there is great difficulty because of the swollen and inflamed condition of the parts and the fact that the bases of the piles are covered by granulation tissue, and it may be quite impossible to pick up, to tie, or to under-run the bleeding spot, or even to stop the bleeding by a cautery. Under these circumstances a pair of Spencer Wells' forceps may be made to seize the bleeding area, left on and allowed to come away subsequently by a process of ulceration, or, failing this, the method described by the late Professor Henry Smith may be tried. He introduced a large-sized bivalve speculum into the anus and dilated it to its fullest extent. The blades thus pressed firmly against the bleeding point and served to arrest the haemorrhage. The speculum was left on for some hours, and then cautiously removed. The efficacy of this method may be