THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. case is definitely pronounced to be gonorrhoea! the gonococcus must be recognised in the discharge both by microscopical examination and by cultivation. It is equally important that great care should be taken in pro- nouncing that any given case is cured. The fact that no gonococci are found in the discharge at any one time is by no means a proof that the trouble has disappeared. Repeated examinations should be made at fairly long intervals, and the absence of gonococci during a considerable period must be established before it is definitely announced that a cure has been obtained. GONORRHOEA IN THE MALE.—The inflammation commences in the anterior part of the urethra, particularly in the fossa navicularis, the organisms attacking the superficial layers of the mucous membrane first, but spreading to the deeper ones later on. The inflammation rapidly spreads from the fossa navicularis along the penile urethra, to which it may remain limited for a few days; it spreads into the posterior urethra however in the majority of cases, and the mode in which it does so is disputed, some holding that it extends directly along the mucous membrane, whilst others consider that the organisms find their way into the lymphatic plexus and are carried thence to the membranous and prostatic urethra. It seems certain that an acute urethritis does not remain limited to the anterior urethra after the second week of the disease. The urethral mucous membrane becomes swollen, congested and thrown into folds, and the inflammatory exudation spreads into the submucous coat as time goes on, and may even reach the spongy tissue surrounding the urethra which then loses its elasticity and consequently does not stretch pari passu with the corpora cavernosa during erection, and therefore becomes unduly stretched and painful. This condition leads to painful erections known as chordee. The usual incubation period is three to five days ; occasionally it may be as long as a week, and a much longer period has been noticed in very rare cases. The susceptibility of individuals differs greatly, and the disease is not necessarily always contracted after exposure to contagion. The acuteness of the inflammation usually increases for the first few days, and then remains more or less stationary for about ten days, after which it gradually subsides. In a typical case in which resolution takes place there is first the period of incubation, lasting for from three to five days, followed by the period of onset, lasting from three to four hours, during which there is irritation about the orifice of the urethra with swelling of its mucous membrane and slight mucous discharge. Then follows the acute stage, lasting for about ten days and marked by profuse purulent discharge with all the other inflammatory symptoms. Finally comes the period of subsidence, lasting two or three weeks in favourable cases, so that the case lasts about six weeks altogether when the disease runs its course without complications and without passing into the chronic condition known as gleet. In a large number of cases however the chronic