GLEET. 385 When the tube is in position, the obturator is most carefully withdrawn, the urethroscope is attached to the tube and the electric light is switched on. A cotton-wool mop ^ is passed down- the tube and made to cleanse the area of mucous membrane exposed at the bottom of the tube. If no abnormality be noticed in this, the tube is slowly withdrawn for a few millimetres, when the mucous membrane is again mopped up and examined, and this is continued until the whole of the mucous membrane has been examined from the membranous portion up to the meatus. Any area found to be affected receives its appropriate treatment {vide infra) as it is exposed. A most accurate examination can be made in this manner, and local treatment of various sorts can be applied. When the prostatic urethra has to be inspected, the tube will probably be passed into the bladder in the first instance as it is difficult to estimate the length of the urethra exactly, and in that case urine will be found in the tube when the obturator is withdrawn. If this be so, the tube must be withdrawn until the urine just ceases to flow, and then the fluid in it is mopped up with cotton wool as otherwise it will interfere with the view.- Another important point in the technique is always to carry out the examination of the urethra from behind forwards and not from before backwards, as the bevelled edge of the tube is somewhat sharp and might excoriate the mucous membrane; the tube should never be pushed back- wards towards the bladder after the obturator has been withdrawn but should always be passed to its furthest point and gradually withdrawn. Another point of practical importance is to make the application to the affected area upon a mop of suitable size which does not carry too much of the solution; if .an excess be applied it will come into contact with the surrounding healthy mucous membrane and may set up an unduly violent inflammation. We are in the habit of passing a larger dry mop down the tube immediately after the application has been made in order to absorb any excess. The greatest gentleness in manipulation is necessary as the slightest injury to the urethral mucous membrane, leading to the production of only two or three drops of blood, is quite sufficient to obscure the view of the parts, and, when it is remembered that many of these cases are accompanied by granular patches which bleed on very slight pro- vocation, the necessity for care in manipulation is apparent. Local applications.—For gramilar patches the best application is a solution of nitrate of silver gradually increased in strength. When the ^ A special wool-holder may be used, but a very simple plan is to roughen the end of a fine catheter stylet and roll the wool on that. The stylet is then bent at an angle of 120° about four inches from its handle, and forms a very useful urethroscope mop. ^ A long prostatic tube, the elbow of which is closed by an obliquely-placed glass window, is sometimes used, and into this of course urine cannot find its way. This form of tube however is practically valueless, as the obliquity of the glass, the readiness with which its outer surface gets obscured, and the impossibility of cleaning it renders a good view difficult to obtain ; topical applications arc impossible through it. PT. VI. 2. 2 B