THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. 192 by silkworm-gut sutures passing through the skin and the whole thickness of the loin muscles, so that no buried stitches are left to come out should the wound suppurate. The stitches are kept in for ten days or a fortnight. IV/ien a portion of the kidney is a/most detaclied, the question will arise whether the surgeon should merely remove this portion or should take away the whole kidney. The decision depends upon the possibility of arresting the haemorrhage; if this be only moderate in amount after the lacerated portion has been removed, stitching the kidney to the abdominal wall and the applica- tion of a firm tampon of gauze may suffice. When the kidney is much torn and it is impossible to an-esi tlie hcejnorrhage by sutures, the only plan is to plug the laceration with strips of aseptic gauze, if an attempt is to be made to save the kidney. The organ must first be sutured to the loin and then the torn portion is tightly plugged with gauze. The results are not very good because it is difficult to exert sufficient pressure on the kidney to effectually arrest the haemorrhage. The gauze employed should be boiled and the skin around must be thoroughly cleansed, because infection and suppuration are very apt to occur. When pluming with gauze is employed, no drainage tube is necessary because the gauze itself acts as a drain. The greater part of the wound will have to be left open, but silkworm- gut sutures may be carried through the whole thickness of the loin, and the loops tied and left ready to tighten up as the gauze is- removed. Should no suppuration occur, it will be several days before the deepest portion of the gauze will come away easily; if there be no suppuration, the loose stitches are tied as it is gradually removed. The patient must lie on his back, or with a pillow beneath the injured side, while the corresponding arm is fi.xed to the trunk by a binder, and the legs are flexed over a pillow and the knees tied together. When the pe?-itoneiiiii is lacerated and there is extravasation of blood and urine into the peritoneal cavity, immediate operation is imperative. The operation should be trans-peritoneal, the incision being just outside the linea semilunaris on the affected side (see p. 250). When the abdomen has been opened, the peritoneum outside the colon is divided, the latter drawn towards the middle line, and the kidney exposed. In the majority of cases the best plan is to proceed at once to do nephrectomy, unless there be reason to suspect serious disease of the other kidney. In a few cases possibly the rent in the kidney may be small and can be closed by mattress sutures {vide supra) ; in that case a counter-opening for drainage is made -in the loin, and the rent in the peritoneum is sewn up. As a rule however nephrectomy is advi-sable not only on account of the .severe lesions in the kidney, but to pre- vent escape of urine into the peritoneal cavity after the operation. The operation is terminated by the removal of the blood and urine from the peritoneal cavity, particularly from Douglas's pouch to which it usually gravitates ; finally, the abdomen is irrigated with salt solution. If the operation be done early, sepsis may not have occurred, and will be avoided should subsequent escape of urine into the abdominal cavity be prevented.