CHAPTER VIII. HEMORRHOIDS. HEMORRHOIDS, or piles, are varicose enlargements of the terminal branches of the hcemorrhoidal plexus which form compressible swellings beneath the mucous membrane of the lower end of the rectum or the skin around the anal margin. The varicosity generally begins at the junction of the superior with the middle haemorrhoidal veins whilst the true external piles are caused by dilatation of the inferior haemorrhoidal branches. VARIETIES.—Haemorrhoids are divided into external or internal piles according to their position relative to the external sphincter. Thus internal piles are situated above, and external piles below it. Frequently however the two varieties merge into one another and hence a third form, the intero- external variety, is often described. Another important classification is into symptomatic and idiopathic piles, the former being secondary to some other affection, which must be relieved before the haemorrhoidal swellings will dis- appear. Any interference with the portal circulation for example, such as occurs in cirrhosis or malignant disease of the liver, may cause distension of these veins and the production of piles, Similarly cancer of the rectum, stricture of the rectum or urethra, enlarged prostate, various uterine disorders and certain forms of heart disease may all produce haemorrhoids, which although they give the patient much discomfort are not of primary importance and cannot be remedied unless the original cause can be removed. The idiopathic piles are most frequently met with ; they are common in middle life but rare under twenty years of age, and generally commence about the age of twenty-five when an active athletic life is exchanged for a sedentary one. The affection is as common in men as in women ; in the latter pregnancy is a strong predisposing cause. CAUSES-—Heredity, race and climate are said to influence the produc- tion of piles; oriental races and dwellers in hot climates for instance ar^said to be more readily affected than those living in more temperate climates. Diet undoubtedly plays an important part; heavy feeders not only suffer from engorgement of the portal circulation and consequent congestion of the