l8o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. E.8 At the same time adhesion apparently occurs quite well between the bared fibrous capsule and the abdominal wall and there is nothing in the structure of the former that should prevent it becoming adherent. W'e have had experience of both methods and with both of them adhesion may be readily and satisfactorily obtained. Another point in which the technique varies is in the method of attaching the kidney to the abdominal wall. In all cases some suture material is employed and in the majority these are carried through the substance of the muscles and tied more or less subcutaneously rather than through the transver- salis alone. The former pl%n has great advantages, in that it makes it easy to pull up the kidney suffi- ciently high to fasten it properly in place, whereas if it be merely sutured to the transversalis it is difficult to work in under the ribs and therefore the organ will probably be fastened unduly low down. Vario7fs materials are employed for fastening the kidney, some surgeons using silk whilst others employ catgut, especially for the cases in which decortication has been practised. In Vulliet's opera- tion, which is highly recommended by some, a slip of the longissimus dorsi tendon is detached,^ passed through the abdominal wall and made to under-run the fibrous capsule of the kidney, its end being brought out below and stitched to the erector spinfe (see Fig. 40). This operation is somewhat troublesome and we do not think it is more successful than other and simpler plans. The various methods of performing nephropexy will be found in detail in Morris's work and we shall only describe here the methods which we ourselves employ. If suturing without decorticatiofi be employed, the stitches should be passed through the posterior surface of the kidney and not merely the convex border; a good breadth of the posterior surface should be taken up. Fig. 40.—Vulliet's Method of Nei'hroi'f.xv. The figure makes the tendinous suture .ippear on the anterior surface of the kidnej', whereas it should be entirely posterior. R. Last rib. T. Tendinous slip. S. First lumbar spine. E.S. Erector spina;. (Mpriis, after Vulliet.) 'Through a separate vertical incision down to the muscle which is made clo.se beside the spine of the first lumbar vertebra for about 2^ inches. The slip of tendon requires to be as long as pos.sible and should be detached at its upper end only. It is threaded on a large-eyed needle or a stout probe and, after under-running the capsule, the free end of the tendinous slip is buried in and sutured to the erector spimv.