285 CHRONIC CYSTITIS. usually show pus issuing from the ureter on the affected side. The symptoms of vesical tuberculosis are detailed elsewhere (see Chap. XXIX.). ^\■hen the case is of nervous origin the s} mptoms of the primary disease will make the diagnosis clear. TREATMENT.—The first essential is of course the treatment of the primary condition ; that of the cystitis itself is essentially local. The general treatment for acute cystitis (see p. 281) should be employed, and the adminis- tration of drugs acting directly upon the bladder, such as sandalwood oil, turpentine or cantharides is of distinct advantage. If the urine be ammoniacal, urinary antiseptics (see p. 281) are called for, whilst if it be acid, alkalies (see p. 281) are required; if it be alkaline but not ammoniacal, dilute nitro-hydrochloric acid may be administered, although it is doubtful whether the administration of an acid by the mouth has much effect upon the urine. The most reliance however must be placed upon the local treatment which will vary according to the severity of the affection. Local treatment.—When the symptoms are very slight, irrigation of the bladder (see p. 281) with warm boracic lotion night and morning will usually suffice if the primary trouble has been removed. 'J'he urine is first withdrawn, and as much lotion as the bladder will tolerate is then injected with a syringe as rapidly as possible in order to distend the vesical mucous membrane. The washing-out should be repeated until the urine becomes quite clear, and it is well to leave about half an ounce of the lotion in the bladder at the end of the operation, to be expelled the next time the patient passes water. If the case does not yield to irrigation with boric acid, other substances, such as perchloride of mercury (see p. 283), may be used. ^Vhen a strong solution is used, it is well not to leave any behind in the bladder, as it might cause irritation. When the neck of the bladder and the prostatic urethra are the portions most affected, as in gonorrhoeal cystitis, the prostatic urethra should be washed out by a catheter with a backward flow after the irrigation of the bladder has been completed. In rebellious cases, where the inflammation is mainly confined to the neck of the bladder, a useful plan is to instil five to ten minims of a 1-500 or i-iooo solution of corrosive sublimate, or a | to 2 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver into the prostatic portion of the urethra by means of a suitable graduated syringe (see Fig. 62) before washing out the organ. This is left in situ for five or ten minutes, and then the bladder is irrigated with boric lotion, and the strong solution is thus washed away. It is well to perform irrigation with the patient in the recumbent position, at any rate in the early stages. When he becomes accustomed to the operation, it may be done with advantage in the upright position, as the base of the bladder is thus more thoroughly emptied. If there be mut:h muco-pus, the bladder may be irrigated with a weak solution of nitrate of silver, or one containing salicylic acid and bi-borate of soda (see p. 284), or the salicylic solution may be used first and the nitrate of silver employed afterwards. The latter is either allowed to escape entirely, or, in the more obstinate cases, half a drachm may