30 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. In hereditary syphilis affections of the anus are very common. They generally take the form of syphilides and mucous patches leading to excoria- tions and fissures about the anus. If left untreated these little cracks or fissures may develop into deep ulcers and give rise to considerable trouble. Condylomata are also met with in the same situation. Treatment.—This is practically the same as for hereditary syphilis in general (see Part I., p. 236) combined with the local application of calomel and starch powder (see p. 28). TUBERCULOSIS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Tuberculous disease is not uncommon in the ano-rectal region, and it may commence either externally at the anal margin or internally in the mucous membrane or sub-mucous tissues. Primary tuberculosis of the skin around the anus in the form of lupus is sometimes met with in association with lupus of the female external genitals. Sometimes a tuberculous ulcer may develop and spread from the anal margin on to the buttock, presenting all the typical characters of a tuberculous ulcer elsewhere, although the condition is sometimes mistaken for syphilitic or malignant disease. The ulceration may also extend through the anus on to the rectal mucous membrane. The ulcer is generally large and ragged, secreting much pus and only a small quantity of blood, and giving rise to little or no pain on defaecation. The inguinal glands may be affected, and as a rule there is no induration about the base of the ulcer. The progress of the affection is very slow and it is as a rule associated with tuberculous disease else- where, very often in the intestines. When the disease affects the mucous membrane of the rectum just inside the anus, the ulceration is very obstinate and may spread through the rectal wall into the ischio-rectal cellular tissue and give rise to an ischio-rectal abscess. Treatment.—The treatment of a tuberculous ulcer about the attus depends largely on the condition of the patient. When the general health is good and there are no signs of tuberculosis elsewhere, the best plan if possible is to excise the entire ulcer, even when the latter extends into the rectum. This may be done after full dilatation of the sphincter with- out any necessity for dividing it. If excision of the ulcer involves the removal of a large area of skin, the raw surface may have to be covered by some plastic operation. It is very important to get immediate healing around the anal orifice so as to avoid subsequent contraction. Further away from the anus Thiersch's skin-grafting may be employed. We have had more than one very successful case of this kind, although more than one plastic operation has been required to cover the large surface left after excising all the tuberculous area. When the patient is feeble and has extensive internal tuberculosis, or when the disease has extended into ischio-rectal fossa, less radical treatment will