25 CHRONIC PROCTITIS. and the patient survive, the inflammation set up in the pelvic cellular tissue is apt to reproduce the contraction. Nevertheless, this method must be borne in mind and carefully weighed before it is dismissed in any case of limited stricture. Should it be decided upon, the best result will be obtained if a temporary colotomy wound be made previously so as to obviate the passage of feeces over the wound. This is advisable to avoid the risk of sepsis, to allow the incision to heal without much inflammation and subsequent contraction, and also to avoid the risk of a fistula subsequently. After healing has occurred, the colotomy wound can be closed in the ordinary manner (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 469). The steps of the excision will vary according to the position of the stric- ture, and the operation is most valuable for strictures low down where the induration can be removed without injuring the sphincters. It is very similar to Whitehead's operation for piles (see Chap. VIII.). For more severe cases either the perineal or Kraske's method (see Chap. X.) of excising the rectum must be adopted according to the situation and extent of the stricture. Colototny.—Should the stricture become blocked so frequently that the patient is constantly getting attacks of obstruction and suffering from distressing diarrhoea, and should the foregoing methods fail to relieve the symptoms, colotomy must be performed (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 362). This is still more urgently indicated when ulceration accompanies the stricture, and it is then done mainly to allow the ulceration to heal, without which it would probably never do. After colotomy the ulceration heals and induration about the stricture diminishes, and the latter becomes gradually amenable to dilatation, and therefore in many cases the colotomy need only be a temporary measure. The situation of the opening will depend on the extent of the proctitis When the inflammation is limited to the rectum the ordinary left inguinal operation (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 362) is the proper procedure. When however the induration extends to the sigmoid flexure it will be well to open the transverse colon in order to get well above the ulcerated area In doing the colotomy it is best to make a complete section of the bowel so as to entirely interrupt the passage of feeces. There is no occasion, how- ever, to remove a large coil as is done in colotomy for cancer of the rectum (see Chap X.) where there is no likelihood of ever restoring the canal. After the colotomy, the rectum should be syringed out both from above and below with mild antiseptic solutions, such as boracic acid, Condy's fluid or sanitas, and after a few weeks of this, a more methodical treatment may be undertaken. Any ulcerated area remaining unhealed may be painted with strong solutions or touched with solid nitrate of silver and, after healing has occurred, gradual dilatation of the stricture must be taken in hand. By persevering in this manner and taking several months over the treatment, the lumen of the rectum may be so much restored that it will be safe to close the colotomy wound, as described for faecal fistula and artificial anus (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 469).