66 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. draw the bowel down as far as it will readily come as otherwise the prolapse might subsequently recur. The sutures should be either of stout catgut or silkworm gut. In the latter case their ends should be left long so that they may be identified and removed subsequently. We have treated several cases in this way with great success and complete control over the bowel has been regained. At the same time the operation is compara- tively severe and should only be employed for bad cases in which a considerable amount of the entire wall of the bowel is protruded. Colopexy.—Two other methods that have been employed for the treatment of prolapse require mention, namely, attempts to shorten the prolapsed portion by suturing the bowel either to the abdominal wall or to the neighbourhood of the coccyx; of these ventral fixation is the one more often practised at the present time. It has however the disadvantage that, although the immediate result is very satisfactory, the union is apt to stretch and the prolapse to recur. Further than this, it does not affect the portion of the prolapse that is caused by the sliding of the mucous membrane over the submucous tissue, so that, in order to make the operation complete, it must be reinforced by removal of whatever portion of the mucous membrane remains prolapsed. The operation itself is simple enough and consists in opening the abdominal cavity just above the left inguinal canal, seizing the lower part of the sigmoid flexure and pulling it up from the pelvis so as to exert traction upon the rectum which is pulled as far upwards as it will go. Then the sigmoid flexure is fixed in position by stitches passing from the meso- sigmoid to the peritoneum in its immediate neighbourhood. These sutures may be reinforced if necessary by others attached to the appendices epiploicce; indeed the fixation may be carried out by any method that the surgeon may deem best at the time. The abdomen is then closed in the usual manner and the after-treatment is as for an ordinary laparotomy. Any protrusion of mucous membrane that occurs subsequently must be dealt with separately, the best plan being to perform simple excision of it, as in Whitehead's operation for piles (see p. 51). Rectopexy.—Another method is to stitch the bowel up to the neighbour- hood of the. coccyx, which is done through an incision in the middle line reaching from just behind the anus to the tip of the coccyx. This is deepened until the lower end of the bowel is exposed and the latter is cleared of its fat and pulled upwards by the fingers in the direction of the coccyx, when the prolapse, if moderate in amount, will disappear. Two or three catgut sutures are made to transfix the muscular wall of the bowel and are then inserted into the tissues in front of or at one side of the sacrum or coccyx. When traction is exerted upon these the bowel is pulled up and the prolapse disappears. If there be considerable prolapse the stitches must be inserted as high up alongside the sacrum as possible. The operation might be rendered more efficacious by excising the coccyx, prolonging the vertical incision upwards over it, and then inserting the sutures from the