NERVOUS AFFFXTIONS. 295 (c) When the incontinence is due to paralysis of the bladder it is best treated by administering strychnine,' or other suitable spinal tonics inter- nally combined with the application of electricity locally (wV/e supra). Rhus aromatica (ill v-xv of the fluid extract) is also useful. SPASM OF THE BLADDER. SPASMODIC MICTURITION.—An uncontrollable impulse to pass urine is not uncommon in connection with extreme fright. It may also occur as the result of affections of the prostatic urethra following masturbation or gonorrhoea; abnormally acid or concentrated urine may produce the same effect. As a rule the spasm only occurs during the day, and this is a very characteristic symptom. The frequency of micturition varies much, and if a sound be passed, the prostatic urethra is found to be unduly sensitive, as may also be the urethra and bladder as a whole. Treatment.—Mental excitement must be avoided in cases due to a central origin. In other cases the abandonment of sexual excess, combined with a sea-voyage or a long holiday in an interesting locality with plenty of physical exercise will cause the condition to disappear. The cure may be hastened by the administration of bromide of potassium followed by quinine and arsenic. The frequent passage of a sound or the irrigation of the prostatic urethra with hot boracic lotion may be useful if the case prove obstinate. SPASMODIC RETENTION or STAMMERING BLADDER.— Here the affection is in the sphincter vesicae rather than the walls of the bladder, and there is no undue frequency of micturition, but rather a difficulty in commencing the act which may be spasmodically interrupted when once begun. The mildest form is the difficulty experienced by many persons in micturating in the presence of others; in bad cases there may be marked retention. The condition is usually due to an abnormal condition of the prostatic urethra, and traumatism and gonorrhoea are the most frequent causes. It may be met with in connection with constipation and prolapse of the rectum. When a sound is passed, considerable spasm is evoked. The best plan is to pass a large well-warmed instrument, and to keep up gentle pressure when the point is arrested, as this will gradually overcome the spasm and the instru- ment will slip into the bladder where it should be left for five or ten minutes at each sitting. This should be repeated daily so that the sphincter gradually becomes accustomed to relax, and the spasmodic condition passes off. Any existing lesion in the prostatic urethra should receive proper attention (see Chap. XXXIX.). ' The following prescription may be used ; ^ Liq. alropirc sulphatis, - - - Til v Liq. strych. hydrochl., - - - TTl x Syrupi, m XV Aquani ad. - - - - - 3 i Five drops to be given before bedtime, and the dose increased until ITl x are being taken.