HYDATID OF THE LIVER. 121 TREATMENT.—Of the methods employed for hydatids of the liver we shall describe simple puncture, puncture followed by the injection of sublimate solution, enucleation of the cyst and excision. Simple puncture.—Although simple puncture with the withdrawal of a portion of the contents sometimes brings about the death of the parasite, it is attended by so much danger and uncertainty as to render its use practically unjustifiable. However small the puncture may be, leakage of hydatid fluid is almost certain to occur and to cause serious symptoms; moreover the parasites may escape and form secondary cysts on the peri-, toneum. Hence puncture should only be employed as a diagnostic measure and then only when the surgeon is prepared to proceed immediately to operate. It should not be employed when there is suppuration in the cyst. Puncture and injection.—Some surgeons advocate the injection of sub- limate solution (i-iooo) in addition to puncture. About a third of the contents of the cyst is withdrawn and then a quarter of this amount of sublimate solution is injected and left in. The solution brings about the death of the parasites and shrinkage of the cyst. The method is worth a trial when there are multiple cysts which cannot all be cleared out. The smaller ones may be tapped and injected in this manner. As a routine method of treatment however we cannot advocate it. Enucleation.—In our opinion the best method of treatment is to lay open the cyst and clear out the daughter cysts, either by laparotomy or through the thoracic wall when the cyst bulges up in the sub-phrenic region. When the operation is done through the abdominal cavity, a free incision is made over the most prominent part of the swelling so as to expose the cyst wall thoroughly. In the earlier days of abdominal surgery the liver substance around the cyst wall was then sutured to the parietal peritoneum and the wound left open for a few days until adhesions had occurred, when the cyst was incised and its contents evacuated. More recently however many surgeons complete the operation at one sitting and this is undoubtedly the better plan if it can be done. The whole area around the exposed cyst wall is packed with gauze, just as before opening an intra-abdominal abscess, and when the peritoneal cavity has thus been safeguarded, a large trochar and cannula is thrust into the cyst and as much of the fluid contents as possible evacuated through it; should the cannula get blocked by the protrusion of daughter cysts into it, a small quantity of boracic lotion syringed in will displace them and allow the fluid to flow. As the contents are withdrawn the cyst wall becomes flaccid and can often be drawn well up out of the wound by suitable strong catch forceps. Fresh packing is now substituted and the wall of the cyst is drawn as far out of the abdomen as possible, the patient if necessary being turned slightly over on one side, and then a free incision is made through the cyst wall and the more solid contents are evacuated, their escape being assisted by irrigation. If possible the outer true cyst wall should be enucleated from the fibrous envelope surrounding it; this is usually comparatively easy, as the connection between the liver and the true cyst is