THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. 350 the subsequent procedures, and the formation of a new urethra should not be undertaken until it is evident that there is no tendency to recurrence of the incurvation. All cicatrices tend to contract for some considerable time, and to form a fresh urethra over a penis which subsequently becomes incurved from contraction would be to render the whole operation futile. Some surgeons allow as much as two years to elapse between the operation for remedying the incurvation and the subsequent procedures ; and at the very least six months are necessary. To remedy tlie incurvation of the penis (see Fig. 69) either subcutaneous division or open incision may be employed ; the latter method seems preferable and in bad cases is the only possible one. The glans is seized and pulled upwards, so that the penis is put upon the stretch, and a transverse incision is made through the centre of the band binding down the organ deeply Fig. 69.—Method of rectifying the Incurvation of the Penis in Hypospadias. I. Transverse incision across the fibrous band holding down the organ. II. Conversion of this incision into a lozenge-shaped space after free division of the band and forcible straightening of the organ ; a is the first suture introduced, and brings the horizontal angles of the lozenge together. III. The incision completely sutured. enough to divide it completely. This band lies beneath the upper surface of the urethra and extends into and involves the septum between the cor- pora cavernosa. All processes must be freely divided, and the sheath of the corpora cavernosa will generally be found to be contracted and must be divided to the requisite extent. When the band has been fully divided the penis can be straightened and a diamond-shaped defect will be left in place of the transverse incision. Should it be impossible to straighten the organ fully by this means, the best plan is to dissect out the band altogether as it is essential that there shall be no obstruction to complete extension of the organ ; it is necessary to allow for erection as well as to remedy the curvature in the flaccid condition. After straightening has been thoroughly effected, the diamond-shaped space is closed by sutures so as to convert the transverse incision into a longitudinal one, and provision is made for preventing recurrence of the incurvation during healing. This is the most difficult part of the treatment. A good plan is to fasten the organ to the abdominal wall in the first place by a suture passed through the prepuce, but, as this cannot be kept in for