ANATOMY OF THE KIDNEY. 165 Relations of the posterior surface of the kidney.—Posteriorly the kidney rests upon the diaphragm at the upper part, and below on the anterior layer of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which separates it from the quadratus lumborum. Internally and inferiorly it rests upon the psoas muscle. The upper edge of the kidney corresponds to the space between the eleventh and twelfth ribs, and the lower edge is nearly on a level with the middle of the third lumbar spine. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is also in relation with the kidney just below the diaphragm, and this ligament may be an obstacle to the removal of the organ, and may require partial division. Running down a little below the middle of the kidney is the last dorsal nerve, and towards the lower part the ilio-hypogastric and the ilio-inguinal nerve, and it is the close relation of these nerves to the kidney that probably explains some of the transferred pains in cases of renal disease. Lastly, from without inwards the following structures lie between the kidney and the surface in the lumbar region, looked at from behind : skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, then the aponeurosis, and some fleshy fibres of the latissimus dorsi; beneath the latissimus lie the serratus posticus inferior and the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, and, further out, the fleshy origins of the external and internal oblique muscles, while above are the whole of the twelfth rib except its head, the external intercostal muscle between it and the eleventh rib, and about two inches of the latter near its angle. Internally comes the erector spinse, beneath and to the outer side of which is the middle layer of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, and externally to this the fleshy fibres of the transversalis. In front of the quadratus is the anterior layer of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, with the last dorsal, ilio-hypogastric, and ilio-inguinal nerves, and the outer part of the psoas muscle. In front of this again is the peri-nephric fascia, and inside that the adipose tunic of the kidney. In some instances it may be necessary to resect a portion of the last rib in order to obtain space for the removal of the kidney, and care must then be taken not to injure the pleura which descends to the neck of the twelfth rib; further forward the twelfth rib is generally free of the pleura which runs from its neck to the eleventh rib. In some cases however it may even descend below the neck of the twelfth rib. When the last rib is rudimentary the pleura may run from the level of the last dorsal vertebra to the eleventh rib, or in some cases only from the eleventh dorsal vertebra to the eleventh rib. ANATOMY OF THE URETER.'—The ureter is about twelve inches in length, varying from ten to fifteen inches, and is slightly longer on the left side than on the right. It commences at the termination of the renal pelvis at a point to the inner side of and somewhat above the lower extremity of the kidney, opposite the body of the second lumbar vertebra. On the posterior surface of the body this corresponds to a point four and a half to five and a 'Sec Morris, op. <£/., Vol. II., p. 275 6'/ serj.