EXAMINATION OF THE KIDNEY AND THE URETERS. 173 dilating a stricture of the tube, has already been mentioned (see p. 170), and will be referred to later in connection with the affections of the bladder;, practically they afford very little information which cannot be obtained in other ways and with decidedly less risk and inconvenience. CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES OF THE KIDNEY AND URETER. Abnormalities of the kidney are of little interest from the point of view of treatment. As they may be met with during operations however and may puzzle the operator, some of the chief ones may be enumerated. The two kidneys may be fused together to form the '■^ hoise-s/ioe kidney,"' which is usually situated unduly low down, more commonly over the sacro- iliac synchondrosis, the promontory of the sacrum or even lower in the pelvis; according to Morris this condition is said to occur once in about every thousand bodies. Displacet?iefits of one kidney or of both may also occur and the kidney may vary in form or size and may be markedly lobulated. There may be only a single kidney present and according to Morris this occurs once in every 2400 bodies. Congenital cystic disease of the kidney is usually bi-lateral and is not amenable to treatment. Supplementary kidtieys are extremely rare, but we have met with an example of a third kidney ^ which gave much discomfort and from its situation was supposed to be an omental tumour; an exploratory laparotomy was therefore performed. Abnormalities of the ureter seldom require treatment. The hilum may be absent, the renal pelvis may be double, the ureter may be double at its upper part—though rarely throughout its whole length—or it may ter- minate in the urethra, the seminal vesicles, the vagina or even the rectum. Congenital prolapse of the lower end of the ureter into the bladder is also met with; it may also be acquired as the result of stenosis of the ureteral orifice. The ureter may be compressed by an abnormal renal artery, or congenital strictures may occur in it; these may be accompanied by hydronephrosis or atrophy of the kidney. 'See Lancet, 1899, ^'ol. L, p. 215.