261 METHODS OF DIAGNOSIS. its former position and its point is deflected, first to one side and then to the other, at an angle of about 45° from the median vertical plane, and the same procedure is repeated. Finally the outward deflection i§ still further increased to about 90°, and thus the whole interior of the bladder, with the exception of the region of the apex, may be inspected. At fairly short intervals it is well to switch off" the light and to suspend the examination for a few moments in order to allow the instrument to cool, as it heats somewhat readily and, if the patient be under an anesthetic, considerable irritation of the bladder walls may thus be produced. If it be desired to complete the examination by inspection of the apex, the second form of instrument is introduced; this has the prism on the outer aspect of the elbow, and the apex is examined by somewhat depressing the handle and sweeping the beak from side to side. The normal vesical mucous membrane is smooth and pink, with the superficial vessels showing distinctly, and the openings of the ureters standing out as small prominences with a connecting ridge between them. Urine, pus or blood may, under certain circumstances, be seen issuing from one or both of these orifices. A large number of pathological conditions—such as ulcers, new growths, stones, cicatrices, fistulte, etc.—may be made out by direct inspection in the most satisfactory manner, but there are various difficulties connected with the use of the cystoscope. It is most tedious in cases accompanied by marked hasmaturia, as it may be impossible to render the contents of the bladder sufficiently clear for a reliable view to be obtained, and in some cases of vesical tumour the mere introduction of the instrument leads to increased bleeding and defeats the object of the examination, although this fact alone may give valuable diagnostic information. The instrument must be most carefully introduced, as, if there be any congestion of the prostate, it may give rise to hemorrhage, as it passes into the bladder, and the window of the instrument may become coated with blood-clot so that no view can be obtained ; the examination had then better be postponed. Although the instrument may give information of great value, it often fails, and its use is not always essential, as the other symptoms present may suffice for the diagnosis. In some cases indeed, such as enlarged prostate, it may be actually harmful and can do little good as a method of diagnosis. In stone in the bladder it is not likely to be very useful, except in cases of encysted calculus, when it is of great value. Its most useful function is perhaps the examination of the ureteral orifices (see p. 169), as an aid to the investigation of the condition of the kidneys. Attempts have been made to combine with the ordinary cystoscope means of removing small villous tumours, scraping ulcers, etc., but these are not of much value. It is possible however, by the use of special instruments, to cauterise ulcers of the bladder under the illumination of a cystoscope, and this ought to be valuable. Some surgeons also have acquired enough skill to introduce a catheter into the ureteral orifices through a special cystoscope (see Fig. 56).