SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE GALL-BLADDER. 105 The gall-bladder lies in contact with the hepatic flexure of the colon, the anterior abdominal wall and, generally, with the first and second parts of the duodenum ; it normally contains about an ounce of fluid and should not be felt if it be healthy. The blood-supply is from the cystic artery, which divides near the neck of the gall-bladder into two main trunks, one of which supplies the free inferior or peritoneal surface, whilst the other runs between the organ and the liver. Although the attachment between the gall-bladder and the liver is fairly loose in the normal condition, any inflammation spreading through the thickness of the walls of the viscus may give rise to very firm adhesions. As a rule there is a partial investment by the peritoneum which passes from the under surface of the liver across the under surface of the gall-bladder; very rarely this may be complete and a definite mesentery may be present. The mucous membrane about the neck of the gall-bladder and in the cystic duct is thrown into a series of folds, which should be remembered, as they are very embarrassing to a surgeon who attempts to pass a probe from an incision in the fundus down through the cystic into the common duct. The cystic duct measures about one-and-a-half inches in length and passes backwards and slightly downwards and to the left to join the hepatic duel and form with it the common bile duct. These two structures join at an acute angle, and it is important to remember that a lymphatic gland is frequently found in the angle between them, and this may be enlarged as a result of any inflammatory condition about the parts and may simulate a calculus on digital examination. Similar glands are met with over the common duct and may also form pitfalls for the surgeon if they be enlarged. Over the common duct also there are numerous small vessels arranged in an abundant plexus, and these may be a source of troublesome haemorrhage when the duct is incised. The common duct is usually divided into three parts, the first being that lying above the duodenum; this is fairly free and accessible and measures about three centimetres in length. The second part lies behind the first part of the duodenum and is more difficult to get at, whilst the third portion is embedded in the pancreas and is practically out of the surgeon's reach from outside. In order to expose the second part of the duct the duodenum and the head of the pancreas must be separated from the front of it. Owing to adhesions it is sometimes difficult to identify the common bile duct after the abdomen has been opened. The simplest way is to trace down the cystic duct from the gall-bladder until it joins the common duct, but with dense adhesions this may be difficult. The best plan then is to forcibly pull up the anterior margin of the liver so as to rotate that organ somewhat upon its transverse axis and to feel for the foramen of Winslow, through which the finger is inserted. The common duct lies in the free edge of the gastro-hepatic omentum, having the portal vein well behind it whilst the hepatic artery lies not quite so far behind and to its left side.