354 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. and that the portion formuig its floor is furnished by the raw surface of the skin flaps. Cyanide dressings are applied and secured in place with collodion, and the penis is fastened flat upon the abdomen. The glass rod is left in position for the first four or five days, when it is removed, thoroughly sterilised and re-introduced. It must be kept in position until the healing is complete, being changed for cleaning purposes every day or two. The sutures are removed in a week or ten days and, when healing is complete, a bougie must be passed at intervals to prevent contraction. Closure of the gaps left in the urethra. —The final stage is the closure of the gap left between the new urethra and the old urethral orifice behind, Fig. 72.—Method of utilising the Prepuce in Plastic Operations upon Hypospadias. I. The preputial liood a is put on the stretch and transfixed. The glans penis can then be passed through the transfi.xion aperture, when it occupies the position shown in II. while in front the penile and meatal portions of the urethra require to be joined For the latter the redundant hood of prepuce which is always present in cases of hypospadias may be usefully employed. The aperture between the two portions of the urethra is made raw, and the under surface of the glans penis is also rawed to a certain extent, and then the prepuce is put upon the stretch, and a knife is made to transfix it in the manner shown in Fig. 72, I., and to separate it from the penis for about half its extent. This leaves a large slit between the prepuce and the glans through which the latter can be passed, so that the hood of prepuce is now brought down to the under surface of the organ (see Fig. 72, II.), and lies over the surface previously made raw. A few horsehair sutures are then made to unite the cut edge of the prepuce to the aperture in the urethra, and the preputial flap is also fastened to the raw area on the under surface of the glans. Before proceeding to the final stage, namely, the closure of the gap between the original urethral orifice and the newly-formed urethra, sufificient time must be allowed to elapse for any contraction to have reached its maximum and in the meanwhile any defects in the previous plastic operations may be remedied by paring the edges and suturing them. It is essential that all the other stages of the operation should be perfected before the urine is allowed to pass over the newly-formed urethra. To complete the