146 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. cloths so that the whole area around is protected. It is important to see that packing is thrust well into the foramen of Winslow. The next point is to trace the cystic down to the common duct, separating adhesions to facilitate the identification of the latter structure. While doing this, careful watch must be kept for any fistulous communication between the gall-bladder and the bowel; if one exists and it be accidentally opened, it must receive suitable treatment either by re-uniting the fistula or, better, by remov- ing the gall-bladder entirely, if possible, and then closing the aperture in the bowel in the ordinary way (see Part VL, Sec. I., p. 305). The identification of the common duct has already been dealt with (see p. 139). When the position of the stone has been made out, the packing is readjusted so as to make sure that no bile can escape into the peritoneal cavity. The exact procedure for the removal of the stone will vary somewhat according to its position in the duct. When the stone lies in the Jirst part of the common duct, the incision will be above the pancreas and the duodenum, and may be made directly over the stone throughout its full length in front, and the calculus is then easily removed. It is important in doing this to fix the stone so that it does not slip about, as in some cases the duct is dilated and the stone slips about like a ball-valve and may easily be pushed up into the hepatic duct where it is very difficult of access. The best plan is to introduce the finger through the foramen of Winslow, hook it round behind the stone, and press the latter forcibly forward so that it is firmly fixed. In making the incision into the common duct it is very useful, if there be but few adhesions, to incise first the peritoneal covering and then the wall of the duct separately ; this facilitates the introduction of the stitches subsequently. If there be many adhesions there will be no distinction between the peritoneal covering and the duct wall. IV/ien the stone lies in the second part of the duct, the best plan is to attempt to squeeze it up into the first part and cut down upon it there (vide supra). Should this fail, the duct must be incised as near to the stone as the surgeon can reach without damaging either the duodenum or the pancreas, these structures being stripped downwards as far as possible. A suitable pair of forceps or a scoop is passed into the incision and the stone extracted whole if possible, or, if not, in fragments. Two other methods have been suggested for the removal of stones in this situation, so as to avoid incising the common duct. In one the stone is firmly squeezed between the fingers so that, if it be friable, it is crushed into fragments, in the hope that these may pass on into the duodenum and so the affection may be cured. A somewhat similar plan is to pass a stout needle obliquely through the walls of the duct down into the stone which is thus split up into fragments which may be further reduced by pressure between the fingers and then left to pass into the intestine. There are many objections to these methods and they are not to be recommended. The pressure may cause serious bruising, and the needling