421 CONGESTIVE STRICTURE. gonococci are almost certain to be carried back and deposited in the neigh bourhood of the prostate or the bladder itself, so that acute prostatitis or cystitis may be set up. Therefore the first efforts in treatment must be directed to encouraging the patient to micturate spontaneously, and this is best done by giving a suppository containing half a grain of morphine with a quarter of a grain of extract of belladonna, and putting the patient in a hot bath in which he should stay until he feels faint; he is encouraged to pass water in the bath. The bowels should be freely cleared out previously by five grains of calomel. If this fails, the bladder must be relieved by some mechanical means, and we prefer supra-pubic aspiration which possesses no risk, whereas the dangers of passing a catheter have already been pointed out. The bladder is distended, so that the peritoneum is lifted well up from the symphysis and there is no risk of puncturing it, while, if a fine aspirating needle be used, there is no risk of extravasation of urine into the pre vesical space. The operation is simple and is done as follows. The parts are shaved and disinfected in the usual manner and a fine aspirating needle is thrust through a small nick in the skin made with a lancet immediately above the symphysis pubis, and is directed backwards and slightly downwards; the sudden cessation of resistance will at once show when the needle has reached the bladder, and urine will issue directly. A fine aspirator should be employed and it should be provided with an inner tube so as to avoid lacerating the opposite wall of the bladder as the organ empties; it is well to place the forefinger upon the needle about an inch from its point in order to prevent it being thrust too deeply into the structures in the first instance. The first portion of urine will escape without aspiration, but the last should be withdrawn by attaching the bottle of the aspirator. The needle is then withdrawn,^ a collodion dressing is applied to the small puncture and the patient is put back to bed with hot fomentations to the perineum and hypogastric region, and a morphine and belladonna suppository is administered. The congestion will often pass off in a few hours and the next time the bladder becomes full the patient may be able to empty it in the natural manner. There is no objection however to performing aspiration again if necessary and in a short time the con- gestive condition will disappear. ' A drachm of boracic lotion may be syringed through the needle by means of a hypodermic syringe immediately before withdrawal. This clears the needle of urine, and none is there- fore drawn through the pre-vesical cellular tissue. Not more than a drachm should be used.