4l6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. (see p. 418) and are then much more serious, as they are associated with fairly extensive loss of tissue, so that, instead of a small fistulous orifice into the urethra, as is usually the case when a fistula follows a peri-urethral abscess, there may be a large defect in the urethral wall. Other causes of perineal urinary fistulse are external urethrotomy and injuries of various kinds. Tuberculous prostatic abscess occasionally ends in fistulae, as does also carcinoma. The fistulcC may be situated either in the penile portion of the urethra or further back in the perineum and may be divided into two great groups: (a) Those in which the communication is between the skin and the urethra and {b) Those in which the communication is between the urethra and the rectum, and possibly also the skin. This latter condition either follows an operation such as lithotomy accompanied by wound of the rectum, or may occur in connection with prostatic abscesses which have burst into the rectum. Treatment.—The prospect of treating these cases successfully varies according to the situation and nature of the fistula. In peni/e fistula, which are fortunately rare, there is often great difficulty in obtaining closure, as the mischief is probably caused by sloughing of the urethra. When the fistula is primarily due to stricture of the urethra, the treatment will be to dilate the stricture first and, when that has been done, the fistula may close rapidly; in many cases however it will not do so, as epitheHum has spread down it, and a plastic operation will be necessary. The edges of the fistula must then be pared and, when there is much loss of substance, it may be necessary in addition to raise a flap to cover the opening. This will be especially called for when the fistula has followed extensive extravasation of urine and there is consequently considerable loss of the urethral wall. Many operations have been devised for the purpose, most of which are modelled upon the lines of the operations for hypospadias (see Chap. XXXVI.A). When the loss of tissue is not great, a flap may be turned in over a catheter tied into the bladder with its raw surface forming the new floor of the urethra. In other cases two superimposed flaps may be necessary, the cutaneous surface of the deeper one forming the floor of the urethra. No particular rules can be laid down ; the surgeon will have to devise the operation for himself in many cases. If union fails at any point, a smaller fistula will be left and this may sometimes be made to unite by touching the defect with a hot wire or a cautery point, or a second plastic operation may be needed, in which case the edges will be pared and brought together by sutures. When the fistula is in the perineum and is connected with a stricture in front of the bulb, there is no chance of it healing until the stricture has been cured. When it follows a peri-urethral abscess, dilatation of the stricture will often suffice and therefore the treatment should be directed first to this point. As the stricture becomes fully dilated less urine passes through the fistula until finally it heals.