411 ORGANIC STRICTURE. conscious that he has made a false passage, instrumental treatment should be abandoned for two or three weeks and the patient should be kept in bed for the first two or three days, allowed to micturate spontaneously and an antiseptic such as boracic acid or salol (see p. 274) should be administered by the mouth. Extravasation of urine rarely follows the formation of a false passage except when the latter is behind a stricture or between two. The false passage will generally have closed in about three weeks and then treatment can be begun again. Metal instruments must be used when instrumental treatment is resumed; the urethra should be put fully on the stretch and the instrument used very gently and its point kept well under control When the false passage is of some standing, and especially when there is more than one, the surgeon may have the greatest difficulty in passing an instrument; it goes into one false passage after another and it seems impossible to avoid them. The best plan then is to pass a number of fine bougies in succession and, when the first passes into a false passage, to leave it there and pass a second, which will probably either enter the same one if it be large, or another, and to continue this until all the false passages are occupied. Finally another instrument may possibly find its way through the stricture. If this one succeeds, it is held in position and all the others are withdrawn and the surgeon can then either perform an external urethrotomy at once, using the filiform bougie as a guide, or he may tie in the bougie for 24 to 48 hours in order to effect continuous dilatation There need be no hesitation in tying in a bougie in these cases as, if it be a small instrument, it will not entirely block the stricture and the patient can pass urine beside it. A fine bougie is much better than a fine catheter if soft instruments are being used; the latter is so fine and is so readily blocked that it is of little use for draining off the urine while it is very rare for a stricture to grip a fine bougie so tightly that the patient cannot micturate beside it. When once the stricture has been dilated sufficiently, the surgeon can usually avoid passing the instrument into false passages subsequently as he knows the direction of the canal; moreover, the orifice of the stricture will probably be larger than those of the false passages. (b) Of strictures accompanied by severe cystitis.—When a patient with a stricture has bad cystitis, the first indication is to provide for free drainage of the bladder. For these cases intermittent dilatation is unsuited, partly because of its slowness, partly because of the risk of infection of any accidental crack of the mucous membrane by the foul urine. When the stricture is not dense or extensive, the simplest plan is to anaesthetise the patient, dilate the stricture rapidly up to a No. 7 or 8 and then to tie a catheter of that size into the bladder. Through this the urine can escape readily and the bladder may be not only kept drained but may be washed out if necessary, while the presence of the catheter in