336 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. When the urine is aseptic there is no need to irrigate the bladder in addition to evacuating it; should cystitis occur however this will be necessary. The management of the case when cystitis is present is referred to below (see p. 344). Catheters.—The best catheter for the patient to pass for himself is Jaques's red-rubber catheter, which can generally be got in fairly easily, and with which it is impossible for the patient to injure himself; it also has the great advantage that it is easily disinfected and is not spoiled by boiling. A No. 6-8 English is the best size, as it is too big to get caught in the folds of the urethra, and too small to do any damage. When the urethra is so distorted that the red- rubber instrument fails to pass, the coude or bi-coude catheter (see Fig. 67) is very useful. It is soft and not likely to do harm, but its great disadvantage is the difficulty in disinfecting it. Gum-elastic catheters are much employed in England. They are moulded on a stylet to a proper curve and may be bent to any shape after immersion in hot water, and they retain the curve imparted to them when allowed to cool. They are very easy for the surgeon to pass, but they are difficult for the patient himself to use. They also suffer from the disadvantage that they are difficult to sterilise without damage. Metal instruments should be rarely used, as the eye is apt to scratch the urethra, and in the hands of an unskilled person they may do serious damage. If one be employed, it should be an inch and a half to two inches longer than the usual instrument, and it should have the bold prostatic curve; a No. 8 or 9 is the best size. Disinfectio7i of catheters.—The greatest care must be taken to avoid infection in passing the instruments, and the first point that arises is the question of the disinfection of the catheter itself. This is readily done by boiling in the case of metal or red-rubber instruments, and with the latter form a good plan is to let the patient carry it in a test tube of fair size in which the catheter lies coiled up. When required for use the tube is filled with water above the level of the catheter, and may be boiled over a spirit-lamp or gas flame. Then after use, the instrument is thoroughly rinsed in warm water and put in the test tube again, which Fig. 67.—Catheters for use IN ENLARGED PROSTATE. The right-hand one is acoudi catheter, the other bi-coud6.