48 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. chronically oedematous and thickened. A certain amount of prolapse of the rectum may accompany these acute attacks, but it disappears when the piles are removed. The piles may actually slough, or suppuration may occur in them, in both cases as a result of bacterial infection. It is generally held that the bacillus coli communis is responsible for the phlebitis and thrombosis, while the pyogenic organisms give rise to suppuration and gangrene. In the case of an external pile, thrombosis practically always cures the particular pile affected, which shrivels up and is merely represented by a small skin tag about the anus. Patients who once develop well-marked piles generally remain subject to them for the rest of their lives. With proper care piles may almost entirely disappear, but they are apt to recur with any error of diet or hygiene. As long as the affection is slight, the patient may be the subject of both internal and external piles without any marked inconvenience so long as he takes proper precautions. When once the tumours have reached any size they constantly come down through the sphincter, and the patient is not only subject to repeated attacks of bleeding but is liable to serious risk from inflammation and its various sequelte. TREATMENT OF UNCOMPLICATED CASES. This may be considered under two heads, namely, palliative and radical treatment. Prophylactic and palliative treatment.—In a number of cases this is all that is required, the essential points consisting partly in a proper regulation of the alimentary functions and partly in the observance of proper cleanliness. All causes that may interfere with the circulation through the hsemorrhoidal plexus should be avoided, more particularly anything that may produce congestion of the liver. A diet should be adopted which will neither interfere with the functions of the liver nor cause local irritation of the rectum. Alcohol should be taken sparingly, and highly spiced dishes and an excess of nitrogenous food should be forbidden. The greatest care should be taken to avoid constipation, which is probably the most potent cause of piles; this matter is too large to deal with here and a suitable medical text-book should be referred to. It suffices to say that the diet should be light and should contain articles promoting peristalsis, such as ripe fruits, wholemeal bread, stewed prunes, baked apples, figs, etc., and that a very important point is to take means to induce a regular action of the bowels. In addition, some laxative will generally require to be taken regularly; the best are cascara, effervescing sulphate of soda, or an aperient mineral water. A useful plan is to prescribe a dinner pill containing nux vomica, belladonna, and cascara,^ to be followed by a ' A useful formula is: ^ E.\t. nucis vomica;, gr. ^ ; ext. cascarEc sagradce, gr. i ; ext. gent., gr. iij; or, ^ Fen. sulph. exsicc, gr. i; ext. nuc. vom., gr. i ; ext. belladonnse, gr. ^ ;: ext. gent., gr. 2.