ORGANIC STRICTURE. 409 the stricture does not show signs of contracting. The-results of this operation are very satisfactory; a permanent cure cannot be guaranteed, but any tendency to relapse is easily guarded against by the occasional passage of an instrument. Wheelhotise's operation.—When the surgeon fails to pass an instrument into the bladder or when the necessary time cannot be devoted to pre- liminary dilatation of the stricture, Wheelhouse's opera- tion must be employed. The perineum is shaved and purified as usual and a Wheelhouse's staff (see Fig. 95) is passed down on to the face of the stricture with its grooved surface looking towards the floor. The patient is then placed in the lithotomy position on a table immediately in front of a window in a good light. An assistant takes charge of the handle of the staff and makes the lower end of it prominent in the perineum by depressing the handle, while the surgeon, sitting with his back to the light, cuts down on the end of the staff in the perineum. The exact seat of the incision will depend upon the seat of the stricture, but it usually extends from the mid-point of the perineum forwards for about an inch to an inch and a half; that is to say, the strictures requiring Wheelhouse's operation are usually situated in the bulbous or the membranous portion. The tissues are incised until the urethra is exposed, when the lower end of the staff is felt and the urethra is opened upon the groove in it by a single clean cut extending down to its lower end. It will be noticed that the groove in the staff does not extend quite to the lower end of the instrument. It is important for the success of the operation that the incision in the urethra should not reach quite down to the edge of the stricture as otherwise the guide formed by the floor of the urethra would be lost. The edges of the slit in the urethra are now seized in fine catch forceps or a thread is passed through them on each side, and the staff is then turned round so that the hook projects through the opening and is pulled up slightly so as to cause the hook to catch in the upper angle of the wound and put it on the stretch. When full retraction is made, a triangular or somewhat lozenge-shaped wound appears in the urethra, at the bottom of which the surgeon looks down upon the face of the stricture. A good plan is to retract the cut edges of the urethra with threads fastened to the skin of the buttock on each side so as to insure steady retraction. Fic;. 95.—Wheei-house's Staff for External Urethrotomy.