HEMORRHOIDS. S3 " Whilst the patient is still on the table, I introduce into the rectum a suppository containing two grains of extract of belladonna, give the external parts a final dust with iodoform, and place over all a strip of oiled lint, which is retained in position by a T-bandage. " For the first few days, with highly neurotic patients, I keep a bag of ice in close proximity to the rectum, and I generally recommend a dose of castor- oil to be taken on an empty stomach on the morning of the fourth day. The patient sits up on the fourth day, and is in a condition to resume work within a fortnight. " I rarely find that the patient suffers much pain after the operation, though this depends chiefly on the nervous susceptibility of the individual. Some aching in the back may be complained of, as in other pelvic operations, but this is generally relieved by change of posture. If the change of posture does not answer, a hot water-bag or hot salt applied to the back will generally give immediate relief." We generally employ about 12 to 16 sutures so as to avoid tension anywhere, and to bring the cut edge of the mucous membrane as accurately as possible into contact with the cut edge of the skin, so to reduce to a minimum any granulation tissue after the operation which might give rise to cicatricial tissue and interfere with the complete success of the operation. The sutures may be of any material. We usually employ catgut and cut the ends an inch or an inch and a half long, so that, should any of the stitches fail to become absorbed or to cut their way out spontaneously, they may be easily identified and can be removed. If the sutures are of non absorbable material, such as silkworm gut or horsehair, their ends should be left fairly long for subsequent identification. We prefer not to use silk as recommended by Mr. ^\'hitehead, as it is an absorbent of septic material. Clamp and cautery.—This is a very useful operation in many cases, for it has the advantage of removing the piles completely without the loss of more than a few drops of blood, and is, therefore, applicable to the most antemic and debilitated subjects. If properly done, there should be little or no pain following it and little or no risk of accidental or secondary hemorrhage. Neither is a properly performed operation likely to be followed by contraction. It is unsuited for cases of general heemorrhoidal dilatation where more than four or five piles require removal. In these cases there is practically no alter- native to the operation of excision (^)ide supra). The operation by the clamp and cautery is done as follows : The bowels having been properly evacuated beforehand (see p. 37), the patient should be placed in the exaggerated lithotomy position, the perineum shaved, and the sphincter fully dilated in the usual manner (see p. 6). This dilatation should be most carefully done and five minutes at least should be consumed in effecting it, the muscles being stretched steadily to their utmost limit. The pile-bearing area then prolapses at once and all mucus should be sponged from the surface so that the number of piles requiring removal can be noted and suitable ring forceps (see P"ig. 14. .A) attached to each one