THE SURGICAL AFP'ECTIONS OF THE THORAX. 534 off from the opposite side by an aspirator, but simultaneous opening of both pleural cavities should certainly be avoided if possible. (d) Of an empyema that has ruptured into a bronchus.—In these cases it is probably best to wait for a little time to see if the cavity is thoroughly evacuated through the bronchial tubes or not. Should the evacuation not be satisfactory, the empyema must be opened from the outside and drained, but under these circumstances closure of the wound is often very long delayed and sometimes does not occur; how- ever the patient is saved from the dangers of the pus continuing to discharge through the bronchi and usually only a small sinus is left. (e) Of an empyema that has failed to heal.—The length of time that an empyema requires for closure after incision and drainage varies greatly, the chief element being the expansion of the lung. When this is incomplete, a cavity is left which takes some considerable time to close, but closure eventually occurs in most cases and is aided by a certain amount of falling-in of the chest wall and displacement of the various intra-thoracic structures, such as the diaphragm, the contents of the mediastinum, etc., which is largely brought about by the contraction of the granulation tissue lining the portion of the cavity remaining. In some cases however the lung is so bound down that, after allowing for all these factors to come into play as much as possible, a large cavity remains and the surgeon is confronted with a very serious state of affairs which is all the more likely to be met with when the empyema had existed a long time before the pleura was incised and drained. Another cause of failure in the closure of an empyema is tuberculosis. In tuberculous empyema operation is not satisfactory and should be avoided if possible because the cavity is not likely to close (see p. 537). Among the minor causes of failure are imperfect drainage, such as occurs when the opening is too high up in the chest; this is easily rectified and closure will follow. It is also supposed that the use of a drainage tube projecting too far into the chest may lead to the formation of a sinus, although this is a matter of doubt. Finally, if a portion of rib has undergone necrosis, a discharging sinus will remain, but here the pleural cavity may close and the sinus may be merely an external one. The chief factors in the non-closure of an empyerria are therefore imperfect expansion of the lung, imperfect drainage or a tuberculous condition of the pleura. When an empyema has lasted for a long time there is generally considerable sepsis present and as a result waxy degenera- tion of the viscera takes place and the patient gradually goes downhill and ultimately dies exhausted; therefore, when it is evident that closure of the cavity is not likely to occur, it is highly important to take steps to effect it. In any case of empyema that has lasted for more than six or eight weeks and in which a cavity remains, the surgeon should make sure in the first instance that the condition is not due to imperfect drainage. If