346 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. of a T-bandage by means of four threads but, as the bandage is apt to slip, this is not a safe method. A preferable plan is to fasten the catheter by means of four threads (see Fig. 68) to loops of tape passed around the thighs and .secured to a firm abdominal bandage. Soft rubber catheters have been designed with expansile wings which project immediately the point of the instrument passes into the bladder and tend to prevent it slipping out; they are not sufficiently reliable however. In tying in a catheter it is very essential not to let it lie with its point too far in the bladder. The best way to ascertain this is to pass the catheter on until the urine flows freely and then to withdraw it slowly until the flow of urine just ceases; then the instrument is pushed back a quarter of an inch and tied in position. This will leave the eye lying just within the neck of the bladder. The only other complication that need be referred to is the develop- ment of calculi in the post prostatic pouch. These are essentially phosphatic in nature, are usually associated with cystitis, and cause immense trouble to the patient. The condition is extremely difficult to treat by litholopaxy, especially when the post-prostatic pouch is large, as it may be difficult to seize the calculus even with the patient in the Trendelenburg position, and small calculi or fragments may be easily overlooked. It is also very difficult to wash out the debris perfectly, as they not at all uncommonly lodge in pouches in the bladder wall, where they may form the nuclei of fresh stones. Moreover there is serious danger of doing grave injury to the enlarged prostate with the lithotrite or with the evacuating apparatus. The best method therefore, when other conditions are favourable, is to perform prostatectomy through a supra-pubic cystotomy wound; not only are the stones immediately and completely removed by doing this, but the post-prostatic pouch is got rid of, and the septic condition of the urine is thereby overcome, as the patient is enabled to empty his bladder com- pletely, and there is no longer any residual urine, and therefore no likelihood of fresh deposit of phosphates. A supra-pubic lithotomy without enucleation may be preferred to lithotrity when the organ is very large and the post- prostatic pouch is extensive. Here however there is a certain amount of risk of a permanent supra-pubic fistula, and moreover the operation is not unattended with risk in elderly subjects if the urine be septic.