I50 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. Sec. I., p. 217). If a biliary fistula forms, it may be allowed to heal gradually, which it usually does when there is no obstruction to the ducts. It may break open once or twice, possibly from some slight recrudescence of cholangitis, but healing usually remains quite sound after three months. When cholecystostomy has been done as a temporary measure because choledochotomy cannot be performed, some surgeons recommend that a quantity of warm olive oil, about an ounce to an ounce and a half, should be syringed gently down the sinus once or twice daily, and at the same time olive oil should be given internally in doses as large and as frequently repeated as the patient can tolerate. This is said to have a solvent effect upon the calculus and to facilitate its passage along the duct, but we are unable to satisfy ourselves of the truth of this. The general treatment consists largely in taking measures designed to avoid broncho-pneumonia or pleurisy, which are fairly frequent affections, probably owing to the immobility of the diaphragm and the bases of the lungs. Another not at all uncommon complication is said to be acute dilatation of the stomach. Lung complications are guarded against by propping the patient up, by change of posture, and by the administration of suitable diffusible stimulants, whilst dilatation of the stomach may be treated by washing out the organ, feeding per rectum, and administering strychnine. An occasional trouble is excessive bleeding, to .which we have already referred (see p. 138), and this may necessitate re-opening the wound for its arrest. It is most commonly met with after cholecystectomy, the oozing taking place from the raw surface of the liver, and it may be met partly by the continued administration of chloride of calcium by the rectum, partly by soaking the deeper layers of the gauze packing in a solution of adrenalin chloride (i in 1000), or, if that fails, by opening the wound and applying firm pressure, or, failing that, under running bleeding vessels or applying the actual cautery. The wound may also have to be opened up after cholecystostomy in order to remove stitches, about which fresh biliary calculi are forming. This trouble can easily be avoided if the stitches be either of the ordinary absorbable catgut with the ends cut short, or of silkworm gut with the ends cut long so that they can be reached and removed without opening up the wound. Another cause for which the wound occasionally wants re-opening, and a very serious and troublesome complication, is the formation of dense adhesions between the seat of the operation and the duodenum, pylorus, or colon; occasionally actual stricture of the bowel may thus be produced. Later on operation may be required for ventral hernia or for persistent biliary fistula i^inde infra). Results.—\i the patient perseveres with suitable hygienic means, diet, exercise, etc., after a successful operation, the results both immediate and remote are very good, and recurrence is rare. Cholecystenterostomy. —Another operation recommended for cases in which the patient's condition does not allow of choledochotomy is called cholecystenterostomy and has for its object the establishment of a