THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST TREATMENT.—The appropriate treatment for sarcoma of the breast is early removal of the whole organ. Attempts to save any portion of the gland by removing the tumour and its capsule alone are very likely to be followed by recurrence. The removal of the breast in these cases need not be nearly so elaborate an operation as for carcinoma (see p. 493). If the tumour be situated well towards the centre of the organ it is hardly necessary to remove the outlying lobules and, unless the growth be adherent to the pectoralis muscle, that structure need not be interfered with. It is well however to remove the pectoral fascia in all cases, because blood-vessels blocked with sarcomatous cells may ramify in it; the axilla need only be cleared out if there be enlarged glands in it. CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST. The most important tumours of the breast belong to this group, and in it there are two principal forms, namely those which commence in connection with the acini,—the ordinary "acinous carcinoma" and those which com- mence in connection with the ducts,—"duct carcinoma." The ordinary cancer of the breast belongs to the group of carcinomatous tumours formerly distinguished as scirrhus, those, that is to say, in which there is great development of new fibrous tissue which contracts and presses on the alveoli and leads to atrophy of the epithelial cells. Hence the centre of these cancerous growths becomes almost entirely converted into a mass of fibrous tissue, whilst at the periphery there are large alveolar spaces con- taining epithelial cells with only a comparatively small amount of connective tissue between them. The tumours commence in a lobule of the breast, probably from pro- liferation of the epithelial cells in the acini. These cells quickly push their way through the walls of the acini and spread into the surrounding tissues, most probably by getting into the lymph spaces and growing along them. This theory of the mode of spread of cancer of the breast is very important because it explains the distribution of the disease, and gives the surgeon a very definite indication as to the extent of tissue to be taken away in attempting, to eradicate it. Since the researches of Heidenhain and Stiles have shown the true extent of the breast and the mode of distribution of the disease, and since extensive and methodical operations have been carried out on the lines indicated by these pathological researches, recurrence after operation has greatly diminished and in a large number of cases apparently no recurrence has taken place, at any rate for a very long period. Cancer of the breast varies much in its malignancy. Sometimes it grows slowly and atrophies almost as fast as it grows. These are the typical cases of " atrophic cancer" and the patient may live for many years before the tumour ultimately kills her; some indeed have lived as long as twenty