525 PLEURISY. NON SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATION OF THE PLEURA — Pleurisy or pleuritis is essentially a medical disease, and the only point that we have to consider is the treatment of pleurisy with effusion. It may be mentioned that the majority of these cases of pleurisy with effusion occur in adults and are tuberculous in nature and that they seldom call for surgical interference. Treatment.—When surgical interference is required, it is for the relief of dyspnoea or other symptoms of severe intra-thoracic pressure and takes the form of paracentesis thoracis. Unless symptoms of this kind be present, it is best to leave a non-purulent fluid to medical, treatment. It is essential to avoid free opening of the pleural cavity in the majority of cases, especially when the case is tuberculous, as otherwise the. chances of healing are slight. Exploratory puncture of the thorax.—By this means the diagnosis of pleural effusion is confirmed; an exploratory puncture is also useful in ^ascertaining the nature of the fluid. The operation is simple and safe and in performing it it is important to have a sufficiently large and long needle. In a moderately stout person the normal pleural cavity may lie at least an inch and a half from the surface of the skin and this measure- ment will be much increased if the pleura be thickened. Hence the needle should be three inches long and should have a large bore, as otherwise it easily becomes blocked by flakes of lymph and there will be difficulty in drawing off fluid. The ordinary hypodermic needle is therefore of little value and the best plan is to employ a special exploring syringe with a large needle and a barrel arranged so that a higher vacuum may be obtained. It is well always to be provided with an ordinary aspirator and an aspirating bottle, so that, if necessary, evacuation of the fluid may be practised immediately after the exploration, if possible through the same needle. The greatest care must be taken in disinfecting the skin and the instruments, as it is not infrequent for suppuration to follow exploration of a case of simple pleurisy with effusion. It is always well to employ a syringe and needle that can be disinfected by boiling; if the physician has only a hypodermic syringe at his disposal he should at any rate dip the needle into pure carbolic acid at least five minutes before the operation is performed so as to disinfect it, and he must also remember that it is essential for all the acid to be expelled from the syringe and the needle before the aspiration is performed, as otherwise coagulation of the fluid will occur in the needle and the flow will be stopped and any fluid with- drawn will be so cloudy that it may be mistaken for pus. Therefore boiled water should be syringed through the needle immediately before use. When the effusion is not localised to a particular area of the pleura, the patient should be in the horizontal or semi-recumbent position well over the edge of the bed or couch, and an aseptic towel should be placed beneath him, the .skin disinfected, and then the needle should be