22 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. When the ulceration is limited to the lower part of the rectum and refuses to heal under milder treatment, it has been suggested to remove the whole of the mucous membrane over the sphincteric area and to detach that above it for some little distance, so as to enable it to be brought down and sutured to the skin at the anal margin, almost exactly as in Whitehead's operation for piles (see Chap. VIII.). In extensive cases, with severe pain and no sign of healing, a temporary inguinal colotomy should be performed, after which the sphincters should be kept dilated and the rectum irrigated through from the inguinal opening. This will usually allow healing to occur, after which any contraction present may be remedied by dilatation with bougies. After this has been done the colotomy opening may be closed in the usual manner (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 469). (c) Of papillomatous proctitis.—The vegetations must be got rid of and the best way of doing this is to use the thermo-cautery or the galvanic loop. The sphincter should be fully dilated under a general ansesthetic, after which it is generally possible to bring down the whole of the affected area through the anus, or to deal with it through a speculum, unless it extend unduly high up, in which case it may be essential to incise the sphincters and the posterior wall of the rectum backwards to the coccyx in the middle line so as to give access to the upper part of the rectum. This should only be done however in extremely bad cases. (d) Of Stenosing proctitis.—The treatment of this form of chronic proctitis and its accompanying non-malignant stricture of inflammatory origin is very difficult. The condition inevitably gets worse if left alone, and something must therefore be done. In the early stages irrigation with warm antiseptics, the employment of laxatives and the removal of any definite cause of proctitis, together possibly with the administration of anti-syphilitic remedies is the proper line of treatment. Later on, as the condition becomes com- plicated by stenosis, vigorous treatment must be directed to this. The main difficulty is the extreme sensitiveness of the affected region. Another is the irregularity of the stricture and the serious danger of sepsis following any breach of surface. This is most important, because infective material may pass through the torn wall of the rectum and give rise to a peri- proctitis, which may end fatally, or, if the patient survive, in abscess and fistula high up in the bowel, which it is very difficult to treat and which may require free division of the sphincters. In very slight cases following injury and extensive pile operations or excision of portions of the mucous membrane, the treatment is comparatively easy because there is no deep ulceration or marked infiltration of the rectal walls; any cicatricial bands present merely draw the mucous membrane together and very often do not involve the other coats. In some of these mild cases the stricture may be overcome by dilatation with the finger or with rectal bougies passed through the stricture every two or three days (vide infra). When constriction is very slight and situated about the anal orifice, as after an operation for piles, a permanent cure may