497 CARCINOMA. and downwards in turn, the complete separation of the fat and the glands beneath it is effected from above downwards, so that finally the whole of the fat and glands in the axilla come away in one mass attached to the breast and its lymphatic vessels. Special care must also be paid to the other two extensions of the fat and lymphatics in front of and behind the vessels and if any glands are found high up there it is well to open the posterior triangle of the neck by a separate incision and clear it out. After everything has been removed, the skin is undermined in various directions as freely as may be necessary, when it will often be found that the edges of the wound can be brought together by using stout silver wire for stitches of relaxation (see Part I., p. 155); this may allow the whole of the incision to be closed by a continuous silk suture.^ In most cases no drainage is necessary but, should the patient be fat or should there be a large cavity left in the axilla, the best plan is to make a small button- FiG. n2.—Incisions for the removal of a Cancerous Tumour situated in THE CENTRE OF THE BREAST. hole through the skin over the lower and back part of the axilla and insert a tube through this. Large dressings are then applied and a mass of salicylic wool is fixed in the axilla so as to keep the arm projecting from the trunk at a right angle. The arm should be supported on a pillow and may be either rotated upwards with the hand fastened to the head of the bed or downwards and supported on a pillow. The patient frequently likes the position of the hand to be changed occasionally. After-treatment. —When no drainage tube has been used, the dressings need not be changed for a week or ten days but, if a tube has been put in, the dressings should be renewed about the second day, when the tube may be left out. Possibly under these circumstances the dressing will need to be renewed again in about a week. Any silver stitches used for relaxation may be removed in about a week after the operation, whilst the silk stitches may remain for ten days or a fortnight. During the first three weeks the arm should be kept at right angles to the side by means of an axillary pad and after that time the patient may begin to use the arm, ' If not, the raw surface left can be covered l)y Thiersch's grafts ten days later. PT. VI. 2 2 1