137 GALL-STONES. stone, either in the cystic or the common duct. 3. In cases of severe recurrent colic, particularly when the attacks are so severe as to demand large doses of morphine, and so frequent that there is a risk of the patient becoming the subject of the morphine habit. 4. In cases accom- panied by enlargement of the gall-bladder or the liver or by persistent jaundice. 5. In cases accompanied by symptoms of adhesion of the gall-bladder to the stomach, pylorus, colon, etc. 6. In cases marked by symptoms of suppurative cholangitis or perforation of the gall-bladder or bile ducts. TechnicLue of the preliminary steps of operations upon the bile passages. —As the early stages of all operative procedures in these cases are similar up to the point where the exact nature of the mischief is made out, we shall make a few preliminary remarks upon them and point out the diffi- culties that may be met with. It must be remembered that an operation for gall-stones may vary from one of extreme simplicity to one of exceeding difficulty without there being any indication beforehand as to which it will turn out to be. Another important point is that the patient should be directly under the eye of the surgeon who operates for the first week at least after the operation, as many points may arise in the / '[ ,• 1^ / \ after-treatment with which he can deal best. The preliminaries for the operation are similar to those for laparotomy (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 177) and in particular every precaution must be taken against shock as, although in ordinary cases the operation is neither prolonged nor severe, a bad case of stone impacted in the common duct involves a most tedious and difficult opera- tion. One or two precautions are necessary. The bowels should be thoroughly evacuated and the stomach washed out before the operation, both to give room for proper identification and mani- pulation and more particularly because occasionally the bowel may have to be opened. When the bile duct has been opened, swabs, sponges or abdominal cloths used for the purpose of absorbing bile should not be used in the later stages of the operation when the abdominal wall is being dealt with. Fig. 29.—The Vertical Incision fok Oi'iiHATiONS uroN THE Gall-Bladder. The tliick vertical line is the usual incision. The dotted transverse one is added to it when more room is required.