320 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. Inflammation of the prostate may be either acute or chronic, the acute form affecting either the glandular follicles or the organ as a whole. Sometimes, however, when suppuration occurs it is peri-prostatic. ACUTE PROSTATITIS.—This is an infective condition often con nected with gonorrhoea; it may also be due to injury of the prostatic urethra by dirty instruments or by a surgical operation ; it may follow the use of strong urethral injections, while gout, alcohol, and dietetic excess seem to play some part in its production. Vesical or prostatic calculi may give rise to acute prostatitis, and the affection may be met with in connection with stricture of the urethra; it is also said to occur from undue indulgence in exercises, such as bicycling and horse-riding, and from sexual excess. In the cases not due to sepsis, resolution frequently occurs. When of gonorrhoeal origin, the acute form may pass on into the chronic, while in septic cases suppuration is common and may occur in connection with the follicles, in which case the abscess usually bursts into the urethra, or in the peri- prostatic tissues, when the pus finds its way either into the rectum or the ischio-rectal fossa. Very rarely, a communication may form between the urethra and the rectum or the perineum, and a urinary fistula may result. Symptoms.—These are usually characteristic. There is a sensation of heat and weight in the sectum, with frequent micturition and painful defjEcation. The patient is unable to get comfortable in any position, there is marked pyrexia, and sometimes there are rigors. Digital examination shows the prostate to be enlarged, tender, hot, and fluctuating; soft spots may be felt when suppuration is established. This latter occurrence is usually accompanied by retention of urine and great pain on catheterisation. When this occurs in patients who have urethritis, the urethral discharge usually diminishes or ceases altogether. The condition is easily distinguished from gonorrhoeal cystitis in which there is no enlargement of the prostate, but marked vesical tenesmus. Treatment.—The first indication is to insure rest to the parts and to diminish the local congestion. The patient should be confined to bed, as the intimate connection of the prostate with the levator ani makes it certain that any movement will affect the gland. The pelvis or the foot of the bed should be raised, the bowels should be kept freely open, first with a dose of calomel (grs. iii-v), and subsequently by sulphate of magnesia administered daily, while suppositories of belladonna and morphine should be employed once or twice daily to relieve pain and diminish the contractions of the levator ani. Hot perineal fomentations or a sitz bath as hot as the patient can bear it should be used as frequently as possible and are very comforting. If a bath be employed, the patient should sit in it for from half an hour to an hour at a time, the water being renewed as often as may be necessary in order to keep it up to the proper temperature. If these measures fail, half a dozen leeches (see Part I., p. 5) may be applied to the perineum, followed by