I'YONEPHROSIS. 213 and there is reason to believe that the other kidney is healthy, primary nephrec- tomy is indicated, but undoubtedly the proper treatment in the majority of cases, in the first instance at any rate, is nephrotomy and drainage, which has the advantage that, even should subsequent nephrectomy become necessary, the condition of the other kidney may be inferred from the characters of the urine passing through the biadder, as the secretion from the affected kidney will probably all pass through the loin in the first instance, and the two may thus be differentiated. Of course should the opposite kidney be markedly affected also, the patient must put up with a permanent renal fistula. The operation is the same as that for renal calculus (see Chap. XXII.). A secondary nephrectomy is undoubtedly more difficult than a primary one, as there probably will be extensive adhesions to surrounding parts ; this makes it more imperative to operate by the lumbar route. The trans-peritoneal operation ought not to be employed, because it is not only more difficult to separate the adhesions on the posterior surface of the" kidney, but infection of the peritoneum is almost certain to result. Great difficulty may be met with in dealing with the renal pedicle, on account of shrinkage and adhesions. In any case the ureter should be isolated separately, and it should be brought out into the lower angle of the wound after division, the cut surface swabbed with undiluted carbolic acid, and either stitched into the wound, or invaginated and sutured. If the matting of the structures in the hilum of the kidney be very extensive, it may be necessary to put a temporary ligature round the pedicle, to cut the kidney away in front of this, and then to clear and tie the vessels separately. The wound should be flushed out frequently during the operation, as otherwise there will be extensive sepsis, and in any case free drainage must be employed. The after-treatment is the same -as that for nephrectomy for stone (see Chap. XXII.).