HYDROCELE. 473 by a sensation of numbness. He should go to bed for 24 hours after the injection and have the testis supported. The injection is usually followed by some swelling unaccompanied by pain or signs of inflammation. A certain amount of fluid is effused, but this rapidly becomes absorbed and the swelling disappears. If possible the patient should be kept in bed until the swelling has almost gone, but recovery will proceed even if he goes about with the testicles supported by a suspensory bandage. Excision of the wall of the sac.—The strictest asepsis is necessary here, and special care must be taken to see that the parts are thoroughly purified. The scrotum, pubes and penis are shaved and the latter is fastened to the skin on the opposite side by a stitch as for hernia (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 450) so as to keep it out of the way. The tumour is grasped between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand slightly behind its centre, the skin is made tense over it, and a vertical incision is made extending from the upper to the lower limits of the swelling dividing the skin, dartos and fascia; this is steadily deepened until the thin tunica vaginalis is evident. The coverings of the testicle are now separated from the tunica vaginalis with a blunt dissector or the finger, care being taken not to puncture the hydrocele cavity until the whole of the tumour can be turned out of the wound with the testicle and epididymis forming the base of the swelling. It is well also to ascertain the position of the vas and to see that it is thoroughly cleared from the sac right down to the epididymis. When the hydrocele has thus been, isolated, the tunica vaginalis is opened with scissors, the fluid is allowed to escape and the whole of the parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis is clipped away as close to the testis and epididymis as possible. The portion of the tunica vaginalis covering the testis cannot well be removed, but, in order to avoid any possibility of secretion occurring from its surface afterwards, it is well 'to brush it over lightly with undiluted carbolic acid and then to wash away any excess of the acid with sublimate solution. Great care must now be taken to stop all bleeding, because a considerable heematoma may form if oozing continues after the wound is closed and this would delay healing ; it is impossible to apply direct pressure to stop this oozing. The wound is completely closed with a fine continuous button-hole suture, the incision being put slightly on the stretch by blunt hooks introduced at the upper and lower angles, and care must be taken in doing this to see that the edges of the scrotum do not curl in as they are very apt to do, and also that the stitches are not put too far apart, lest gaping should occur when the blunt hooks are removed. It will probably be unnecessary to remove the stitches if fine catgut be used as they will become absorbed. Should there be any doubt as to whether the oozing has ceased, a fine drainage tube may be introduced into the lower angle of the wound for 24 hours; this will not delay the progress of the case. Dressings similar to those for the radical cure of hernia (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 452) are applied and are left on for about five days, when a