ORGANIC STRICTURE. IT. VI. 2 2D Sometimes however dilatation may fail even though carried to its full extent, as the tissues may be very rigid or the direction of the fistulous opening may be such that the urine continues to escape through it. Here the best plan is to perform a Syme's urethrotomy, dividing the strictures thoroughly and enlarging and scraping the fistula; the essential point in treatment is to deal with the stricture thoroughly by external urethrotomy. By one of these means the fistulae will generally be got to heal, except when they have followed extensive sloughing of the tissues after extravasa- tion of urine. Here some form of plastic operation on lines somewhat similar to those for hypospadias (see Chap. XXXVI. A) may be called for and in them it will generally be necessary to drain the bladder, so as to prevent urine passing over the wound; even if a catheter be tied in, urine IS almost certain to escape beside it and lead to failure of the operation. Under these circumstances supra-pubic drainage (see p. 289) may be •established and the perineal condition treated by an external urethrotomy, dividing the stricture freely, paring raw surfaces or turning in flaps according to the circumstances of the case. A very difficult type of case to treat is a comviunication between the rectum and the urethra with or without a perineal opening. As a rule the communication with the rectum is just above the sphincter and, on the one hand, the liquid fteces are guided into the urethra while, on the other, urine ■escapes into the rectum; if there be a perineal opening both may come through it. The wall of the fistula soon becomes lined with epithelium and there is no possibility of spontaneous healing, so that a comparatively ■elaborate operation, separating the urethra from the rectum and then suturing ■each canal separately after paring the edges of the opening into it, must be undertaken for its cure. This is best done through a crescentic incision in front of the anus which is deepened so as to reach the interval between the urethra and the rectum, the former structure being defined by a sound passed into the bladder. The rectum should be pulled well backwards. The. fistulous tract must be divided as it is defined, leaving as much of the mucous membrane as possible on the urethral side, as the latter is most likely to be narrowed by a plastic operation, whereas slight narrowing of the rectum is not of much importance. The opening into the rectum is inverted and closed by sutures inserted on Lembert's plan, and that in the urethra is similarly treated. A litde gauze is packed between the two points until the wound is granulating, when the parts are allowed to come together and healing by granulation occurs rapidly. The greatest care must be taken to prevent urine passing into the wound and, when the orifice of -communication is extensive, it may be advisable to carry out supra-pubic drainage for a time. The sphincter ani must be freely dilated (see p. 6) •so that there shall be no obstacle to the exit of fteces. It may possibly be necessary to divide the sphincter in order to insure incontinence of fajces, but this can be repaired subsequently. If a stricture of the urethra -exists it must be treated in the ordinary manner.