CHAPTER XXVI. CONGENITAL ABNORMALITIES OF THE BLADDER. EXTROVERSION OF THE BLADDER OR ECTOPIA VESICA. The frequency of this condition is variously estimated by different authors ; it is said to occur in one out of every six thousand births. It varies from complete absence of the anterior wall of the bladder and of the abdominal wall in front of it, together with wide separation of the pubic bones, down to a small defect in the region of the neck. In the male, complete epispadias and a rudimentary penis are usually associated with it, while in the female the urethra may also be split. It is apparently more frequent in the male than in the female, and in the former the testicles may be imperfectly descended, and congenital hernia is not uncommon. In a complete extroversion the red fleshy mucous membrane of the posterior wall of the bladder protrudes beyond the surface of the abdomen with the ureteral orifices leaking urine below. There is always ammoniacal decomposition of the urine, with irritation and ulceration of the skin around, phosphates are deposited upon the latter, while the exposed mucous membrane becomes inflamed and hypertrophied, bleeds readily and is often papillomatous and ulcerated. Behind the protruding mucous membrane is a very defective muscular coat, so that practically nothing intervenes between it "and the peritoneum but a little loose cellular tissue, and hence great care has to be taken in operating not to open the peritoneal cavity. The patient may live for a long time, but it is more common for death to occur from sepsis spreading up the ureter. TREATMENT.—Something must be done, as the condition is most distressing and is likely to prove fatal, and attempts at treating it by merely palliative means, such as collecting the urine in an apparatus designed to protect the mucous membrane from irritation, have proved abortive, as escape of urine by the side of it is almost certain to occur. The operative measures may be divided into two main groups; in the one case an attempt is made to form a cavity in the usual situation to take the place of the bladder,