HYDROCELE. 475 as the upper end of the hydrocele extends into the inguinal canal, but this form of hydrocele differs from the true congenital form in that the fluid does not return into the abdomen. Treatment.—Injection is not advisable here on account of the anatomical situation of the hydrocele. If the swelling be large, it may be punctured and evaporating lotion applied when the child is quite young and, if this fails to cure it, the child should be left until he is old enough, when the sac is excised completely. The treatment is practically the same as that for congenital hydrocele (pide supra). (d) Encysted hydrocele of the cord.—Here there is an ovoid swelling along the cord usually extending downwards from the external ring and due to effusion of fluid into an unobliterated portion of the funicular process of the peritoneum. The hydrocele varies in size from a small marble to a large brazil-nut and in the former case is rounded whilst in the latter it is elongated or ovoid. When the swelling extends up through the external abdominal ring there may be a definite impulse on coughing, but the close connection of the cord with the tumour and the translucency of the latter will demonstrate the nature of the affection. Treatment.—The hydrocele should be excised through an incision extending downwards from the external abdominal ring so as to expose it thoroughly. The parts are made tense over the tumour, which is then cut down upon layer by layer and the constituents of the cord are separated from the sac wall; the latter is then removed. The operation is very simple and healing should take place in a few days. Should there be a hernia present as w-ell, a radical cure (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 450) should be done at the same time. Occasionally the hydrocele sac contains a milky fluid, and the condition is then termed chylous or fatty hydrocele. Here there is some communica- tion between the lymphatics and the hydrocele sac and the condition is most common in those who are the subject of filaria. Excision is better than tapping and injection. (e) Encysted hydrocele of the epididymis.—These are really cysts and not distensions of the tunica vaginalis or the funicular process. There are two forms of encysted hydrocele of the epididymis, one of which contains spermatozoa and is commonly called a spermatocele, and the other clear fluid without any spermatozoa. The cysts are very slow in development and seldom attain a large size. They are usually globular and may be multilocular and if large enough will show trans- lucency unless the fluid be opalescent. Treatment.—^The cyst causes no trouble apart from the inconvenience due to its size, and therefore no treatment need be undertaken if it be very small. If however its presence causes the patient any annoyance, the best plan is to cut down upon it and excise it. Tapping followed by injection will also cure a good many of these cases.