414 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. is 'not easily missed if the knife be kept in the direct line. It is done as follows : The patient is anaesthetised and put in the lithotomy position with the symphysis pubis, the umbilicus and the chin kept rigidly in the same straight line. The left forefinger is introduced into the rectum with its palmar surface upwards and its tip planted firmly against the apex of the prostate. Cock's double-edged knife (see Fig. 96) is then thrust into the middle line of the perineum at a point about half an inch in front of the anus and pushed steadily forwards towards the tip of the finger in the rectum, the long axis of the knife being kept absolutely horizontal. The knife is pushed onwards until the finger in the rectum feels that there is nothing between it and the edge except the rectal wall; the sensation of the loss of resistance as the knife divides the triangular ligament is very characteristic. The urethra will then have been opened as it emerges from the apex of the prostate and if the apex of the gland be incised also, as is frequently the case, it apparently does not matter. The knife is now withdrawn, the left forefinger being kept in position, and Fig. 96.—Double-edged Knife and proue-pointed Director for Cock's Ferine \L Section. the incision in the skin and superficial parts is slightly enlarged upwards and downwards by a sawing movement of the blade as it is withdrawn. A probe-pointed, broad director (see Fig. 96) is now passed through the in- cision to the apex of the prostate where it enters the urethra and so reaches the bladder. Along this a No. 12 gum-elastic catheter is passed and tied in, so as to drain the bladder through the perineal opening. Hgemorrhage is slight and can be controlled easily by slight pressure. The wound should be sponged with chloride of zinc solution (grs. 40 to the oz.) and a long india-rubber tube should be attached to the catheter so that the urine is drained off continuously; no attempt is made to deal with the stricture for several days. At the end of a week or ten days, when the condition of the bladder has become good, the congestion about the stricture will probably have diminished enough to allow catheterisation to be effected and then the stricture becomes amenable to the ordinary treatment. (e) Of strictures complicated by peri-urethral abscess.—When the urethra behind the stricture becomes dilated and inflamed, ulceration may occur and infective material may spread down, either through the ducts of the mucous glands or through some slight abrasion in the mucous