266 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. the epispadias is also cured. Several cases operated upon by this method have given fairly satisfactory results. Trendelenburg's operatioji.—^Another method has been introduced by Trendelenburg which aims at diminishing the gap in the anterior abdominal wall by approximating the separated ends of the pubic bones. This is done by dividing the posterior ligaments of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis on each side, and is only applicable to very young children before ossification is advanced. The main points of the operation are as follows : The patient is turned over almost on to the face, and an incision is made over one sacro-iliac synchondrosis, the joint fully exposed and the posterior ligaments divided as freely as possible. While this is being done, an assistant makes firm pressure over the crest of the ilium on each side and this keeps the pares on the stretch and renders the detection of undivided bands easy. AMien one joint has been thoroughly divided in this manner, a similar procedure is carried out on the opposite side, until both innominate bones can be pushed inwards sufficiently to allow the pubic bones almost to touch in the middle line. The posterior wounds are then closed in the usual manner, and a short interval is allowed to elapse before proceeding to the second part of the operation, the patient being mean- while placed in an apparatus so arranged that pressure is applied over each side of the ilium and the great trochanters, so as to push the innominate bones inwards. This reduces the defect in the anterior abdominal wall very greatly, and the prolapsed mucous membrane recedes and a deep furrow is left, over which the soft parts can be brought without any great tension. In about a fortnight's time the second stage is proceeded with by making an incision at the point of junction of the skin with the mucous membrane all around the defect in the bladder and dissecting up the mucous membrane from the peritoneum for a short distance. The greatest care is necessary in doing this as the peritoneum is in close contact and may easily be wounded. The edges of the mucous membrane, which should then come together easily, are united by a continuous catgut suture, and it only remains to undermine the skin all round with a few sweeps of the knife and to unite the raw edges with silkworm gut sutures in the middle line. The operation for the cure of the epispadias should be deferred to a later period and for choice should be that recommended by Thiersch (see Epispadias). The results of this operation are on the whole better than those of the flap methods, but it is absolutely necessary that the operation should be carried out in early life, as the pliability of the parts is lost as soon as ossification has advanced. Attempts have been made to detach the mucous membrane of the bladder from the peritoneum all round sufficiently to bring it together and suture it in front of the ureters without dividing the sacro-iliac ligaments, but the difficulty is in the first place to separate the mucous membrane from the peritoneum without damaging the latter, while in the second place the vascular supply of the mucous membrane is feeble, and sloughing may occur. The plan however has proved successful and may be employed with advantage