207 PYELONEPHRITIS. SUPPURATIVE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE KIDNEY ITSELF. Four chief conditions may be met with : (a) Suppurative pyelitis, without suppuration in the kidney substance. This condition often precedes the more extensive inflammatory affections of the organ, and seldom comes under treatment as a distinct affection. It may be primary, or, much more frequently, secondary to disease of the urinary organs lower down; inflammation spreads from the bladder along the ureter and reaches the pelvis of the kidney, to which, for some time at any rate, it remains limited. (b) Suppurative pyelonephritis is much more common in surgical prac- tice. Here there is combined suppuration in the pelvis of the kidney and in the renal tissues. Although this condition may be primary, it is more commonly secondary, and it is the chief affection included in the condition known as "surgical kidney." (c) Suppurative nephritis, in which there is suppuratioa in the kidney itself, does not usually come into the scope of surgical practice as an entity distinct from pyelonephritis, as it is usually a part of general pyaemia. Occasionally the surgeon may be called upon to deal with an abscess of the kidney resulting from the coalescence of isolated pytemic foci. (d) Pyonephrosis.—Here there is suppuration in the pelvis of the kidney, Avhich may be converted into a bag of pus. We shall only describe the most common conditions that the surgeon meets with, viz., suppurative pyelonephritis and pyonephrosis ; should he be called upon to deal with a case of true suppurative pyelitis the treatment will be directed to removing the cause. The organism met with in these cases is generally the colon bacillus ; sometimes the gonococcus is the active agent, while in the more severe cases the ordinary pyogenic cocci are present either alone or in combination with the colon bacillus. When the affection is due to the colon bacillus alone it is apparently not so acute as when the pyogenic organisms are also present. PYELONEPHRITIS.—In the great majority of cases the inflammation is ascending in character. The chief causes are obstructions to the escape of urine from the bladder, such as an enlarged prostate or stricture of the urethra, accompanied by decomposition of the urine. Another common cause is paralysis of the bladder in cases of spinal disease or injury. Occasionally it may originate from obstructions higher up, such as a calculus or a stricture in the ureter, or it may be caused by the passage of rough calculi, or the use of certain drugs, such as cantharides. It may follow the introduction of instruments, or it may originate in the kidney itself by the deposit of organisms from the blood or the lymph stream, and may spread from the kidney and its pelvis down the ureter. When the disease occurs from blood infection it is usually a part of general pyoemia and is not amenable to treatment, as both kidneys will be involved.