EXAMINATION OF THE KIDNEY AND THE URETERS. 17r tlisorganised when nephrectomy is absolutely called for that its fellow must be active or the patient would not be alive. Examination of the urine often gives much information both as to whether the seat of disease is the kidney or the bladder, and as to which kidney is affected. HLEtnatiiria.—When of renal origin the blood is usually intimately mi.xed with the urine and varies in colour from a smoky tint to a deep porter-like brown. In rupture of the kidney, however, and in cases of growth where blood is poured out in large quantities the tint may be much brighter, but here there is an important sign of renal hrematuria in the presence of clots which take the form of the caiices or pelvis of the kidney or of the ureter frequently also the expulsion of these clots is accompanied by renal colic. Free htematuria of spontaneous origin is most likely to be due to a renal growth. When it only occurs after exertion and is moderate- in quantity it may be due to a calculus. In renal tuberculosis on the other hand the hfematuria is generally slight, does not depend on exertion and is generally accompanied by a considerable amount of pus. The diagnosis between haemorrhage from the bladder and that from the kidney is further facilitated by washing out the bladder ; when the blood comes from the kidney, the last fluid which is thus obtained will be clear and will remain so until fresh blood comes down the ureter. When however the hsemorrhage comes from the bladder it will be practically impossible to render the fluid quite free from the admixture of blood, however frequently the washing be repeated. The cystoscope will also be of value in hsematuria of renal origin after the bloody urine has been thoroughly washed out of the bladder, whereas in heematuria of bladder origin it is difficult to render the fluid in the bladder clear enough for a distinct view to be obtained. Further information will be obtained by microscopical examination, from the presence of pieces of tumour, of renal casts, of parasites, such as distoma hcematobium, booklets, etc. Pyuria.—When pus is present in the urine it is difficult to be sure that it is of renal origin unless other clinical symptoms point to the kidney as its source. Of course, the presence of renal epithelium will aid the diagnosis, and important information may be obtained from cystoscopic examination, as the bladder may be found free from inflammation and the pus may be seen coming from the ureter in a thick muddy stream ; on the other hand, the urinary stream may be clear and there may be found some bladder lesion accounting for the presence of the pus. Determination of the side aflFected.—In many cases there is no difficulty in coming to a proper conclusion as to the particular kidney involved ; in others there may be considerable doubt. The following points are of use : Pain, especially the characteristic kidney pain, shooting down the ureter and into the groin, when constant and referred to one side only, practically points to that side as the seat of disease. It is stated that pain may be referred to the side opposite to that on which the kidney is affected,