194 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. rare occurrence, and it is hardly necessary to go into the treatment because the diagnosis is rarely made during life, most of the recorded cases having been looked upon as malignant tumours of the kidney. Should such a case be met with and diagnosed during life, the only treatment is nephrectomy, and the feasibility of this depends largely upon whether the renal artery itself is involved, and whether it is possible to apply a ligature between it and the aorta. INJURIES OF THE URETER. Injuries of the ureter may occur independently of injury to the kidney, and are perhaps most common during an abdominal operation. Subcutaneous rupture of the ureter is known, but the accident is extremely rare. The symp- toms are collapse, hoematuria, pain and tenderness, vomiting and the formation of a swelling in the iliac region. Should the condition be diagnosed, the treatment will be to expose and attempt to repair the torn ureter or, failing that, to implant it into the bladder or the bowel {vide infra). ^Vhen this is impossible nephrectomy will be necessary. The more important cases are the injuries occurring during some abdominal operation, such as vaginal hysterectomy, ovariotomy, or the removal of the Fallopian tubes. They may be divided into four groups: (a) Complete division of the ureter. {b) Complete division with loss of a portion of the ureter. if) Partial division. (d) Inclusion of a portion of the ureter in a ligature followed by subsequent sloughing. Sloughing of the ureter may also occur after child-birth from prolonged pressure. The injury may be recognised immediately it occurs, or it may not be noticed until some hours afterwards when urine begins to escape from the wound; when the ureter has been included in a ligature, the true condition may not be recognised until the ligature has separated, and a ureteral fistula has become established. If the condition be not recognised at the time of the operation, the prognosis will depend to a considerable extent on whether the urine escapes into the peritoneal cavity or into the vagina, and also on whether the urine is aseptic or not. If aseptic, its escape into the peritoneal cavity may merely give rise to a localised collection of urine, which gradually makes its way through the line of incision and leads to a urinary fistula : if it be septic there will be acute peritonitis. TREATMENT.—As wounds of the ureter are rare and are comparatively seldom recognised, most of the suggestions as to treatment are based upon experiments on the lower animals rather than upon actual operations on man. At the same time a certain number of cases have been done in man and they help to indicate which are the best methods. We shall consider the treatment under the following heads : (a) When the injury is recognised at the time.