ORGANIC STRICTURE. 401 The surgeon should pass an instrument at least once or twice a year, both because it is advisable that he should see whether there is recurrence and also because he can do it better than the patient himself. If however the patient be situated so that he cannot have instruments passed by a surgeon, he should use a soft black tapering bougie, the tip of which measures No. 9 and the shaft 12 or 13; this can be got through the stricture quite easily and without any risk of damage if it be well oiled and warmed. He should pass an instrument of this kind every three months, keeping it in position for ten or fifteen minutes at a time, and the procedure should be repeated oftener if there be any difficulty.^ He should never be taught to pass metal instruments as otherwise he is very likely to do damage at some time or other. Continuous dilatation.—This is not a method to be recommended save under exceptional circumstances. When for instance the patient has been suffering from retention and a catheter has been introduced into the bladder with difficulty through a very tight stricture, tying in the instrument insures evacuation of the bladder, while at the same time absorption of the stricture will go on and subsequent instrumentation will be facilitated. Another indication is when the stricture is too rigid to yield to intermittent dilata- tion ; if it be evident that no real progress is being made after two or three attempts by the intermittent method, a trial may be made of continuous dilatation before resorting to a cutting operation. It should never be attempted however when there is grave cystitis or renal disease; in these cases dilatation of any kind should be avoided. In continuous dilatation a catheter is introduced through the stricture, and tied in position and left for 24 hours. The instrument should lie comparatively loosely in the stricture and there is no need to pass the largest size that the stricture will admit. At the end of 24 or 48 hours it will be found that dilatation of the stricture has taken place and an instrument one or two sizes larger can be introduced easily and tied in. In the course of a few days the stricture is thus fully dilated. The method necessitates the confinement of the patient to bed and he should take some form of urinary antiseptic (see p. 274) internally and, if there be trouble from erections, bromide of potassium and chloral may be given once or twice daily, combined if necessary with a suppository containing a quarter of a grain of extract of belladonna and a grain of extract of hyoscyamus. The objections to the continuous method are chiefly those due to the presence of an instrument in the urethra; this is apt to give rise to urethritis, which may spread into the bladder and set up cystitis. ^When a patient passes instruments for himself, the greatest stress must be laid upon the necessity for using absolutely sound instruments. Any instrument that shows cracks or any imperfection should be destroyed at once and a sound one substituted. Patients are very apt to use rough and cracked instruments which easily damage the mucous membrane. PT. VI. 2 2 C