ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 333 water and that there is a; marked diminution in the power of projection ; after a time the stream drops vertically downwards. Micturition takes unduly long and urine is apt to escape after the patient thinks the act is complete. These symptoms increase as time goes on, and the nocturnal frequency becomes so great as to interfere seriously with the patient's sleep. There is not only difficulty in passing water but there is severe straining in the effort to overcome the obstruction and this may lead to haemorrhoids, rectal tenesmus or prolapse. As the bladder walls begin to atrophy, there is still'more delay before micturition can be commenced and after the act the patient constantly experiences a sensation that he has incompletely emptied his bladder; this is probably due to the fact that there is a considerable amount of residual urine in the post-prostatic pouch. There is little or no constant or severe pain however as long as there is no cystitis. The examination is made partly per rechtm and partly by instruments passed per urethram. The finger in the rectum will note the undue size of the organ and any irregularity in outline or consistency; sometimes the prostate is so large that it may be felt bi-manually. By the use of an instrument the length and direction of the prostatic urethra can be deter- mined. The ordinary gum-elastic catheter moulded to the usual curve for the introduction of instruments into the bladder will not pass readily, mainly because the curve of the urethra is now altered. The best catheter is a gum-elastic instrument which should be at least an inch or an inch and a half longer than those in usual use and which should be furnished with a stylet to which the necessary bold curve can be imparted. If further information be required, the cystoscope may be employed and by it the projection of the prostate into the bladder may be seen. A very important point to make out in examining any case is the amount of residual urine present, as this largely influences the line of treatment to be adopted. The patient is made to empty the bladder as completely as possible and a catheter is passed immediately afterwards and any urine left behind is drawn off and measured. This is the " residual urine" which may vary from a drachm or two up to several ounces. The character of the urine must also be taken into account and the bladder should hie sounded to a.scertain whether a stone be present. COMPLICATIONS.—Retention of urine generally occurs in advanced cases, but it may also be met with at a comparatively early period, when it is probably due to congestion of the mucous membrane about the vesical orifice; chills, over-feeding or drinking are potent causes of this. In the other cases the retention occurs from the continuous growth of . the enlarged prostate, especially that form projecting upwards and backwards into the bladder, the so-called enlargement of the middle lobe, which acts as a ball- valve over the urethral orifice. These cases are often distinguished by the fact that, after the patient has commenced to pass urine, the stream may suddenly stop owing to blocking of the urethra. In other cases again retention takes place gradually and is partly due to the increasing size of the