377 GONORRH(EA. its object is not to destroy the bacteria, for that is impossible, but to relieve the inflammatory symptoms, and therefore it must never go beyond attempts to wash the pus out of the urethra. In the general treatment patient should be kept as quiet as possible; it is even advisable for him to stay in bed for a few days if possible, as complications are then less likely to occur. In any case active exercise should be avoided, as well as anything that tends to sexual excitement. A suspensory bandage should be worn from the first, but the edge of the bag must not press upon the urethra as otherwise it might lead to retention of pus and increase of irritation. The bowels should be freely evacuated by means of salines, and the urine kept dilute and unirritating by mild diuretics, such as citrate of potash (grs. 10-20 three or four times a day) or spirits of nitrous ether (n\^ 20) with an alkali, such as carbonate of potash (grs. 20); in addition large quantities of diluent drinks, such as barley water, toast and water or infusion of linseed should be taken. In the very acute stage some sedative, such as tincture of hyoscyamus (n\_x-xx) or tincture of belladonna (^ll^v)', may be added. Alcohol must be entirely abstained from ; it is remarkable to see the increase in the inflammatory symptoms that follows transgression of this rule, at any rate in the acute stage. A light diet should be prescribed and red meats should be avoided, as should also coffee and tea. The question of the administration of sandalwood oil or balsam of copaiba during the early stages has been much discussed. It is probably better to avoid these drugs until the acuter symptoms are beginning to pass off, as they may do much harm by upsetting the digestion and it is even possible that they may render the urine more irritating. The drugs are of great value however as soon as the inflammatory symptoms are beginning to subside (see p. 378). Some surgeons strongly advocate the use of salol during the acute stage as having a direct antiseptic action upon the urethra and they give it in 5- to 3o grain doses three or four times a day ; more recently urotropine in doses of 5-[o grains three times a day has been recommended for the same purpose. If there be much scalding on micturition and the patient dreads the act, a good plan is to let him pass urine into hot water either by micturating while in a hip-bath or by immersing the penis in a vessel of hot water. Chordee is best treated by the administration of bromide of potassium. This drug does not produce its effect for some hours after it has been administered and it is therefore well to give it during the day as well as at bedtime. In any case a dose of 20 grains should be given about six o'clock in the evening and another about ten, and to this dose it is well to add tincture of belladonna (lH_v-xv). If this fails, a half-grain suppository of morphine at bedtime is of value. Minor degrees of chordee are generally relieved by a hot sitz bath or even by a cold douche ; when it is very troublesome, leeches may be applied to the perineum and the patient confined to bed, the foot of which is elevated.