288 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. mucus; \vhen a large amount is present it probabl)- comes from the renal pelvis. Tubercle bacilli can sometimes be detected either alone or in con- junction with pyogenic organisms in the later stages. Should careful microscopical examination after centrifugalisation fail to detect the bacillus, its presence may be ascertained by cultivation or, still better, by injecting the urine into animals. There is often polyuria and the urine may be either acid or alkaline. The cystoscope is not of much value on account of the great irritability of the bladder, and it should only be employed just before proceeding to operative interference; by it the ulcers may be seen. The disease progresses slowly, often with marked variations, but in the end the patient dies worn out by sleeplessness, haemorrhage and hectic fever or else from tuberculosis elsewhere. The diagnosis as a rule is not difificult, especially in advanced cases or when there is tuberculous disease elsewhere. The insidious onset of the disease is an important point, and the diagnosis is confirmed if the bacillus be found in the urine or if ulcerations be seen with the cystoscope. TREATMENT.—This will vary according to whether there is tuber- culosis elsewhere. The outlook is much better should the disease be primary in the bladder or should there be no tuberculous mischief in the kidney or the prostate. Unfortunately we do not know of any method that will certainly bring about a cure in any case, although much may be done to relieve the patient's distress. (a) Medical.—Medical treatment should be adopted in all cases. Perfect hygiene, nourishing diet and a residence in the country or at the seaside are of the first importance, and moderate exercise is also advisable. The acuter symptoms may be relieved by hot saline baths, stimulating applications to the hypogastrium and hot rectal enemata. Cod-liver oil should be given in large doses, and arsenic, creosote, opium or belladonna may be useful. These general methods may however be ineffectual, and local measures must then be employed; these take the form of topical applications to the bladder or more vigorous surgical procedures designed to give the bladder complete rest. It is well to try non-operative local measures first, as operation is by no means certainly curative and entails considerable discomfort, and therefore should not be resorted to except when the symptoms are severe and it is clear that milder measures will not yield satisfactory ' results. The non-operative local treatment consists in irrigating the bladder and injecting various drugs designed either to relieve the pain or to inhibit the growth of the tubercle bacillus. Yox the relief of pain, weak eucaine solutions (2%) or preparations of opium are employed, but care must be taken with them because the bladder is ulcerated and its surface is therefore absorbent (see p. 257). On the whole, anodyne applications are better administered in the form of rectal suppositories. Much relief may be obtained by irrigating the bladder with hot boracic lotion (see p. 281); salicylic acid and nitrate of silver, which are useful in other forms of cystitis