219 TUBERCULOSIS. this seems to us however excessive. Death is brought about by shock, septi- caemia, orgeneraUsation of the tuberculosis. It will be well here to say a few words concerning removal of the ureter, or ureterectomy, as an operation apart from removal of the kidney, although as a matter of practice it is nearly always done simply as a continuation of a nephrectomy. Occasionally however the ureter may have to be removed subsequently, or it may have to be exposed independently. Ureterectomy.—As we have already said, tuberculosis of the ureter is nearly always secondary to similar disease in the kidney, but it may be secondary to tuberculous disease of the bladder and, more rarely still, the ureter may be the seat of a growth or a localised dilatation owing to obstruction. Primary tuberculous disease of the ureter is practically unknown, and the affection of the tube itself gives rise to few or no symptoms apart from those due to the primary mischief from which it originates. Occasionally, when the patient is very thin or the ureter is very much dilated, it may be possible to feel its thickened walls through the abdomen. In the female the lower end may be felt through the vagina. In order to remove the ureter completely down to its insertion into the bladder several methods are employed. The peritoneal route has been adopted by some, the abdomen being opened while the patient is in the Trendelenburg position, and the peritoneum being divided over the ureter and the latter removed. While this however may be a possible route in cases of ureterotomy for stone, it is not advisable for the excision of a tuberculous ureter, for which one of the three following routes should be chosen, viz., the lumbo-ilio-inguinal, the sacral, or the vaginal route in females. The perineal route has been employed in the male, but is of very limited application. In practice the routes chosen are generally either the lumbo-ilio-inguinal or the sacral. The hcmbo-ilio-inguinal incismi (see Fig. 49) commences below the last rib near the edge of the erector spinse, as for lumbar nephrectomy (see p. 230), and is prolonged downwards and forwards in front of the anterior superior iliac spine, and about an inch internal to it, running parallel to Poupart's ligament and about two inches above it, down to its centre or even as far as the external abdominal ring. By it the greater part of the ureter can be exposed, except where it lies immediately behind the bladder. When the operation is done, as it usually is, in connection with nephrectomy, the upper part of the incision is already made, and it only needs to be prolonged downwards for the ureterec- tomy. If the operation be performed at a later date as a second stage of Fig. 49.—Morris's Lumbo-ilio- inguinal Incision for removal oi- THE Kidney and Ureter.