THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. kidney is frequently comparatively small, but occasionally it forms a large tumour which may even entirely fill the abdomen, and then adhesions may occur between the capsule and the peritoneum or the intestine. The fluid in long-standing cases consists of water, with a little chloride of sodium and an almost entire absence of albumen, uric acid, or urates. SYMPTOMS.—-These may extend over a number of years and vary much in intensity; they may be entirely absent. When present they consist mainly of pain in the back, frequent micturition, and considerable dilatation of the pelvis of the kidney. If the affection be bilateral, nausea, sickness, a dry, sallow skin, and a certain amount of uraemia may be present. The tumour formed by the hydronephrosis is of varying size, irregular and lobulated, situated in the flank, easily pressed backwards into the loin, and displacing the colon forwards. Hsematuria is very rare, but is said to occur. The situation and shape of the tumour, the history, the presence of the colon in front and to its inner side, accompanied by dulness in the flank and loin, together with the fact that the patient at times passes too little urine, whilst at others there is an unduly large quantity, these periods corresponding with the variation in size of the tumour should enable a diagnosis to be made.^ Puncture of the swelling from the loin and examination of its contents will still further clear up the matter. The prognosis depends on the cause of the distension and on whether one or both kidneys are involved. In the latter case the patient may gradually die of urccmic poisoning, from pressure on the neighbouring organs or from rupture into the peritoneum. In a few cases the tumour has disappeared spontaneously. TREATMENT.—The first point is to ascertain, if possible, whether there be any cause in the lower urinary tract to account for the affection, and, if so, to remove it. Strictures of the urethra, enlarged prostate, or any bladder mischief, should be examined for and suitably treated. Similarly pelvic tumours must be dealt with and removed, if possible ; if not, the question of dividing the ureter above the tumour and implanting it into the bladder higher up, into the bowel, or even on to the skin of the loin, must be considered. These methods have already been described (see p. 198); if a stone be felt impacted in the ureter, it must be removed (see p. 234). In a certain number of cases however there is nothing wrong in the lower urinary tract, and the cause is in or close to the kidney; and when there are no marked symptoms, and the tumour is not increasing rapidly, and the other kidney is sound, it is an open question whether the affection should not be left alone for the time being, if no removable cause can be found. Attempts to get rid of the fluid by massage or manipulation, or by calheterising the ureters, are not advisable ; they cause much trouble and are not likely to do good. Three chief methods of treatment are at the disposal of the surgeon when ' Although this variation is most valuable as a help to diagnosis, it is by no means always met with.