398 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. the degree to which dilatation should be carried at one sitting, some surgeons holding that it may be carried to a full size, whilst others stop it at some arbitrary number, say. No. 7. No hard and fast rule however should be applied to these cases, and the surgeon must be guided by circumstances. He should always err if possible on the side of going slowly and gently. If the stricture be tight and instruments are passed with difificulty, a certain amount of splitting will result if the dilatation be too rapidly effected, and much inflammation and swelling will follow, accompanied of course by risks of septic absorption. Attempts to dilate the stricture up to No. 12 or 14 at the first sitting are very likely to end in some amount of damage. It must be remembered that the cure of a stricture by dilatation is not a purely mechanical one. In some way which is not clearly understood, the passage of an instrument through a stricture leads to absorption of the inflammatory products and this plays a far more important part than the mere stretching occasioned by its introduc- tion. If the stricture be so rapidly stretched that it is actually torn, there is a risk of inflammation occurring and this will be followed by the forma- tion of new fibrous tissue which contracts and so defeats the object of the dilatation. If the stricture be very tight, the best plan perhaps is to try a second after passing one instrument and, if that passes, to be content, for the stricture will then be dilated four sizes. In strictures however that are not very tight and that are easily dilatable, the process may be safely carried beyond this point and three or four instruments may be passed in succession. If the attempt to pass . the second instrument does not succeed at once, it is better to desist rather than to irritate the urethra by prolonged attempts, as the surgeon may be satisfied with having succeeded in passing the stricture on the first occasion; on the second there will not be the same difficulty. All precautions as to steriHsation of instruments (see p. 336) must be scrupulously carried out, and the instrument should always be well warmed and thoroughly oiled. It is a good plan, especially in cases of tight stricture, to inject about half a dram of sterilised oil into the urethra, so that there may be a sufficient quantity of lubricant in the neighbourhood of the stricture; if the instrument be lubricated in the ordinary way, the urethral mucous membrane may rub off the lubricant by the time the neighbour- hood of the stricture is reached. If it can be conveniently arranged, the patient should always be kept in bed for a day or two before the first instrumentation is carried out. A general anaesthetic is usually unnecessary except under special circumstances. Should the urethra be irritable or the patient nervous, local anaesthesia (20 drops of an 8% solution of eucaine injected down the urethra) will help considerably. Should the urethra be congested, the addition of adrenalin chloride (i in looo) to the above Avill still further help by diminishing the vascularity of the parts. In dilating a stricture, the surgeon stands on the left side of the patient and begins with the largest-sized instrument that previous examination has