ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 339 relieve complications such as retention, cystitis, or haemorrhage, and they have little effect upon the general condition. Perineal drainage.—Perineal urethrotomy was at one time extensively employed to obtain a more direct and therefore a shorter route for catheterisation and, as an extension of this, the incision was actually carried up through the obstructing ring or lobe of the prostate. These measures may give temporary benefit in so far as they improve the cystitis, but they are followed by no diminution in the size of the prostate. Supra-pubic drainage.—Supra-pubic cystotomy as a palliative measure has taken the place of the perineal operation; and is quite legitimate for cases in which the urethra has become so irritable that no catheter can be passed, or in which the obstruction is so severe that no instrument can be got through. Supra-pubic puncture may of course be required as a temporary measure for retention of urine which cannot be otherwise relieved, and when this condition recurs very frequently and there is very severe cystitis, supra-pubic cystotomy may with advantage follow supra-pubic puncture; in some cases a permanent fistula has been established by suturing the walls of the bladder to the skin and, when cicatrisation has occurred, fixing a tube permanently in the opening and carrying it into a suitable urinal. This operation relieves the patient of much of the distress due to the passage of catheters or to cystitis, and he is therefore comparatively comfortable. At the same time however it is not curative in any sense, and it is distressing to the patient to have a permanent supra-pubic fistula, and, now that the operation of prostatectomy has been more developed, it is probable that any surgeon will hesitate to deliberately condemn the patient to a supra- pubic urinary fistula if it be possible to do anything more radical for him. Witzel has suggested that, if a supra-pubic cystotomy be done for these cases, the opening should be planned upon the principle underlying his operation of gastrostomy (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 221), the catheter being removed in the intervals between micturition, when the valvular action of the opening is supposed to prevent leakage. We may say of cystotomy in general that it must be regarded as purely palliative, and may be employed in cases of acute retention of urine where catheterisation is impossible, in severe and painful cystitis, in serious haemorrhage into the bladder, and in cases complicated by false pas.sages. In these conditions, it may be either a permanent or a temporary measure; it is of course a preliminary to the operation of supra-pubic prostatectomy (see p. 341). Cystopexy.—In connection with supra-pubic operation. Professor Gold- mann has pointed out that complete power of micturition has been regained after such a measure, and this he attributes to adhesion of the anterior wall of the bladder to the abdominal parietes which brings about mechanical opening of the urethral orifice. Upon this observation he has founded a method of treatment in which the bladder is cut down upon as for supra-pubic cystotomy, but, instead of being opened, the anterior wall is drawn into the