405 ORGANIC STRICTURE. is then read off on the graduated scale and the head is passed well through the stricture and withdrawn until its shoulder is felt to hitch against the deep surface of the stricture, when the distance from the meatus is again read off; by subtracting the former measurement from this, the length of the stricture can be ascertained, as well as the distance of the anterior and posterior extremities from the meatus. The urethra should now be well washed out with 1-4000 sublimate solution in a Guyon's syringe (see Fig. 92) and the urethrotome—which should be previously examined to see that it is in perfect order—is lubricated and passed through the stricture with its cutting blade concealed but with the edge directed towards the floor of the urethra. The instrument is passed on until the surgeon knows by the measurements that its bulbous end lies behind the proximal extremity of the stricture. The button is then pressed, the knife is pro truded and the urethrotome is gradually and steadily withdrawn, firm pressure being made downwards on the floor of the urethra so as to divide Fig. q2.—Guyon's Urethral Svhikge. The tube has a backward flow so that the urethra is flushed out from behind forwards. the stricture fully. The forefinger of the left hand should make light pressure upon the perineum in the neighbourhood of the stricture in order to steady the soft parts and facilitate their division. When the stricture has been fully divided—as is known by reading the scale upon the shaft of the instrument and also by the relaxation of the pressure on the blade—the latter is sheathed and the instrument is with- drawn. A 7-10 Lister's bougie is now passed and the urethra is rapidly dilated by a series of these instruments up to a No. 14 English. Finally the urethra is again flushed out with 1-4000 sublimate solution and an iodoform bougie (see p. 376) is pushed well down into the region of the incision and left there. It is well not to tie in a catheter as this is apt to set up urethritis from which septic absorption may occur. There is no difficulty whatever in keeping the stricture from contracting if the urethra has been well dilated at the time of the operation and if metal bougies be passed subsequently. When the patient requires to micturate he may do so spontaneously; there is generally some scalding during the act and it is well therefore to put him in a hot hip-bath or, if he be neurotic, 20 min. of an 8% solution