240 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. to ascertain whether the ureter on the affected side be patent or, if it be blocked, whether it be feasible to remove the obstruction so as to restore the patency of the tube, and allow the fistula to heal. In some cases, such as those already referred to in the treatment of calculous anuria (see p. 237), the fistula has been deliberately established because the condition of the patient was so bad that a prolonged operation was not feasible, and here therefore the condition of the ureter is well known. In others the urinary fistula has only been established temporarily with a view to the performance of nephrectomy when the patient is able to stand the operation, and in other cases again the intention in establishing the fistula is that it shall be permanent; this latter measure is only adopted.when the surgeon thinks that the opposite kidney is too extensively diseased to successfully assume the functions of the affected one. Even here however, it may be found after the lapse of some time that the condition of the opposite kidney is much better than was expected, and that therfe is therefore no longer the same objection to nephrectomy. There is no doubt that the annoyance of a urinary lumbar fistula is so great that the patient will always beg to have something done to cure it if this be possible. Treatment.—It is unnecessary to go into the treatment in detail as this follows from what has been said as to the treatment of the various affections in the course of which the fistula arises. Thus, when it is due to blockage of the ureter, the obstruction must be removed if possible and if not a neph- rectomy should be done if the opposite kidney be sound. When it is due to an accidental wound of the pelvis of the kidney, and the organ itself is healthy and the ureter is patent, it is probable that, if the sinus refuses to close after the establishment of efficient drainage, freshening the edges of the wound followed by suture of the wound in the pelvis of the kidney will succeed. '\^'hen the fistula is due to disorganisation of the organ from suppuration or from tuberculous disease, nephrectomy is clearly indicated, if the condition of the opposite kidney permits.