THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. TREATMENT. — (a) Of true nocturnal enuresis.—There are three indications for treatment; firstly, to divert the patient's attention from the affection from which he suffers ; secondly, to insure light sleep, so that the child may awake immediately the bladder becomes distended ; and thirdly, to render the urethra so sensitive that the desire to micturate will at once waken the patient. The child should be consequently encouraged to think that he will speedily grow out of this repulsive affection, and should not be punished for what is not his fault. He should sleep on a hard mattress, and be lightly covered, and a night-light should burn in the room. He should be taught to lie upon one side and, if there be any difficulty about this, some "hard object may be strapped over the spine to prevent his sleeping on the back. Any obstruction to the air passages such as adenoids or enlarged tonsils should be removed, the amount of fluid taken at night should be restricted, and the bladder should be emptied the last thing before going to sleep. If the child be a heavy sleeper, a little tea or coffee may be given before he goes to bed, and he should always be instructed to pass water whenever he wakes. A good plan is to wake young children up three or four hours after they go to bed, in order to establish the habit of passing water. The diet should be plain, and highly nitrogenous food and anything found to increase the incontinence should be avoided. The best drug is undoubtedly belladonna or atropine ; iht^th or y^yth of a grain of atropine may be given to children from six to ten years old about tea time, and repeated at eight o'clock. The condition of the pupils should be noted ; if they be dilated, the evening dose should be omitted. In all cases the urine should be examined, and any abnormality corrected. Amongst the methods of local treatment the galvanic current is useful. The negative pole is placed over the lower part of the spine, whilst the positive is applied to the perineum immediately behind the scrotum. A weak current (5 milliamperes) is applied for about three-quarters of an hour daily. The Faradic current may be alternated with this, one pole being introduced into the rectum whilst the other is applied in turn to the perineum and the supra-pubic region. The child may resent the intro- duction of the pole into the rectum, in which case the galvanic current alone should be employed. (b) When there is incontinence both during the day and the night, any cause of irritation must be removed in the first instance. The further treatment will be very similar to that recommended above, but the bladder must be examined to see whether any contraction has occurred, and, if so, the organ should be gradually distended by an increasing quantity of warm boracic lotion. At first a small quantity only can be introduced, but by persevering the amount will gradually increase and, as the bladder becomes dilated,'the incontinence will diminish. A good deal of the incontinence during the day is due to excitement, and the child should therefore be guarded against this as much as possible.