INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 483 and gradually withdrawn until the sinuses heal one by one. When how- ever the breast is completely riddled with .sinuses, amputation of the gland may be the better treatment. SUB-MAMMARY ABSCESS-—Acute abscesses occasionally form in the deepest lobules of the breast and spread into the loose cellular tissue beneath the gland instead of travelling towards the surface, and these give rise to the so-called acute st(h-mammary abscess. A similar condition follows injuries, strains of the arm, etc., and results from a hgematoma under- going suppuration. In these cases the breast is raised en masse and projects forwards as an unduly conical organ, while, in the early stages at any rate, the skin over it though hot is not reddened. The symptoms of acute inflammation are present and oedema of the tissues around the base of the gland occurs ; when this condition is found suppuration may be fairly certainly counted upon. The actual detection of suppuration is not at all easy as long as the pus is confined beneath the base of the gland and the best way of examining for it is to place the fingers of one hand at the margin of the organ, particularly below and to the outer side, and then to sharply depress the gland as a whole. Chroiiic sub-mammary abscesses are fairly common. They arise in connection with a tuberculous deposit beneath the organ, frequently in the ribs themselves, and form fluctuating swellings beneath the mamma which if left alone tend to point at the lower and outer edge of the breast. Treatment.—In acute cases the pus should be evacuated early by an incision at the lower and outer part of the gland—the situation in which it usually points. After the incision has been made, the cavity is opened up, explored with the finger and thoroughly drained. The treatment of the chro7iic tuberculous form is similar to that for tuberculous affections of the ribs and consists in dissecting away the abscess wall and removing the affected area of the bone as well (see Chap. LIV.). The best way of exposing the tuberculous focus beneath the breast is to make a curved incision along the lower margin of the gland and turn it bodily upwards. This gives plenty of room to deal with the abscess and to resect the necessary portion of rib. After the operation the breast is replaced and the wound is stitched up. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST.—This condition is quite common and occurs in two principal forms : in one the inflam- mation is limited to a portion of the breast, where it may form a tumour of considerable size; this is the true chronic mastitis : in the other form the inflammation attacks numerous lobules and after a time the breast acquires a granular feel from the thickening thus produced. This condition is known as chronic lobular mastitis and it may affect only one or two lobules, but is usually considerably diffused over the breast and is frequently present in both organs simultaneously. (a) True chronic mastitis.—The majority of these cases follow injury or lactation, particularly at the weaning period. When the affection