23 CHRONIC PROCTITIS. be obtained by excision of the cicatricial tissue followed by suture of the mucous membrane to the skin, or by mere linear division of the stricture and suturing the wound subsequently so that the scar is at right angles to the original incision, as is done in pyloroplasty. However, in chronic stenosing proctitis the conditions are different; the ulceration may have subsided, leaving an extensive and tortuous contrac- tion, or there may be active ulceration in addition to the latter. The treatment in both cases is very difficult and unsatisfactory ; as a rule it is easier when there is no ulceration, and the case is therefore practically one of uncomplicated stricture. In cases of uncomplicated stricture, a trial should first be made of dilatation by bougies or Hegar's dilators,—a method closely analogous to the gradual intermittent dilatation of a urethral stricture. The bowels having been well cleared out previously, the patient should lie on a couch in the Fig. 8.—Metal Rectal Bougies. lithotomy position. The surgeon takes a well-oiled and warmed bougie of suitable size (see Fig. 8), and tries to insinuate it very slowly through the stricture; the greatest gendeness must be observed, and it is probable that,, if the stricture be of any length, only the lowest portion can be dilated at the first sitting. Subsequently however more progress can be made, until ultimately the instrument traverses the entire length of the contracted portion. The bougie should be left iti situ for a few minutes, when, unless it be very tightly grasped, another, the next size larger, is gently passed after the first is withdrawn. Dilatation however should never be pushed beyond what the patient can comfortably bear, and never to such an extent as to tear the surface of the mucous membrane. At first, two or three days should be allowed to intervene between the sittings, while later on, as dilatation progresses, the interval may be extended up to a week. When full dilatation has been established, an interval increas- ing up to a month may be allowed if it be found that no contraction has taken place meanwhile. During the entire period the bowels should be kept well open, and at each sitting a bougie, one size smaller than the largest passed at the previous sitting should be used to commence with. The bougies should be always passed by the surgeon himself until the stricture