CHAPTER XXII. RENAL AND URETERAL CALCULUS : SUPPRESSION OF URINE: RENAL FISTULA. RENAL CALCULUS. Renal calculi may be formed in the uriniferous tubules, in the calices or in the renal pelvis. The commonest form is that consisting of uric acid; next in order of frequency come those of oxalate of lime, then those consisting of urates and, much more rarely, of phosphate or carbonate of lime, cystine or xanthic oxide. The so-called " secondary calculi" which are deposited in a kidney that is the seat of some disease, are usually composed of phosphates and carbonate of lime. The nucleus of the calculus may be crystalline or it may.be formed of blood-clot, mucus or caseous material. When septic changes occur in the urine, alkaline phosphates are deposited and form an outer coating to a primary calculus. The calculi may be multiple or single ; oxalate of lime stones are generally single. They may be rough or smooth, roundish or oval, or they may be branched and correspond to the calices of the kidney. The stone may be moyable or fixed; massive branched calculi are usually fixed, whereas the small round ones may move freely in the renal pelvis, and cause obstruction from time to time by falling over the orifice of the ureter. Calculi are some- times imbedded in the renal parenchyma. Calculi may occur simultaneously in both kidneys or in one organ after the other; they are equally often present on one side only. They are not common between twenty and forty years of age, and are quite rare in children. A sedentary life, debility, the use of hard drinking-water, an excess of nitro- genous food, occasionally an excess of vegetable diet, inflammatory conditions of the renal pelvis or septic conditions of the urine in the case of phosphatic calculi are amongst the chief causes. They are said to occur more often in dyspeptics and neurasthenics, and are more common in males than in females. A renal stone must, either be got rid of by passing along the ureter into the bladder or by a surgical operation, as no attempt to dissolve a fully-formed