INJURIES OK THE KIDNEY. do, and the patient is usually able to stand a moderate amount of starvation. When obstinate vomiting is present, rectal feeding (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 234) must be employed until it has quite ceased. The bowels, after being cleared out in the first instance, may be left alone for a day or two; the f^ces must not be allowed to accumulate in the large intestine, and hence mild salines should be given after the second day. An important point is the treatment of the haematuria. If this be profuse, the blood tends to clot either in the ureter or the bladder, and may cause much trouble. Clots in the ureter give rise to attacks of renal colic, and are apt to interfere with the renal circulation ; a persistence of this trouble is one of the indications for operative interference. In most cases there is a certain amount of clot in the' bladder, but usually it does not give rise to trouble unless the htemorrhage be severe, when the clots may cause retention which it is difiicult to relieve, as a catheter passes into the clot lying in the base of the bladder, and either fails to reach the urine above it or else the eye becomes blocked. When this happens, an attempt may be made to wash out the bladder with warm boracic lotion through a sterilised double-way catheter. This should not be tried, however, unless the surgeon is prepared to proceed further should the attempt fail, for when the clots are numerous the fluid may fail to return, and the only result is increased distension of the bladder. Attempts may be made to break up the clots by moving the end of the catheter about in the bladder, but should this fail, the best method is to use a lithotrity evacuator. The large evacuating tube is nf)t necessary here; a full-sized catheter with a large eye will sufifice. The clots are gradually broken up by the action of the evacuator and withdrawn with the urine. It is most important to rid the bladder of clot, which is a fertile source of septic infection. The foregoing method practically always succeeds when it can be used, but when there is a tight stricture or possibly an enlarged prostate it will be better, in the first instance, to aspirate the bladder above the pubes and thus to tap the urine above the blood-clot; the urine can be drawn off from time to time as it accumulates, while the clots gradually break up and are eventually discharged through the urethra. In some rare cases, when the bladder is packed full of clot, and there is much distress which aspiration fails to relieve, it may be necessary to perform a supra-pubic cystotomy (see Chap. XXIX.); if so, the greatest care must be taken to keep the urine aseptic. (b) Operative. - Operation will be called for : 1. When hemorrhage is profuse, and it is evident that if time be lost the patient may die of bleeding. 2. When serious haematuria persists. 3. When clots in the ureter persistently interfere with the flow of urine. 4. When there are signs of free haemorrhage and extravasation of urine in the loin. 5. When the symptoms point to laceration of the peritoneum and extra- vasation of blood and urine into the abdominal cavity. 6. When there are signs of peri-renal suppuration.