111 INJURIES. absorption of the bile extravasated. If suppuration occurs, the infection' may be due either to a septic condition of the bile, as when a diseased and dilated gall-bladder is ruptured, or to organisms that have foqnd their way from the alimentary canal. TREATMENT.—This should be operative. The abdomen should be opened by the usual incision (see p. 137), the bile sponged away and the condition of the parts examined. Jf the lesion be a limited rupture of the gall-bladder the rent may be closed by a double layer of Lembert's sutures, the inner layer-taking up- all tlie coats except the mucous membrane, whilst the outer takes in the peritoneal coat only. The region is then flushed out with salt solution and it is well to insert a medium-sized drainage tube down to the region of the laceration for a few days in case infection should have already occurred. Should there be no signs of suppuration, the tube may be removed on the third day and the abdominal wall brought together by a loose suture inserted but not tied at the time of the operation. Should the rent be extensive, irregular or so situated that suture of it ivould lead to constriction of the gallbladder, or should the cystic diict be torn across, the best plan is to remove the gall-bladder entirely (see p. 143). If a wound be found in the common duct, the treatment will vary accord- ing to its nature. If it be a small vertical or slightly oblique slit no attempt need be made to sew it up, as this is a very difficult matter in the normal duct and these lacerations will heal quite well if ample drainage be provided. The question of drainage is fully dealt with in connection with choledochotomy (see p. 147). Should the duct be torji completely across, an attempt must be made to restore its lumen by suture. Free drainage must be provided in this case also and some surgeons have recommended that a cholecystenteros- tomy should be performed at the same time, so as to avoid the risk of a permanent biliary fistula should union of the divided ends of the duct fail to take place. There is however an objection to this procedure in that the communication established between the gall-bladder and the intestine at the time of the operation may lead to septic contamination of the bile which will effectually prevent proper union of the divided duct. On the whole it would seem to us better not to perform this operation at the time the duct is sutured but, having united the duct and provided free drainage, to wait for a few weeks in order to see whether union and re-establishment of the common duct will occur. Should this happen, the cure will be complete, while, should union fail and a biliary fistula persist, cholecystenterostomy may be undertaken for its cure as a secondary opera- tion with good prospects of success. This subject is dealt with separately in connection with Biliary fistula (see p. 153).