PARAPHIMOSIS. 427 same lines as in the previous case, when the bleeding is stopped and the wound is sutured as before. The after-treatment is similar to that already ■described. In doing this operation it is important to cut the mucous surface of the prepuce obliquely by the V-shaped incision shown in Fig. 97, B. If it be pared off too close, a very troublesome triangular surface will be left below the frenum which takes a considerable time to heal and is very painful during the process, while it leaves a sensitive, ugly button which takes a long time to become sightly. (b) Of acquired phimosis.—When operation is required for contrac- tion after the healing of a venereal sore or after balanitis, it may if desired be performed as above described; in these cases comparatively little of the prepuce need be removed. When however the patient does not desire complete circumcision, a very useful method is to slit up the prepuce in the middle line of the dorsum to a sufficient extent to allow the glans to be thoroughly uncovered and then to unite the mucous to the cutaneous surfaces along the line of incision so as to convert it into a V-shaped opening which enlarges the preputial ring. As healing progresses this V-shaped notch gradually becomes opened out, until finally it disappears entirely, and in place of it there is a preputial orifice of sufficient size. Ordinary circumcision however should be preferred to this operation if it be found that there are extensive adhesions between the glans and the prepuce. PARAPHIMOSIS. This is a common complication of phimosis and in it there is inability to draw forward the prepuce which has been retracted over the glans. When a tight prepuce has been kept retracted for a short time the constriction exerted by the preputial ring leads to swelling of the mucous membrane in front of it accompanied by considerable oedema which prevents the prepuce being drawn forwards again. If this condition of affairs be allowed to remain, the swelling increases and there will be ulceration of the mucous membrane along the line where it is constricted by the preputial orifice. The appearance of a typical case of paraphimosis is quite characteristic. Immediately behind the corona glandis there is a fold of oedematous mucous membrane, which is often so distended with fluid as to be quite translucent. Behind this is a deep groove, at the bottom of which is seen the constricting band formed by the preputial ring which will show a more or less deeply ulcerated surface corresponding to the length of time that the paraphimosis has lasted. Treatment.—The indication is to draw the prepuce forwards, and this can be done fairly easily when the affection has not lasted long enough to produce much oedema. The patient lies upon the back upon a couch, and the fore- and middle fingers of each hand are placed one on either side