19 ACUTE PROCTITIS. For severe pain, suppositories containing two grains of opium with half a grain of extract of belladonna, or an enema of an ounce of thin starch containing thirty to forty minims of laudanum, may be administered every four hours if necessary. Hot fomentations to* the perineum and anus or a hot sitz bath are very comforting in bad cases. When the sphincter has been dilated and the patient can bear it, irrigation of the rectum with dilute Condy's fluid or boracic lotion at the body temperature should be practised two or three times daily. This is readily done with a douche can and a soft double-way tube; the latter is introduced well up the rectum and the can raised about two feet above the level of the pelvis. This will wash away mucus and give much relief. After the irrigation the skin round the anus should be dried and dusted with equal parts of oxide of zinc, boracic acid and starch. As the disease subsides the patient should have general tonic treatment. CHRONIC PROCTITIS. This condition may follow the acute form (^ide supra) or it may be chronic from its commencement, as for example when it is associated with prolapse or piles. Gonorrhoea of the rectum may pass into a chronic condition, and there are also certain non-specific forms of hypertrophic and stenosing proctitis which are chronic in their onset. No doubt the most common causes of chronic proctitis are syphilis or tuberculous disease, but these are considered separately (see Chap. V.). VARIETIES.—In chronic proctitis the inflammation may affect only the mucous membrane or it may extend to the sub-mucous tissue, and it usually involves the greater part of the rectum, although it generally affects the lower end most. The mucous membrane is red and swollen, and there is a .somewhat free discharge of mucus from it. Hypertrophies of the glandular tissue giving rise to papillomatous vegetations often occur, and this form is known as papillomatous proctitis. After infiltration of the sub-mucous tissue has lasted for some time the natural tendency is to contraction of the lumen of the bowel. Chronic proctitis, after it has lasted for some time, may become complicated by inflammation and possibly suppuration around the rectum. Simple chronic proctitis.—The milder forms, such as occur in con- nection with foreign bodies or in the neighbourhood of an ulcer of the rectum, are generally limited to the mucous membrane and usually disappear when the cause is removed. Ulcerative proctitis.—l"he most important form of non-specific origin is that characterised by a superficial ulceration of the mucous membrane (ulcerating proctitis), or by vegetations of glandular origin arising from the surface (papillomatous proctitis), or by both combined. Another important form is that in which the inflammation extends to the sub-mucous tissue, so that there is thickening and contraction of the walls of the rectum (stenosing proctitis). These forms are often combined at a late stage, an