INJURIES OF THE URETER. 201 ureters, and for extroversion of the bladder. For choice the grafting is done into the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and into the crecum on the right. Chaput's method (see Fig. 48) is perhaps the best. The incision begins at the costal margin, about three inches from the middle Hne, runs down to the level of the anterior superior iliac spine, and then curves inwards to a point a little less than two inches from the middle line. The peritoneum is opened, the coils of intestine are pushed aside, the posterior parietal layer of the peritoneum is incised in the iliac region parallel with the insertion of the meso-colon, and the internal edge of the incision is seized with forceps, and the peritoneum stripped up as far as the vertebral column. The ureter is now sought for and divided between forceps, the lower end is Vu;. 48.—Chaput's Mkthod of Uretero-Intestinai, Anastomo.sis. The end of the ureter should he cut ohhquely. (Morris.) ligatured and replaced, while the upper end is implanted into the postero- internal aspect of the colon. In doing this the lower lip of the ureteral orifice, which should be cut obliquely, is first attached by three or four Lembert sutures to the bowel ; the latter, after having been previously clamped, is incised in a direction corresponding to the ureteral orifice, and the mucous membrane of the latter is attached to that of the bowel by a continuous catgut suture. An external continuous Lembert suture is then put in and the end of the ureter is buried in the wall of the colon for about an inch by a double row of Lembert sutures. The incision in the peritoneum is closed by a catgut suture, and the abdominal wound is closed, drainage being provided through a counter-puncture in the loin. T/ie ill-results that may follow grafting into the bowel are stenosis, with consequent hydronephrosis (which may occur after any of the.se plastic opera- tions), infection by the bacillus coli communis, and infective peritonitis. In cases such as extroversion of the bladder where the natural ureteral orifice exists, and can be grafted bodily into the rectum, the result is excellent.