36S THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. papilla intact, and a considerable length of the ureter can now be exposed with a blunt dissector without injuring the peritoneum. When this has been done, the rest of the bladder mucous membrane is completely removed. The next step is to introduce a finger into the rectum and to project it towards the lower part of the wound where, with a little dissection, the sides of the rectum can be exposed. A pair of sinus forceps passed through the anus is made to project against the lateral wall of the rectum at a point which the ends of the ureters can be made to reach without any traction and a small incision, just sufficient to admit the ureter, is made upon their points. The blades of the forceps are then pushed through, the opening if necessary slightly dilated, the end of the catheter is seized and it and the orifice of the ureter are pulled down into the rectum, the end of the catheter hanging out of the anus. This is done on both sides. Peters does not employ any stitches because the opening in the rectal wall just admits the ureter without constricting it and the mucous membrane at the end of the ureter prevents retraction. The wound is packed with iodoformed gauze; the catheters come away in about 60 hours. In the patient on whom Peters operated the result was remarkably good. CONGENITAL PATENCY OF THE URACHUS. This condition is much rarer than that of extroversion and in it the urine generally escapes through the umbilicus. The rest of the urinary apparatus with the exception of the portion between the fistulous opening and the bladder may be quite normal. The patient has practically a cutane- ous urinary fistula. TREATMENT.—If a probe shows that the urachus between the fistulous opening and the apex of the bladder is pervious, an attempt may be made to pare the fistulous opening and to bring the edges both of the urachus and the abdominal tissues together so as to give a firm union and close the fistula. Should this fail or should the lower portion of the urachus not be pervious, the fistulous track must be dissected out and the opening into the bladder inverted and closed by Lembert's sutures. In some cases the bladder is projected up like a cone; here excision of the apex of the cone followed by inversion and suture of the edges is the proper practice.