246 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. ready to have anything done that will afford relief, and the following are the chief points in treatment: TREATMENT.—During an attack the patient should be kept absolutely at rest in bed, morphine should be administered, and hot fomentations applied. When the attack has passed off, as 'it usually does in a few days, the question will arise as to whether anything curative should be done. 'I here is no question that this will be necessary after repeated attacks, and the patient will usually readily consent. The kidney should be exposed by an incision corresponding to the upper half of the lumbo-ilio-inguinal incision (see p. 219) and the upper part of the ureter and the pelvis of the kidney are examined, the organ being brought out on to the loin in the usual manner, so that it can be examined both by sight and by touch. If a stone be found it should be removed (see p. 227). Nothing abnor- mal may be found beyond undue mobility of the kidney, and in that case it is well to make a small opening in the posterior part of the pelvis, and to introduce a ureteral probe when, if the ureter be found patent, and arising from the pelvis in its normal situation, the surgeon may assume that it is a commencing case due to movable kidney, which should be then fixed in the loin in the usual manner (see p. 177). When afi abnormality is presetit in the upper part of the ureter or its attachment to the pelvis, something further must be done. If a small annular stricture be found immediately below the pelvis, this must be treated by an operation similar to pyloroplasty (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 238); this operation however is not always successful. If the stricture be very tight, the affected portion of the ureter may be resected, and ureteral anastomosis (see p. 195) performed. Either of these operations is preferable to nephrectomy or to the establishment of a urinary fistula. When the stricture is situated quite close to the renal pelvis it may be excised, and the lower end of the ureter provided with a new attachment at the lowest point of the pelvis, the upper end being invaginated and closed by Lembert's sutures (see Fig. 51). It is well to cut the ureter obliquely or, if transversely, to slit it down for a centimeter or two, and round off its angles so as to make an opening of suitable size. The union is made by a double row of stitches, the mucous membrane of the pelvis and of the ureter being united by fine catgut, and a row of Lembert's sutures A B Fig. 51.—Tkea i ment of a Stricture of the Ureter just below the Renal Pelvis. The stricture is completely excised by an oblique incision, as shown in A, and re-att.iched to the pelvis of the kidney so that there is a suitable opening, as seen in B. This is better than attempting a plastic operation for increasing the ureteral lumen.