i88 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. bandage passing from each end to the head of the bed. Should the dorsal position be intolerable, the patient may lie on the sound side. The affected side should be fixed either by strapping, or, if operation be probable, by a firm binder. If strapping be employed, the strips should be from two to three inches wide, and long enough to extend from just beyond the spinal column behind to beyond the middle line of the abdomen in front. They should be put on from below upwards, beginning just below the crest of the ilium and extending up well over the lower ribs, each piece overlapping its predecessor by at least two-thirds of its width. If the pain be severe, small doses of morphine may be given, unless renal disease be known to exist; the drug allays irritation and quiets the patient. The arm on the affected side should be fastened to the chest by a binder. A third indication is to adopt measures to arrest the haemorrhage. In the first instance it is well to administer an enema, so as to remove any faecal masses which may be lying in the colon, and which, by their pressure, may be giving rise to congestion. Ice may be givei^by the mouth, but nothing else must be taken at first for fear of exciting vomiting, which might seriously increase the bleeding from the kidney. If there be much blood in the urine, it is well to apply cold by Leiter's tubes over the kidney region, front and back. Subcutaneous injections of ergotine {\\. iii-x) are also useful, and should be employed in preference to haemostatics by the mouth; these should not be given until 24 hours have elapsed, on account of the risk of vomiting being set up. Among the haemostatics that may be employed internally are gallic acrd (gr. x), pil plumbi c. opio (gr. ii-iv), and dilute sulphuric acid, which may be given with lemon syrup and which is very comforting when the patient suffers from extreme thirst, as he so commonly does. During this early period no food by the mouth is required ; anything necessary should be given in a rectal enema. It is well to empty the bladder both as a matter of diagnosis and also because there is often retention from shock, and a distended bladder causes backward pressure up the ureter, and may lead to increased extravasation of urine or congestion of the kidney. Every possible precaution must be taken to disinfect the orifice of the urethra and the instruments, because everything is favourable for the development of sepsis should infection take place (see Chap. XXXVI.). These are the measures to be taken immediately on seeing a patient suffering from an injury to the kidney, but in a very short time—sometimes indeed from the first—the question of operation must be decided ; the indications for operation are given below (see p. 189). If no operation be deemed necessary, the application of cold must be continued, and, if necessary, the injections of ergotine; when the stomach has quieted down, dilute mineral acids may be given by the mouth instead. The diet must be fluid, unirritating and restricted in amount. Milk only should be given for a few days, about four ounces every two hours. It is desirable to limit the amount of fluid absorbed, so as to minimise the work that the kidney has to