238 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. nephrectomy, the nephrotomy should be done on the side last affected, that is to say, that on which there were symptoms of renal calculus last, for the kidney that has been longest affected may be entirely destroyed. When the patient has recovered from the anuria, the calculus should be removed. When the calculus is situated in the vesical end of the ureter, the stone may perhaps be removed at once, instead of performing nephrotomy; but, when the patient is in a serious condition, an operation such as that by the sacral route (see p. 220) would probably increase the shock so much that the kidney would not secrete again in spite of removal of the stone. (b) Of non-obstructive anuria.—The treatment of this condition is essentially medical, and among the best measures is the hot-air bath. The bedclothes are arranged over a long cradle, and tucked in everywhere, and hot air or steam is conducted beneath them by means of a tube; the patient is left in this atmosphere for half-an-hour or an hour, when profuse sweating generally occurs. If hot air be used, the tube terminates in a funnel inverted over a lamp, while if steam be employed, an ordinary bronchitis kettle may be used. Hot air is preferable. The greatest care must be taken that no portion of the funnel or tube touches the patient. A substitute apparatus may be improvised by surrounding the patient with blankets outside which hot-water bottles are packed ; in all cases signs of cardiac failure or increasing anaemia must be carefully watched for. Still more certain is the hot wet-pack in which a thick blanket is saturated with water almost boiling and then rapidly wrung out to remove all excess of moisture. The patient is quickly and entirely swathed in this, with the exception of the head and face, and outside are placed several blankets ; the patient is left in the pack for a couple of hours, at the end of which time he generally sweats profusely. He is then rubbed dry and well covered up with hot dry blankets. During the time he is in the pack he should drink freely of hot barley water or other diluent drinks. The action of the wet-pack or of the hot-air bath may be greatly increased by the administration of a sub- cutaneous injection of pilocarpine (gr. j-V to but its effect must be carefully watched as it may produce dangerous depression. Brandy and water should be given if these symptoms occur. Dry cupping to the loin is valuable. RENAL FISTULA. This is a convenient term to apply to sinuses in the loin, which need not however all have a renal origin. They may be divided into two large groups : (i) Non-urinary, and (2) Urinary fistulae. ♦ NON-URINARY FISTUL.®.—These arise from very various causes and may have no connection with the kidney at all. They may follow peri-nephric abscess due to disease of the appendix, gall-bladder, duodenum or colon or contusions of the loin which fail to heal either because there is imperfect drainage or because the original cause is still active. When the