200 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. It has been proposed to reach the ureter through the lumbo-ilio-inguinal incision (see p. 219), but this is a much more difficult method. It has also been proposed to reach it through the bladder wall, by the sub-pubic or even by the sacral route. Intra-peritoneal methods.—Here the ureter is dissected from its bed and drawn across the peritoneal cavity and the pelvis to reach the bladder. This may be the only way available when much of the ureter has been lost. Details of most of these operations are given by Morris {pp. cit.). Vaginal operations.—These fall into two groups : {a) Those in which the entire fistulous orifice is grafted into the bladder ; and {b) those in which the fistulous orifice is removed, and a new communication is made between the end of the ureter and the bladder. Grafting of the fistulous orifice bodily into the bladder seems the better procedure, both as giving a more extensive area for union, and also because a new ureteral orifice has already been established and because the chances of contraction and ascending infection are less than when a fresh orifice is made. The fistulous opening into the vagina is surrounded by an incision which embraces the whole thickness of the vaginal wall, and the flap containing the end of the ureter is freed. The incision is carried forwards sufficiently to expose the bladder wall, which is incised at a suitable spot. The edges of the flap containing the end of the ureter are then sutured to the bladder wall by a double row of sutures, and the wound in the vagina is closed. General considerations.—These operations can only be employed when the injury in the ureter is close enough to the bladder to allow the two structures to be united without undue traction. Tension not only prevents union by pulling the two structures apart, but tends to diminish the calibre of the ureter and thus may produce hydronephrosis. There is a risk of stenosis and of renal infection from ascending sepsis in every method, but these are not sufficient arguments in favour of nephrectomy as opposed to a plastic operation. The liabihty to stenosis is diminished by slitting up the end of the ureter before it is united to the bladder, and the risk of the infection of the kidney is not very great if the patient be in good condition and the bladder healthy. Even when there is a certain amount of pyelitis already existing, it seems better to perform this operation than to resort at once to nephrectomy. The chief trouble after these operations is due to the absence of the valvular orifice, so that, when the patient micturates, urine is forced up through the ureteral orifice, causing back- ward pressure on the kidney ; probably the more obliquely the ureter is united to the bladder, as in Witzel's method, the less is the chance of regurgitation. A catheter should always be kept in the bladder for some days after the operation, in order to prevent any distension or backward pressure. Uretero-intestinal anastomosis.—\Vhen the fistulous opening is in such a position that the ureter cannot be made to reach the bladder, the pro- cedure that suggests itself is grafting the ureter into the intestine, and this has been done in several cases with success. It has been performed not only for a fistula of the ureter, but also for malignant disease in the pelvis blocking the