GALL-STONES. 139 the common bile duct should be examined in every case, even when there is no jaundice; this is often easily found as it is only necessary to trace the cystic to its junction with the hepatic duct to form the common bile duct. When however there are numerous adhesions they may obscure the position of the duct; the best plan then is to hook the forefinger into the foramen of Winslow, the anterior margin of which is formed by the common duct. Finally, the pylorus, the duodenum and the pancreas should all be examined to see whether there are adhesions between them and the bile ducts or whether a stone be impacted in them. We shall now describe in detail the methods applicable to the various conditions that may be met with after the surgeon has opened the abdomen in the above manner. 1. When the gall-bladder is adherent to the abdo- minal wall the incision through the peritoneum will run partly over the adherent organ and partly into the peritoneal cavity belo-.v it. The latter should be carefully packed off and the contents of the viscus drawn off through a small cannula. The opening is then plugged with gauze or a sponge and the gall- bladder and bile ducts are examined by a finger introduced through the incision into the peritoneum and a stone in the cystic or common duct is felt for. Should none be found, the peritoneum is accurately sutured so as to prevent the possibility of infection and the gall- bladder is then laid open and any stones in its interior are removed {vide infra). Finally the adherent gall-bladder is drained as in cholecysto- stomy (see p. 142). 2. When there is hydrops or empyema of the gall-bladder the condition points to complete occlusion of the cystic duct, and the only certain method of cure is removal of the gall-bladder, as merely opening it and draining it may give rise to a permanent fistula. It may undoubtedly be possible to find and remove a stone blocking the duct through an incision in the fundus and then afterwards to drain the gall-bladder so as to allow the fistula to close spontaneously, but this good result does not necessarily follow, since obliteration of the duct may follow impaction of a stone in it even after / ¥\o. SI-—Bkvan's Incision for exposure of the Com- mon Duct. The thick line is the incision that suffices in spare subjects or for gall bladder operations. The dotted lines show the direction in which the incision is enlarged in order to e.vpose the common duct. {Annn/so/Surgay.)