384 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. glycerine or boro-glyceride, and passed down into ihe membranous portion of the urethra. The best form of tube is shown in Fig. 80; the obturator is made of metal so that it is fairly heavy and will pass down the urethra by its own weight. The electric current may be obtained from the main by means of a transformer or from an accumulator. The urethroscopic tubes should be of comparatively large calibre, and should range from No. 10 to 16 English. It is very essential to pass as large a tube as possible so as to distend the various folds of the urethral mucous membrane Fk;. 80.—Tube for use with the URETinJOSCoPE. These are made of metal throughout, and are readily sterilised by boilijig. in order to see their condition exactly; very little useful information can be gained by inspection through too small a tube. There is a special inflating apparatus (see Fig. 79, a) for the purpose of distending the urethra, attached to the urethroscope. This is extremely useful for the detection of very early degrees of cicatricial narrowing. It is of the utmost importance to observe the most rigid asepsis with all the instruments; they should be boiled after use, as otherwise inoculation from one patient to another is very apt to occur. The patient is instructed to say if the point of the instrument passes over any particularly tender spot in its progress, as this is often an indica- tion of the whereabouts of the affected area. In ordinary cases the straight Fig. 81.—Urkthroscoi'ic Tube for use in the Prostatic Urethra. tube is used, and is passed well down into the membranous urethra; it is easy to feel when the point goes through the triangular ligament. Should there be any reason to suspect mischief in the prostatic urethra, when for instance there is vesical tenesmus or deep-seated uneasiness in the perineum, the prostatic form of tube (see Fig. 81) should be employed, and should be pushed on practically into the bladder. It is desirable not to use cocaine for the examination if it can be avoided, as it destroys the sensi- bility of the urethral mucous membrane to a certain extent, and the indication afforded by the presence of a tender spot may therefore be lost. As a rule the passage of the instrument is not accompanied by anything more than slight discomfort.