143 GALL-STONES. Strict asepsis must be maintained, not only at the operation, but throughout the after-treatment, as a suppurating gall-bLadder is a troublesome complica- tion. Should the fistula not heal in two or three months the case becomes one of biliary fistula, which is dealt with separately (see p. 151). (c) Cholecystectomy.—An excellent plan in many cases is excision of the gall-bladder, together with the stones contained in it. Any adhesions between the gall-bladder and the intestine are first of all separated, and then the gall-bladder is separated from the liver; this may be begun either at the neck or the fundus according to the condition of the parts. It will generally be best to commence at the fundus and proceed from before backwards, but, if there be many adhesions binding down the fundus, the operation will be facilitated by separating the cystic duct first, clamping and dividing it between two pair of forceps, and then stripping up the gall-bladder from the liver from behind forwards. As much of the peritoneum as possible should be raised from the under surface of the gall-bladder and left behind in order that it may be laid down afterwards so as to minimise the raw surface left; otherwise adhesion of the intestines to the under surface of the liver may take place over a comparatively large area. The best way is to make a horse-shoe shaped incision through the peritoneum covering the under surface of the organ with its convexity forwards. The neck of the gall-bladder should always be clamped as a preliminary, in order to prevent stones being pushed into the cystic duct during the manipulations necessary to separate the gall-bladder from the liver. It will sometimes happen that the adhesions between the gall-bladder and the under surface of the liver are so firm that the two structures cannot be separated. When this is the case, as much as possible of the fundus should be cut away and then the whole of the mucous membrane remaining is carefully clipped away with scissors. The next point is. the treatment of the open end of the divided cystic duct. If this be sufficiently large and the parts sufficiently accessible, it may be treated in the same way as the stump of an appendix (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 391) or, if this be impossible, it may be covered by a flap of peri- toneum from the adjacent regions.^ It is always well to leave the upper part of the abdominal wound open and to insert a tube or a gauze drain down to the duct. The principal reason for this is that free oozing may follow the detachment of the gall-bladder from the liver; there is also always the possibility of septic infection from the duct. Possibly also a stone may he lodged in the common duct and may have been overlooked, in which case there will be leakage from the cystic duct after the ligature separates. (d) Cholecystenterostomy.—Some of the American surgeons recommend that the operation of cholecystenterostomy, or anastomosing the gall-bladder ' If it be impossible to cover the divided end of the duct, it may be closed by one or two sutures, and a very good plan is to pass a drainage lube down so that the end of the duct lies within the end of the tube; the latter is then packed around with g.nuze.