CYSTS OF THE KIDNEY. 253 nephrectomy in cases of polycystic disease, in which, after opening the peritoneum, the opposite kidney appears to be only very slightly affected, and where the condition on the affected side is very advanced. The dis- ease is often only discovered during life after an exploratory operation and then frequently the only question that arises is the advisability of opening some of the cysts so as to get diminution of the tumour; in one case Morris got great temporary relief by doing so. PERI-NEPHRIC CYSTS.—These are extremely rare and are usually only diagnosed after operation. They presumably result from haemorrhage outside the kidney. PERI- AND PARA-NEPHRIC TUMOURS. PARA-NEPHRIC TUMOURS—Tumours of the supra-renal capsule are not very uncommon, and are generally malignant adenomata presenting the characters of supra-renal tissue. It is impossible to diagnose them from primary tumours of the kidney, although a suspicion of their true nature may be excited by the rapid loss of flesh, the bronzing of the skin, the marked gastro-intestinal symptoms, the pain referred to the tip of the shoulder, and the rapidity of growth ; there is no hsematuria. Treatment.—This is the same as that of a renal tumour of a similar nature. In the first place the growth must be explored, and the kidney should be excised as well as the tumour, because a growth of any size will almost certainly have affected the organ, and recurrence will take place speedily if it be left behind. In some rare cases a partial nephrectomy, i.e. excision of the upper part of the organ with the adherent supra-renal capsule, may suffice. This point can only be determined at the operation. PERI-NEPHRIC TUMOURS.—Many varieties of peri-nephric tumours may be met with in the cellular tissue around the kidney, of which fibroma, lipoma and sarcoma are the commonest. All these tumours are not necessarily peri-renal in origin, as sarcomata may grow from the kidney capsule, and probably do so in the majority of instances. The diagnosis is very difficult, and the case will generally be considered to be one of renal tumour; the absence of hcematuria is an important although not a pathognomonic sign. The exact diagnosis is only made by a lumbar or a lateral abdominal incision, and the treatment will depend upon whether the kidney be invaded. If the tumour be benign, it should be shelled out if it be possible to separate the kidney and the ureter from it. A sarco- matous tumour will generally require to be removed along with the kidney if there be adhesion of the latter to it. If there be only slight adhesion to one part of the kidney that portion of the organ alone may be excised along with the tu mour. All these tumours are comparatively rare, and those interested in the subject should consult some special work on the subject.