THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. 38 the edges of the incision coming together, a i-grain morphine suppository is introduced into the rectum, and a pad of cyanide gauze and saUcylic wool is fixed on with a T-bandage. When put back to bed the patient should have the legs tied together with a small pillow between the knees, so as to keep the parts at rest as much as possible. A dose of opium should be given the same night both to relieve the pain and to produce constipation, and this may be repeated if necessary. The external dressings should be changed the day following the operation and the buttocks washed with a 1-2000 sublimate solution. The plug, how- ever, need not be disturbed ; a fresh external dressing is merely appHed.^ The plug will generally remain in situ until the bowels act, which should be on the third or fourth day, after tlie administration of a dose of castor oil over night. It- is well to give a soap and water enema immediately before the bowels are going to act, and, in giving this, care must be taken in introducing the nozzle of the syringe to press it against the sound side of the rectum. The injection of an ounce or more of olive oil just inside the anus also makes the action easier. During defaecation the plug is expelled, and after it the parts should be syringed clean and a fresh iodoformed plug introduced, which should now be changed once or twice a day according to whether it becomes much soiled. When changing the plug the forefinger should be well oiled and intro- duced into the rectum, so as to ascertain that the fresh plug lies properly in place, and a probe passed along the track, so as to make sure that there is no tendency at any point for the surface to close over and to re-form the fistula. Unless great care be employed it is quite possible for healing to occur at the surface before the wound has granulated from the bottom and for the fistula therefore to re-form. In about a fortnight's time granulation is so far advanced that there is little chance of the edges growing together, and the plugging may then be discontinued, the patient merely wearing a small perineal pad until the wound has healed. In simple cases this will take about four weeks. When there are multiple external openings, a probe should be passed from the external orifice nearest to that opening into the bowel and the fistula slit up along it, after which each of the remaining branches should be laid fully open from the original track to the skin opening. This procedure gives rise to the minimum amount of interference with the sphincters, and there is little risk of injuring nerves or other important structures. After the track has been slit up it should be scraped and plugged as recommended above. The above methods are applicable to the great majority of fistulse met with in practice, but the difficult cases are those in which the track, instead of turning up around the inferior margin of the sphincter, either penetrates it or ' Retention of urine may follow this and other operations upon the rectum. There is very often some tendency to this condition which may sometimes be obviated by allowing the patient to micturate on the hands and knees. If this fail a soft red rubber catheter must be used and may be required for two or three days. Strict asepsis is necessary.