172 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. but it is very doubtful whether the whole pain of the patient is ever so referred, and indeed whether pain is really present without that side being also diseased. Further evidence is obtained by palpation of the kidney; in some cases the presence of an increased amount of pus or blood in the bladder after palpation of a particular kidney may indicate which side is diseased. In cases of doubt, examination of the ureters and their orifices may be of help; by it one may see whether there is a difference on the two sides, in the way for example of enlargement or swelling or of a difference in the stream of urine issuing from each. Catheterisation of the ureter (see p. 170) may lead to valuable information in the female. EXAMINATION OF THE URETERS.—The condition of the ureters may be made out by palpation, by inspection of their orifices, or by catheterisation. Palpation of the ureters may be effected through the abdominal, the vaginal, the rectal, or the vesical walls. Through the abdomen the ureter can only be felt when the patient is thin and has lax abdominal walls, and then only if the tube be thickened or contains a foreign body. Only that part of it extending from the pelvis of the kidney to the brim of the true pelvis can be felt in this way. The surface-marking of this portion has already been given (see p. 166). The patient should be in the same position as for palpation of the kidney (see p. 168), and it is best to make the examination under an anaesthetic. In the female the ureter is best felt by palpation through the antero- lateral fornix of the vagina and the terminal two-and-a-half inches of the ureter may here be felt if it be thickened, dilated, or contain a foreign body. It runs forwards about midway between the cervix uteri and the wall of the pelvis. The uterine artery or the muscular fibres of the levator ani or obturator internus must not be mistaken for the ureter. In the female also the lower end of the ureter may be felt by palpation from the bladder after the urethra has been fully dilated and a bi-manual examination with one finger in the bladder and another in the vagina will readily ascertain the presence of a stone impacted in the lower end. In the male, the lower end of the ureter, if it contain a foreign body, may be felt through the rectum, but not nearly so easily as it is felt through the vagina in the female. It is situated a little higher up than the level of the base of the vesiculse seminales, and in many patients this is a point that it is extremely difficult to reach by digital examination of the rectum however well the bladder be pushed downwards. In the male, palpation of the ureter through the bladder is of course only possible after a cystotomy, either supra-pubic or median, which would not, as a rule, be done for mere examination purposes. The use of the cystoscope or endoscope for inspecting the vesical orifice of the ureter has already been discussed (see p. 169). The employment of ureteral catheters for withdrawing urine from each ureter separately, or for