122 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. somewhat loose and the finger or a blunt dissector can separate the two. This leaves a cavity in the cellular tissue which closes very quickly. When the contents of the cyst have been evacuated, a sponge is thrust into the cavity, the gauze packing around is removed and the parts are thoroughly douched with salt solution. The opening in the cyst is now carefully united by a continuous catgut suture to the cut edges of the peritoneum, the sponge is withdrawn, large drainage tubes are introduced into the cavity and an antiseptic dressing is applied. If the true cyst wall has been removed, the cavity closes quickly and no subsequent irrigation of the wound is required, the drainage tubes being shortened as the cavity contracts. If however a portion of the wall or some of the daughter cysts have been left behind, the cavity must be flushed out from time to time with sterilised salt solution in order to get rid of these substances which would otherwise prevent healing. If other cysts be present in the immediate neighbourhood of the primary one they may be drained through the original opening by burrow- ing through the liver substance until they are reached. Should the cyst be multilocular, all the septa must be broken down ; should it be suppurating, a similar procedure must be adopted, but extra care must be taken to prevent infection of the abdominal cavity and, in fact, the case must be looked upon as one of abdominal abscess. As a rule, however, adhesions have already formed between the cyst and the abdominal wall in these cases, and the treatment is comparatively simple. It is quite unnecessary to pack the cyst after incision. Excision.—Complete removal of the cyst with its investing capsule is a procedure that is seldom feasible, and is quite unnecessary if the true hydatid cyst wall be peeled off. An attempt to remove the fibrous capsule from the liver substance means an extensive operation, accompanied by bleeding which it is difficult to arrest, and accompanied also by the escape of bile. Occasionally, however, the cyst is almost pedunculated and pro- jects from the surface of the liver, so that only a small portion of its circumference is in contact with hepatic substance, and then it may be possible to separate the two structures with a blunt dissector, arresting the oozing by passing sutures deeply through the liver substance as for cases of rupture (see Chap. XII.). Oozing will go on from the raw surface for some time afterwards, and it is well therefore to introduce a drainage tube. When the hydatid cyst grows from the upper and posterior surface of the liver it may project in the sub-phrenic region and cannot be reached by a laparotomy. The latter method, however, is the best wherever it can be carried out and, even if it should involve the removal of the ends of two or three of the floating ribs, it should be attempted if it appears probable that the cyst can be reached thus through the abdomen. When it is necessary to reach it by the thoracic route, the best plan is to remove a portion of the eighth or ninth ribs in the anterior axillary line, to suture the parietal to the diaphragmatic pleura and then to incise the diaphragm much as for an hepatic abscess (see p. 119). If adhesions have formed