CHAPTER XXXII. TUMOURS OF THE BLADDER. Tumours of the bladder are not uncommon; they may be simple or malig- nant, and they may arise from any of the structures composing the bladder. BENIGN TUMOURS.—With the exception of papillomata these are extremely rare. Papilloma.—This is the so-called " villous tumour of the bladder " ; it is a common affection and is generally benign, although it may be combined with a malignant base. It appears in two forms, the true-villous tumour of the bladder with long thread-like processes, or the true warty growth. The villous tumours have long filiform processes of connective tissue supporting blood- vessels and covered by epithelium. The growths are pedunculated, bleed with extreme readiness and are often multiple. It is very common on opening a bladder for a growth of this kind to find one large villous mass with a number of smaller ones around. It would almost seem that they are locally infective for, if a villous tumour be left unoperated upon, the bladder may become studded with little villous masses, and recurrence after operation is not at all uncommon; in fact it may be almost looked upon as the rule. The recur- rence does not take place so much on the site of the tumour that has been removed as in the neighbourhood, and apparently is really a fresh development rather than a recurrence. The warty papillomata are rarer, they are firmer, bleed less readily and are generally sessile. Fibromata, mjrxomata, myomata, and angiomata are other benign growths that have been met with in the bladder ; the last of these are amongst the rarest, only two or three cases having been reported. We have had a case in which the left side of the bladder was occupied by an angiomatous growth, the only symptom being haemorrhage without any indication as to its true source, and so profuse that no satisfactory cystoscopic examination could be carried out. The diagnosis of a ntevus of the bladder was made before opera- tion, partly by exclusion and partly because there were well-marked superficial na;vi on the left thigh and elsewhere on the left side of the body.