l68 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. partly by the muscular fibres of the bladder. This ridge forms the base of the trigone. The arteries which supply the ureter are branches of the renal, the spermatic or ovarian and the vesical arteries and they anastomose freely in the wall of the ureter. The lymphatics are numerous, and terminate at the lower part in the iliac and at the upper part in the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the renal, the spermatic or ovarian and the vesical plexuses. EXAMINATION OF THE KIDNEY AND THE URETERS. EXAMINATION OF THE KIDNEY.—Inspection shows nothing except when the kidney is enlarged or when there is peri-nephric inflammation. When the patient lies on his back, a much enlarged kidney may give rise to a prominence in front which becomes more evident during deep expiration, but the organ must be very big before this will occur. In peri nephric inflamma- tion fixation of the muscles on the affected side during respiration may be evident. Palpation.—It is very difificult to feel the normal kidney, and at most only the lower end of it comes down between the fingers. When the kidney is being palpated, the patient should lie on his back with the legs drawn up and the shoulders slightly raised, and the left hand should be placed beneath the right loin, and vice versd, with its upper border just below the last rib, so that the patient rests well upon it and has the kidney pushed well forward (see Fig. 37). The other hand is spread out flat over the abdomen and presses firmly backwards and upwards under the lower ribs. The manipulations must be very gentle and must be practised with the flat hand, as otherwise the muscles will contract and nothing will be felt. During the examination the patient should in the first instance breathe quietly and subsequently as deeply as possible without contracting the abdominal muscles unduly during the act. The kidney descends during inspiration, and if then it be pushed forward by the hand behind while at the same time the hand in front presses backwards, the organ will be felt if it be enlarged, and any abnormality about the lower end may be detected. Further, if the hand in front be pressed well inwards and upwards during deep inspiration, the entire kidney, if movable, may be caught and fixed below the ribs. This may not be possible at the first attempt but, if the kidney be movable, steady pressure kept up through- out deep respiration will generally end in the organ being caught thus. When the kidney is freely movable, the sign known as "renal ballottement'' may be elicited; by thrusting the fingers of the hand behind the loin suddenly against the soft parts the kidney may be driven against the fingers of the hand in front, and vice versd. This usually indicates considerable mobility and an absence of adhesions such as would be present in inflam- matory affections. Additional information may often be obtained by altering the position of