476 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. (f) Hydrocele of a hernial sac.—Occasionally a hernial sac becomes obliterated at its neck and the fundus becomes distended with serous fluid and gives rise to a fluctuating translucent tumour closely resembling an encysted hydrocele of the cord. Treatment.—This should be the complete removal of the sac followed by a radical cure of the hernia (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 450). lI.EMATOCELE. In a hgematocele the tunica vaginalis becomes filled with blood and the affection may either follow an injury or may occur in the course of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. TRAUMATIC HEMATOCELE may follow severe contusions of the testis and scrotum, and a similar accident may occur when a vessel is punctured during tapping of a hydrocele and bleeding goes on into the hydrocele sac. In these cases the tunica vaginalis becomes rapidly dis- tended with blood, there is generally a good deal of pain and the diagnosis is comparatively easy. IDIOPATHIC HiEMATOCELE is more common, and generally results from giving way of delicate vessels in the thickened walls of an old hydrocele, so that haemorrhage occurs from time to time into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The blood-clots on the surface of the tunica vaginalis become partially organised and the sac wall therefore becomes increasingly thick, the visceral as well as the parietal layer being affected. After a time calcareous salts are deposited in the imperfectly organised clots, so that ultimately a dense, calcareous cyst wall is formed. This may exert much injurious pressure upon the testicle, and the structures of the cord become adherent to the outer wall of the sac, the contents of which are blood-clot and serum or merely blood-stained serous fluid. The swelling closely resembles a hydrocele in shape and situation, but differs from it in the density of its walls, in the absence of fluctuation, in the greater weight, and in the absence of translucency. Treatment, (a) Of acute traumatic haematocele.—The patient is put to bed, the testicle is supported, and cold is applied to the parts by means of an icebag or Leiter's tubes. Unless it be evident in the course of a few days that absorption of the clot is taking place, the best plan will be to make a small incision, evacuate the clot and drain the sac for a few days. (b) Of chronic idiopathic haematocele.—The only treatment of any avail is excision and this may either take the form of excision of the parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis or removal of the whole of the tunica vaginalis combined with castration. Tapping followed by injection is quite useless. Laying open and draining or tapping the sac seems to possess no advantages over excision, except possibly that there is less risk of injuring the structures of the cord which are often intimately adherent to the sac wall, whilst the risks of sepsis are much greater than after excision;