5o8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. is more common in advanced age when extensive calcification of the cartilage has occurred, whilst separation is commoner in adult life. It is generally due to severe direct injury, and the fracture usually occurs towards the costal end of the cartilage, those most frequently injured being the lower ones, the eighth more often than the others. The treatment is similar to that for fracture of the ribs (see p. 505). DISLOCATION OF THE CARTILAGES FROM THE STERNUiVI. This injury is extremely rare. In it the end of the cartilage projects forwards in front of the sternum ; occasionally it may be pressed behind that bone. Treatment.—An attempt should be made to get the end of the cartilage into position, which is best done by making the patient lie upon the back with a firm narrow pillow or sandbag between the scapulae and then take a deep inspiration. When the cartilage is dislocated behind the sternum, re-position is not easy to obtain without exposing the seat of injury by operation, when the cartilage can either be pulled back into place or, failing that, a portion may be excised. It is always advisable to secure re-position in this form of the injury, as otherwise the pressure of the cartilage in the mediastinum may give rise to troublesome symptoms. When re-position has been effected, the treatment is similar to that for fractures of the ribs (see p. 505). FRACTURES OF THE STERNUM. This injury is usually part of a severe crush of the chest. Fracture may occur at any part of the bone but commonly occurs at the junction of the manubrium with the gladiolus. It generally takes the form of a fracture-dislocation although it may occasionally be a true separation at the joint; there is usually not much displacement and the lower fragment occupies a plane somewhat anterior to the upper. Treatment.—Such displacement as occurs can generally be reduced by hyper-extending the upper dorsal spine over a large sandbag, when the two fragments are disentangled and can be got into position. Should attempts at re-position fail, there are two alternatives before the surgeon ; either the case may be left alone if the depression be very slight and not causing symptoms, or, if it is, the injured area may be exposed by turning up a flap, when the depressed fragment may be got into position and if necessary secured by a silver wire. DISLOCATION OF THE XIPHOID CARTILAGE. This process occasionally becomes bent backwards so that the tip presses inwards on the epigastrium and obstinate dyspeptic troubles, such