220 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. nephrectomy, it is not necessary to open up the nephrectomy wound ; all that is required is to continue it downwards from its lowest point in the direction mentioned above. In practice it will be found well not to carry the incision to its full length at once, but to lengthen it in the desired direction as may be necessary. The skin, the fascia, the three abdominal muscles and their aponeuroses, and the transversalis fascia, are exposed and divided in turn. When the sub-peritoneal fat comes into view, the peritoneum is carefully lifted up with the fingers and dragged upwards and towards the middle line, as in the operation for tying the external and common iliac arteries (see Part II., p. 349). In the upper part of the wound the ureter may easily be stripped forward with the peritoneum, and care must be taken that the assistant's fingers do not hide it from view. A smooth, flat sponge, should be placed between the hand and the peritoneum, and serves as a useful support. The patient, who will be lying in the ordinary position for nephrectomy (see p. 230), should be rolled over to some extent on to the back when the ureter is to be exposed. When the kidney has been removed previously, the ligature around the divided end of the ureter will lead to the identification of the tube at once. In other cases it is found as a whitish or yellowish-white tape-like structure or, when full of tuber- culous contents, as a rigid cord. It is generally found as it crosses the iliac vessels which are a guide to it. When the ureter has been defined, the sheath of cellular tissue attaching it to the peritoneum should be gently torn through, and the latter structure pushed forward ; by a little traction it is easy to isolate the ureter downwards. In the female the ureter lies behind the broad ligament, and is not easily exposed in this manner, and if it has to be traced lower down than the brim of the pelvis, the uterine artery and veins must be divided. When the ureter has been isolated as low as possible it should be divided between two ligatures. If it be then decided not to remove the entire length, the divided end should be rubbed with undiluted carbolic acid or iodoform paste, and the walls invagi- nated and sutured by Lembert's method. The whole wound may then be stitched up without a drainage tube. Various accidents may happen in this operation. For instance, the peri- toneum may be torn, in which case the rent must be sutured before proceed- ing further. Some of the nerves of the lumbar plexus may be mistaken for the ureter, but they may be distinguished by the fact that the ureter is raised with the peritoneum whilst the nerves remain. In isolating the ureter the separa tion must be kept close to its walls, as otherwise the peritoneum may be injured, or the spermatic, the ovarian, or the uterine arteries and veins may be torn. Occasionally the ureter is torn or punctured in the operation and, should pus escape into the wound, care must be taken to flush it out thoroughly, and drainage should be employed. Removal of the termination of the ureter, which is however seldom necessary in these cases, must be effected by another route, preferably the sacral. The incision is much the same as that in Kraske's operation for cancer of the rectum (see p. 77). After the rectum has been exposed,