THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. ureter out on to the skin no doubt also entails a certain risk of ascending septic infection, but this may be minimised by careful attention. The escape of urine on to the skin however is most objectionable, and in most cases, when the other kidney is sound and it is impossible to restore the lumen of the ureter, the patient will elect to undergo a secondary nephrectomy. Almost preferable to creating a cutaneous urinary fistula is grafting the proximal end of the ureter into the vagina. An attempt may then be made to perform uretero- vesical grafting subsequently. It is only when the damage to the ureter is too high up for this that the ends should be brought out on the skin. The steps of the method are described in connection with ureteral fistula i^ide infra). In practice it has to be remembered that, if the ureter be injured in the course of a severe abdominal operation, such as hysterectomy, the patient may not be able to stand any elaborate procedure, such as uretero-ureteral anastomosis or uretero-vesical grafting ; and under these circumstances it may be necessary to bring out the proximal end of the ureter either into the wound or into the vagina, after applying a ligature to the distal end. The patient is thus left with a fistula, until she is well enough to undergo a more elaborate plastic operation. Nephrectomy.—Nephrectomy is a last resource and should only be em- ployed as a secondary procedure where the kidney has become disorganised by ascending septic infection or by hydronephrosis or when the surgeon fails to cure the fistula and the patient insists on having something done to get rid of it. When the ureter is only partially divided by either a longi- tudinal or an oblique incision, such for instance as is made for the removal of an impacted stone, it should be closed by Lembert sutures and a drainage tube inserted down to the incision, in case extravasation should occur. If the wound be intra-peritoneal, the line of suture should be covered by a fold of peritoneum or by an omental graft; if it be retro-peritoneal, it may suffice to introduce a tube down to the vicinity of the opening without attempting suture. In the rarer cases in which a portion is cut out of the side of the ureter, an attempt may be made to close the opening by increasing the transverse diameter of the ureter, as is done in pyloroplasty (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 238). (b) Of ureteral fistula.—These fistulae may open on to the skin or into the vagina, and may give rise to so much annoyance that operative measures must be undertaken for their cure. These are three-fold, namely, implantation of the .divided end of the ureter into the bladder, or into the bowel, or nephrec- tomy. These operations may also be required for stricture at the lower end of the ureter, when resection of portions of the bladder involves the ureteral ori- fice, in certain cases of calculus impacted at or near the lower end of the ureter, or in cases of cancer of the uterus or other pelvic organs involving the ureter. Uretero-vesical anastomosis.—This has been done successfully on several occasions. The ureter may be reached either behind or through the peritoneum, or through the vagina in the female. The trans-abdominal extra-peritotieal method. —This operation has been