159 HYPERTROI'HY. healthy. Adhesions to neighbouring structures soon occur, and entire removal is thus rendered very difficult. TREATMENT.—This must be splenectomy and, before deciding upon undertaking it, the condition of affairs must be closely examined so as to see that adhesions, especially in the neighbourhood of the stomach and colon, do not render complete removal doubtful; if they do, the operation had better not be undertaken. HYPERTROPHY OF THE .SPLEEN. This is the chief affection of the organ with which the surgeon is called upon to deal. The enlargement may be due to various causes and the prognosis with regard to the result of splenectomy will vary with the cause. CAUSES.—The commonest cause of splenic enlargement is malaria, in which the spleen may become enormously hypertrophied and cause the greatest discomfort by its mere size. A similar enlargement may accompany leukaemia, a condition in which there are profound changes in the blood and lymphatic glands. Enlargement also occurs as a result of congestive conditions, such as cirrhosis of the liver or cardiac disease; these two last forms of enlargement are not amenable to surgical treatment. Simple or idiopathic enlargement due to an increase in the glandular tissue is also met with and its cause is unknown. A case is diagnosed as idiopathic when there is an absence of a malarial history, and when there is no leukeemia or any other known cause for the enlargement. Hypertrophy of the spleen may cause much discomfort and is often associated with ill-health and anaemia apart from any actual leuktemic changes. The value of splenectomy in these cases has been much discussed, and the operation has been done in a large number of cases with very varying results; the results depend to a great extent upon the nature of the primary cause. Thus the great majority of patients suffering from leukaemia die after splenectomy, the cause of death being haemorrhage. Curiously enough this happens even after the greatest care has been taken to tie every visible bleeding point, and the result of a large number of operations seems to show that the operation is unjustifiable when the enlargement is leukaemic. Quite apart from the large mortality,—something like 90 per cent.,—the operation does not arrest the primary disease. The mortality after splenectomy for malarial enlargement is also considerable, and the operation should not be done unless the patient be suffering severely. This leaves only the so-called idiopathic enlargement of the spleen as a legitimate object of splenectomy. A considerable number of cases have been done for this condition with success and the operation is quite justi- fiable provided that the symptoms are severe enough to warrant it. It is called for when there is a very large spleen producing considerable pressure symptoms and impairing the patient's health. Splenectomy.—The operation is comparatively simple but it must be carried out with the greatest care, particularly in the direction of arresting