H/EMORRHOIDS. 49 dose of mineral water in the morning, and the bowels should be encouraged to act at the same time every day. The patient should be told that he should err rather in taking these laxatives for too long than for too short a time. It is important to avoid straining at stool as there is no greater cause of congestion of the parts. Should the patient find that the bowels are not going to act easily, the attempt should be given up and a larger dose of the aperient taken the next time. A sedentary life must also be corrected as far as possible, and suitable exercise should be prescribed having regard to the requirements of each individual case. A patient who sits for a considerable time during the day should be instructed to use a chair with a hard seat rather than a well-padded one. Great care must be taken to insure proper cleanliness of the parts and also to avoid accidental injury; the congestion so frequently present renders this very liable to occur. When there is marked swelling, the best plan is to employ careful sponging with warm boracic lotion applied by a pad of wool or a soft sponge, and the patient should be instructed to encourage the act of defsecation just before taking a warm bath in the morning; this is not only valuable for ablutionary purposes but diminishes the swelling and irritation. After defsecation paper should not be employed; the parts should be cleansed with a soft sponge and warm water. If the patient can afford it, a very comfortable plan is to have a hot and cold water douche fitted to the closet. The hot water douche is first employed to cleanse the parts and after that the cold water is turned on and the parts are finally dried with a soft bath towel. After the bath, glycerine of tannic acid, or lead and opium lotion, or one containing iron should be applied to the parts.^ For the treatment of the bleeding see p. 57. Radical treatment.—This will vary according as the patient suffers from internal or external piles alone, or the two forms combined, and also according to whether the condition be complicated or not by some inflammatory mischief. (a) Of external piles alone.—It not infrequently happens that the protrusions around the anus 'are a considerable annoyance to the patient, preventing him from taking horse or bicycle exercise and interfering with proper cleanliness. Moreover, cracks and fissures are very apt to develop and to prove very troublesome. Under these circumstances, it is well to remove the piles, seizing each one with a pair of forceps and nipping them off with a pair of scissors curved upon the flat. The patient should be under a general anaesthetic in the lithotomy position, and care should be taken to make the long axis of the incision radiate in all cases from the anus, so as to avoid the occurrence of stricture .subsequently. Each individual wound may be sutured with fine horsehair ; any bleeding that occurs is easily arrested either by the sutures or by a pad of boracic lint kept in position by a T-bandage. 1 The following may be used : I{. I.ici. fcrri, I part ; glyceriiii, 2 pails ; ;u|u;v, 3 iwrls. PT. VI. 2 D