THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. portion of the abscess wall is clipped away and then the affected portion of the rib can be lifted out so as to expose the periosteum on its inner surface. This is not infrequently covered with tuberculous granulations which should be scraped away, taking care not to perforate the pleura, and finally the surface left may be touched with undiluted carbolic acid so as to destroy any bacilli that may have escaped removal. A clean wound, probably without any tuberculous material in it, is left and this is now stitched up, but if undiluted carbolic acid has been applied to the surface it is well to put in a small drainage tube at one angle of the wound for two or three days; this should be removed at the end of that time as otherwise a sinus may remain for some time. Healing usually occurs by first intention and the patient is well in about ten days. (b) Of tuberculosis of the costal cartilages and sternum.— Here the principles of treatment are the same but the difficulty is greater. The abscess is dissected away and the costal cartilage is divided outside its limits and disarticulated from the sternum. If the latter bone be affected, a periosteum detacher is introduced behind it, the soft parts are gently pushed back, and as much of the side and posterior surface of the bone as is affected is clipped away with Hoffmann's forceps or cutting pliers, until the whole of the diseased area has apparently been removed. The deeper structures are then carefully scraped, and sponged over with pure carbolic acid and it is generally well to leave the wound open and to pack it with iodoformed gauze until it is granulating healthily everywhere, as there is not the same certainty in these cases that the disease has been entirely removed. When the sternum itself is the seat of disease, the treatment is similar. The abscess is isolated as far as possible, the whole of its anterior wall is clipped away and, when the carious surface of the sternum is exposed, this is gouged or chiselled away well wide of the disease. If the latter be found to perforate the bone, the sternum should be gradually bored, through and then enough bone should be clipped away with Hoffmann's forceps to get free of the disease. The wound is packed and allowed to granulate from the bottom. When the patient comes under notice with a tuberculous sinus due to any of these causes the treatment is similar. The sinus is thoroughly opened up, dissected out if possible and the diseased rib or portion of the sternum is removed. After the soft tissues have been scraped and undiluted carbolic acid has been applied to them, the wound is left open and packed with iodoformed gauze. INFLAMMATIONS OF THE PLEURA. These may be divided into two large groups, non-suppurative inflamma- tion of the pleura, or pleurisy, and the suppurative form, commonly knq^vn as empyema.