76 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. daily. This will often relieve the distressing tenesmus, which is so common in these cases. Should there be much pain, due to involvement-of the peri-rectal tissues, opium must be given either by the mouth or as a sub- cutaneous injection rather than by the bowel, as it is doubtful whether the rectal mucous membrane retains its normal absorbing power under these conditions. When there is much offensive discharge from the growth, gentle irrigation of the bowel with warm solutions of weak sanitas, permanganate of potash, or boro-glyceride, will give great comfort. When there is much oozing from the growth, a rectal injection of half an ounce of tincture of hamamelis with an equal quantity of water, may be tried. The general hygiene must be attended to and the patient should be encouraged to interest himself in his ordinary pursuits and to take plenty of fresh air and as much exercise as he can without exhausting himself. An active patient treated in this way will be much happier than if colo- tomy be performed at a comparatively early stage of the disease and will be much more ready to submit to the operation when its performance is essential. The average duration of life after colotomy performed fairly early in the disease is from a year to eighteen months, but occasionally cases occur in which many years elapse before death takes place. We ourselves have had cases living as long as six or seven years after the operation, but it must always be remembered that the latter part of these patients' lives is very distressing as they are bedridden and sufifer much from involvement of other pelvic organs. Operative treatment. Excision.—Excision of the rectum may be performed in any of the following ways : 1. By the sacral route which, with its various modifications, is the one most generally employed. 2. By the perineal route—the older method. 3. By the vaginal route. 4. By the abdominal route. 5. By the combined abdominal and perineal or sacral routes. Preliminary measures.—Certain preliminary treatment must always be undertaken in order to minimise the risks of the operation, particularly septic infection of the pelvic cellular tissue. Many surgeons think that this danger is best avoided by a preliminary colotomy, but for our own part we have found this not only unnecessary but open to grave objections. In the first place it necessitates two fairly severe operations necessarily performed within a short period of each other; secondly, it often interferes with the proper manipulation of the bowel during excision, as the rectal segment is shortened by the fixation of the sigmoid flexure in the colo- tomy opening; lastly, its influence in producing asepsis of the excision wound is only partial as, although faecal matter does not pass over it, mucous and intestinal discharges containing plenty of organisms certainly do. For these reasons we are unable to advocate it. No doubt diversion