GALL-STONES. fistulous communication between the gall-bladder and the intestine, preferably the duodenum or, failing that, the colon. The object of this operation is to avoid a biliary fistula, which of course will be permanent if it be impossible to remove the stone from the duct or if the obstruction happen to be malignant. Exceedingly good results have been claimed for the operation by Murphy, Abbe and others but personally we should much prefer, when choledochotomy cannot be done at the original laparotomy but the stone appears to be removable at a second, to do a cholecystostomy and to defer attempts to remove the stone to a later date. We should reserve cholecysten- terostomy for cases in which the obstruction is irremovable. The operation of cholecystenterostomy is performed much as is gastro- enterostomy (see Part VI., Sec. L, p. 249), the contents of the gall-bladder being first removed by a trochar and cannula. It is well however not to use a first layer of stitches uniting the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder to that of the intestine, as is done in gastro-enterostomy, as these stitches are said to become the nuclei of stones. A single continuous Lembert suture reinforced by a few interrupted stitches outside will suffice. Murphy uses his button but we prefer simple suture. In putting in the stitches care must be taken that they do not penetrate the gall-bladder cavity. If the walls of the viscus be so thin as to render this inevitable, it is possible that a Murphy's button would be a more suitable method. There is also less objection to the use of the button when the anastomosis is made with the colon, especially if a button with flanges of unequal size be used (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 267). When the gall-bladder is extremely small and the common duct is widely dilated a suggestion is to anastomose the common bile duct with the duodenum—choledocho-duodenostomy—but this is not likely to be often feasible. It is done in a similar manner to the above, only from the depth of the parts, etc., it is much more difficult. BILIARY FISTULA. It not infrequently happens that a patient, either as a result-of operative interference or from the spontaneous rupture of a gall-bladder abscess, suffers from a biliary fistula, which will be permanent unless surgical intervention be undertaken for its cure. Biliary fistula may be due to one of the following causes: 1. Gall-stones impacted in the cystic duct. 2. Kinking of the cystic duct as a result of suturing the fundus in bad position in cholecystostomy or from adhesions about the neck of the gall- bladder or the cystic duct. 3. Obliteration of the cystic duct by inflammation. 4. Want of closure of a cholecystostomy wound as a result of suturing the incision in the gall-bladder to the skin instead of to the deeper structures (see p. 142).