FRACTURES OF THE RIBS. 505 because of the fixation of the affected side of the thorax. If many ribs be broken, the affected side of the thorax may not move at all, and this is probably the main cause which brings about bronchitis as a direct result of the injury. Fractures of the ribs usually unite firmly in three or four weeks, even though no particular steps may have been taken to secure co-aptation and fixation of the fragments. It is very seldom that non-union occurs and, even should it do so, it is of little consequence in the expansion of the thorax provided that only one or two ribs be injured. The callus is small in amount; there may be little or no sign of the injury having occurred beyond slight thickening at the seat of fracture. TREATMENT, (a) Of the fracture itself—When only one or two ribs are broken there is no necessity to attempt to set the fracture, as a few inspirations bi-ing the fragments into good position and the sound ribs will maintain them there. Even after puncture of the lung displacement is usually only transitory, but when a number of ribs are fractured there may be considerable displace- ment ; even here, however, it is not necessary as a rule to attempt co-aptation. Should the fractured ends be definitely driven in and penetrate the lung, it might be necessary to cut down upon the seat of fracture and deal with whatever condition is found in the most suitable manner ; this however must be extremely rarely required. Most simple fractures of the ribs heal quite well without anything being done for them, and some surgeons advocate rest in bed in the horizontal position for a few days, or for about a fortnight at the most, with an icebag or evaporating lotions applied to the parts to diminish the congestion, while morphine is given for the relief of pain. Strapping the ribs.—In this country however it is usual to try to obtain a certain amount of fixation of the ribs, although this should never, be carried to such an extent as to interfere with respiration, especially in old subjects. Fixation of the ribs is best secured by the application of broad strapping (see Fig. 113). Three or four strips usually suffice, as it is unnecessary to immobilise the entire affected half of the thorax. Some surgeons apply the strapping to the whole of the injured side, using strips about three inches broad, commencing over the false ribs below and extending up as high as possible without cutting into the folds of the axilla ; complete fixation of the affected side of the chest however is to be strongly deprecated. The best plan is to apply one broad strip of strapping about Fig. 113.—Strai'I'Ino applied for Fractured Rins.