62. THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. severely handled and in that it consists of a uniform protrusion marked transversely with the rectal folds and with the orifice of the bowel forming the apex of the swelling; there are no projecting masses such as are seen in the case of piles. Prolapse of the rectum must be diagnosed from an intussusception that has travelled down sufficiently far to protrude through the anus. It is distinguished by the fact that in true prolapse there is no sulcus around the protruded portion; the latter starts directly from the anal orifice, whereas in an intussusception the prolapsed portion comes down through the anal ring and a finger can be passed between the intussusception and the anal mucous membrane well up into the bowel. If the condition remain untreated it causes much annoyance and gives rise to permanent loss of power of the sphincters from over-stretching. The protrusion itself becomes thickened, swollen and ulcerated, and may finally become irreducible; in some rare cases it has been known to become gangrenous. TREATMENT.—The chief points are to remove the cause if possible, to see that the prolapsed portion is kept reduced, to prevent protrusion in the intervals between the actions of the bowels, to diminish straining at stool and to improve the local muscular tone. When the structures are so lax and the sphincters so feeble as to preclude any possibility of spontaneous recovery of power, it may be necessary either to excise the prolapse or to pull up the bowel and fasten it in such a position that it will not prolapse again. (a) In infancy.—In the first place anything causing straining during defaecation or micturition must be remedied. Worms, polypi, haemorrhoids or stone in the bladder should be removed; phimosis or constipation should be treated appropriately and general hygiene should be attended to. The local treatment consists in reducing the prolapse whenever it occurs and keeping it up in the intervals between defsecation. The prolapsed portion should be reduced by gently squeezing and pressing it backwards with the well-oiled hand after the parts have been washed with warm water and a soft sponge. When the prolapse has been reduced, it is well to give a cold douche to the anus and perineum. Recurrence of the protrusion may often be prevented by fastening the buttocks firmly together with a broad piece of strapping passing from the great trochanter on one side to that on the other. Children who are subject to prolapse should be made to evacuate the bowels lying either upon the back or upon one side, as by these means straining is diminished ; it has been recommended that they should be encouraged to do so while in a warm bath. If the child be wasted, every effort should be directed to improve the general health; in many cases simple tonic, hygienic and dietetic treatment will cure the condition without any trouble. (b) In young adults.—Here the condition is rare, and is usually the result of stricture of the urethra, piles, or polypi, which can be easily treated, when the protrusion will spontaneously disappear, the cure being facilitated by the administration of tonics, such as strychnine, and the local