THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. same time to eradicate the local disease fairly completely, the operation combined with free removal of the local disease, may be done. Thyroid extract.—Dr. Beatson, who first introduced oophorectomy, advocated the long-continued administration of thyroid extract in increasing doses in combination with the operation. Other observers have claimed improvement from the use of thyroid extract alone. We cannot however say that we have ever seen any advantage in using this drug which seems to us to have value only as a placebo, the patient being happier while she is taking it and being under the impression that good may result. Any good that follows combined oophorectomy and administration of thyroid extract seems to us to be attributable to the operation alone. Recently the X-rays have been employed in inoperable cases, and in one or two instances distinct shrinkage of the mass has been noticed. We ourselves have had one striking case in which a skin infection as. large as the palm of the hand completely disappeared under its use; in other cases it has had very little effect. The method however is still in its infancy and no reliable evidence is yet at hand. High-tension currents and other electrical applications seem to have no real effect at all. FACET'S DISEASE OF THE NIPPLE. A peculiar ulcerative disease of the nipple was first described by Sir James Paget and is commonly spoken of in connection with his name. The disease affects the nipple and extends to the areola, the affected surface becoming raw, finely granular and discharging a copious, clear yellowish viscid fluid. This condition is not a true eczema, but is in reality a cancerous change in the papillary layers of the skin. In some cases this disease is associated with cancer of the breast, and so constant is the association between the two conditions that most surgeons advise complete removal of the breast in cases of Paget's disease, even though no tumour can be discovered in it. TREATMENT.—In any case the affected nipple and a considerable area of the structures around should be freely removed, and it seems much safer from clinical experience to remove the breast and the glands as well. This should be done thoroughly, as already described (see p. 493), but, unless an actual tumour be felt in the breast, it is unnecessary to remove more than the lower mass of glands from the axilla, and the dissection need not extend upwards above the pectoralis minor. CYSTS OF THE BREAST. SIMPLE SEROUS CYSTS.—Cystic disease of the breast and cysts in connection with fibro-adenomata have already been described. Occasion- ally however a cyst is met with in the breast without any tumour in