THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. operations upon the rectum—a point that will be referred to fully in con- nection with excision of the rectum (see Chap. X.). The condition when once established must be treated on the lines applic- able to diffuse cellulitis elsewhere (see Part I., p. 29). The wound must be laid freely open and copious irrigation practised or, better still, the patient may be kept in a warm bath. Injections of anti-streptococcic serum may be employed but, as the condition is often complicated with infection by the bacillus coli communis, the serum is frequently powerless. ISCHIO-RECTAL ABSCESS.—This condition is far more common than the last and the abscess may occur in various situations, the two important ones being below, and above the level of the levator ani respec- tively (see Fig. 11). Suppuration is generally due to infection from the rectum and may follow ulcers, fissures, piles, growths, scybala, foreign bodies, strictures, or injuries. There are three chief ways in which the abscess may form, namely, i. by direct extension from a wound or injury of the mucous membrane; 2. from suppurative phlebitis; and 3. as a result of septic lymphangitis. 1. Ischio rectal abscess superficial to the levator ani.—More than one variety may be met with. The common form is a small superficial abscess just outside the anal margin and probably originating in the glands of that region. The pus burrows beneath the anal mucous membrane, and perfora- tion may occur there as well as on the skin externally, the result being the formation of a small superficial fistula. In other cases the abscess is situated well beneath the mucous membrane covering the internal sphincter, and probably results from the septic throm- bosis of a pile. Here the pus either bursts into the bowel and gives rise to the so-called " blind internal fistula," or it may find its way down in the sub-mucous tissue and turn round the lower edge of the sphincter into the ischio-rectal cellular tissue, where it forms a true ischio-rectal abscess with an extension upwards beneath the mucous membrane of the rectum. Perforation of the mucous membrane usually occurs comparatively early and then an external opening also forms, giving rise to the ordinary fistula in ano. The swelling and the external opening usually occur in the lateral region of the anus, whilst the internal orifice is generally more posterior. Another variety, fortunately a rare one, results from septic lymphangitis in the ischio-rectal fossa. This form is more deeply seated and gives rise to swelling both in the ischio-rectal region and beneath the mucous membrane over the upper part of the internal sphincter. Ultimately the abscess bursts both internally and externally and may burrow widely in the ischio-rectal. fossa, often opening far out upon the skin of the buttocks and communicat- ing with the internal orifice by a long and tortuous canal. In cases left untreated fresh abscesses may form, so that eventually there are a number of fistulous openings in the ischio-rectal fossa or on the buttocks which usually converge to a single track opening into the rectum.