526 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. introduced through the sixth or seventh intercostal space in • the mid-axillary line. If a large needle is being used, it will be best to make a small puncture through the skin with a tenotome, as this not only allows the needle to pass in more readily but it avoids the risk of carrying epidermis and bacteria in from the cutaneous surface. No aneesthetic is necessary, but in a nervous patient a few drops of an 8% eucaine solution may be injected hypodermically; freezing should be avoided as the skin becomes hard and resists the needle. The forefinger and thumb of the left hand are used to steady the parts over the intercostal space as the needle is introduced, and the latter is inserted by a single sharp thrust immediately above the upper border of the rib, the depth to which it is to go being fixed beforehand by placing the forefinger upon it at a suitable distance from the point, much as for puncturing a hydrocele (see Fig. 105). If the surgeon be careful to avoid striking the rib in doing this the introduction of the needle causes only trifling pain. The exhausting syringe is then attached and the fluid is withdrawn for examination. Should this turn out to be purulent and should there be no symptoms demanding immediate evacuation, it is well to wait 24 hours and to submit the fluid to bacteriological examination as this may have an important bearing on treatment. Paracentesis thoracis.—When it is determined to evacuate the fluid from the chest, this should be done by simple paracentesis if the fluid be serous; if it be purulent however this is not a good method. It is true that in the early stages of pneumococcal empyema, when the fluid is just becoming purulent, its removal by paracentesis may suffice for a cure, but free evacuation and drainage are required in the majority of cases. It may however be of use as affording temporary relief when the surgeon is not prepared to undertake incision and drainage immediately, and it may also be useful when there is pus in both pleural cavities and the surgeon there- fore prefers to incise and drain one side at a time, the other being aspirated sufficiently to relieve the urgent pressure symptoms. The site of the operation is similar to that for exploratory puncture {vide supra) and the ordinary aspirator with an evacuating bottle should be used. A cannula of fairly large calibre may be employed and it is essential to see that its point is sharp; it is usually well, particularly in nervous patients, to give a hypodermic injection of eucaine at the seat of puncture. As soon as the cannula is in position, the trochar is withdrawn and the bottle is attached. It is important not to keep the vacuum in the bottle too high, as otherwise the rush of fluid may dislodge masses of lymph which may block the needle, or the lung may be sucked against the point ■and either plug it or be punctured and bleed freely. The best plan is to keep the exhaustion at such a point that the fluid runs steadily and fairly slowly and this allows the intra-thoracic organs to accommodate themselves to the altered conditions. If the flow be arrested, it will probably be due to lymph blocking the orifice of the cannula, and a plunger several sizes