426 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS. day. The child should be kept in bed for the first three or four days, as otherwise the friction of the clothes against the wound may cause pain. Until everything is permanently healed the parts should be surrounded with a mass of salicylic wool kept in place with a T-bandage when the child gets up. Another method of performing circumcision very commonly employed is to take a pair of dressing forceps and place them upon the organ just in front of and parallel with the corona glandis when the penis is lying in its normal condition. The blades of the forceps are then very gently closed (see Fig. 98, I.), the glans penis being allowed to slip backwards as Tic. 98.—Another method of performing Circumcision. I. illustrates the method of estimating the amount of prepuce to be removed. The forceps are applied to the flaccid organ in the position of the dotted outline, i.e. just in front of the greatest transverse diameter of the glans. By gently closing their blades the glans slips back and the portion of the prepuce to be removed remains in front. II. shows how the mucous surface of the prepuce is slit up after the cutaneous portion has been removed and the cut margin has retracted behind the corona glandis. this is done, so that finally the forceps are closed upon the redundant prepuce which lies in front of the glans and is pulled somewhat forwards. The portion projecting beyond the forceps is quickly sliced off with a sharp knife and the forceps are removed. The latter must not grip the prepuce too tightly as otherwise bruising may occur and will interfere with healing. This incision removes the cutaneous portion of the prepuce but does not cut away enough of the mucous membrane, which must therefore be slit up in the middle line of the dorsum right back beyond the corona glandis in a manner similar to that in which the prepuce is slit up in the previous operation (see Fig. 98, II.). The adhesions are separated as before, and the redundant mucous surface of the prepuce is clipped away along the