2l6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. confounded with that of stone, as it is much slighter in degree and is quite uninfluenced by movement; nor should it be confounded with that due to a renal growth, which, although equally unaffected by movement, is generally profuse. Important points which have to be investigated before deciding upon treatment are which kidney is affected and whether the other kidney is healthy ; these questions have already been discussed (see p. 171). TREATMENT.—This may be either non-operative or operative. (a) Non-operative.—This is mainly the ordinary treatment of tuber- culosis (see Part I., p. 245). Among special drugs creosote (15 to 20 minims* three times a day) and iodoform (in one-grain pills) are most useful. (b) Operative.—From the very earliest period the question of operative interference must be carefully considered. If time be lost, the bladder or the other kidney may become affected. The surgical procedures available are as follows : (a) Nephrotomy followed by drainage of the pelvis of the kidney, with removal of as much of the tuberculous material as possible. This may be the only method adopted or, when the patient is not in a condition to stand a primary removal of the organ, it may be a preliminary to a secondary nephrectomy. Partial nephrectomy, in which only the diseased portion of the kidney is removed. {c) Complete nephrectomy, accompanied by removal of as much of the ureter as is diseased. The choice between these procedures will depend essentially on whether the other kidney is healthy, on whether the bladder is unaffected, and on the general condition of the patient. Nephrotomy.—Nephrotomy is indicated when the patient is so bad that something must be done but is so weak that nephrectomy is out of the question; when the other kidney is so extensively affected, that the removal of even a small amount of secreting kidney tissue is not justifiable; or when there is marked vesical tuberculosis, for here the symptoms will not be materially relieved by nephrectomy, and moreover, the other kidney will almost inevit- ably become affected before long. Another indication is the co-existence of a peri-renal abscess with the disease in the kidney. Nephrotomy is done as for pyonephrosis (see p. 211). The caseous material is scraped and flushed out freely (see Part I., p. 249), and a large drain is introduced, the kidney being sutured to the edges of the lumbar incision. A good plan is to make the assistant compress the ureter, and then to irrigate the kidney first with 1-500 sublimate solution, and then with boracic lotion, to get rid of the strong antiseptic. Considerable improvement may follow this method and, when the kidney operated upon is the sole seat of disease, nephrectomy may be performed subsequently, for simple nephrotomy practically never leads to a cure, nor can it be depended upon to prevent the spread of the disease, because pus and urine will still escape into the bladder.