INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. PT. VI. 2 2 H suckling altogether or should not suckle the child too frequently, and the parts should always be thoroughly washed with boracic lotion afterwards and then carefully dried and dusted with boracic powder, which should be wiped away before the child again takes the breast. Should fissures be actually present, suckling should be abandoned, but, if the mother refuses to do this, the next best thing is to employ a suitable shield to fit the nipple through which the child may suck without much risk. In the intervals between suckling the fissures should be bathed with antiseptic lotions such as boracic acid or boro-glyceride. If the fissures refuse to heal under this treatment, lotions of sulphate of zinc or copper (grs. ij ad may be employed, or each fissure may be touched with solid nitrate of silver; under these circumstances the surgeon should insist on suckling being abandoned. Should septic infection occur, the fissure becomes more tender, and red lines spread from it towards the axilla in which the glands become enlarged; small abscesses not uncommonly form along the course of the lymphatics, especially beneath the areola, and the general symptoms of lymphangitis are also present. The treatment is that for lymphangitis (see Part II., p. 175). ACUTE MASTITIS.—This affection may make its appearance in infants almost immediately after birth and, if the breast be squeezed vigorously, as is commonly done by ignorant midwives, the congestive condition of the gland may pass on into true inflammation and actual suppuration may take place. In other cases suppuration may not occur, but the inflammation interferes with the proper development of the organ, especially the nipple. Acute mastitis may also occur at puberty but is then usually non-suppurative. Suppuration is most common however during lactation and is most frequent in primiparse. In a large number of cases sore nipples have preceded the formation of the breast abscess and the infection has originated from them, the organisms spreading either along the lymphatics or perhaps more commonly along the lactiferous ducts; in other cases a general septicaemic condition is present and the organisms are probably deposited from the blood. Treatment.—In adults, prophylaxis is very important; strict attention should be paid to cleanliness, and the breast should be washed with boric lotion every time after the child is suckled. Careful attention must be paid to the cleanliness of the linen and to the condition of the mouth and eyes of the infant, and special precautions must be taken should any crack or excoriation of the nipple exist. Before suppuration is evident the breast should be well supported by a breast bandage in which the turns pass alternately over the opposite shoulder, and around the thorax (see Fig. 107) or, if it be very tender, it may be slung up by a large bandana handkerchief. The arm should be fixed to the side and suckling should be entirely discontinued. Fomentations and the other local measures for the relief of acute inflam- mation should be employed (see Part I., p. 3).