2o8 THE SUR(HCAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. When the affection originates from below, one kidney alone is usually involved in the first instance, and in any case the condition is more advanced on one side than on the other. Before suppuration occurs there may be evident effects of backward pressure, such as distension of the ureter and the renal pelvis, and this diminishes the resisting power of the tissues to the micro-organisms, which gain access to the pelvis subsequently. It also facilitates the inflammation, as it keeps up a condition of renal con- gestion. When this condition of affairs is present, it is obvious that the introduction of micro-organisms into the bladder upon instruments is a source of the gravest danger. The pelvis of the kidney and the ureter are in a state of chronic inflam- mation with much thickening, and pus is formed on their surfaces. The ureter, which may be immensely thickened, may be diminished in calibre, and is not distended, unless there be an obstruction below. There are patches of inflammation and frequently small abscesses throughout the renal cortex. The afi'ectioti may run either an acute or chronic course. In acute cases death often occurs rapidly from suppression of urine or from pysemic or septiccEmic infection. The chronic form may last for months or even years. Symptoms.—/// tlie acute form the onset of the disease is generally marked by severe rigors, with high temperature and vomiting. The patient .soon passes into the typhoid state and dies in the course of two or three weeks, unless the disease be arrested. Death is often preceded by coma, with uraemic convulsions. In the more chronic form—generally spoken of as "surgical kidney"—the onset of the affection is often insidious; the elevation of temperature is only slight at first, and the patient only complains of digestive troubles. There may be some pain or uneasiness in the loin and sleeplessness, often accom- panied by slight delirium. The temperature soon becomes irregular and intermittent. Examination of the urine, which at first may be acid, but later on becomes alkaline, shows pus ; in the early stages there is often polyuria and increased frequency of micturition. Albumen is present, but is usually accounted for by the pus : epithelial cells from the renal pelvis may also be made out. Later on renal casts may be present, and the kidney is very tender, but is not necessarily enlarged ; when it is enlarged there is probably pyonephrosis present. When the temperature is high at night and assumes a hectic type, and the patient rapidly loses flesh and has profuse perspirations, a quick pulse, nausea and possibly occasional rigors, it is strongly presumptive of surgical kidney if the patient be suffering from prostatic disease, stricture of the urethra, or cystitis. It is more difficult to diagnose the affection from renal tuberculosis, but in that disea.se there is nothing to account for the onset of the pyelonephritis while there may be tuberculosis elsewhere, occasional haematuria without any obvious cause, and perhaps tubercle bacilli in the urine.