TUMOURS OF THE KIDNEY. 251 of this, some surgeons advocate the lumbar incision, even in cases of extensive malignant disease. If a lumbar incision be used, it should be carried well forwards, and a vertical incision may be carried up from its posterior end, and the twelfth rib (or even in some cases the eleventh) may be excised. On the whole however we prefer one of the two abdominal methods. The prognosis of nephrectomy in these cases depends, firstly, on whether the tumour be primary or secondary ; secondly, on the period at which the disease is attacked; thirdly, on the avoidance of infection of the cellular tissue with the malignant disease during the operation ; and, fourthly, on the absence of glands or extension of the disease beyond the true kidney substance. Success may be looked for in favourable cases of primary disease operated on early. TUMOURS OF THE RENAL PELVIS. MALIGNANT TUMOURS.—It is fairly common for malignant tumours to begin in the renal pelvis, and this form of growth so closely resembles malignant disease of the organ itself that nothing further need be said concerning its symptoms or treatment. BENIGN TUMOURS.—Papilloma of the renal pelvis is sometimes found on incising the kidney for persistent htemorrhage. The tumour may be a simple papilloma, or it may be associated with a malignant base. Even if it be simple, recurrence is very apt to occur, and papillomatous masses may spring up along the ureter or in the bladder. If there be any suspicion as to the true nature of the growth, the proper treatment is either to excise the base of the tumour freely, if there be sufficient room to do so, suturing the renal pelvis subsequently, or, if this prove impossible, to do a nephrectomy. The surgeon may deem the growth to be so obviously benign, however, that it is worth while in the first instance cutting the tumour freely away instead of excising the base widely. He will then wait to see whether the symptoms recur; should they do so, nephrectomy will be called for. CYSTS OF THE KIDNEY. The principal of these are simple serous cysts, hydatid cysts, and cystic degeneration of the kidney or polycystic disease. Dermoids have been met with, but they are extremely rare. SEROUS CYSTS.—This is not a localised dilatation of one of the calices of the kidney, such as is met with in hydronephrosis, but is an independent cyst in the renal substance originating either as a retention cyst in a tubule from limited sclerosis or from the Malpighian capsules. The cysts are usually single, they may reach a large size, they may be situated anywhere in the organ and their contents vary much in character; the fluid is generally clear and slightly straw-coloured, containing a little