2l8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. as a primary operation, but, as we have said, the patient's condition some- times negatives anything more serious than nephrotomy and drainage on the first occasion. Secondary nephrectomy is rendered difficult and prolonged by the adhesions that are present, and there is therefore considerably more shock and loss of blood, and the surgeon may find the technique of the operation much more difficult as the vessels may have become displaced by the inflam- matory condition around the kidney. In some cases indeed it has been found necessary to remove the organ piecemeal, but this should always be avoided if possible. The operation is described elsewhere (see Chap. XXII.). Nephrectomy for tuberculosis should always be done by the lumbar route. It is very difficult to remove a large tuberculous kidney without pus escaping at some period of the operation and, should this occur within the peritoneum, the risk of septic peritonitis is very great. The lumbar incision gives plenty of room for the removal of any tuberculous kidney likely to require it. The ureter is probably diseased also and should therefore not be ligatured with the pedicle, but should be isolated and traced downwards as far as possible before the rest of the pedicle is ligatured and divided. After this has been done and the kidney has been brought out of the wound, the condition of the ureter is carefully examined and the tube is traced down until a healthy portion is reached, even if the wound has to be extended for the purpose, and then it should be ligatured in two places and divided between. Before division, gauze should be packed around so as to prevent infection by any pus present between the ligatures. It is for the purpose of avoiding infection that the kidney and ureter are isolated as one structure in this manner, and that everything else is done before they are separated. If the divided distal end of the ureter be apparently healthy, its lumen should be scraped out and touched with undiluted carbolic acid and the end may then be turned in and secured by catgut stitches. Should there be evidence of tuberculous mischief lower down however, the remainder of the tube must be dissected out, either at the time or at a subsequent operation, according to the patient's condition. The operation of ureterectomy is described below. If the patient be suffering severely from shock, the ends of the ligature upon the distal portion of the ureter should be left long and brought out of the wound, the upper portion of which should be closed, and then, three or four days later, when the patient has recovered from the shock, the remainder of the ureter may be dissected out; the ends of the ligature will act as a guide to the tube. It is always well to remove a markedly diseased ureter even though this may involve a second operation, as otherwise a permanent fistula is almost certain to occur in the loin, and the disease is also apt to infect the bladder and so to spread down the genito-urinary apparatus. On the other hand, when the disease is only very slight, the tubercles may undergo atrophy and disappear when urine no longer passes through the ureter. The majority of these cases do well after operation, both immediately and ultimately. The mortality is variably given by different writers. Some have had very few deaths at all. In others the mortality is as high as 29 per cent.;