283 ACUTE CYSTITIS. such as turpentine (tn x.), terebene (tn x.), oil of sandal-wood [m. xv.), or tincture of cantharides ("1 v.), all of which exert powerful control over the secretion from the bladder, may be employed, and, unless there be distinct alkalinity of the urine, alkalies are generally valuable. Should the inflamma- tion fail to clear up entirely, some form of intra-vesical medication will be indicated. In the first instance warm boracic lotion may be employed, but, as the disease becomes more chronic, resorcin (5-10 per cent, solution) may be used every alternate day with benefit. One of the best injections is nitrate of silver (| per cent, solution), half a drachm of which is thrown into the bladder and allowed to remain. Iodoform and glycerine emulsion (10 per cent.) has also been used. In obstinate gonorrhceal cystitis a solution of perchloride of mercury, beginning with a strength of 1-20,000, and gradually increasing it to 1-5000 is often of value. Fig. 62.—Catheteu with b.\civ\vard flow pok ikrigation of the Ukethra and Bladdek. The syringe attached to the catheter is only used when it is desired to instil a measured quantity of an astringent or irritant solution either into the bladder or the prostatic urethra. In cystitis due to lesions of the spinal co?-d,^ the affection is rarely acute, and more often takes the chronic form. The essential in treat- ment is frequent irrigation of the bladder, which should be done through a catheter that has a backward flow (see Fig. 62). Irrigation should be begun directly the tube is introduced into the external meatus, and the instrument should be passed slowly down into the bladder so as to flush out the whole of the urethra from behind forwards, thereby diminishing the possibility of carrying septic material from it into the bladder; boracic lotion may be used in this way, while for irrigation of the bladder alone corrosive sublimate (1-20,000) or nitrate of silver (^% sol.) may be employed. The irrigation, should be carried out twice a day, and is best done with a funnel (see p. 282). Should there be retention with overflow, a catheter must be tied in (see p. 345) so as to provide for continuous drainage of the bladder. Scrupulous care must always be taken with the aseptic management of the case. AN'hen there is true incontinence, no catheter is necessary, and the patient need only be provided with a suitable urinal, but the glans penis and the meatus should be frequently washed with 1-2000 sublimate solution. After each irrigation it is a useful plan to inject half an ounce of a solution containing