CHAPTER XXIII. HYDRONEPHROSIS. Two varieties of this condition may be met with, viz., hydronephrosis proper and the intermittent form. Pyonephrosis has already been discussed (see p. 210). HYDRONEPHROSIS PROPER. Distension of the pelvis of the kidney may be due to various causes pro- ducing obstruction of the ureter. This obstruction must be temporary at first, as complete blockage of the ureter leads to atrophy of the kidney rather than to hydronephrosis. CAUSES.—There may be imperfections in the ureter or a narrowing of its lumen from some congenital cause, but the affection met with in practice is more commonly acquired. Any interference with the escape of the urine from the pelvis of the kidney may give rise to hydronephrosis provided that the obstruction be not complete from the first. Stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, a vesical tumour pressing upon the ureteral orifice, simple or tuberculous inflammation of the ureter leading to strictures, calculi in the ureter, tumours, bends, twists, or valvular obstructions may all give rise to this condition. Pressure outside the ureter by tumours is also an important factor, and one of the commonest causes of hydronephrosis found on the post mortem table is a malignant pelvic tumour such as uterine cancer. The condition may be unilateral or bilateral. In the majority of cases it is one-sided, but in a certain number, and especially when it is caused by a tumour in the pelvis, it is bilateral, although it is then generally more advanced on one side than on the other. A small hydronephrosis is a comparatively common affection, but the cases marked by large hydronephrotic tumours are much rarer, for, unless there be some outlet for the urine, atrophy of the kidney substance is apt to take place before any large swelling has formed. The affection is more common in women than in men. PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES.—The pelvis and calices of the kidney become greatly dilated, and the cortex is compressed and atrophied. The PT. VI. 2 Q