2o6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. patient is turned over almost on to the back, so as to allow it to escape freely, and, while it is running out, the opening into the abscess should be kept as much as possible up into the wound, so as to prevent pus flowing back between the transversalis fascia and the peri-nephric fat where it might set up fresh inflammation. After the bulk of the pus has been evacuated, the finger is passed into the abscess cavit)', partly to see if any loculi be present and, if so, to break down the septa between them, and partly to ascertain if there be any communication between the abscess cavity and the interior of the kidney. The latter object is best attained by gently washing away any pus in the depths of the wound with warm saline solution, and retracting the parts thoroughly in a good light. The irrigation must be done extremely gently, and not under any pressure at all. Should a communication be found vvith the kidney or its pelvis, appropriate treatment must be adopted, but this is dealt with separately. If no communication of this kind be found, the peri-nephric abscess is treated in the ordinary manner, large drainage tubes being introduced in any direction in which there is a distinct prolongation of the cavity; usually two or three large tubes (No. 24) will be required at first. No sutures should be inserted in the loin, but the tubes should be fastened to the skin with silkworm-gut stitches to prevent their slipping into the cavity. The subse- quent treatment is that of an ordinary abscess, taking care not to remove the drainage tubes too soon, as otherwise fistulous openings are likely to occur from imperfect drainage. The lumbar muscles are very apt to contract and to close the wound in the skin very rapidly, and this is one of the reasons for not putting in any stitches. Should there be any extensive prolongation of the abscess cavity, either upwards or downwards, counter-openings may be required either in the sub-phrenic or in the inguinal region. These will be made upon a suitable long probe, and it will be well in the first instance to introduce a long drainage tube from the loin incision to the counter-opening; the tube may subsequently be cut in half and shortened from each end. The wound is watched to see whether urine comes through ; even if it should do so, and the case be one in which no stone has been found in the kidney, some considerable time should be allowed to elapse under proper drainage before anything further is done in the hope that, as the cavity contracts, the open- ing in the kidney will close. The patient must be kept in bed until the wound has completely healed. It is very difficult to give a prognosis as to the length of time required for healing, which however occurs fairly well as a rule. It may occasionally happen that the incision fails to reveal pus; but even should this be the case, the treatment is good, as it diminishes congestion, and, should pus subsequently form, it will readily find its way through the opening. Here a large drainage tube should be inserted into the peri- nephric tissues, and the lumbar wound may be sutured round it.