THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. any septa. A full-sized drainage tube (No. 24) should be introduced into the cavity and stitched to the skin of the perineum. The urethra is not necessarily opened in this operation, although it may give way either as a result of the manipulations or from sloughing of the thinned mucous membrane subsequently if the abscess be actually pointing into it. In the latter case a urinary fistula will follow, but it generally closes rapidly as the abscess contracts. Any haemorrhage may be easily controlled by packing gauze firmly around the drainage tube. Should much packing be required, the tube should be of gum-elastic instead of india-rubber, so as not to be unduly compressed. If the abscess has burst into the rectum before the patient is seen, the anus should be fully dilated (see p. 6), a large bivalve speculum introduced, and the opening of the abscess exposed and enlarged so as to give free escape to the pus. It is not advisable to make an inde- pendent perineal incision to establish better drainage in these cases, as in all probability a faecal fistula would follow it. It is well to stuff the orifice with strips of iodoformed gauze for a few days to prevent it from closing prematurely. After the third day the stuffing may be left out and the rectum should be irrigated daily with boracic lotion after the bowels have acted, so that no faecal material may collect about the opening. Should a perineal urinary fistula have followed a prostatic abscess, the sinus should be freely opened up and scraped, and a catheter tied into the urethra (see p. 345). Healing usually occurs readily under this treatment. Acute prostatitis and prostatic abscess complicating enlarged prostate are very difficult to treat. In all cases a soft rubber catheter must be tied in, as retention always complicates the affection, and of course aggravates it. CHRONIC PROSTATITIS.-This usually follows an acute attack or is a sequel of gonorrhoea, the gonococcus finding its way into the glandular follicles. It may also be due to the use of unduly strong urethral injections or to excessive coitus. There is considerable enlarge- ment of the prostate from interstitial inflammatory exudation and this may lead to permanent enlargement of the organ if it lasts for any time. Symptoms.—There is a sense of weight and discomfort in the peri- neum, with frequent and sometimes painful micturition, whilst the urine contains filamentous threads formed by the secretion from the prostate. There may be a gleety discharge, especially noticeable in the morning, and occasional spasm. of the perineal muscles, followed by the escape of a clear or slightly opalescent fluid. Per rectum the prostate is enlarged and generally tender on firm pressure, and there is usually some tender- ness on defaecation. Treatment.—The affection is very rebellious, and is apt to produce much mental depression. In the early stages, entire abstinence from alcohol and sexual excitement of all kinds must be enforced. The patient need not be confined to bed, but exercises such as bicycling or riding, which entail perineal pressure, should be forbidden, and the semi-