271 RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. serious peritoneal irritation and evidence of a collection of fluid at the most dependent parts of the peritoneal cavity, followed soon afterwards by steadily increasing peritonitis. The diagnosis is finally made by examining the interior of the bladder with an instrument. This is always a dangerous proceeding on account of the risk of introducing septic material, and therefore it should not be undertaken until the surgeon is prepared to proceed to any operative measures that may be necessary if the suspicion of a ruptured bladder be verified. It is well to use a metal instrument previously boiled, and it should preferably be a short- beaked catheter (No. 10 English), so that urine present in the bladder can be drawn off through it. The greatest care must be taken to avoid the intro- duction of septic material. The urethral orifice should be carefully mopped out with 1-40 carbolic solution, and subsequently with 1-2000 sublimate lotion. A urethral tube with a backward flow (see Fig. 62) should also be introduced about three inches down the urethra, and the terminal portion washed freely out with the same solution. If the rupture of the bladder be associated with laceration of the urethra, the passage of an instrument may be difficult, and the treatment of the case will then have to be conducted upon lines similar to those for ruptured urethra (see Chap. XXXVII.). When the catheter has reached the interior of the bladder, the rent is usually easily felt, the point of the catheter passing through it either freely into the peritoneal cavity, whence it may draw off blood-stained urine from Douglas's pouch, or into the cellular tissue beneath the anterior abdominal wall. The freedom with which the point of the instrument can be moved about will give some indication as to whether the laceration is extra- or intra-peritoneal, as will also the distance to which the instrument can be passed. In the intra-peritoneal rupture the point can be made to move all over the abdominal cavity, and the instrument can be passed right up to its hilt without experiencing any resistance. Should there still be any doubt in the surgeon's mind, very useful confirmatory evidence can be obtained by injecting fluid into the bladder and seeing how much returns. All the urine in the bladder is first drawn off and a measured quantity, say six ounces, of warm boracic lotion is rapidly injected and then allowed to return into a measure. If there be a rupture of the bladder, the amount returned will be considerably less than that injected. Such a procedure should not be adopted however unless the patient is actually on the operating table and ready for operation. TREATMENT.—In all cases the rent in the bladder must be exposed, and the best plan is to expose its anterior wall as in supra-pubic cystotomy (see p. 289) before opening the peritoneum; no previous washing out or distension of the organ should be practised however. If the rupture turn out to be extra-peritoneal there will be extravasation of blood and urine in the pre-vesical space, and the further procedure will depend upon the conditions found. Thus, a depressed fragment of bone may require removal, and this may have produced a small rent in the bladder which can be closed by