THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. (c) The third method, which is not necessary for diagnosis but may be of value in attempting to pass an instrument through a narrow stricture, is the so-called complete "tour de maitre" (see Fig. 86). In it the instrument is passed as in (d) until the point is as far down the bulb as it will go. Instead of rotating the instrument up to the middle line it is now rotated downwards between the thighs, then across the opposite thigh, i.e. the right, and then from that point to the middle line. During the whole manoeuvre care is taken to keep the point well pressed down in contact with the stricture. This plan has the advantage that it brings the point into contact with various portions of the stricture in succession, and therefore it may at some point slip through it. d S s \ Fig. 86.—The " Tour de maitre." The arrows show the course taken by the handle of the instrument. It goes from a to thence to c, and finally to tl and down between the thighs. A No. 12 English bougie will pass easily into the bladder, at any rate after a little firm pressure, when introduced by either of the two first methods mentioned if no stricture exists, provided always that it will pass through the external meatus, and provided no attempt be made to get the instrument into the bladder before the point is properly engaged in the membranous urethra. If on the other hand a stricture be present, the instrument will be arrested. The surgeon must then determine whether the obstruction is due to an organic stricture or whether the instrument is merely caught in a fold of mucous membrane or is arrested by spasm. If the arrest occurs in the spongy urethra it will be due to one of the first two causes, as sufficient spasm to arrest an instrument is not met with in this situation. If the trouble be due to a fold of mucous mem- brane, this is easily overcome by withdrawing the instrument for a short distance, and putting the penis firmly on the stretch in the erect position.