329 PROSTATORRHCEA. ergot, or strychnine, are all valuable in different cases. If the patient suffers from nocturnal emissions, 20-30 grains of bromide of potassium about three hours before he goes to bed may check them. In bad cases it is well to insist upon vigorous treatment in a nursing home or a hospital. AFFECTIONS OF THE VESICUL^E SEMINALES. The only conditions requiring notice are inflammation and tuberculous disease of the organs. VESICULITIS or INFLAMMATION OF THE VESICUL^ SEMINALES may be acute or chronic, and usually follows gonorrhoea. The acute form rarely goes on to suppuration, and usually accompanies prostatitis or other gonorrhoeal complications. It gives rise to irritability of the bladder, and pain in the region of the prostate and perineum; the finger in the rectum may detect the enlarged and tender vesiculse. Treatment.—This is generally simple, as the mischief usually sub- sides when the acute condition which it accompanies passes off. The patient should rest in bed, diluent drinks should be employed, and hot rectal injections are beneficial. Chronic vesiculitis is more serious on account of the extreme mental depression which it almost invariably excites in patients suffering from it. This is one of the conditions present in the so-called prostatorrhoea, the vesiculae, which are hard, swollen and tender to the finger in the rectum, -containing a considerable quantity of turbid discharge which runs out into the urethra, and so escapes. Treatment.—General hygienic treatment and the administration of tonics should be adopted, and a plan has been introduced by Fuller, of New York, termed "stripping the seminal vesicles," which he advocates as not only the best, but as the only method of treatment. The plan is based on the fact that the presence of the secretion in the vesicles distends them and keeps up the inflammation, and it consists in introducing the finger into the rectum, preferably with the bladder full, and, while pressing down the bladder from above the pubes, applying pressure to the vesiculae seminales from behind forwards, so as to expel their contents into the urethra. This is done several times, until the vesiculae are empty. Considerable irritation may follow the early attempts and Fuller recommends that it should not be repeated oftener than once a week, or once a fortnight, but he says that, if this be steadily persevered with, the obscure local troubles of which the patient complains, gradually disappear, and with them the severe mental depression. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SEMINAL VESICLES is very rare as a primary condition, but as a secondary affection it is common. It is nearly always present in tuberculous epididymitis, and it frequently follows tuberculosis of the bladder and prostate. It is very chronic in nature, and rarely forms an abscess. When an abscess does occur, it