323 CHRONIC PROSTATITIS. recumbent position should be assumed as much as possible. A light non- stimulating diet must be prescribed, the bowels must be kept freely open by saline aperients and, if there be frequency of micturition, a mixture containing an alkali in combination with tincture of hyoscyamus and infusion of buchu, will be useful. Sedatives are rarely called for. In the more chronic cases sexual intercourse need not be forbidden. In the local treatment hot sitz baths are valuable. In obstinate cases counter-irritation by the application of iodine or blisters to the perineum is useful. In all cases any exciting cause must of course be examined for, and if possible removed. If the condition follow an attack of gonorrhoea, topical applications to the prostatic urethra, by means of the urethroscope are exceedingly valuable ; mild solutions, e.g. five grains to the ounce of nitrate of silver, should be employed at first, and repeated at intervals of three to seven days, gradually increasing in strength. If the stronger solutions be used in the early stages there is a risk of setting up acute inflammation. This subject is dealt with more fully in connection with the treatment of gonorrhoea (see Chap. XXXIX.). In the very long-standing cases, tonics, such as iron and nux vomica, should be given in combination with ergot (lU x.-xx. of the liquid extract, three times a day), whilst sea-bathing or a sea voyage are often very useful in young men who have had gonorrhoea for a prolonged period and are much run down in health and spirits. In these cases also, the passage twice a week of a well- warmed bougie, as large as the urethra will admit, is very useful. It dilates the prostatic urethra and evacuates superficial collections of mucus in the orifice of the glands. Here also the application of nitrate of silver to the prostatic urethra through the urethroscope will be of value {vide supra). In all these cases, examination of the vesicute seminales per rectum must be made as, if inflammation of these structures be present, the prostatic affection is not likely to disappear until it has been cured (see Chap. XXXV.). Gouty prostatitis.—Prostatic irritation may undoubtedly be connected with gout. The attack generally occurs at night. There is urgent painful micturi- tion, the urine is very acid and deposits urates and mucus in large quantities. The prostate is very sensitive for a time, and retention of urine may occur. The treatment is mainly that for the milder forms of acute prostatitis com- bined with the administration of drugs suitable for gout, and the affection readily subsides.