igo THE SUR(;iCAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. In recent cases.—It is important not to persevere too long with ex- pectant treatment or to be deceived by the small amount of blood escaping from the bladder, and thus to overlook an accumulation of blood and urine in the loin or in the peritoneal cavity. Exposure of the kidney in order to ascertain the nature of the trouble and remedy it is not a very serious operation, and more lives have no doubt been saved by operations of this kind done early than by watching the case too long; if intervention be delayed until the patient is almost moribund from loss of blood, from peritonitis or from peri- renal cellulitis, a good result cannot be looked for. Hence the rule will be ■ that whenever the surgeon has reason to believe that extravasation of urine is occurring, or that there is active haemorrhage in spite of treatment, or that a complication such as peri-renal cellulitis or peritonitis is occurring, the kidney should be exposed without delay. Except when there is reason to believe that extravasation is taking place into the general peritoneal cavity, the exploration of the kidney should be made through the loin, and the organ is reached as for movable kidney (see p. 178); but, as it is here desirable to explore and clear out the whole region around the kidney, the deeper muscles should be separated to the same extent as the skin wound so as to open up the whole field of operation. When the kidney has been exposed, the further steps will depend upon what is found. In most cases the capsule will be torn, and blood and urine will be extravasated into the loin, and therefore blood-clot and possibly urine will be found surrounding the kidney as soon as the peri-renal fat has been opened up. This must be cleared out and, if free bleeding be. going on, the pedicle of the kidney should be grasped between the fingers of the left hand and its vessels compressed ; then the clearing-out of clots and the examination of the kidney can be proceeded with and, when this has been done, the compression of the pedicle of the kidney can be entrusted to an assistant, so that the surgeon has both hands free. Any vessel bleeding outside the kidney is clamped, and the organ is isolated and brought out into the wound. The subsequent treatment will depend upon the nature of the lesion found, and the question will be whether conservative treatment will suffice or whether nephrectomy is necessary. Nephrectomy is indicated when the kidney has been so damaged that the patient, apart from the risk of haemorrhage and suppuration that he must run, will be left with a kidney that is useless to him if he recovers; this is likely to be the case when the damage is great and extends into the pelvis or the upper part of the ureter. It may also be necessary when the bleeding comes from one of the main arteries ligature of which would probably mean slough- ing of a portion of the kidney, and it is necessary in the great majority of cases in which the peritoneum has been torn and blood and urine are effused into the peritoneal cavity. It is obviously the only course open when the kidney substance is completely pulped-up. Conservative treatment.—In many cases nephrectomy is not necessary. For instance the organ may be torn more or less completely across by a clean-