EMPYEMA. 527 smaller than the cannula should be passed down the latter so as to unblock it. The reason for using a small plunger is that it can be made to push the mass of lymph away and may be left in situ, so as to keep it from falling back over the orifice of the tube as it would very probably do were a plunger used that entirely fitted the cannula and which therefore must be removed before the flow can be re-established. Paracentesis must be discontinued should the patient faint, should there be persistent cough or should haemoptysis occur. It is well to desist, for a time at any rate, if the fluid becomes blood-stained. When it is unnecessary to withdraw the whole of the fluid, the aspiration need only be carried to the point when the flow becomes scanty and intermittent and when the pressure symptoms are relieved. After enough fluid has been withdrawn, the aspirator is detached from the cannula, the thumb is placed over the end of the latter, the tissues are pinched up around its shaft and the cannula is withdrawn. The small puncture is sealed by a collodion dressing. SUPPURATIVE PLEURISY or EMPYEMA.—This is a common affection; its precise characters depend largely upon the nature of -the bacteria causing the suppuration. A great variety of these organisms have been found in suppurative pleural effusions. In children the most common is the pneumococcus, in adults, the streptococcus, but combinations of the two are also met with. Occasionally the infection is staphylococcic; some- times putrefactive organisms are present, especially when the condition is associated with gangrene of the lung. The tubercle bacillus is found in a considerable number of instances. These latter cases clinically are chronic and should be considered separately. The symptoms and diagnosis of purulent pleural effusions lie essentially within the province of the physician. The symptoms at the onset may be severe and characterised by rigors, sweats, emaciation, increasing antemia, hectic temperature and the typical physical signs of fluid in the chest. The symptoms will continue unless the pus be evacuated and may be accompanied by signs of severe pressure, and the inflammation of the pleura will persist and give rise to increasing thickening, so that before long the lung becomes so bound down to the thoracic wall, especially in the vertebral groove, that even after removal of the fluid there is no possibility of its expansion. From this point of view alone it is most essential that the pus should be evacuated as soon as possible because the only way in which healing of the cavity can take place if the lung fails to expand is by falling-in of the chest wall, which is a very slow and imperfect process; therefore the chances of healing without some severe surgical inter- ference are extremely slight. Acute purulent effusions are rarely absorbed spontaneously, but it is said that those due to the pneumococcus occasionally are. If the con- dition be allowed to persist unrelieved and the patient lives, the tendency is for the pus to find its way through the thoracic wall and, although this may occur anywhere, it is generally said that the most common