512 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. and downwards from it, to lay bare the costal cartilage above and, after detaching the perichondrium, to remove about an inch of it from the sternum outwards. When the perichondrium and fascia have been divided the vessel may be secured; the lower end still remains to be tied however and in the first instance attempts may be made to do this from the wound already made. Should the cut end of the vessel have retracted behind the costal cartilage below the seat of injury however, as it not infrequently does, it is easy to secure it after removing a portion of that cartilage in a similar manner. It will probably also be necessary to deal afterwards with the results of the haemorrhage, namely, haemo-thorax or hgemo-pericardium and possibly pyo-thorax later on. In any case the wound should be thoroughly disinfected and drained and any complications that arise later must be appropriately treated. Wounds of the intercostal artery are rarely met with and are commonly the result of stabs and gunshot wounds. The bleeding may occur into the thorax, outwards through the wound or in both directions simultaneously, whilst there is also extravasation into the cellular tissue of the thoracic wall. Treatment.—There are two intercostal arteries in each space, the one a small and insignificant vessel running along the upper border of one rib and the other much larger accompanied by vein and nerve beneath the lower border of the rib above; this is the vessel usually wounded. The obvious treatment is to open up the wound, find the source of bleeding and tie the vessel, but this is usually difficult unless a portion of the rib be resected or at least unless the periosteum be separated from the lower border of the rib beneath which the artery lies. Time will be saved in most cases by cutting down immediately on the rib above the wound, detaching the periosteum rapidly and fully, and then removing about an inch and a half of the rib. This exposes the intercostal vessel and the two ends may be picked up in forceps and tied. If there be any difficulty at all in doing this, the vessel may be under-run with catgut on a fully-curved needle. This is the only really satisfactory method of securing the vessel and, as excision of a portion of the rib leaves no weakness of the thoracic wall, there is no reason why the surgeon should be content with such clumsy expedients as passing an aneurysm needle around the rib and tying it over that structure so as to press the vessel against its lower border, or employing a tampon, which is very liable to be followed by sepsis.^ (b) Penetrating" wounds.—These are much more serious on account of the numerous complications that may accompany in them \ in addition to ^ A plan formerly recommended was to plug the wound by placing two layers of gauze over the opening and then poking the gauze through the wound in front of the finger so as to form a pocket or recess into which fresh gauze was packed as tightly as possible. An attempt to pull this plug out distends it laterally and expands the portion inside the chest somewhat in a mushroom fashion and so exerts very firm pressure.