HYPERTROPHY. l6l whilst the surgeon turns his attention to the ligament attaching the spleen to the diaphragm. As much care must be taken to control hii^morrhage from this structure as from the pedicle proper, for, although the vessels are not very large, they are numerous, and continued oozing from them might lead to death ; any adhesion requiring division must be tied. The spleen is now removed and the whole surface of the wound is exposed and gone over so as to make sure that every bleeding point has been secured by ligature. Mere clamping is not sufificient as, although it may temporarily arrest the bleeding, this is very likely to recur after the abdo- men is closed, when the patient begins to vomit on regaining consciousness, and fatal results have been known to occur under these circumstances. The same care must be taken with the abdominal incision, because the coagulating power of the blood is comparatively imperfect in some of these cases even though there be no leuksemic condition. When the patient is very feeble and time is of great impcrtance, the best plan is to clamp the pedicle and the other attachments of the spleen at once with Doyen's forceps and to cut the organ away rapidly. A^^hen this has been done, attention is turned to the vessels behind the clamps, which should be tied, first of all separately and then by a series of inter- locking ligatures, care being taken to apply the latter sufficiently far back to obviate any risk of slipping. Care must be taken that there is no traction upon the pedicle as the ligature is tightened. Should it be found that oozing continues in spite of the greatest care in ligaturing bleeding points, it may be necessary to pack the cavity with gauze, in which case it will be imperative to leave a portion of the abdominal incision open. This however should rarely be necessary because the operation should not be undertaken if the adhesions be bad enough to cause much oozing. The after-treatment is that for laparotomy in general, the abdominal wall being sutured in three layers as usual (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 189). It may be necessary to employ intra venous saline infusion when the shock has been considerable or, in cases of splenectomy performed for injury, when the combined shock and loss of blood have rendered the patient very collapsed. PT. VI. 2 L