lyo THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. condition of the kidney itself. Both these methods are referred to more fully in connection with affections of the bladder. Catheterisation of the ureters.—This procedure is employed in order to determine the character of the urine coming from each side, but it is very difficult to carry out in the male although not so difficult in the female ; it is open to the objection that by it infection may be carried up to the pelvis of the kidneys The method is theoretically a very fascinating one but it requires great patience and considerable skill even in the female, and is hardly likely to come into general use. Those interested in the subject would do well to consult Kelly's and Morris's works. ^ The X-Tays have been employed extensively and with some success in demonstrating different forms of stone (see Chap. XXII.). Exploratory incision.—In some cases this may be practised with advantage, but it should not be done unless there be reason to believe that benefit will ensue; it is usually reserved for cases where the presence of a stone in the renal pelvis is suspected. Occasionally no stone is found and there is nothing abnormal to the naked eye, and yet the pain and neuralgia from which the patient suffers disappear,after the exploration. The question of an exploratory incision may arise in cases of tuberculous kidney when there is a question of doing nephrectomy. One of the chief arguments advanced in favour of nephrectomy by the abdominal as opposed to the lumbar route is that in the former the hand may be introduced into the abdominal cavity and the condition of the opposite kidney ascertained. Valuable information may no doubt be obtained in this way, but it has refer- ence rather to the question of the existence of another kidney than to its actual condition, for it must be remembered that, when one kidney is dis- organised, its fellow may be enlarged from compensatory hypertrophy and may easily give to the hand the impression that it is diseased. Undoubtedly, if the kidney be nodular from the presence of abscesses, or if a stone be felt in the pelvis, or if the organ be atrophied or absent, this may be made out by palpation through the abdomen and the information is valuable. On the whole, however, the method is unrfeliable and indeed, if it be essential that the condition of the opposite kidney should be ascertained, the only sure way of gaining certain information is to cut down upon each kidney in the loin in succession. In the first place the kidney supposed to be healthy should be exposed, its fatty capsule opened and the organ palpated or even inspected, after which, examination of the kidney supposed to be diseased may be pro- ceeded with if the condition of the first be favourable. Mere incision of the loin for exposure of the kidney is not a very severe operation and is much more satisfactory in its results than any other plan. It is, however, only in a comparatively few cases that such a procedure will be called for. Generall)- the condition of the kidney may be sufficiently ascertained by palpation and other means of investigation and as a rule the affected kidney is usually so ' H. A. Kelly, Operative Gynecology, Kimpton, London, 1899. Henry Morris, op. cit. See also Affections of the Bladder.