GALL-STONES. the vagina. Occasionally the gall-bladder becomes almost obliterated; at other times it may be strictured at its neck and may be dilated with pus without giving rise to any marked symptoms. SYMPTOMS.—(a) Of stones in the gall bladder.—As we have already said, the mere presence of stones in the gall-bladder does not necessarily give rise to symptoms. In other cases they either interfere with the outflow of bile and give rise to hydrops or empyema of the gall- bladder or cause cholecystitis. (b) Of stones passing along the bile passages.—The charac- teristic symptom to which the passage of gall-stones along the bile ducts gives rise is called hepatic colic, which varies from slight vague pains, usually ascribed to stomach-ache, to most acute colic requiring large doses of morphine for its relief. Hepatic colic is most marked when the stone is lodged in the common duct. The pain usually occurs suddenly after a • meal or an effort, and is somewhat paroxysmal in nature, the first acute pain being replaced by a dull aching, which in its turn may give place to fresh acute attacks usually referred to the right hypochondrium, but often shooting up into the right shoulder and in bad cases being referred to the whole of the right half of the abdomen; vomiting is frequent. There need be no jaundice except when the stone is impacted in the common duct, in which case it generally supervenes after a few hours. (c) Of stones impacted in the bile ducts. — When the stone lies in the cystic duct, jaundice is exceptional, and the only constant symptoms are dilatation of the gall-bladder and some uneasiness referred to the right hypochondrium. If, however, cholecystitis be present, as it very frequently is at some period of the case, there will be marked pain and tenderness in this region, accompanied by fever from the local peritonitis and a very definite tumour in the region of the gall-bladder. Jaundice may also occur under these conditions owing to the spread of the inflammation from the cystic to the common duct. When the stone lies in the common duct, the symptoms are much more severe. The pain and tenderness are more marked and there is always jaun- dice which is often profound, but which varies in intensity from time to time and only ceases definitely when the stone escapes from the duct. There is usually anorexia, accompanied by constipation and vomiting, and, if the case lasts for any length of time, there will be marked cachexia and choltemia. Even a large stone impacted in the common duct, however, may not always give rise to severe symptoms; there may be only a little occasional colic and some slight jaundice, as the duct may dilate rapidly and allow the bile to pass by the obstruction. (d) Of complicated cases.—The chief complications are cholecystitis, cholangitis, the presence of adhesions in the neighbourhood of the gall-bladder or bile ducts and the occurrence of intestinal obstruction either from the presence of these adhesions or from the impaction of a gall-stone in the bowel. Cholecystitis and cholangitis have already been discussed (see Chap. XIV.).