381 GONORRH(EA. Inflammation of Coivper's glands is not uncommon in gonorrhoea and generally occurs about the third or fourth week of the disease. There is much pain and a feeling of tension in the perineum, the pain being aggravated on sitting or walking. On examination a small ovoid tumour will be felt on either side of the middle line; it is said that the left gland is more frequently affected than the right. The swelling may gradually disappear under rest and the ordinary treatment for inflammation, but suppuration often takes place either in the gland itself or in the surrounding tissues. If an abscess occurs in the gland itself, the pus may find its way along the duct into the urethra and the duct may become dilated; urine then finds its way back into the cavity and a urinary abscess with urinary infiltration or rupture of the abscess externally and the formation of a perineal urinary fistula may result. In other cases suppuration occurs outside the gland and the pus finds its way towards the perineum, when incision of the abscess will put an end to the trouble. Occasionally the inflammation becomes more chronic and the glands remain large and hard for a very considerable time, only slowly disappearing. The treatment should be that for acute inflammation in the early stages, with incision of the abscess if suppuration occurs, or excision of the gland should it be evident that suppuration is not occurring, but that resolution is not likely to take place for a long time. GONORRHCEA IN THE FEMALE.—In the female the area of mucous membrane affected by the gonococcus is much larger than in the male and, although amenable to immediate treatment, it is more difficult to entirely eradicate the disease as it may remain latent in the vaginal folds for a long time. The affection in the female commonly takes the form of vaginitis, the urethra being comparatively rarely affected. Zeissl states that in only about 5% of the cases is there any urethritis present. The disease has a tendency to spread to the cervix uteri, and the inflammation may extend into the Fallopian tubes, giving rise to salpingitis, and thence to the peritoneum where it produces a pelvic peritonitis which may become generalised. The glands of Bartholin are frequently affected and it is very difficult to get rid of the affection from this situation. Treatment.—This is very similar to that for the male except that internal remedies have practically no value except when the urethra is affected. The value of copaiba and sandalwood oil in the male is that they are excreted in the urine and apparently exert a local antiseptic action and consequently in the female these drugs are practically useless. In the acute stage the treatment takes the form of local applications, such as hip baths and hot vaginal douches, whilst in the more chronic stages the various astringent injections already referred to (.see p. 380) particularly nitrate of silver, are useful. The local application of strong solutions of nitrate of silver may be called for when the cervix uteri is affected.