298 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. the stone becomes arrested at the vesical orifice of the ureter on its journey from the kidney and may lie partly in the bladder, while in other cases the calculus may be adherent to the mucous membrane; this is especially the case when the latter has been ulcerated. Under somewhat similar circumstances there may be extensive encrustation of the surface of an ulcer or a growth with phosphates and all the symptoms of stone without the formation of a true calculus. In the early stages there is no cystitis, but this may supervene as the affection progresses or after instrumentation; it increases the sufferings of the patient and facilitates the growth of the stone by the deposition of phosphates from alkaline decomposition of the urine. SYMPTOMS.—The classical symptoms are pain, frequent micturition and hjematuria. The pain occurs towards the end of the act of micturition as the bladder contracts upon the calculus and it is usually referred to the glans penis and may persist until enough urine has been secreted to separate the bladder wall from contact with the stone. Exercise also brings on attacks of pain which pass off under rest. It is characteristic that the pain entirely disappears in certain positions, such as the dorsal, so that it is absent at night. JJcef?i(ituria is a constant and important symptom, occurring quite early in the case and being profoundly influenced by movement. As a rule it occurs towards the end of the act of micturition, during the passage of the last few drops of urine, and is due to injury of the bladder wall by contact with the stone. The quantity of blood is slight compared with that in vesical growths. Frequency of miciurition varies very much; it depends largely on move- ment and on the presence of cystitis. There is often sudden interruption of the flow of urine accompanied by a sharp pain in the glans penis which is very characteristic of a small mobile stone suddenly rolled by the stream of urine against the orifice of the urethra. A valuable point is a history of previous renal colic and this should always be carefully inquired for. There may possibly be a history of previous bladder troubles in cases where the stone has formed primarily in the bladder. In the physical diagnosis of the stone palpation, sounding and cystoscopy may be employed. A large stone may be detected by bi-manual rectal or vaginal palpation, but this method is not of much value except in spare subjects, young children and females. It usually requires general anaesthesia and, when full relaxation is obtained, a fair-sized stone may then be felt between the two hands. The bladder sound (see Fig. 54) is a most important instrument in the diagnosis, for by it the size, consistence, and number of the stones present may be approximately ascertained. When sounding the bladder it is advisable that the organ should contain at least two or three ounces of fluid, as in a collapsed bladder a small stone may easily become covered by the folds of