183 MOVABLE KIDNEY. The kidney is now returned into the loin and pushed into its proper place by an assistant. It will then be seen at what spot the catgut stitches must be carried through the lumbar wall in order to anchor the kidney in this situation. It is most important for the proper success of the operation to put the kidney back in place before passing the sutures through the lumbar wall, as otherwise there is a risk of fixing it too low down. The sutures are introduced on a blunt Macewen's needle. Those on the outer pair of flaps, corresponding to the convex border of the kidney, are passed first, and, when they are in position, their ends should be clamped in forceps, but not tied, and it can easily be seen where the inner pair of sutures require to go. As in the operation above described, the lumbar wall is repaired h'lc. 43.—Nephropexy with Decoktication. The various stages are shown, first the crucial incision through the capsule on the posterior surface of the kidney, then the four flaps raised, and finally the four stages, a, b, c, and d, of securing the apices of the triangular flaps with catgut sutures which are afterwards passed through the abdominal wall. The suture is first passed through the flap as shown in a, and tied as in />, then it is brought round again as in c, and finally tied as in d. The suture thus cannot slip or pull out. before the stitches in the kidney are tied, and, while this is being done, the assistant keeps the organ pressed up against the loin by pressure through the anterior abdominal wall in the usual way. We have never found any need to use more than the four sutures here described, although some surgeons employ a large number. In this method the whole posterior surface of the kidney is entirely bared of capsule, and should obtain a very firm adhesion to the lumbar parietes. The bleeding is never troublesome, and easily stops when the organ is pressed against the transversalis fascia. Stripping up of the capsule is quite easy, and may be largely carried out by sweeping the finger between the kidney and its capsule after the apex of the triangle has been raised. No drainage tube is required. After-treatfuent.—The dressing need not be changed for two or three weeks, when the wound should have healed. The patient should be kept in bed for at least six weeks, so as to allow of firm adhesion of the kidney. A well-fitted abdominal belt is then applied, and for another six weeks the semi-recumbent position is adopted, the patient being allowed to recline on the affected side. During the period of semi-recumbency, over-feeding should