INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. 455 a series of alternate vertical and horizontal strips are applied as shown in Fig. 104 until the whole organ is covered in. The strapping is applied as firmly as the patient can bear and should be worn for two or three days and then renewed. It should be continued until all the thickening has disappeared from the epididymis. The patient gets about wearing a suspensory bandage or, still better, a pair of triangular bathing drawers that fit quite tightly, with a pad of wool to keep the testicles in contact with the abdominal wall. When a patient has had one attack of acute epididymitis it is very apt to recur should he again contract gonorrhoea and special care must be taken under these circumstances to keep the testis supported and free from injury. The only question remaining is that of the treatment of the exciting cause in gonorrhceal epididymitis. It is found that the urethritis diminishes and the discharge may disappear during the height of an acute gonorrhoeal epididymitis; as the inflammation in the testicle subsides, the discharge returns. It is inadvisable to irritate the urethra during the acute stage of epididymitis but, as soon as the acuter symptoms are subsiding, the gonorrhoea should be treated vigorously on the lines already laid down (see p. 378). Similarly, when the inflammation occurs in connection with a stricture or an enlarged prostate, steps should be taken to treat the cause as soon as the acute symptoms subside, as otherwise recurrence will occur, with serious results to the testis. (b) Of acute orchitis.—This should be on lines similar to that for acute epididymitis, except that the testis will not need to be strapped, at any rate for so long after the attack. The exudation remaining in the body of the testis is much smaller and is less persistent. In acute orchitis however the surgeon not infrequently has to treat suppuration which is uncommon in epididymitis. The onset of siippu7-ation may be inferred from the fact that the tempera- ture is high and tends to become irregular, that the pain continues in spite of rest, that the swelling increases and the oedema of the scrotum becomes more marked. Should the suppuration be in the epididymis, a bulging, fluctuating spot will very soon betray the existence of an abscess, but in orchitis it is often a long time before the tunica albuginea softens sufficiently to allow the abscess to come to the surface. As soon as the existence of an abscess is ascertained, it should be evacuated without delay and as a rule healing occurs without trouble and without any hernia testis. Occasionally however it will be necessary to perform castration, especially in cases of septic inflammation of the body of the testis in which there are numerous small scattered abscesses, both because evacuation of one abscess may not relieve the others and also to avoid the risk of general septicemic infection. Under these circumstances the best plan is to remove the testis by dividing the cord above the scrotum and then to avoid contaminating the wound by removing the whole of the affected area without opening the abscess.