THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. 532 the discharge beneath it whenever the patient coughs, but falling back and blocking the opening during inspiration. In many of these cases the wound heals in a week or ten days without leaving disability of any kind. When the lung does not expand fully, a drainage tube which merely projects into the pleural cavity Will suffice in pneumococcal cases. No doubt when the finger is withdrawn and the drainage tube is in- troduced, air at once passes into the pleural cavity and the lung tends to collapse again, but the result of the manipulation above described is to get rid of the adhesions and, as soon as the air is expelled from the thorax, the lung expands again, provided that no more air is allowed to enter. This is guarded against by laying over the surface of the tube and the surrounding chest wall a piece of sterilised oiled silk protective which acts as a valve, so that fluid can easily be forced out beneath it when the patient coughs, but on the cessation of the cough the protective flaps against the orifice of the tube, plugs it and prevents the entrance of air. In a comparative short time, especially if the patient be encouraged to cough, the air sucked in after withdrawal of the finger is expelled and healing rapidly occurs. A simple way of ascertaining the correct length of a drainage tube is to bend the tip of a probe at right angles and then insert it well into the pleural cavity and draw it back until the angle catches against the inner surface of the thoracic cavity. The surgeon can thus measure off the thickness of the thoracic wall from the skin to the parietal pleura and, if he cuts a drainage tube a quarter of an inch longer than this, it will suffice. No lateral holes should be made in the tube, but it is rather important to cut a semicircle out of one side of the end of the tube so as to prevent it being blocked when the lung expands and comes against it. Many special drainage tubes for empyemata have been introduced, and no doubt some form of tube provided with a shield to prevent it slipping into the chest is called for when prolonged drainage is necessary, but, in children at any rate, all that is required is to cut the tube flush with the skin and secure it in position by a couple of silkworm-gut stitches passing through the skin, as for drainage of abscesses in other parts of the body. If it be found in the course of two or three days that the lung has completely expanded, that there is no active suppuration going on, and that the general symptoms have improved, the tube may be removed and the wound allowed to heal by granulation. During the first few dressings the protective may be continued, but in a short time adhesions will have formed between the lung and the parietal pleura around the tube, so that there is not the same tendency to the entrance of air and collapse of the lung when the protective is removed. After-treatment.—The discharge is usually free for a few days, and the dressings will require changing two or three times daily. As the discharge diminishes, the change of dressing will be less frequent and in fact the case is treated very much like an ordinary abscess. The stitches fastening