338 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. precautions must be enforced with patients who have to pass the soft rubber catheters, as the instrument is seized first close to the orifice, and the fingers are shifted further and further along the instrument as it passes down the urethra, and therefore it may be infected by dirty hands throughout its whole length. A patient who has to pass catheters for himself frequently should have an outfit consisting of a Jaques' catheter in a test tube containing boracic lotion, a small spirit-lamp, a small bottle of carbolic acid for the fingers, and another of sterilised oil or boro-glyceride for the instrument. These can be packed into a case which the patient should always carry with him. On the early occasions the catheter should be passed in the recumbent position, as the patient may become faint if the urine flows off rapidly while he is in the erect position. When he becomes accustomed to using the catheter however, it should be passed in the erect position, as the bladder is then more rapidly and completely emptied. Catlieter fever.—Attacks of so-called " catheter fever" may occur in any patient who has to use catheters. This is an attack of shivering accompanied by high temperature, which in ordinary cases lasts only -a few hours and then passes off. It may however be followed by sup- pression of urine or by septic renal mischief. The exact pathology of catheter fever is uncertain. By some it is held to be always due to a septic infection, but this can hardly be the the rigor may follow the passage of a catheter within a few moments, and, unless we suppose that toxines are absorbed through some scratch in the prostatic urethra, there would not be time for any bacterial development before the onset of the symptoms. To suppose that a sufificient amount of toxine can be taken in on a catheter which has undergone even moderate cleansing is absurd. It would seem that true catheter fever is a reflex nervous phenomenon, and the suppression of urine occurring in connection with it must also be reflex. Should the catheter fever be complicated by sepsis, the original mischief goes on to a more serious septic condition. In order to avoid the occurrence of this complication, the instrument should be passed only in the patient's own house in the first instance, and if he be elderly, he should be kept in bed before this is done. The treatment of an attack of catheter fever is the administration of stimulants and the application of hot bottles until the attack passes off. When there is a history of these attacks after passing instruments, it is well to give a dose of 5-10 grains of quinine an hour or two before the catheter has to be passed, and to take special precautions to guard the patient from exposure during the proceeding. As a rule the tendency gets less as time goes on, and the patient then passes the catheter without any trouble. (b) Operative.—Some of the operative measures are of a palliative character, whilst others are curative and are directed towards the diminu- tion or removal of the enlargement of the prostate. The palliative measures have not much to recommend them. Their chief role is to