CANCER. 93 operation is complete. The wound should heal by first intention and the patient be well in the course of a fortnight or so. In the first case in which we performed this operation, now three or four years ago, the patient recovered complete control and has remained well; union took place with the greatest readiness. 4. Excision partly or entirely tlirough the abdomen.—There remains the abdominal route for the removal of cancer of the rectum. Excision may occasionally be effected entirely through the abdomen, the continuity of the bowel being restored by end-to-end suture ; but this is rare, and is only possible when the growth is so high up in the rectum that it is practically in the sigmoid flexure, or when the rectum has an unduly long meso-rectum. The operation is the same as for excision of a malignant growth in the large intestine elsewhere (see Part VI., Sec. I., P- 354)- In other cases the growth in the rectum is sufficiently high up to be removed from a laparotomy wound, but end-to-end suture is practically impossible, owing to the want of mobility and comparative depth of the lower segment. Here an important question is, what should be done with the divided ends; it may be advisable either to bring out the proximal end of the rectum and establish an inguinal colotomy, or to sew up the end and make a separate colotomy wound, the open end of the distal portion in either case being invaginated and sutured so as to entirely occlude it. Recently a method which combines removal by the abdominal and the sacral routes has been much advocated by French surgeons, particularly by Quenu, who terms the operation " extirpation of the rectum by the perineo-abdominal route." The operation essentially consists in opening the abdomen by a median sub-umbilical incision, ligaturing both internal iliac arteries, dividing the sigmoid flexure across, temporarily occluding both ends so as to prevent septic contamination, and then bringing out the proximal end through an inguinal colotomy wound, while the meso-sigmoid and meso-rectum of the distal portion are rapidly divided between either ligatures or clamps, until the rectum is free as far down as can be reached from above. The distal segment thus freed is now packed down into the pelvis by two abdominal compresses, the vessels ligatured and the abdominal wound stitched up; the patient is then turned over, and the rest of the operation completed through a sacral incision similar to Kra.ske's. The rectum is exposed from the lower end until the peritoneal reflection is opened, when the portion already freed from its meso-rectum is found lying in the pelvis, together with the abdominal compresses; these are pulled out and the entire lower segment dissected away. The sacral wound is partly sutured, the opening in the perineum is plugged with gauze, drainage is provided, and antiseptic dressings are applied outside. This operation, though excellent in theory, is undoubtedly accompanied