INJURIES OF THE KIDNEY. In longr-standingr cases.—The surgeon may not operate until some considerable time has elapsed, or he may not see the patient until several days after the injury. Here an exploration may be necessary on account of secondary htemorrhage, but it is more probable that operation will be called for on account of peri-nephric suppuration or a large collection of blood and urine, and the treatment will vary accordingly. The treatment of secondary hcemorrhage is difficult, as it is hard to identify the bleeding point, or to secure it when found. The best plan is to turn out the clot and urine as completely as possible, and then, having found the spot from which the bleeding is coming, to plug the wound firmly with strips of aseptic gauze if attempts at clamping fail. Enough pressure can always be brought to bear, as by this time the kidney is firmly fixed by adherent clot. The packing is removed as it gets loose, and renewed until all bleeding has stopped, when the incision in the loin may be brought together over a tube if there be no suppuration. For the treatment of peri-nephric suppuration see Chapter XX. ; the probability is that nephrotomy and drainage will suffice unless there be foci of suppuration scattered through the substance of the organ, when nephrectomy will give the patient a better chance. When suppurative peritonitis has resulted from a wound of the peritoneum, the treat- ment must be on the general principles previously laid down (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 401). INCISED AND PUNCTURED WOUNDS. These are rare in civil practice and are usually accompanied by injuries of other structures, such as the peritoneum, colon, spleen, etc., and they may or may not be accompanied by protrusion of the organ. All the conditions that occur after subcutaneous injuries may be met with in these wounds, with the addition that, if the external opening be sufficiently large, blood and urine escape through it. TREATMENT.—When the wound is a mere puncture limited to the kidney and not accompanied by any serious haemorrhage or escape of urine, nothing is necessary, in the first instance at any rate, beyond enlarging the wound sufficiently to secure disinfection of the soft parts. When the injury is more severe and is accompanied by brisk hsematuria and signs of accumula- tion of fluid in the loin or in the peritoneum, it is desirable either to enlarge the opening sufficiently to expose the kidney, or else to do this through the ordinary lumbar incision. The treatment of the damaged organ itself will be upon the same lines as those already described for subcutaneous lacerations. Hernia of the kidney.—The kidney is sometimes protruded partially or entirely through the wound in the loin, and the treatment then will depend upon the condition of the viscus. If it be seriously damaged and there is little chance of its recovery, it will of course require removal. Slighter forms (jf injury must receive treatment on the lines already laid down (vide supra). Among the later results of injury to the kidney, Morris refers to the forma- tion of an aneurysm of one of the branches of the renal artery. This is a very PT. VI. 2 N