59 HAEMORRHOIDS. increased still further by covering the outer surface of the blades of the speculum with several thicknesses either of boracic lint or of cyanide gauze, which serves to increase the size of the speculum, and assists its compressing power. Another useful method, in very bad cases, is to employ the ordinary tube en chemise for plugging lithotomy wounds (see Fig. i6). This is passed well up through the anus, and sponges are thrust up in the interval between the tube and its surrounding petticoat so as to stretch the sphincter thoroughly and to exert firm pressure against the bleeding spot. The tube is then tied in by fastening on an ordinary T-bandage, and, after the bleeding is stopped, it is withdrawn by gradually removing the sponges, generally at the end of twenty-four hours. In these cases it will not infrequently be found that the patient has lost so much blood that either a large enema (2 pints) of normal saline solution, or still better, an intra-venous infusion of the same quantity, will be required. Fig. 16.— Tube en Chkmise. The gauze for exerting pressure is packed tightly in between the tube and its petticoat. TREATMENT OF COMPLICATED CASES. Operative.—Practically speaking any complicated case may be treated by one of the operative methods above described. There is no reason to delay operation because a pile is thrombosed or inflamed, and in our opinion it is best to employ the clamp and cautery in all these cases in preference to either of the other methods ; the prolonged searing of the parts shuts off the vessels and there is less risk of absorption than there would be in a clean- cut wound. Palliative.—Sometimes however the patient refuses to be operated upon, or visceral disease, advance'd pregnancy, etc., may contra-indicate it and the following palliative measures may then be employed. When the piles are prolapsed and irreducible it is of the greatest importance that they should be returned within the anus, as otherwise strangulation is very apt to occur. The protruding mass should be sprayed with a saturated solu- tion of eucaine, after which the patient is placed in the genu-pectoral position, the prolapsed mass is gradually compressed so as to empty it as much as possible and is then thoroughly lubricated and pushed inwards with the fingers of one hand whilst the forefinger of the other is passed into the anus to guide it upwards. When the mass has been successfully returned, a pad of boracic lint is pressed firmly against the anus and kept in position by a T-bandage applied as tightly as it can be borne. The patient should then remain in