PERI-PROCTITIS. 35 2. Ischio rectal abscess situated above the levator ani.—An abscess of this kind may arise either in the peri-rectal cellular tissue itself or may extend from stricture or cancer of the rectum or some disease of neighbouring strictures, such as the cascum, the broad ligament, the pros- tate, etc. It is usually accompanied by fever, anorexia, and severe deep- seated throbbing, with difficulty in defjEcation. The abscess burrows and may burst in various directions, generally into the bowel above the levator ani, and also through the latter into the ischio-rectal fossa, the skin over which it finally perforates, so that there is an external opening leading to a track which passes first through the levator ani and then into the rectum. Tuberculous ischio-rectal abscesses are not accompanied by symptoms as severe as those of the ordinary acute variety, and may even rupture without having caused the patient any discomfort. Treatment.—An ischio-rectal abscess should be freely opened as soon as its presence is detected, in order to avoid the risk of a fistula in ano following; applying poultices or fomentations only wastes time and allows extension of the disease and makes the formation of a fistula almost certain. Fig. 12.—Brodie's Flexible PRonE-DiRECTOR. The incision into the ischio rectal fossa in all cases should be made in a line radiating from the anus and, when the abscess is deep-seated, the incision should be kept as near as possible to the middle line so as to avoid dividing important structures. In a superficial abscess the pus is reached immediately the skin is divided; in the deeper-seated ones Hilton's method (see Part I., p. 27) may be employed, a finger being placed in the rectum to prevent the risk of the forceps penetrating the bowel. In the ordinary ischio-rectal abscess the pus is very superficial and has so thinned the mucous membrane just inside the anus that it will give way even after the abscess is freely laid open by an external incision, and a second operation for fistula in ano will thus be required. Hence, when it is found on opening one of these abscesses that the pus has burrowed around the lower edge of the sphincter and then up beneath the mucous membrane of the rectum, the best plan is to introduce a probe-pointed, flexible director (see Fig. 12) from the opening in the skin to the highest point of the cul-de- sac beneath the rectal mucous membrane, and to push the director through into the bowel, hook the point of it out through the anus, and then to divide the bridge of tissue lying upon it. In other words, this is a combina- tion of opening the abscess and slitting up a fistula in ano. 'J'he cavity is packed and treated just as an ordinary fistula in ano (see p. 37). 'i'his radical treatment is only called for when the pus burrows round the edge of