INJURIES OF THE URETER. (/;) When the injury is not recognised until some hours later. {c) When the injury is unnoticed until a ureteral fistula is established. The treatment will vary according as the ureter is completely or partially divided, and in the former case according as a portion has been lost or not. The most important cases are those in which the injury is recognised at the time of the operation, and the surgeon has to repair it on the spot, and has no time to consult authorities. When a fistula has developed, he has time to plan out the most appropriate procedure and can make a choice from a large number of methods. As many of these are essentially experimental, we need not deal with them in detail ; they will be found in full in Morris's work.^ In the early days of hysterectomy and ovariotomy the only suggestion to meet such an accident was to remove the kidney on the affected side. This is a most serious procedure, and at the present time, nephrectomy is the surgeon's last resort. Primary nephrectomy for wounds of the ureter may be entirely dismissed; secondary nephrectomy may be required later on should the kidney become disorganised by sepsis or hydronephrosis or should the patient insist on having the organ removed owing to the annoy- ance caused by a permanent urinary fistula. Morris {loc. cit.) summarises the chief methods of dealing with this accident as follows : 1. Ligaturing both ends of the divided ureter and dropping them back into the abdominal cavity. 2. Ligaturing the distal end only, and suturing the proximal one in the abdominal wound. 3. Uniting the divided ends by some form of ureteral anastomosis. 4. Grafting the proximal end into the bladder. 5. Grafting the proximal end into the bowel. 6. Detaching the bladder or creating a diverticulum in it so as to graft the ureter into it when a portion of the latter has been lost. 7 Nephrectomy. (a) Of recent wounds.—The most reliable method is some form of uretero-ureteral anastomosis when no loss of the ureter has occurred, or graft- ing the proximal end of the ureter into the bladder or the bowel, or bringing it out on the skin when so much of the tube has been lost as to render the former method impossible. The suggestion has been made to apply a ligature to each end of the divided ureter, and then to leave the parts alone for a few days, after which the wound is opened up again and a plastic operation or a secondary nephrectomy performed. This procedure, which would only be considered when the patient's condition is so bad as to preclude immediate repair, is probably, however, not so good as that of temporarily bringing the divided end of the ureter into the vagina. Uretero-ureteral anastomosis.—The different methods of uretero-ureteral anastomosis are founded on Fenger's experiments, and may be divided into four groups : {a) Ordinary end-to-end union ; {b) Oblique end-to-end union ; ' Morris, Op. cit.. Vol. II., Chap. XV.