CHAPTER II. IMPERFORATE ANUS AND RECTUM. These very important congenital deformities go by the generic term of " imperforate anus," but they are better divided into the two separate classes, imperforate anus and imperforate rectum. The condition is said to occur once in about every seven thousand children. The rectum is developed from the hinder end of the primitive gut, and is therefore derived from the hypoblast and mesoblast. The anus, on the other hand, is developed from the cloacal depression in the epiblast, which gradually approaches the primitive gut until finally the septum between the two disappears and leaves a single tube. Simultaneously the anterior part of the cloacal slit is shut off from the alimentary canal and forms the urethra and the perineum. VARIETIES.—Very varied malformations may be met with (see Fig. 6). Thus the rectum, and in some cases even the large intestine also, may be entirely absent; here, however, the anal depression is often well marked, but it also may be wanting. On the other hand, the rectum may be fully developed and the anal depression may be wanting; or both may be present but divided from each other by a definite septum. Hence the presence or absence of the anal depression gives no clue to the condition of the rectum. The deformities may be grouped into the following classes:—i. The rectum and the anal dimple are both developed but are separated by a thin septum. 2. A part of or the entire rectum or even the large intestine also is absent; here the anal depression is present. 3. A commoner form is that in which there is no trace of an anus but the rectum is present. Occasionally both the anus and the rectum are entirely absent. 4. The anus may be developed but imperforate and the rectum may have formed a fistulous communication either with the skin—when the fistula opens somewhere near the perineum—with the scrotum or the penis, or, more frequently, with the bladder or urethra in the male or the vagina in the female. In addition to the true imperforate cases there may be atresia or a mere pinhole anus.