63 PROLAPSE. application of the faradic current, one pole being placed over the lower part of the lumbar spine, whilst the other is introduced into the anus. (C) In old age.—In elderly subjects the treatment is very difficult. Not only may there be local causes present which are very difficult to treat, but there is generally a feeble condition of the patient and a loss of tone in the muscles which are not promising for the regaining of power. In addition there is often some constantly recurring affection, such as chronic bronchitis, which tends to reproduce the condition. Here the milder methods above described are ineffectual, and some form of operation must practically always be employed. The following are the methods that have given the best results in our hands : Linear cauterisation of the prolapse.—This method is only of use in the very slight cases where the mucous membrane alone protrudes, and should not be used if there be reason to think that the entire bowel-wall is prolapsed. The patient is placed under an anaesthetic in the lithotomy position, and the parts are well protruded. Either fuming nitric acid or the actual cautery may be used. If nitric acid be employed, the surface of the prolapse is dried and a series of longitudinal lines are drawn on the mucous membrane from the margin of the anus to the apex of the protrusion. The acid is allowed to act for ten minutes and is then neutralised by douching with a solution of carbonate of soda. The protrusion is smeared with vaseline, and strips of muslin covered with ung. eucalypti are laid over the cauterised area ; the protrusion is returned within the anus and kept up by a large pad of boracic lint and salicylic wool, fastened on by a T-bandage. Before the protrusion is returned, a suppository is introduced into the rectum ; after four days' confinement the bowels are moved every other day by a suitable laxative. The actual cautery is more effectual than nitric acid; it is applied very similarly, and care should be taken to have it only at a red heat. The object of the cauterisation is to provide a series of vertical cicatrices around the bowel, which will contract on healing, and shorten the structures in the vertical direction, so as to pull up the prolapse. Both methods give a rather painful and protracted convalescence. Excision of portions of the prolapse.—When the protrusion is very marked, portions of the mucous membrane of the prolapse and the skin around the anus may be removed by excision, so as not only to mechanically diminish the size of the protruded mass, but also to lessen the calibre of the anus, and so to form a barrier to the escape of the bowel. This is done by excising four to six diamond-shaped portions around the anus (see Fig. 17), one part of each diamond consisting of mucous membrane and the other of the skin around the anus. The long axes of the portions removed are parallel to the long axis of the bowel. Generally speaking, a much larger amount of mucous membrane than of skin is removed, but this will vary according to the laxity of the sphincter. The portions to be removed are marked out with a knife, and are then