CHAPTER XV. PT. VI. 2 I GALL-STONES: BILIARY FISTULA. GALL-STONES. Calculi in the gall-bladder or the bile ducts are rare in young subjects, but are very common after middle age; they are more frequently met with in women than in men, and it is said that they occur about once in every six subjects over sixty years of age. In a large number of cases the presence of stones gives rise to no symptoms, and the affection is only discovered post mortem. The size and number of the stones vary widely; single stones are usually large, whilst multiple ones are smaller and have facets on their surfaces where they are pressed against one another. The composition of the stones varies slightly, but consists mainly of cholesterin, with a varying amount of bile salts and bile pigment, principally bilirubin; with these also occur lime salts, and the consistency of the stone may vary from an extremely friable mass to one that it is difficult to break by pressure between the fingers. CAUSATION.—The affection is predisposed to by anything that hinders the flow of bile, and in this connection some authors have attached importance to the wearing of stays and costal respiration, together with the accompanying weakness of the abdominal muscles that they entail. A sedentary life and irregular meals may be of importance, as the gall-bladder in these cases is not emptied frequently and regularly. Heredity seems to have some distinct influence. The essential factor is the retardation of the bile flow and, when this occurs, organisms—such as the colon or typhoid bacillus—probably find their way into the gall-bladder and set up a cholecystitis of varying intensity. This gives rise to the deposit of cholesterin, which, with precipitated bile pigment, forms the gall-stone. The actual nucleus is often a mass of inspissated mucus, epithelium, or bile salts. Organisms, dead and alive, have been found in a large proportion of stones that have been examined for their presence. Gall-stones are nearly always formed in the gall-bladder, but they are occasionally formed in the bile ducts themselves.