528 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. spot at which it finds its way to the surface is in the fifth interspace in front, just external to the margin of the pectoraHs major. Occasionally it finds its way into the bronchi and is discharged through the air passages. The pus is not usually diffused throughout the whole pleural cavity. General diffusion may occur when septic material has been introduced into a healthy pleura and in other cases where very rapid inflammation and suppuration occur, such for example as infection after puncture of purulent lung cavities or rupture of a sub-diaphragmatic abscess through the pleura. Generally however the lung is adherent to the parietal pleura in parts and in the majority of cases the pus accumulates over the lower lobe of the lung with adhesion of the pleura above, so as to leave the upper part of the pleural cavity healthy and unadherent and with the lung expanding satisfactorily. Most empyemata are therefore circum- scribed, but frequently the whole of the lower part of the thorax is con- verted into a suppurating cavity. In other cases the collection may be much smaller in extent and may take the form of a typical localised empyema. According to Godlee there are three classes of this affection: i. When the pus is contained in a cavity between the outer surface of the lung and the costal pleura; 2. When the pus lies between the diaphragm and the base of the lung; and 3. When it is confined to the fissure between two contiguous lobes or lies between the lung and the mediastinum. The exact localisation of the pus is determined partly by medical physical signs and partly by puncturing with an exploring needle, and in some of these cases it may be more or less a matter of chance whether the pus is hit or not; the greatest difficulty may occur in discovering the situation of the abscess, especially when it lies between the lung and the mediastinum. Treatment.-—There is no question that in acute cases the sooner the fluid is evacuated the better and this must be done by free incision and not by paracentesis; the case in fact should be looked upon as an abscess and should be treated accordingly. (a) Of non-localised empyema.—In operating upon an empyema the first question is as to the anaesthetic to be employed. Chloroform should always be given in preference to ether, as the latter may cause violent coughing, and great difficulty may be experienced from the accumulation of mucus in the tubes which will still further diminish the already insufficient breathing capacity. In some cases the pressure symptoms may be so severe that it is inadvisable to administer a general anaesthetic at all and under these circumstances local anaesthesia by Schleich's infiltration method (see Part I., p. 123) should be employed. A simpler solution of the difficulty however is to have recourse to simple paracentesis thoracis first in order to relieve the severe pressure symptoms and then to incise and drain the pleural cavity in the ordinary manner in a day or two, when the patient has recovered from the embarrass- ment to breathing.