Il8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. between the abdominal wall and the surface of the liver, leaving a sufficient area of the latter exposed for free manipulations, just as in evacuating pus through the abdominal cavity. It is well to empty the abscess as thoroughly as possible with the aspirator before proceeding further because a large abscess may push the liver out of position, so that, when the pus has escaped, the same part of the liver is no longer opposite the abdominal opening and therefore a tube introduced before the abscess is evacuated, it will be liable to become kinked and to allow pus to escape beside it. If however the contents of the abscess be first removed by an aspirator, the liver assumes the position in which it will remain after the operation and the opening into the abscess cavity may then be made with the certainty that the relation of parts will not subsequently become disturbed. After the pus has thus been removed, the needle is retained in position, the packing is re-arranged so as to insure the abdominal cavity being thoroughly shut off, and the liver is bored through with a blunt instrument until the abscess cavity is reached; the track is then enlarged sufficiently to admit a No. 24 drainage tube. The incision in the liver should be just large enough to grasp the tube, so that pus is not likely to escape along- side it, and the tube should only have holes just at the end where it lies in the abscess cavity. The tube is now packed around with gauze, and the greater part of the abdominal wound is left open, only the ends of the incision being brought together with silkworm gut. Some surgeons lay considerable stress on washing out the abscess at the time of the operation. This we have always avoided, but, if there be much debris present, it might be well to do so; but on the whole, if this has to be done, it is perhaps better to wait for 24 or 48 hours until the peritoneal cavity is completely shut off, as otherwise there must be some risk of fluid escaping into it. In our opinion daily irrigations of the abscess cavity are to be condemned here just as in other acute abscesses. When there is only a single abscess and it is treated in this manner it does perfectly well in the majority of cases; the cavity closes in a month or six weeks and the patient is restored to health. The place of election however to open the liver abscess is through the thoracic wall. The pus is found by the aspirator (see p. 116), when the flow through the needle is stopped and the latter left in place in the position already recommended, e.g. the ninth or tenth interspace vertically below the lower angle of the scapula. A free incision is now made over the rib below the needle, the rib is excised, and the dissection is carried down either until the pleural cavity is opened or until the diaphragm is reached. In some cases the incision will be below the pleura; in others, inflammation may have obliterated it. Should the pleura be opened, the parietal layer should be detached from the thoracic wall, whilst the layer covering the diaphragm is also dissected up and the two cut surfaces are closely united by a continuous suture so as to shut off the pleural cavity. A little gauze may be packed over it for additional protection.