539 SEPTIC MEDIASTINITIS. it is apt to be followed by septic inflammation and the formation of an abscess in the anterior mediastinum. This may also follow sepsis in the neck, such as Ludwig's angina, tracheotomy, or operations upon the thyroid or cervical glands in which sepsis has occurred; it is a not infrequent accompaniment of the impaction of foreign bodies in the oesophagus, which becomes perforated. The chronic form of abscess is not uncommon in connection with tuberculous disease of the sternum or costal cartilages, and occasionally with a similar affection of the mediastinal glands. It may occur occasionally as a primary disease in cases of general sepsis. Symptoms.—In acute cases there is great pain, severe cough, high fever, dyspnoea and all the other symptoms of septic inflammation. In chronic cases, the symptoms are less severe and are difficult to distinguish from those of tumour of the mediastinum. There will be dysphagia, dyspnoea, occasional asthmatic attacks, lividity, and irregularity of the heart's rhythm. If the patient survives, and especially in chronic cases, the pus may find its way beside the sternum and point between the costal cartilages. In other cases the abscess may open into the bronchi and may be expectorated, or it may perforate the pleura and set up a pyo-thorax, or the pericardium and give rise to suppurative pericarditis. The prognosis is very serious and the chances of recovery are very slight in acute mediastinal suppuration, the patient dying of pytemia or perforation of the pericardium or pleura, if he does not die of acute septicaemia or of the pressure effects. In chronic cases however the abscess frequently finds its way externally and, if it be opened, the symptoms will be relieved; if the disease be connected with caries of the sternum, removal of the involved portion of bone may be practised and the patient may get well. Treatment.—This is a matter of extreme difficulty. If a collection of pus in the anterior mediastinum can be accurately diagnosed it is possible to get at it by trephining the sternum and enlarging the opening so as to tap the abscess and provide for drainage; this has been done successfully in a few cases. Should an abscess occur in the posterior mediastinum in connection with perforation of the oesophagus by a foreign body, the abscess may be reached from behind by the operation already described (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 105). In tuberculous abscess the treatment is similar but it is easier and more likely to be successful.