547 PERICARDITIS. care must be taken in separating it from the surrounding structures not to wound the internal mammary artery. After the cartilage has been removed, the pleura which overlaps the pericardium externally should be looked for and pushed aside. The pericardium is identified and seized close to the left border of the sternum and an incision is made in it obliquely downwards and outwards from the edge of that bone. After the pus has escaped, a drainage tube is inserted in the ordinary way, care being taken to see that it does not project into the pericardium further than is necessary to secure drainage, lest injurious pressure be exerted upon the heart. PULMONARY ACTINOMYCOSIS. This is a rare affection of the lungs and pleura, probably resulting from the inhalation of the fungus. In the early stages the symptoms are quite obscure, but, as the disease spreads from the lung to the pleura and the pleura to the chest wall, the probability of accurately diagnosing the condition increases. It may be recognised comparatively early by the expectoration of the characteristic fungus. In other cases it may not be recognised until the chest wall has become involved and sinuses have formed, giving rise to the characteristic discharge. Occasionally it appears to commence in connection with the pleura and thoracic wall rather than with the lung. Treatment.—These cases have been treated with more or less success partly by the administration of large doses of iodide of potassium but mainly by opening up the mass and scraping it away as completely as possible with a blunt spoon. These masses seem to be extremely vascular and there may be much difficulty with hsemorrhage, so that the surgeon may have to plug the cavity firmly in order to arrest it. Repeated scrapings will probably be necessary before the disease is cured. HYDATIDS OF THE LUNG AND PLEURA. This condition is uncommon and may be primary or secondary to the bursting of a hydatid of the liver through the diaphragm into the pleural cavity, and the patient may present himself not only with a hydatid of the pleura but also with one of the liver. Surgical experience left border of the sternum. The skin and fascia were reflected inwards and outwards and the abdominal muscles were then detached from the seventh costal cartilage. The cellular interval, ' costo-.\iphoid space,' containing the superior epigastric artery was then broken into, some of the muscular fibres of the diaphragm being torn. As the pericardium was distended it was easily brought into view, but, as Mr. Pendlebury wished to have sufficient room to insert the fingers after opening it, two inches of the seventh costal cartilage were removed." The internal mammary arteries were exposed and held aside and subsequently a portion of the sixth costal cartilage was also taken away so as to give the surgeon room to introduce his finger into the cavity.