CHAPTER XLIV. AFFECTIONS OF THE SCROTUM. INJURIES. WOUNDS OF THE SCROTUM.—These may be incised, punctured or contused. They may be limited to the skin or they may extend deeply enough to expose the testis; the latter may be protruded or even wounded. Treatment.—-This is conducted on ordinary principles. The scrotum is shaved and purified in the ordinary manner, any soiled or bruised tags are cut away and the edges are brought together with fine interrupted cat- gut sutures; drainage should always be provided. Should the testis be protruding, it should be purified and replaced. If some time has elapsed since the protrusion of the testis, an acute hydrocele may have formed and will require tapping before reduction can be effected; the parts should be very thoroughly purified before the tapping is performed. The chief trouble in wounds of the scrotum occurs from extravasation of blood into the dartos giving rise to a hsematoma of considerable size that may take long time to become absorbed. This is a reason for being extremely careful in the first place to arrest bleeding completely and in the second to provide by drainage for subsequent oozing. CONTUSIONS OF THE SCROTUM.—When of sufficient importance to call for treatment these injuries generally take the form of the so-called " scrotal hasmatocele" in which there is extravasation of blood into the dartos, the septum scroti or the tissues between the dartos and the tunica vaginalis. In rare cases this hsematocele may communicate directly with the cavity of the tunica vaginalis in which there is then also a collection of blood. The usual causes of this condition are direct injury, bleeding from vessels unsecured in operations upon the parts, or contusion of the scrotum in breech presentations in newly-born infants; these last are particularly important as the soft parts are liable to slough. The nature of the affection is evident, and the only point in the diagnosis is the difficulty of being sure that there is no hasmatocele