464 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. although not malignant, destroys the testis as completely as any other form of growth ; in it the testis consists of a quantity of small cysts. TREATMENT.—There is only one treatment for all these groups of tumours of the testis and that takes the form of castration. As a rule, the earlier the operation is performed the better will be the patient's chance, but unfortunately the diagnosis is often extremely difficult in the early stages when alone there is reasonable prospect of cure by radical measures. Malignant tumours of the testis occur at periods of life when syphilitic affections are most likely to occur, and when the enlargement is still slight it is very difficult to exclude syphilis with certainty. Under these circumstances it is legitimate to try the effect of large doses of iodide of potassium combined with mercury and mercurial inunctions for a week or ten days, but, if the enlargement should increase in spite of this, further time should not be lost. The only way of setting the matter at rest is to cut into the testicle, when the soft, malignant tumour substance contrasts sharply with the dense, fibrous syphilitic induration or the caseating gummata. We would here repeat the warning concerning the danger of infection of the surrounding parts when cutting into malignant tumours; therefore the exploratory incision should never be made until the surgeon is prepared to complete the operation by castration if necessary. In any case, if the tumour turn out to be malignant, the incision in it should be stitched up tightly so as to prevent the escape of any of the juices, and fresh instruments and fresh disinfection must be einployed and care must also be taken to completely excise the area in which the incision has been made. Castration.—Castration may be performed either from below upwards, when it commences with enucleation of the testis, or from above downwards when the cord is freed first. In most cases it is best to commence from above downwards and in the case of malignant tumours, especially when there is an ulcer of the scrotum or when an exploratory incision has been made into it, the whole of the scrotum can be covered up completely with antiseptic cloths for the time being while the cord is dealt with first. The same may be said of castration for tuberculous disease with or without ulceration; by dealing with the cord first, infection of the upper part of the wound by sepsis, malignant disease or tuberculosis is avoided. Before commencing the operation, the penis should be fastened out of the way by a stitch passing from the prepuce to the skin of the opposite thigh, just as for the radical cure of hernia (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 450). An incision about an inch and a half to two inches long is made so as to expose the external ring on the affected side, the cord is identified as it emerges from the ring, and the inter-columnar fascia and the aponeurosis of the external oblique are slit up as far as the internal ring. The cord is now followed up to the latter situation and, if the vas be normal, an aneurysm needle threaded with catgut is made to transfix the cord, which is tied in two halves, one end of the ligature being finally passed around