THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. any clots that form in the bladder. The supra-pubic wound is then stitched up around the tube, the catheter is withdrawn from the bladder and the patient is put back to bed. Aftei--treatment.—Any shock is appropriately treated (see Part 1., p. 141), and the drainage tube is kept in for at least five days, when it is taken out and the supra-pubic wound is allowed to close, w hich it usually does in two or three weeks; no catheter is passed per urethram, and apparently the prostatic urethra adheres without trouble to the sides of the cavity left after removal of the prostate. In one or two of Freyer's cases the prostatic urethra was removed with the prostate; but even here no trouble apparently resulted and the recovery of function was perfect. Freyer ^ states that he has now operated on 21 cases by this method and of these 19 recovered complete power of micturition ; in none was there any incontinence or subsequent trouble. Only two of the 21 have died; one became maniacal, and one died .quite suddenly some days after the operation, death being attributed to heat-stroke. This gives a mortality of something over to% and, considering that the operation was done in old people whose strength was already exhausted by the suffering through which they had gone, this is a very remarkable result; should these brilliant results be borne out by future experience, it is clear that the operation must take a high rank and prove itself superior to any other method with which we are at present acquainted. One must not however found too positive an opinion on the comparatively small number of cases recorded, especially as other surgeons are said to have had much trouble with haemorrhage. Alexander's operation.—American surgeons, notably Professor Alexander and Dr. Parker Sims,- have advocated removal of the prostate by the perineal route. The difficulty here is the distance at which the upper part of the prostate lies from the perineum. Sims overcomes this by introducing an instrument with a dilatable bulb into the bladder; when this is in position the bulb is distended and firm traction is made upon it so as to pull the prostate bodily downwards; it also serves to arrest bleeding during the operation by its pressure. After the prostate has been enucleated, a drainage tube is introduced into the bladder through the perineum, and the organ is continuously drained and frequently irrigated. The drainage tube is removed by the seventh day and sounds are then passed at intervals through the urethra. The author speaks highly of the method and records 21 cases without a death and with marked improvement in the functional result. •None had incontinence, the residual urine disappeared and the patients were able to hold their water for from two to four hours during the day whilst some have been able to pass the entire night without being disturbed. The question as to whether the enucleation of the prostate is best effected by the supra-pubic or the perineal route is one that the future must decide; as far as we can judge, the evidence points towards the supra-pubic method as that of choice. Although the perineal opening is the most dependent, it is "^British Medical Journal, Nov. Sth, 1902. -Ibid.