THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. the mamma, and there is also reason to believe that a lymphatic communication exists with the opposite side across the front of the sternum. In the axilla the chief lymphatic chain runs upwards along the lower aspect of and in close connection with the axillary vein to the costo- coracoid membrane, where the vein passes into the neck, and, if infection spreads past this point, enlargement of the glands in the neck appears behind the sternal attachment of the sterno-mastoid. The infection may also spread up in front of the vessels and nerves into the posterior triangle about the centre of the clavicle and a chain of enlarged glands may also be found extending upwards behind the axillary vessels along the course of the nerve of Bell, communicating eventually with glands in the back part of the posterior triangle of the neck. These three directions in which the glandular infection may spread from the axilla must be borne in mind during any operation. As regards the extent of the breast, it has been shown, especially by Stiles, that the lobules of the organ extend in the fat for a long distance around the prominent part of the gland and may be found in the fat in front of the pectoral muscle almost as high up as the clavicle. They also extend well across the axillary space and well down below the breast. A large area of skin must therefore be removed in order to insure complete removal of the breast, and the skin left must be extensively undermined in order to remove the bulk of the fat between it and the pectoral muscle. The breast cannot be completely removed unless all the skin covering the prominent part of the gland be taken away also. Another reason for removing the skin widely is the risk of infection through the lymphatic plexuses of the skin ; when the growth is beginning to involve that structure, an extra free removal of the skin is certainly necessary. In planning his incisions the surgeon should pay no regard whatever to the possibility of suturing the wound at the end of the operation. As a matter of fact it is generally possible to bring the edges of the skin together after extensive undermining and pulling the flaps forcibly together, but this should be a purely secondary consideration, the primary one being the complete removal of the breast and lymphatic area. The pectoral fascia must also be completely removed and it should be remembered that this cannot be done satisfactorily without dissecting off a thin layer of the surface of the muscle. In many cases however the cancer is so firmly adherent to the pectoral fascia that there is every probability of infection of the muscle itself and in these cases a large portion, certainly the thoracic attachment of that muscle, should be removed also. This has the additional advantage of rendering it much easier to clear the axilla thoroughly. In fact it is very difficult to clear the fat and glands com- pletely from the apex of the space without it. The fascia must also be thoroughly removed from the serratus magnus. Some surgeons advise