I lo THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. Lacerations of the under surface and posterior border of the liver are likely to be very serious, because large vessels in the hilum of the organ are usually torn and the patient commonly dies before aid can be summoned. Should he live long enough for a laparotomy to be done, and should a large vessel be found lacerated, all that is possible as a rule is to clamp the bleeding vessel and leave the forceps on, as the patient will have lost too much blood to justify any attempt at sewing up the rent in the vessel. The wound must be carefully packed as above described; it is not advisable to have recourse to any chemical styptic or to the actual cautery except when a portion of the liver is so far detached as to render re-attachment impossible. Then it will be necessary to remove the affected portion entirely, and a ligature should be applied around the base of the affected portion which is then cut away and the raw surface seared with a cautery at a low red heat. The best chance for the patient in cases of penetrating wounds of the liver by stabs and gunshot wounds is to disinfect the wound, to open up the abdomen, and to attempt to arrest the hfemorrhage. Small punctured wounds may often have the wound of entrance closed by a circular purse- string suture ; in all cases the abdomen must be opened sufficiently freely to enable the wound of exit to be looked fbr and to receive treatment. The arrest of the hsemorrhage is effected on the lines already described {vide supra). Should the patient recover from the effects of the loss of blood, the prog- nosis is good. Bile in the abdominal cavity rarely gives rise to peritonitis. INJURIES TO THE GALL-BLADDER AND BILE DUCTS. Injuries to the gall-bladder and bile ducts usually occur in connection with injuries of the liver and give rise to very similar symptoms, so that the case is generally diagnosed and treated as one of injury to the liver, and the damage to the gall-bladder or bile ducts is only found at the time of operation. Injuries to these organs may however occur without damage to the liver, and the gall-bladder is more likely to be affected alone than the bile ducts; it may be lacerated as the result of a blow over the gall- bladder region, especially if the viscus be distended. These injuries may also occur as a result of stabs or gunshot wounds. In nearly all cases the diagnosis will be that of injury to the liver and in most an operation will be undertaken for its cure. Should no operative measures be adopted in the first instance, the extravasation of bile following the rupture will lead to a plastic peritonitis and the formation of a fluctuating swelling, whilst there will also be jaundice due to absorption of bile from the peritoneum. If left alone, the case may end fatally, either from toxaemia due to the absorption of bile, or from septic complications due to con- tamination of the extravasated material. In some instances, especially if the gall-bladder be healthy and the bile aseptic, the rent in the organ may heal spontaneously and the case will then undergo a natural cure after