TUBERCULOSIS. 217 In some cases shrinking of the organ and quiescence of the disease may ensue^ but the best that can be hoped for from it is relief of the hectic fever and the other symptoms due to the retention of decomposing pus. Partial nephrectomy.—^Vhen the kidney has been cut down upon and tlie tuberculous lesion is found to be limited and not to involve the pelvis of the organ, the affected portion of the kidney has been excised in several instances and the remainder left. This is done by the removal of a wedge- shaped portion, the cut surfaces being approximated by deep sutures (see p. 191). In some instances benefit has followed, although in several it has been found necessary to remove the kidney subsequently. The possibility of this procedure must be kept in mind when a tuberculous kidney is exposed, for, if it be practicable to remove the disease and to leave a sufficient amount of useful kidney tissue behind, the great objection to nephi^ectomy is removed. Complete nephrectomy.—This is the ideal operation, but the other kidney must be sound before its employment is justified; the bladder and the peri-renal tissues must also be free from disease, and the patient in a fair condition to stand the operation. These questions have already been gone into sufficiently fully (see p. 171). The most difificult point is the accurate determination of the condition of the opposite kidney, and for this reason many surgeons have urged that nephrectomy for tuberculous disease should be done by the abdominal route, as the hand can then be passed to the opposite side, and the condition of the kidney ascertained by palpation. Other surgeons again while admitting that the lumbar operation is preferable for the removal of the organ, suggest that before it is done an exploratory laparotomy should be made, and both kidneys carefully palpated. No doubt a kidney that is nodular and hard and associated with other symptoms of tuberculosis may safely be pronounced to be tuberculous, but, on the other hand, it does not at all follow that, because a kidney is smooth and of normal size, it is not tuberculous; .nor again does it follow that an enlarged organ is necessarily tuberculous. It has happened more than once that a kidney suspected to be tuberculous has been found not to be enlarged or even to be smaller than normal when cut down upon, while the kidney on the opposite side is markedly enlarged, and further investigation has shown that the small organ is the tuberculous one, whilst the enlarged one is simply a healthy kidney which has undergone compensatory hypertrophy. The only satisfactory way is to cut down on the organ in the loin (see also p. 170). The objection to this is that it means extra shock which the patient cannot always bear, and in a good" many cases, therefore, the matter must be left in some doubt, and the patient must be allowed to take his chance. This is quite justifiable when the suffering is severe and one kidney is hopelessly disorganised, and statistics show that the result is generally satisfactory. The operation may be primary or it may be secondary to a previous nephrotomy. It is easier and more likely to be beneficial when performed