164 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. from above downwards, artery, vein and ureter, while from before backwards it is vein, artery and ureter. The vein runs ahnost horizontally, and on the right side it is a little lower and shorter than on the left. On the left side it passes in front of the aorta, below the superior mesenteric artery and above the third part of the duodenum. The left renal vein is joined by the left spermatic vein. The artery is large and arises from the side of the aorta a little below the superior mesenteric artery. It divides into three chief branches before it reaches the hilum, and this must be remembered when the pedicle of the kidney is ligatured close to the organ itself. One of these branches runs behind the renal pelvis. The kidney lies imbedded in a mass of fat, which is called the tunica adiposa; it is especially thick and plentiful posteriorly and upon the convex border of the kidney, but in front it is very thin. It is also thick below the lower end of the kidney, and it is very delicate and of a canarj'-yellow colour and is only loosely connected with the fibrous capsule of the gland, unless inflammation has occurred. This fat, with the kidney it surrounds, is contained in a fascia, called the peri-nephric fascia, and the surgeon must bear this in mind, as it is apt to be mistaken for peritoneum. This fascia is open along the inner and lower borders of the kidney; hence the mobility of the kidney in the inward and downward direction. Relations to the peritoneum.—The anterior surface is the only one which comes into any relation with the peritoneum, and is only in contact with it where the other structures, to be mentioned immediately, are not lying on the kidney. Relations to the supra-renal capsule.—The right supra-renal rests upon the upper pole of the right kidney; the left is in relation with the upper part of the inner border and slightly with the anterior surface and the upper pole. It is separated by areolar tissue from the kidney, but on the left side the left supra-renal vein joins the renal vein, and the relation is more intimate than on the right, where that vein goes direct to the vena cava. Relations of the anterior surface of the kidney.—On the right side, at the upper part, the peritoneum is in contact with the kidney, and in front of it is the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. At the middle towards the left margin the second part of the duodenum overlaps the kidney, and lower down and to the right is the hepatic flexure of the colon. Below, in the angle of the hepatic flexure, is a coil of small intestine. On the left side above, the front of the kidney is separated from the fundus of the stomach by the splenic artery. It then comes in contact with the pancreas, and along its outer border it is in relation with the commencement of the descending colon, with a coil of small intestine to the inner side. The outer border of the kidney in its upper two-thirds is in contact with the spleen; in the lower third, with the descending colon. The peritoneum is in contact with it at the upper and lower ends and along the upper part of its left border.