GALL-STONES. 135 operation as soon as gall-stones are diagnosed; others urge that medical measures should be persisted in as long as the stones are in the gall-bladder and there is no marked cholecystitis; whilst others again only operate after a prolonged trial of palliative remedies when life is actually threatened. Our own views are as follows : Indications for operation.—Whilst palliative measures undoubtedly suffice for mild cases, it must be remembered that it is in the highest degree improbable that they can ever produce more than a prolonged latent period, and they are therefore not curative in the ordinary sense of the term, and a blind adherence to them may end in the surgeon migsing the most favourable time for successful operative interference. It is so difficult to gauge the extent of the affection without actually opening the abdomen that no reliable criteria are available as to which cases are really likely to be benefited by palliative measures. In favour of operation is the fact that it removes all the stones and drains the gall-bladder, whereby the probability of subsequent impaction of a stone in one of the ducts is greatly diminished, while any cholecystitis is cured. At the same time, of course, even with cholecystostomy there is no certainty that fresh stones will not form, and even after cholecystectomy it is possible for stones to form in the hepatic duct. Another point of practical importance is that in early cases there is no risk of that serious bleeding which is met with so often in those who are the subject of persistent and profound jaundice. (a) Palliative.—We should be inclined to say that palliative measures are demanded for the following cases : 1. When there are slight attacks of jaundice occurring at intervals and accompanied by the passage of small gall-stones, palliative measures may be justifiably employed, provided that the patient's health returns to the normal between the attacks and remains good until the next attack occurs. Should the presence of persistent pain in the gall-bladder region or swelling of that organ occur however, or should the attacks be severe and frequent, operative interference will be required. 2. Palliative measures may also be tried in the first instance in cases of impaction of a stone in the common or cystic duct seen immediately after its occurrence, as it is well to allow time to elapse in order to see whether the stone will pass into the duodenum or not. If, after trial of medical measures for a fortnight or three weeks, the stone still remains impacted in the duct, the case becomes one of chronic impaction and demands operation. Should however symptoms, such as fever or enlargement of the liver, occur in the course of an attack of this kind, they point to the occurrence of septic cholangitis (a very serious complication indeed), and operation should be undertaken without delay. Moreover, operation will also be demanded for symptoms indicating localised peritonitis. 3. With non-impacted gall-stones very old and debilitated subjects will probably stand a better chance of prolongation of life by palliative measures, as operation may well prove fatal; if, however, the case be one of a