74 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. treatment here will be to perform a supra-pubic median laparotomy and to examine the condition of affairs. If the case be suitable for excision this may be proceeded with at once, or, if preferred, a preliminary colotomy may be done and an excision carried out subsequently or, should the growth be found unsuited for excision, a permanent colotomy opening may be established. A very important point that the surgeon has to keep before him in all cases is that the severity of an excision of the rectum makes it necessary to see that the patient has a good chance of freedom from recurrence before the operation can be justifiably urged upon him. If an operation be rashly undertaken and it be found impossible to get satisfactorily wide of the growth, the patient at the end of a long convalescence is faced with a recurrence which will either necessitate his dragging his life out in misery or will call for a palliative colotomy. Cases suited for colotomy.—^Should the surgeon, after a consideration of the preceding points, decide against the excision, the next question is whether colotomy should be done forthwith. By some the principal point for discussion in the treatment of cancer of the rectum has been thought to be the advisability of excision versus colotomy. This, however, is not at all the position that we would take up. In our view they are two completely different questions. The first and most important point to be decided is whether an excision can be done. Should excision be decided against, the question then becomes whether or not an immediate colotomy is advisable. There .should be no question of colotomy versus excision when the latter is feasible. Some surgeons urge that directly an inoperable cancer of the rectum is diagnosed colotomy should be performed forth- with. The chief arguments in favour of this view are that colotomy is a safe operation, that it relieves the patient of much discomfort, removes causes of irritation from the growth, and thus renders its extension more gradual, and therefore considerably prolongs life. There is of course no question as to the safety of the operation, if it be done when there is no obstruction present; but the question as to the relief of pain is open to discussion. When patients suffer from constant deep-seated pain in the pelvic region this is probably due to involvement of the peri-rectal tissues and the nerves in the hollow of the sacrum, and colotomy will in no way relieve it; from this point of view, therefore, there is no advantage whatever in doing it. On the other hand, there is no doubt that when the chief troubles are pain on defcscation, with marked tenesmus or loss of power over the sphincter, accompanied by constant discharge from the rectum, the operation will ameliorate the con- dition and should certainly be advised. Another condition calling for colotomy is obstruction, either actual or impending. This subject has already been dealt with (see Part VI., Sec. I., Chap. XIX.). After a properly performed colotomy the health improves rapidly as a result of the unhindered evacuation of the bowels,