CHAPTER XLVIl. TUBERCULOSIS OF THE TESTICLE. This disease is not uncommon and in the majority of cases the epididymis is affected first and in some cases solely. Except in the early stages however the disease does not remain limited to the epididymis; the vas soon becomes thickened and the vesiculse seminales are also enlarged in a considerable proportion of cases, at any rate when the disease has lasted for some time. The prostate is not infrequently affected and thence the disease may spread upwards as an ascending genito-urinary tuberculosis. It is still a matter of dispute as to which portion of the epididymis is first affected; probably the disease commences most often in the globus minor, but apparently in a good many cases the globus major is first attacked. The deposit of tubercle may begin either in the interior of the spermatic duct or in connection with the vessels around it, and it quickly involves the entire epididymis, extending not only up along the vas but into the body of the testis itself, in which the tubercles are first found in the corpus Highmoriani in the intertubular tissue; isolated nodules are subsequently found in the testis. From the point of view of treatment the affection may be divided up into three groups : i. Acute tuberculosis of the testicle and epididymis, the so-called "galloping phthisis of the testis"; 2. The ordinary sub-acute •or chronic tuberculous epididymitis; and 3. A similar condition that has passed on to suppuration and sinus formation. The question of treatment will also depend on whether the disease is unilateral or bilateral. Although the affection is apparently one-sided in origin, it is very common for the second testis to become affected sooner or later, in some cases within a few weeks or months, in others not for some years. SYMPTOMS.—In very acute cases the disease begins without any apparent cause or it may follow on a gonorrhoeal epididymitis, which it closely resembles in its characters. Instead, however, of subsiding as the ordinary gonorrhoeal epididymitis does, the pain and swelling persist or increase, abscess occurs very rapidly, often within six weeks, and the vesiculfe