THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. up into the groin along the course of the cord and there are "also all the symptoms of acute inflammation. The ordinary gonorrhoeal form of epididymitis generally reaches its height in four or five days and then subsides, and the patient is free from pain in two or three weeks according to the severity of the attack. In- flammatory thickening however may remain in the epididymis as a hard nodule for a very long period indeed, and this induration has an important influence on the generative value of the testis, as the vas is usually left so obstructed that semen is unable to pass and the patient may be actually sterile should both testes be affected. The testis however does not undergo atrophy, nor do any of the symptoms associated with castration (see p. 460) appear. After coitus the epididymis may swell up from the collection of seminal fluid and may cause pain, but otherwise no ill effects seem to follow. ACUTE ORCHITIS.—Inflammation of the body of the testis is less frequent than inflammation of the epididymis. It is not uncommon as the result of an injury, when blood becomes effused beneath the tunica albuginea and inflammation results. It may also be of a gouty or rheumatic origin and is not infrequent during the course of specific fevers such as mumps, typhoid fever, smallpox, scarlet fever, or influenza. In these circum- stances it may be accompanied by suppuration; this however is rare in mumps. The symptoms of acute orchitis are somewhat similar to those of epididy- mitis except that on examination the body of the testis is much enlarged and tender whilst the epididymis is hardly distinguishable. There is moreover not the same tendency to acute hydrocele. The prognosis of acute orchitis is more serious than that of epididymitis, as the acute inflammatory affection of the body of the testis is apt to be followed by atrophy of the organ. This is especially common after mumps, and not only is the generative function of the testis destroyed but its other functions also, so that, if both sides be affected, psychical symptoms, similar to those following double castration (see p. 460), may arise. Treatment.—(a) Of acute epididymitis.—The objects of this are to subdue the inflammation as rapidly as possible and to get rid of the inflammatory exudation. The patient should be confined to bed on his back with the scrotum raised and supported. One of the best methods of doing this is to take a piece of guttapercha, poroplastic, or thick millboard, about eighteen by twelve inches, and to cut out of it a semicircle large enough to embrace the root of the scrotum (see Fig. 103). Holes are bored at each end of the side from which the semicircle is cut and through these are threaded tapes by which the apparatus can be fastened to a band round the waist and so adjusted that the semicircle embraces the root of the scrotum and the testicles rest upon its upper surface, which should be padded with wool. The under surface of the apparatus rests against the thighs, which are slightly raised, and the knees are tied together. The