361 RUPTURED URETHRA. the urethra may interfere with micturition. In the majority of cases, however, the mucous membrane is lacerated, and in these cases there will be in addition an escape of blood from the meatus varying in amount according to the site and extent of the injury. The escape of blood occurs independently of micturition and under these circumstances is pathognomonic of a ruptured urethra. When the urethra is torn, the perineal swelling is generally large, and attempts at micturition are accompanied by a sharp cutting pain in the perineum and an increase of the existing swelling owing to extravasation of urine. The act of micturition is always difficult; when the urethra is completely divided it is quite impossible and acute retention supervenes. The course taken by the case varies with the seat and degree of injury. When there is a n^ere contusion of the urethral mucous membrane, there is usually little trouble beyond some retention of urine. When however the urethral wall has been torn, there is always the risk of septic complications and, when the extent of the laceration is considerable, these complications are practically certain to occur. The blood escaping down the urethra furnishes a nidus whence bacteria spread rapidly to the seat of injury where they flourish in the extravasated blood and lead to septic complications. Another way in which septic infection may occur is by the introduction of an instrument; this is still more certain if a catheter be tied in. Under these conditions septic complications are almost inevitable, as it is impossible to tie in a catheter and at the same time to prevent the spread of infection to the urethral wound. When the mucous membrane has been torn, the most serious complica- tion is extravasation of urine. When the patient attempts to micturate, urine at once passes through the gap in the urethral mucous membrane into the tissues around and, as infection quickly occurs, symptoms of acute septic urinary infiltration arise. When the condition of affairs is such that the urine does not leave the urethra in any quantity, its escape nevertheless facilitates the onset of sepsis, and, when the tissues are softening under the septic process, the urine easily finds its way into the soft parts. This constitutes the so-called "late" extravasation of urine. After recovery a traumatic stricture is left which is more difficult to treat than the ordinary stricture resulting from disease. TREATMENT, (a) Of recent cases.—When a patient has ruptured his urethra, he generally experiences a desire to micturate immediately and, should the surgeon see a case of pelvic injury immediately after its occur- rence, he should always caution the patient not on any account to attempt to pass water until the condition of the urethra has been ascertained. Fre- quently however the patient has already made the attempt, and there is probably actual extravasation of urine before the surgeon has charge of the case. The diagnosis of the injury is generally easy, as the blood flowing from the meatus under these circumstances renders it quite evident that not only has the urethral mucous membrane been torn but that the submucous