INJURIES OF THE THORACIC WALL. portion of the vagus, whilst some have ascribed it to paralysis of the sympathetic; it is also possible that it may be due to direct com- pression of the heart. Treatment.—The first indication is to place the patient in the horizontal position or to tilt the body so that the head is dependent; artificial respiration will also be required until the power of normal breathing returns. Brandy or ether may be injected subcutaneously and friction applied to the surface. Stimulants should be given by the mouth when the patient is able to swallow. WOUNDS OF THE THORAX.—These are generally divided into penetrating and non-penetrating wounds according as the pleural cavity is opened or not, and the seriousness of the wound is largely determined by this point. (a) Non-penetrating wounds.—We shall here only deal with non penetrating wounds, as injuries to the pleura are considered later (see p. 516). The only point of special importance attaching to non-penetrating wounds of the thoracic wall is the occurrence of haemorrhage, which may proceed from the intercostal or the internal mammary artery. Strictly speaking these vessels may be wounded without penetration of the thoracic cavity, but in practice hsemorrhage from them is always associated with penetration. Wounds of the internal mammary artery are of very rare occurrence and are generally due to stabs or bayonet wounds. The bleeding is very free and may take place either externally or into the pleura, the pericardium or the anterior mediastinum where a large diffuse hgematoma may form. The artery may be wounded in any part of its course and the diagnosis is easy when the bleeding occurs externally but is difficult when the escape of blood is only into the thoracic cavity; it will then be determined by the position of the wound, the increasing anaemia, the signs of loss of blood and the indications of intra-thoracic pressure. Treatment.—The vessel must be secured as soon as possible ; unless this be done expeditiously the patient may die of htemorrhage. The internal mammary arises from the subclavian at a point nearly opposite the vertebral and passes forward to the anterior thoracic wall down which it runs almost vertically about half an inch outside the border of the sternum superficial to the parietal pleura and the thoracic fascia. At the level of the fifth intercostal space the artery divides into its musculo-phrenic and .superior epigastric branches. The wounded vessel must be tied above and below in order to stop the "hfemorrhage, and in the first instance an attempt should be made to secure the artery through the wound after enlarging it, but, as the space is comparatively small and as the tissues will probably be much infiltrated with blood, it is difficult to secure the vessel at the seat of injury without removing a portion of the costal cartilage. In such a case the best plan is to plug the wound temporarily and then to carry incisions upwards