29 SYPHILIS. and stenoses of the lower bowel, to which reference has been made under the head of Chronic Proctitis (see p. 19). The ulcers usually present clean-cut edges and are very irregular in outline ; they bleed and suppurate freely. Treatment.—In the case of ulceration about the anus the treatment must be that suitable for tertiary lesions elsewhere (see Part I., p. 235) com- bined with the local use of calomel and starch powder {vide supra), or smearing the parts over with white precipitate ointment. When- the ulceration occurs inside the bowel, general anti-syphilitic treatment must also be carried out, but, owing to the constant irritation by the fceces, to the spasm of the sphincter retaining the contents of the rectum in contact with the ulcerated surface and the tendency to stricture, the condition will seldom heal without local treatment of an energetic nature. In quite early cases, where there is no marked contraction, the anus may be dilated and the patient brought rapidly under the influence of iodides and Fig. 10.—Rectal Ointment Introducer. The barrel of the syringe is hollow and the piston is a solid plug which is driven home by a screw movement, forcing out the ointment through the tine holes in the tapering nozzle. mercury (see Part I., Chap. XII.), the motions kept soft by laxatives, the ulcers kept clean, and the rectum emptied by frequent enemata of boracic lotion or Condy's fluid, whilst mercurial ointments are applied to the ulcers. A good plan is to use grooved bougies, such as Caspar's, for the purpose. The grooves are filled with mercurial ointment, and the bougies are passed gently and left in situ for five or ten minutes so as to keep the ointment well in contact with the ulcerated surface. If preferred, a rectal syringe (see Fig. 10) may be employed. The ointments most used for this purpose are those of white precipitate, dilute nitrate of mercury, or red oxide of mercury. In addition it is well to give some intestinal antiseptic, such as salol or ^-naphthol (ten grains, t.d.s.), and the patient should be confined to a couch for a time. This treatment, however, can only be expected to succeed when the case is seen quite early. When contraction is occurrivg, the combined ulceration and stricture cause great difficulty, and, although an attempt may be made to overcome the con- traction by dilatation, while the other methods of treatment just mentioned are employed, it will soon be found that the dilatation in the neglected cases that are generally met with does harm instead of good, and that it is necessary to perform a temporary colotomy. When this is done, the ulcers can usually be got to heal, the stricture may also be dilated and then finally the colotomy wound may be repaired. Excision of the aflected portion of the rectum is not possible in these cases.