2/6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. When the fistula is non-malignant in origin, and is situated in the small intestine, the ideal operation is to excise the affected loop of bowel, doing an end-to-end union, and then to detach the excised portion from the bladder, the opening in which is inverted and sewn up. This is of course a very severe operation, and can only be done when the conditions are particularly suitable; in cases for instance where the mischief is not due to tuberculous peritonitis, and also where there are no signs of advanced renal mischief Of vesico-vaginal fistula.—The communication may be either low down on the anterior wall of the vagina or it may be high up almost in the cervical region. The proper treatment is to pare the edges of the fistula, and then to close it with sutures. The most suitable position for this operation is the knee-elbow, which allows the anterior vaginal wall to fall down and come readily into view when the posterior wall is pulled well up. A good light and efficient sponging are essential. The actual steps of the various forms of plastic operations for this condition belong strictly to the department of gyniecology, and special text-books on the subject should therefore be consulted, at any rate for the more complicated cases. In a simple small fistulous opening on the anterior wall that is easily within reach, the principle of the operation is to pare the edges of the orifice completely as for a cleft palate, and then, separating the mucous membrane of the vagina for some little distance all round, the aperture into the bladder is firmly sutured by interrupted catgut sutures taking up the wall of the bladder just external to the mucous membrane, and outside this, a second row of silkworm-gut stitches uniting the cut edges of the vaginal mucous membrane. There may be con- siderable difficulty in the operation owing to extensive cicatrisation, especially when the fistula has followed sloughing after parturition, and it may be necessary before proceeding to operate to dilate the vagina by the introduc- tion of large-sized bougies until the parts are sufificiently stretched to enable the fistula to be got at easily. Another point of great importance is to avoid injury to the ureters which are likely to be close to the field of operation. Their position should therefore be carefully examined, and, if there be much cicatrisation it may be necessary to use a Kelly's tube (see p. 262), and introduce a ureteral sound on each side in order to render them evident. After the operation, the vagina is packed with gauze, and a catheter is kept in the bladder for a few days. The gauze plug may be taken out at the end of 24 hours, and the vagina frequently irrigated with a 1-4000 sublimate solution. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER. A great variety of objects, such as lead pencils, hairpins, portions of catheter, etc., have been met with in the bladder and, quite apart from their size or from their liability to penetrate the bladder walls, their mere presence gives rise to irritation, and they soon become encrusted with phosphates, so that the patient becomes the subject of vesical calculus.