408 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. to occur if a soft instrument be used. It is of course a great advantage to tie in a soft instrument as there is less risk of damage to the vesical mucous membrane, and the easiest plan to insure the instrument passing readily is to slip a Teale's gorget (see Fig. 94) along the groove in the staff before the latter is withdrawn. The gorget passes from the perineal wound into the bladder, and serves as a guide along which the point of the catheter is directed when it reaches the perineal opening and tends to emerge from it. The bladder should never be drained through the perineal wound, and the latter should be left unsutured; its edges fall together as the patient lies in bed and it heals rapidly. If any sutures be used, only a few should be inserted in the anterior part, and enough of the wound should always be left open to insure the free escape of any urine that may find its way alongside the catheter, as otherwise extravasation will occur. The wound is dusted with f'iG. 94.—Thale's Gorc.et for ExTEiiN,\L URETHROTOMY. The end is probe-pointed and is slipped along the groove in the staff. iodoform, and the ordinary cyanide gauze dressings are applied and kept in position by a T-bandage. The catheter is tied in by one of the methods described on p. 345. The catheter should remain unchanged for three days, when it may be left out. If the stricture has been extensive there is no objection to tying in a second catheter for two days, so as to make sure that the passage remains more or less rigid after the withdrawal of the instrument. After the catheter is withdrawn the patient is allowed to micturate naturally; at first the urine will pass almost entirely by the perineal wound, but in time the amount passing by the urethra will steadily increase, until finally it all passes in the normal direction and the perineal wound heals rapidly, as a rule in about six weeks. A week after the operation the surgeon should pass a full-sized metal instrument into the bladder, and this should be repeated every third day until the wound is healed. The instrument must be passed very gently, the point being kept in close contact with the roof or else it will pass out and open the perineal wound again ; a soft instru- ment should not be passed until the wound has healed. Instruments should be passed at regular intervals after healing is complete; in the first place they should be passed weekly, but the interval may be gradually increased to a fortnight, three weeks, and so on, until, after about a year, the patient need only have an instrument passed once in six months if