TUBERCULOUS TESTIS. 459 The chief objection urged against this operation. is that it is often only partial, because the affection may be present in the body of the testis itself; this no doubt is true in a good many cases unless the operation be performed at quite an early stage of the disease. There is however no reason why the operation should not be successful even then, provided that the tubercles left behind are fairly isolated and not in large masses. Moreover the operation cuts off the communication between the testis and the rest of the genito-urinary system, and any recurrence that takes place in the testis can be treated locally by scraping out sinuses, etc. It is also urged that the testis may be found seriously diseased and that castration may be necessary after all. This may certainly be the case, but the surgeon is then sure at any rate that he has not needlessly sacrificed an important organ. Among the most serious objections is the possibility of interference with the blood-supply to the testis followed by necrosis. This has certainly happened and great care must be taken firstly not to attempt the operation when the disease is so extensive that it is necessary to interfere with the blood-supply, and secondly, when the case is suitable for epididy- mectomy, to preserve the vascular supply intact. Bardenheuer is of opinion that recurrence on the opposite side is more frequent after epididymectomy than after castration and he also states that the secondary disease may be more acute than the primary form. This however does not seem to be the general experience, and, even if it were, and necessitated castration on the opposite side, the patient would still be left with one testicle, whereas in double castra- tion both are removed. It is evident that the operation is well worthy of consideration, but it must be employed with judgment and is not applicable to every case. It is distinctly contra-indicated v\ hen the entire body of the testis is diseased, when there is a deposit in the centre of the testicle, when there are advanced lesions of the vesiculae and prostate, especially with sup- puration, when the urinary system is invaded, and when the patient suffers from advanced phthisis. In the last two cases castration or scraping should be employed if operation is advisable at all. Castration.—This operation is similar to that for malignant disease (see p. 464). The cord should be divided as high up as possible and indeed it is well in all cases to slit up the external oblique aponeurosis and thus to isolate the vas well up in the abdominal cavity before dividing it. Scraping.—A partial operation of this kind should be limited to cases where the disease has reached a very advanced stage, where it has become generalised and where no other operation is thought advisable. It cannot by any means remove all the disease, but it may do much good by removing the breaking-down deposit that is giving rise to the abscess or the sinus. Selection of cases.-—^Up till fairly recently the only question in treatment was between non-operative measures and castration, and the view generally held was that castration might be performed quite early, and must be