THE SURGICAL AFP^ECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. upper angle of the wound and secured there by sutures taking up the muscular coat only and so inserted as to put the bladder wall on the stretch from the neck of the organ upwards. Professor Goldmann states that good results have followed, and patients who had been previously condemned to catheter life have been able to pass water naturally. This suggestion is however quite recent, and no sufficient experience has enabled us to judge of its actual value. Coming from a surgeon of the standing of Professor Goldmann however it is well worth trying. Among the more radical methods of treatment there are three that require consideration, namely, prostatectomy, Bottini's galvano-cautery method, and the operations upon the testicle and vas deferens. Prostatectomy.—Although removal of portions or the whole of the prostate is an operation that has been known for many years, it has been much improved and systematised recently. The earlier operations were conducted upon a rather haphazard plan, a median perineal cystotomy being performed, and portions of the prostate projecting into the bladder being felt for and snared or torn away. These operations were not infrequently followed by good results, and the operation was then more systematically taken up, and in this country it was especially advocated and first put upon a satisfactory basis by McGill of Leeds, who practised removal of the obstructing portions of the prostate through a supra-pubic cystotomy opening. Since his publication, much literature has accumulated on the subject, and the operation has been done both by his method and by the perineal route. More elaborate procedures have been introduced, all tending to the more complete removal of the organ, and quite recently a very complete operation has been advocated by Freyer, by which practically the entire prostate is removed. McGill's operation consisted essentially in gaining access to the prostate by supra-pubic cystotomy and either removing an enlarged middle lobe which obstructed the outflow of urine or getting rid of portions of the prostatic ring which formed the obstruction; this was affected either by cutting or snaring or by grasping the obstructing portion of the prostate in powerful forceps and twisting and tearing it away. In many cases, especially in those where portions of the prostate project into the bladder and act as a valve over its orifice, much relief is obtained, the function of micturition is restored, and the chief cause in the formation of the post-prostatic pouch is so diminished that the residual urine and the consequent tendency to cystitis almost entirely disappear. The method is however by no means perfect, and the restoration of function is by no means complete except in cases where a mass projecting upwards against the internal orifice of the urethra is practically the sole trouble, and there is no doubt an appreciable mortality associated with the operation, death from haemorrhage or sepsis being not uncommon. Various operations have therefore been introduced which aim at still more radical treatment, the object being to remove the prostate more or less com- pletely, and not only the portions that project into the bladder. Some of