132 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. Little need be said about the symptoms of adhesions in the neighbourhood of the gall-bladder as they do not necessarily give rise to distinctive troubles unless they cause intestinal obstruction. Their presence however may be suspected when the symptoms point to the long-continued existence of gall- stones accompanied by very considerable dyspeptic symptoms, such as pain after food, flatulence and constipation. It should be remembered that it is not always possible to distinguish between gall-stones and adhesions which compress the bile duct, and cases are occasionally diagnosed and operated upon as gall-stones in which only adhesions are found. The symptoms of obstruction have already been described (see Part VI., Sec. L, p. 365). Physical examination.—Palpatmi of the gall-bladder should always be practised as it affords valuable information under certain circumstances; in others however it may afford no indication whatever. It is done as follows. The surgeon stands on the right side of the patient, who lies upon the back on a couch with the knees flexed and the pelvis and thorax slightly raised so as to relax the abdominal muscles. The patient breathes regularly and deeply and the surgeon places the left hand flat upon the right lumbar region whilst the right hand is placed over the abdominal wall immediately beneath the costal margin in the neighbourhood of the gall-bladder; i.e. the ninth and tenth right costal cartilages. The right hand is now gently and slowly pressed downwards as the patient breathes, whilst the left forcibly pushes up the liver from behind, fixes it and makes it prominent and thus enables deviations from the normal to be appreciated more easily. In this way the presence of tenderness on pressure may be elicited, the outline of a tumour may be ascertained and the amount of movement present on respiration may be made out. An enlarged gall-bladder is usually easily distinguished from any other enlargement in its neighbourhood. It forms a somewhat pyriform sweUing opposite the ninth costal cartilage just outside the edge of the right rectus. It may be sausage-like in shape, it blends with the liver dulness above and, when there are no adhesions, it is freely movable from side to side, but always returns to its place, in which respect it differs from a movable right kidney with which it is not infrequently confounded. When the swelling moves downwards on deep inspiration it cannot be fixed in that position between the two hands during expiration as can a movable kidney or a tumour of the bowel; it invariably slips back into position. It is important to remember that the physical examination of an enlarged gall-bladder should not go beyond palpation. Puncture should never be resorted to as serious results are likely to follow, owing to the fact that the wall of the organ is often extremely thin and that leakage of septic bile or the escape of pus from an empyematous gall-bladder may take place and may be followed by serious or even fatal peritonitis. A distended gall-bladder in a patient who does not suffer from jaundice points to some occlusion of the cystic duct. When on the other hand the gall-bladder is distended and there is marked and persistent jaundice, this is