CHAPTER X. NEW GROWTHS OF THE RECTUM. POLYPUS OF THE RECTUM. This is the usual form of innocent growth of the rectum. It is generally met with in the lower two inches of the bowel although occasionally it occurs higher up. It is most common in children, and generally springs from the dorsal aspect of the bowel. The great majority of polypi of the rectum are adenomata and they are generally pedunculated owing to their weight and the traction exerted during defsecation. Myomata, fibromata or lipomata also occur, but are very rare; a warty villous tumour of the rectum has been met with, although this is very rare, as are also cysts. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms are usually unmistakable whenever the pedicle of the tumour is of any considerable length. When however the polypus is situated high up in the rectum there may not be any diagnostic symptoms. When in the usual situation, low down in the bowel, there is tenesmus accompanied by the passage of mucus and sometimes blood, and, when the pedicle is sufficiently long, the tumour may protrude through the anus, bleeding at the least touch and being bright red and fleshy in appearance. The tumour generally recedes spontaneously after defaecation ; sometimes however the pedicle may be so long that the growth remains outside and becomes markedly congested. When the polypus is situated high up in the bowel there may be a true intussusception of the rectum, the polypus forming its apex. With a little care the diagnosis is easy, as the finger introduced into the rectum will distinguish the fact that the tumour possesses a pedicle which is attached to the wall of the rectum above the pile-bearing area, and there should therefore be no difficulty in diagnosing it from hfemorrhoids. TREATMENT.—The patient should be fully anc^sthetised, the anus should be dilated, the parts thoroughly examined and the tumour seized and pulled down with a pair of pile forceps. Careful examination must be made in doing this to see whether the tumour is single or multiple as