THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. 300 stone may be so small as to escape detection among the various folds of the bladder. The simplest way of overcoming this difficulty is to introduce a Bigelow's evacuating tube and to connect it with the ordinary lithotrity evacuating bottle; this will draw small stones either actually into the evacuator, or, if they be too big for this, they will strike the eye of the catheter with a characteristic metaUic ring. The most serious difficulty is when the stone is encysted, as there is only a small surface uncovered and, even if the sound should strike it once, it cannot necessarily be made to do so repeatedly. An encysted stone may always be suspected if the sound can only be made to strike it in one definite position, and when its beak cannot be made to pass around it. Another difficulty is the presence of phosphatic deposit in the bladder, and this has led more than once to an abortive operation for stone; the indefiniteness and immobility of the phosphatic mass should prevent a mistake of this kind. A fairly good notion of the size of the stone may be gained by drawing the beak of the instrument over it from end to end, and then from side to side. Its consistence and structure can often be told by the characteristic sound on striking it, the sharp ring of the oxalate calculus differing widely from the dull sound given by the uratic stone, and both of these being quite unlike the soft grating of phosphatic concretions. When a stone has been found and its size has been estimated, no further examination is necessary before proceeding to remove it. When however no stone is detected, or if a stone once felt cannot be detected again, the bladder should be examined with the cystoscope (see p. 259), which will frequently yield the necessary information. This instrument is of no great value in the diagnosis of stone, but when the calculus is encysted it is of great importance. The complications of stone are not very numerous. Amongst the most important is cystitis with its sequelte, ascending pyelitis and pyelonephritis. A stone seldom remains long in the bladder without setting up cystitis, and this may be of a severe septic nature, wearing the patient out, and eventually causing death from surgical kidney. Stone in the bladder is a common cause of prolapse of the rectum or haemorrhoids, due to the straining in passing water. TREATMENT.—As the calculus is a foreign body, the only possible treatment is to remove it by surgical means. In former times and even at the present day attempts have been made to dissolve the stone either by drugs administered internally or by injections into the bladder. These attempts are quite futile. There is no doubt that a patient is often relieved by a stay at mineral springs such as those of Vichy, Carlsbad or Contrexeville, but the explanation of this is not that the waters exert any true solvent action upon an already formed stone. Symptoms similar to those of stone are frequently due to the passage of highly concentrated urine or small crystals and this condition may be improved by a cure at one of the foregoing health resorts. Even when a stone is present, a certain amount of relief is obtained, probably by the beneficial effect of the waters upon the cystitis present.