73 CANCER. must be relieved before extirpation can be undertaken. The same remark applies to cases where the obstruction is only partial and the bowel above the stricture is much distended. The treatment of this complication may or may not involve a preliminary colotomy. The final point requiring consideration is the general co7idition of the patient. Many sufferers from cancer of the rectum are in a state of semi- starvation. They fear to take food because it aggravates the obstruction and they are wasting from the severe dyspepsia associated with the disease. Many of them therefore, although the local conditions are favourable, are unfitted for a radical operation for this reason ; this applies especially to old subjects whose recuperative power is very slight and who may therefore sink after the operation from mere weakness. The cases suitable for excision may therefore be summed up as those in which the disease is well within reach of the finger, where the mass is freely movable and where the patient's condition is good. Excision must also be considered for cases of growth high up in the rectum, provided the bowel be movable, but here a definite decision can hardly be arrived at unless an exploratory laparotomy be first undertaken. The cases unsuitable for excision are mainly those of extensive growth with fixation and marked glandular infection ; the operation should not be advised when the patient is much debilitated or very old and wasted, nor should it be done when actual obstruction exists. Cancer of the rectum in subjects under 35 is of a particularly maligant character and early recurrence is the rule; these cases therefore should be looked upon as unsuited for excision unless seen in the very earliest stage. A somewhat similar remark applies to disease about the anal margin; this is of very malignant type and unless seen quite early is not suited for excision as rapid recurrence is likely to follow. We have already expressed our opinion that extension of the disease to the prostate negatives excision and we are still more strongly of opinion that, if the base of the bladder be implicated, the operation is out of the question. There are cases which, although unsuitable for excision zvhe/i first seen, may become suitable under proper treatment. These are the cases in which some obstruction is present but in which the local conditions are otherwise favourable for excision. If the symptoms of obstruction be acute, it will be necessary in the first instance to perform a colotomy to relieve the obstruction and then, after the patient has recovered from the attack of obstruction, it may be quite possible to deal with the growth by excision. Similarly, in cases where the obstruction, although not acute, is marked the general health will often improve so much after colotomy that excision may be safely done after a few weeks' rest. Finally, there are cases in which it is impossible to say whether excision or colotomy should be done. These are essentially those in which the upper part of the rectum is the seat of the growth and where the conditions cannot be accurately gauged without a preliminary laparotomy. The right