356 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. is usually curved upwards by the agency of fibrous bands passing -from the symphysis pubis to the middle line of the dorsum of the penis and the patient suffers from even more disability than in the corresponding condition of hypospadias. TREATMENT.—This very closely resembles that for- hypospadias. The shghter forms of the deformity, in which the urethra is cleft only where it passes through the glans, do not call for operative interference. In the more extensive cases, where the penile urethra is affected but the neck of the bladder is intact, operations upon lines similar to those for hypospadias may be practised. When there is also extroversion of the bladder the Fiii. 73.—Thiersch's Operation for Epispadias. I. Incisions for raising two flaps abdc and efhg. II. The direction in which the flaps are raised ; ac represents the flap a^ii'c and i?f the flap i'/Zi;?. III. Method of reflecting and suturing the flaps. The edge a of the flap nc is sutured to the point e in 11., while the edge e of the flap eg; is sutured to the point a in II. This diagram also shows how Iniried sutures are avoided, and yet the flaps are properly secured. treatment of the cleft urethra must be delayed until the ectopia has been remedied. In all cases the operation is done in stages as is that for hypospadias, the organ being straightened in the first instance, the urethral canal restored in the next place, whilst finally this is united to the opening at the root of the penis. Straightening the re-curved penis is done exactly as. for hypospadias (see p. 350) but in this case the organ requires to be fastened down during healing and the best plan is probably to employ the wire frame recommended for use in retained testis (see Chap. XLV.) and to fasten the organ to it by means of a stitch through the frenum. This apparatus can be worn even when the patient gets about, and the movements of the limbs do not in any way interfere with the wound. It is a far better plan than stitching the organ to the skin of the thigh. Thierscli's method.—The restoration of the penile urethra is best done by the method known as that of Thiersch, which differs somewhat from that described for hypospadias. The method will be evident from the diagrams