36 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. the sphincter and not when it perforates that structure ; here it is worth while to wait and see whether the mucous membrane will recover after free evacuation of the pus by an incision external to the anus. In the deeper-seated forms, whether they find their way down from above the levator ani or not, the abscess cavity should be opened by an external incision, all diverticula opened up, and a large drainage tube inserted. The bowels should be freely opened before the operation, if possible, and then should be confined for two or three days, after which they should be kept open with laxatives. At each action it is important to fix the dressing with a bandage so as to prevent faecal material actually passing into the abscess cavity. As soon as defsecation is over the dirty dressings are removed, the parts washed with a 1-2000 sublimate solution, and a fresh dressing of cyanide gauze, sprinkled with iodoform, is packed between the edges of the incision, salicylic wool is placed outside, and the whole i^" fixed on with a T-bandage. Many of these deeply seated abscesses will heal without perforating the bowel if free drainage be provided before the mucous membrane has become much thinned. Of course if the abscess be merely secondary to some other disease the sinus left will not heal until the original focus disappears, nor will it heal if a fistula forms through the mucous surface. FISTULA IN AND. By this term is understood a fistulous track, one end of which opens upon the skin and the other into the rectum or the anus. The term, qualified by the adjective "blind," is also used when there is only an external or an internal opening, and when the case is really a sinus and not a true fistula. Fistula in ano is always preceded by an ischio-rectal abscess, and generally follows its spontaneous opening. It may be simple or tuberculous in nature, and the exact condition of affairs varies widely ; the commonest is a track lined with granulation tissue, outside which is a wall of dense fibrous tissue. The track may lead direct from the internal to the external opening, or it may be very tortuous or have various ramifications, or, again, there may be several external openings all converging to a single internal one. A fistula once formed has no tendency to heal spontaneously. This is due to several causes, of which the principal are movement of the parts during defsecation and walking, the sluggish venous circulation about the hcemorrhoidal region, and, more important than all, the frequent entrance of the contents of the bowel into a tortuous and narrow track. When the fistula is tuberculous in nature this is an additional hindrance to healing. The existence of a fistula in ano is easily demonstrated with a probe; but, before introducing the latter into the external opening, it is very important to pass the finger into the bowel and to search for the internal orifice, which can often be detected either as a small depression, or, more usually, as a slight projection from the mucous membrane. The probe can HMGffiM6M»«nniiaMB