GALL-STONES. 147 may cause infection. On the other hand, even though successful, the affection may not be cured thereby, as only part of the debris may pass into the duodenum, and the remainder may form the nuclei of fresh stones. Incision of the common duct is followed by the escape of bile, sometimes in very large quantities. When the duct is much dilated, it is well to make a small incision into it in the first instance, so as to avoid having the wound flooded with a large quantity of bile. As the latter escapes, it is rapidly mopped up with sterilised pads, which should be at hand in large numbers and should not be used a second time. When all the bile has escaped, the incision may be enlarged, and the stone removed as mentioned above; the next point is to palpate the whole duct and then to introduce a probe and to explore it in both directions, upwards and downwards, to see whether any more stones are present. Suture of the duct may be performed in several ways, and varies greatly in the ease with which it can be done according to the depth at which the duct lies from the surface. The fullest possible retraction of the wound should be effected by the assistant, the free edge of the liver should be drawn up and the duodenum pushed downwards as far as possible. A good light and especially good sponging are essential, as the escape of bile and the troublesome oozing from the plexus of veins (see p. 105) lying over the common duct may hamper the surgeon very much. The fine needles recom- mended by Mr. Arbuthnot Lane for cleft-palate operations, passed by means of the special needle-holder, are often useful for suture. Others, like Mr. Mayo Robson, use a rectangular cleft-palate needle. Others again prefer fine, curved Hagedorn needles. Halsted has introduced a series of ingenious metal hammers for the purpose of distending the duct, pulling it well up into the wound and steadying it there while suture is being performed, but we have found no special advantage from their use, and shall not therefore describe them further. We prefer to press forward the duct with the forefinger in the foramen of Winslow, and to use curved needles in a suitable needle holder. We always try to avoid taking up the mucous membrane of the duct in the stitch, but this is not always possible. Two rows of interrupted catgut sutures should be inserted, the first layer through the walls of the duct and the second through its peritoneal cover- ing whenever it is possible to differentiate between these two structures. Perfect closu re of the incision may be obtained in this manner, and no leakage of bile is likely to take place ; when there are many adhesions however, the distinction between the two structures will not be marked and one layer of sutures will suffice. In our opinion good drainage should always be provided even after most accurate suture. After stitching the duct the best plan is to insert a tube the size of the thumb down to but not actually touching the duct, and to pack gauze lightly around it, making both tube and gauze emerge from one end of the abdominal wound, the remainder of which is sewn up as after an ordinary laparotomy. The tube must not actually touch the duct or it might