INJURIES TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS. ' 517 from the shock, should be propped up in the semi-recumbent position with a large ice-bag or Leiter's tubes applied to the affected side of the chest. If the dyspnoea be considerable, a hypodermic injection of mor- phine will probably relieve it greatly, and under this treatment most of the mild cases will recover, the sputum gradually becoming rusty in the course of two or three days and the case steadily clearing up. The patient should not be allowed to get up until all the physical signs have disappeared from the chest. (b) Of complicated cases.—The most serious cases are those in which air or blood is present in the pleural cavity. W/ien there is hcsmo-thorax^ cold should be applied to the affected side of the chest in order to check the bleeding. Internal styptics, especially adrenalin chloride (iTl^v-xxx of a i in 1000 solution), chloride of calcium (3i per rectum), ergotine (x^o^h gr. hypodermically), and gallic acid (gr. xv), may be tried and will probably arrest the hemorrhage unless a large vessel be wounded. It is an open question whether any attempt should be made to open the thorax and try to secure the bleeding point. Should the haemorrhage come from an intercostal or the internal mammary artery it would be an advisable procedure, but when it is due, as it commonly is, to tearing of a lung and oozing from its surface or when the bleeding comes from one of the larger pulmonary vessels, the chances of finding and arresting it after opening the thorax are almost infinitesimal. The surgical treatment of persistent hsemo-thorax therefore will be mainly directed to the relief of pressure. If blood be poured out into the pleural cavity in large quantity it will exert injurious pressure upon the lung and interfere with breathing to such an extent that some amount of it must be removed. At the same time it is well not to be unduly hasty in removing the blood, as its pressure may act beneficially in stopping the htemorrhage while, as soon as the bleeding stops, the fluid is rapidly absorbed from the pleura and the pressure diminishes. If it be decided to relieve the intra-thoracic pressure, this should be done by puncturing the fifth or sixth intercostal space in the mid- axillary line with a large hollow needle. The patient should be in the horizontal position and it is well to make a small nick in the skin previously, after which the needle should be pushed into the thorax midway between the two ribs. The patient should be encouraged not to breathe deeply and the aspirating bottle should not be used; it is enough to allow the fluid blood to flow out and no more should be withdrawn than is necessary to relieve the pressure. It is better to repeat the tapping than to take away too much blood at one time. Pyo-tJiorax will follow on hgemo-thorax when infection of the extra- vasated blood has occurred. Its treatment will practically be that of empyema (see p. 528).