212 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. adhesions prevent the organ being brought out on to the loin, the tissues around must be packed off before the kidney is opened. The kidney should be incised freely a little behind its convex border, so as to split the organ well open; the pus is washed away as it escapes with a strong stream of normal saline, or sublimate (1-4000) solution. The finger is introduced into the pelvis, and if a stone be found it is removed (see Chap. XXII.). If no stone be found, a probe is passed down the ureter, and an impacted stone or a stricture is searched for and dealt with appropriately. After the kidney has been opened and any obstruction removed, drainage should be employed if a fair amount of healthy renal tissue be left. A large tube (No. 24) is passed well into the pelvis of the kidney and fixed there, the original packing is removed and a little fresh gauze is tucked in around the tube. When the kidney has been brought out on the loin, it is well to fix it to the abdominal wall by two or three stitches,^ as otherwise the organ might fall away from the drainage tube, which would, therefore, not act properly. When there are dense peri nephric adhesions however this is not likely to occur. The lumbar wound is left open. When a peri-nephric abscess is present in addition to a pyonephrosis, a tube should be passed behind the kidney as well as one into the pelvis. After-treatvmit.—The dressing requires frequent renewal, because there will be free escape of urine through the loin as well as pus. If the cause of obstruction has been removed and there is no obstruction in the ureter, rapid improvement generally follows, the urine escaping partially through the loin and partially into the bladder, the amount passing in the former direction diminishing fairly rapidly. As soon as urine passes freely into the bladder and the amount of pus diminishes, the drainage tube may gradually be shortened. Even in favourable cases however it will be something like three or four weeks before this can be done safely, and after that a renal fistula may remain for several months. Should this not close at the end of six or eight months, the case must be looked upon as one of permanent renal fistula, and treated accordingly (see Chap. XXII.). The patient should be kept in bed for the first six or eight weeks, but, if at the end of that time the temperature has fallen and the patient's condition has improved, he may be allowed to get up wearing a suitable lumbar urinal. It will generally be necessary to use a drainage tube corresponding in length to the thickness of the abdominal wall as long as the fistula persists, in order to keep the external opening patent. Nephrectomy.—Sometimes however it is obviously hopeless to expect nephrotomy and drainage to effect a cure, and a primary nephrectomy may therefore be called for. This will be necessary, for example, when there is a cicatricial stricture of the ureter which cannot be overcome, so that nephro- tomy and drainage will certainly end in a permanent renal fistula. Moreover the kidney may be so disorganised that little or no secreting substance is left and it is clear that the organ is functionally useless. Whenever this is the case, ^ These should be made to emerge through the skin in order that they may be removed later on.