TUBERCULOSIS. 291 The edges of the incision in the bladder are now held well open by two or three suitable large retractors and the interior of the organ is mopped out and carefully inspected >; if necessary the bag in the rectum is inflated so as to push up the base of the bladder. The object of the surgeon is to expose and treat every individual ulcer that may be present, and the mucous membrane must therefore be gone over most thoroughly. The great drawback to this is the constant secretion of urine through the ureters, so that the wound becomes rapidly moist even after the most careful sponging. A very useful aid is the "caisson" speculum (see Fig. 63) by which areas of the bladder can be isolated, dried and appropriately treated. In order to work through this, long-handled forceps, scissors and knives are necessary. Small ulcers may be picked up and snipped out bodily with a portion of the surrounding mucous membrane, any oozing point being stopped by temporary pressure or touched with the elec- tric cautery. Larger ulcers cannot be dealt with in this way and they must be scraped, although this is difficult as it is impossible to get firm resistance to scrape against even by using a bag or an assistant's finger in the rectum; the surface of the ulcer may be afterwards touched with the cautery.'^ When every ulcer has been treated in turn, powdered iodoform is rubbed firmly into each and in addition the surface may be painted over with a saturated ethereal solution of the drug; this should not be used however if the ulcerated area be extensive, as sloughing might be caused. It now only remains to drain the bladder by a large tube projecting well into its cavity but not reaching the trigone, and furnished only with lateral holes where it is in the bladder. It should reach down to but not touch the internal meatus. The remainder of the incision into the bladder is then closely stitched up and a good plan is to insert one or two sutures between the edges of the portiofi of the bladder wall through which the tube passes and the abdominal muscles, so as to prevent the two structures being separated. A second small drainage tube is inserted into the pre-vesical space and the skin wound is closed by interrupted silkworm-gut sutures taking up the muscles as well as the skin. After-treatment.—The foot of the bed is raised so as to take the pressure of the intestines off the bladder, whilst the bladder-tube is connected with a continuous drainage apparatus (see p. 282) and is left undisturbed for four or five days in order that a definite track may be established around it; it is It is well to reflect the light from a powerful electric lamp with a forehead mirror. ^Deep ulcers however should not be touched with the cautery, as perforation may result. Fig. 63.—"Caisson" Speculum for the Bladder. The instrument is here shown opened to its full extent. For facilitating introduction it is designed to fold up to a certain extent.