INJURIES OF THE KIDNEY. When the capsule of the kidney is ruptured, the shock is usually much more severe, and the blood, besides escaping by the ureter, finds its way into the tissues around the kidney, and, with the urine which is simultaneously extravasated, may form a large swelling in the loin, spreading upwards under the ribs and downwards towards the iliac fossa. There is usually extensive damage to the kidney—indeed the organ may be completely pulped-up—and the patient's condition is very serious. When the peritoneum over the ruptured kidney is torn and there is extravasation of blood and urine into the peritoneal cavity, the shock is very profound, and there is rapidly increasing pain and tenderness over the abdomen, with extending dulness and possibly a swelling on the affected side. The pulse is quick, thready, and incompressible; the vomiting is intractable, and tympanites rapidly sets in. The want of limitation of the pain, dulness, and swelling, with the profound collapse, followed rapidly by signs of peritonitis, indicate the true nature of the lesion. The chief dangers in connection with an injury to the kidney are con- tinuous and excessive bleeding ; inflammation and suppuration of the kidney itself or of the peri-nephric tissues, which may go on to septicaemia or pyseraia; and thrombosis of the renal vein, followed by emboli elsewhere. When the renal artery itself or one of its large branches is torn, gangrene of the kidney may ensue. Occlusion of the ureter by blood-clot, with consequent hydronephrosis and pyonephrosis, peritonitis, or possibly a traumatic aneurysm of the renal artery may also be met with. Death is usually due to collapse, to haemorrhage, to peritonitis or, at a later date, to pyEemia, cystitis, hectic fever, or suppression of urine. The chief difficulty in regard to treatment is to gauge the extent of the injury to the kidney ; nevertheless this is a most important point, because it determines to a great extent the question of operative interference. In many of the slighter injuries to the kidney the patient recovers without operative interference, whereas in others his life will depend on early operation. TREATMENT.—The treatment may be operative or non-operative. In the majority of cases, unless there be signs of serious hfemorrhage, non- operative treatment is employed for a few hours at any rate, and in many cases no operation is necessary. (a) Non-operative.—The first indication is to combat the shock (see Part I., p. 141) ; warmth to the extremities, injections of camphor and strychnine,! and absolute rest in bed with the head low, should all be employed. It is well however to avoid using alcoholic stimulants for fear of increasing the haemorrhage, and also of irritating the kidney. The second indication is to give the parts as much rest as possible. The patient should be placed upon his back in bed, with the knees tied together and flexed over a suitable pillow which is prevented from slipping down by a ' The injections of Liq. stiycli. may be of \\. v and upwards, repeated in 2 or 3 hours if necessary. \W^. xxx of a 20% solution of camphor in sterilised almond oil may be f^iven similarly.