EMPYEMA. 533 ill the drainage tube may be removed about the fifth day, and a tube provided either with flanges or with a safety-pin run across it to prevent it slipping into the thorax should be substituted; the pressure of the dressings outside will prevent the tube slipping out. No irrigation should be practised, as it is not only useless for the reasons we have already mentioned in dealing with acute abscess, but sudden death and serious collapse have been known to occur from it. The length of time the drainage tube should be continued varies greatly and depends largely upon the bacteriology of the case. In pneumococcal cases in children where there is no great fixity of the lung the rule is to keep on drainage as long as pus is discharged from the cavity, or at any rate as long as any is coughed out through the dressings. When the discharge has become serous the tube may be left out; even if distension of the pleura were to take place again, the discharge, being serous, might become absorbed, (jodlee suggests that, under these circumstances, to prevent granulations blocking the opening, a grooved instrument should be introduced every two or three days so that any serum that has collected may be allowed to escape and, if this be done, the final closure of the cavity is much facilitated. Should the fluid thus escaping be found to be purulent and not serous, the tube should be re introduced. The management of the tube in these cases is a matter of great difficulty and is really one of the most important points in the treatment. It is essential in all cases to maintain the strictest asepsis. The patient should be kept in bed for a week or longer in all cases but, .if at the end of that time the temperature be normal and the condition has improved, he may be allowed to sit up and get about; drainage will be more efficient when he is in the erect position. Suitable general treatment must be employed, and the patient should go to the seaside or the country if healing be not progressing rapidly enough, pro- vided that he can be where he is sure of proper aseptic treatment. (b) Of localised empyema.—Here the treatment follows similar lines, but the great difficulty is to find the pus, as the physical signs may be so indefinite when the collection is small that the surgeon can only expect to tap the abscess after repeated punctures. When however the pus has been found after a careful search, the needle is left in as a guide and a portion of the rib above it is resected, the pleura opened and' the empyema evacuated. These cases are usually more favourable in their prognosis because the lung is not bound down in the same way; indeed it is frequently adherent to the parietes. (c) Of double empyema.—This is a serious condition, as the respira- tion on both sides is embarrassed and it is hardly safe to open both pleural cavities simultaneously for fear of causing still further trouble. The best plan is to open one side and to leave the other for a few days until the patient has become accustomed to the new condition of aflairs. If the respiration be very embarrassed, some of the pus may be drawn