ORGANIC STRICTURE. membrane, into the peri-urethral tissues and there set up an abscess which in the first instance may be shut off from the urethra. As it increases in size the abscess spreads towards the urethra on the one hand and the skin on the other and generally ends by bursting first into the urethra and afterwards through the skin. The result of this is a perineal urinary fistula. It is not uncommon for other abscesses to form and to give rise to numerous fistulte, but as a rule there is only one orifice by which the fistulae communicate with the urethra, whereas there may be several openings on the surface. It is common for these peri-urethral abscesses to commence in suppuration in Cowper's glands. When the abscess bursts into the urethra early, urine will find its way into the abscess cavity and the condition is then sometimes spoken of as a urinary abscess. This gives rise to rapid increase in the inflammatory condition and, if only a small quantity of urine finds its way into the abscess cavity, a perineal urinary fistula will form when the abscess makes its way through the skin. Sometimes however the opening into the abscess from the urethra is wide and urine enters freely. When the patient micturates, the pressure in the abscess is very great if the stricture be tight, and the wall may give way and sudden extravasation of urine (see p. 418) may take place. Peri-urethral abscesses usually occur in the perineum below or behind the urethra and cause much pain. There are generally rigors and all the symptoms of acute inflammation. When the abscess bursts into the urethra pus flows from the meatus, sometimes independently of micturition, sometimes only when the patient urinates, if the stricture be very tight. Treatment.—The earlier these abscesses are opened from the outside • the better, and if this can be done and the stricture at the same time dilated the chances are that no urinary fistula will form. In some cases however the abscess is situated quite close to the urethra, the wall of which is much thinned, and, even though the abscess be incised before it has burst into the urethra, the thinned mucous membrane will give way subsequently and a urinary fistula will follow. On the other hand the abscess may burst into the urethra almost as soon as its existence is ascertained. It should be a definite rule that any brawny tender swelling in the perineum in connection with a stricture should lead the surgeon to incise it freely at once. If an abscess be opened in this manner, a large drainage tube should be inserted and nothing further need be done immediately, provided that the patient can pass water fairly freely. Then after a lapse of a few days a Syme's external urethrotomy (see p. 406) should be performed. If on the other hand the stricture be very narrow, it may be better to perform an external urethrotomy at the time that the abscess in the perineum is opened. (f) Of strictures complicated by perineal listulse.—The manner in which perineal fistula; occur in connection with a peri-urethral abscess has just been mentioned. Fistulas may also follow extravasat-ion of urine