HEMORRHOIDS. losing much blood or when the piles come down as the patient walks about, and of course when there are any of the various complications demanding operative treatment (vide infra). Even at the present time there is no universal agreement as to the best method of operative treatment to be employed. The three chief methods in vogue are complete excision of the pile-bearing area, removal of isolated piles by the clamp and cautery, and ligature of the tumours. Excision.—Of excision of piles it may be said that, from the theoretical point of view, it is clearly the ideal method. By excision the pile area is completely removed and primary union should result. The difficulties lie partly in the anatomical factors and partly in that septic infection cannot always be guarded against, and may interfere with union. The only method of excision which we need consider here is that introduced by Mr. Whitehead of Manchester, and known by his name. In it the lower inch or so of the mucous membrane, together with the terminations of the haemorrhoidal plexus, is completely removed, this being followed by suture of the cut edges of the mucous membrane to the skin. There can be no doubt as to the theoretical advantages of this method. It is comparatively easy to perform ; it is followed, as a rule, by primary union without pain or subsequent inflammation. On the other hand the disadvantages are undeniable, although doubtless these diminish as the operator becomes more practised. Thus considerably more blood is lost in performing it than in using the clamp and cautery, and therefore the procedure may be serious to those who are profoundly ansemic. Again, stricture around the anal orifice has occurred more than once, either as a result of giving way of the sutures or from imperfect suturing at the time of operation, as may occur when too much mucous membrane has-been excised and when therefore there is tension on the stitches. As a rule, however, any stricture that may thus form is so narrow that it is easily dilated with the finger or a bougie, or it may be satisfactorily treated by subsequent division. Fatal pyjemia has followed the operation, and pulmonary embolism has also been known to occur. The operation is best suited for vigorous adults in whom there is an extensive and general development of piles. It is unnecessary where only two or three large internal haemorrhoids are present, or where the chief trouble is external piles. Whitehead's operation. Mr. Whitehead thus describes his operation :' "i. The patient, previously prepared for the operation, and under complete influence of an anaesthetic, is placed on a high narrow table in the lithotomy position, and maintained in this position either by a couple of assistants or by a Clover's crutch. " 2. The sphincters are thoroughly paralysed by digital stretching, and permit the haemorrhoids and any prolapse there may be to descend without the slightest impediment. " 3- By the use of scissors and dissecting forceps the mucous membrane ' .See British Medical Journal, Feb. 6, 1887.