498 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. carrying it in a sling when getting about, but whenever she sits down she should rest it on a table or the side of a chair so as to keep it well out from the side. At night she should if possible sleep with it at a right angle. We attach great importance to dealing with the arm in this way as it obviates the tendency to fixation to the side which otherwise occurs, and a patient treated in this manner will obtain the free use of the arm very much earlier than she would otherwise do. The results of these extensive operations are extremely good. It is quite uncommon for local recurrence to take place, and something like half the number of cases operated upon have remained free for several years. Some surgeons advocate a still more extensive operation and in all cases remove the glands from the posterior triangle of the neck as well. If the infection of the glands in the neck be only slight, and especially if those in the lower part of the triangle only be affected, there is no objection to this, as it is readily done through an incision about an inch above the clavicle and parallel to it. When however enlarged glands cannot be felt in the posterior triangle and when the infection of the axillary glands is not extensive, it seems to us unnecessary to subject the patient to this operation, and we have rarely seen recurrence take place in the posterior triangle. On the other hand, if the infection of the glands in the neck be extensive, the chance of subsequent freedom from disease is so slight that it is questionable whether it is worth while operating. We should say that ^Ae cases unsuited for complete extirpation are those in which there is extensive infection of the glands above the clavicle, those in which there is evidence of disease in internal organs, bad cases of "cancer en cuirasse" and cases in which the tumour has actually become adherent to the chest wall itself. Short of these conditions we advise extirpation, even though the local disease be very extensive, and in a certain number of cases a long period has elapsed without recurrence, in spite of apparently unfavourable conditions. Age does not form a great barrier against the operation; we have operated on patients up to eighty years of age who have done extremely well. At the same time of course extreme feebleness or very advanced age, especially if the growth be a typical atrophic cancer, would cause the surgeon to hesitate before operat- ing. It is a very debateable point whether co-existing disease in both mammae contra-indicates operation. If it be very extensive on both sides it is of course useless to expect a radical cure, but if the disease in the second breast is clearly secondary to that in the first and is not far advanced we should advise removal of both breasts. As it would be hardly possible to subject the patient to two operations of this magni- tude on the same day, the second operation, which should be on the less affected breast, should be done after an interval of a week or ten days and the same extensive operation should be performed on the two sides. By some authors atrophic cancer is looked upon as a form of the ■disease for which operation is unsuitable. From this view however we