CHAPTER III. INJURIES OF THE RECTUM: FOREIGN BODIES. INJURIES OF THE RECTUM. Injuries of the rectum are fortunately not very common, for when they do occur they are very serious. They^may be met with :—i. In association with fractures of the pelvis (more particularly fractures of the sacrum) ; and 2. as the result of the penetration of foreign bodies. Lacerations of the rectum, produced by fractures of the pelvis or sacrum, are of extreme gravity, as there is a communication between the intestine and the fracture which is often foltowed by fatal septic, spreading pelvic cellulitis. The rectum may be completely torn across, and here the result is usually fatal. The patient is often so collapsed that any attempt to carry out the obvious line of treatment, namely, the repair of the injury to the rectum and the cleansing of the peritoneal cavity, is quite out of the question. Penetrating wounds of the rectum.—These may be due to the penetration of a foreign body, as when the patient falls in the sitting position on to a pole or a stick, and they may occasionally be produced by the surgeon; as, for example, in using Davy's lever for compressing the iliac arteries in amputation at the hip. Minor degrees of wound of the rectum are also produced by foreign bodies introduced into the bowel. The seriousness of an injury of this kind depends upon whether there be actual penetration of the rectal walls either into the peri-rectal cellular tissue or into the peritoneal cavity. When the mucous membrane alone is injured the prognosis is much less grave, the chief risk being haemorrhage, which may be free and which is especially serious from the fact that it may go on for a long time unnoticed because the contraction of the sphincter may prevent the escape of blood externally, and enormous distension of the rectum with blood-clot may thus occur. TREATMENT.—This will vary according as the case is one of a laceration associated with the fracture of the pelvis or of a wound from a foreign body, and the treatment of these again will vary according as the