TUMOURS OF THE KIDNEY. 249 Cachexia and wasting soon become manifest. The kidney is often lobulated and the growth tends to spread along the pedicle, so that the mass may become adherent to the vena cava; it may also spread through the capsule and become adherent to the tissues around. The diagnosis of renal tumours is often a matter of considerable difficulty and they have been mistaken even by the most experienced for tumours of the abdominal parietes, retro-nephric sarcomata, enlargements of the liver or the spleen, tumours of the supra-renal capsule, ovarian tumours, enlargements of the lymphatic glands, faecal accumulations, appendicitic thickenings, malignant tumours of the large intestine, the mesentery or the omentum or enlargements of the gall-bladder. The main diagnostic point is that the large intestine is in front of the tumour, which is dull on percussion right back to the spine, and that there is no space behind a renal tumour into which the fingers can be pushed. The enlargement of the kidney may be due not to a tumour but to some other condition, such as stone, tuberculosis, polycystic disease, hydatid cyst, hydronephrosis, etc. All these points must be inquired into when making the diagnosis. TREATMENT.—When a malignant growth of the kidney is suspected, an explo}-atory incision is quite justifiable, because malignant disease spreads very rapidly and the chance of successful extirpation soon disappears ; if the enlargement turn out to be due to a calculus, a movable kidney or tuberculosis, it is all the better for the patient, while if it be due to early malignant disease it gives him the very best chance. In these cases a lumbar incision is generally the best; if it be necessary to incise the kidney in order to complete the diagnosis, the organ must be brought out on to the loin before this is done and carefully packed off with gauze. It is absolutely essential that no soiling of the wound should occur, for to cut into malignant disease and allow the cells and juices of the growth to spread over the wound is almost certain to cause dis- semination of the disease; moreover, should there be pus in the kidney it is important to avoid infection of the wound. If the kidney be found to be the seat of malignant disease, the wound in it must be closely stitched up, fresh instruments obtained and the hands disinfected before proceeding to the nephrectomy. The whole aim of treatment in these cases is total extirpation of the kidney, and this should be done when the organ is comparatively small and movable. When however there is advanced cachexia, and swelling of the lower extremities from pressure on the vena cava, or when the tumour is very rapidly growing, as it often is in young children, it is not worth while performing nephrectomy, because all chance of removing the disease successfully has disappeared. Nephrectomy.—Unless the tumour be small, the lumbar operation is not very suitable, both because there is insufficient room and because it is not always possible to tell by means of it whether the kidney be removable. \Vhenever therefore the kidney is large, it is better to use one of the anterior