RETAINED TESTIS. 447 every few days until the ligature either cuts its way through or becomes sufficiently absorbed to break if it be of catgut. If it has not given way before, it may be cut and pulled out at the end of three weeks and the minute aperture covered by collodion. The result of pulling on the testis in this manner is to stretch the struc- tures of the cord as well as the scrotum and, moreover, the cord becomes fixed in the cicatricial tissue and the testis does not retract. Very good results have followed this method, the testicle increasing in size and obviously developing. Even should full success not be obtained and should the testis retract to the upper part of the scrotum, it is still outside the inguinal canal and in a position in which it is free from injury and may undergo development. This partial recession occurs especially when the descent of both testis is defective and the scrotum is therefore undeveloped; even here the improvement is great and the operation should always be tried in preference to castration. (2) Re-position of the testis within the abdomen.—This may be done when the testis is situated very high up in the inguinal canal at or even above the internal ring and when it is quite impossible to bring it down satisfactorily. This operation is especially indicated when the testes are of fair size and apparently normally developed and when both organs are undescended. Any hernial sac present is isolated as before, and then the question arises as to whether, the testis should be returned within the peritoneal cavity or should be placed in the sub-peritoneal tissues. The latter is the natural position for it because the organ would have to pass through a slit in the peritoneum if it were returned inside the peritoneal cavity and the cord might be constricted and the development of the testicle interfered with. The best plan is to separate the peritoneum from the tissues outside it for some distance backwards towards the iliac. fossa and to place the testis in the cavity so formed. The inguinal canal is then entirely sutured and the operation for radical cure completed in the usual manner. (3) Castration.—This operation may be called for i. In adults when the testis is e.xtremely small and obviously of no value, and when there is also a hernia. Removal of the testis will greatly facilitate the completeness of the radical cure, as the entire canal can be sewn up without having to leave room for the cord. 2. It may be necessary in young subjects who have suffered from repeated attacks of inflammation, as this is almost certain to prevent development of the testis. 3. It is also called for when gangrene threatens or actually exists, as for example after torsion of the cord. 4. It is obviously indicated when the organ is the seat of tuberculous or malignant disease. The early stages of the operation are similar to those just described, but instead of preserving the testicle, the cord is clamped and divided on the level of the internal ring and the lower part of it and the testis are