ORGANIC STRICTURE. The treatment of simple uncomplicated organic stricture varies according to the character of the obstruction, and different methods are required for resilient, bridle and callous strictures ; it may also be modified according to the number and situation of the strictures. The methods for dealing with simple uncomplicated strictures may be classified as i. Intermittent dilata- tion; 2. Continuous dilatation; 3. Internal urethrotomy; and 4. External urethrotomy. The use of caustics or forcible dilatation is very rarely resorted to and is not to be recommended; similarly, destruction of the stricture by electrolysis, which was in favour for a short time, is seldom practised now and need not be considered. We shall describe the ways of dilating strictures first, as they are the methods most in u.se; even when urethro- tomy is to be performed, some dilatation of the stricture must as a rule precede the operation. Before doing this however we shall describe the method of examination for the diagnosis of a stricture. /// examinitig for a stricture it is not unusual to mistake spasm of the urethral wall for an organic stricture. Anyone who does this runs the risk of pronouncing that a patient has a stricture when one does not exist. It may be taken as an axiom that any instrument. that will pass through the meatus should pass without difficulty through the rest of a normal urethra; in order therefore to ascertain whether a stricture is present the first instrument used for exploration should be one as large as the meatus will admit. If the surgeon accepts the patient's statement that he has a stricture and commences with a small-sized instrument, he may be easily misled into thinking that a stricture is present when none exists, as the point of a fine bougie is apt to catch in the folds of the mucous membrane and this will not only impede the passage of the instrument but will set up spasm which will interfere with the examination still further. Moreover, with a small instrument a stricture may be overlooked as all strictures are not necessarily narrow, and a stricture that will not admit a No. 6 may allow a No. 3 or 4 to pass without hindrance. Another point of importance is that the instrument should be rigid as well as full-sized. A fle.xible instrument cannot well be guided. A No. 12 English metal bougie is generally employed first for diagnostic purposes. The patient should lie on his back and, after having taken all the aseptic precautions already referred to (see p. 336), the surgeon stands at the patient's left .side, grasps the penis just behind the glans and puts it on the stretch. In attempting to pass instruments the direction and length of the various portions of the urethra should be remembered. Thus, if the organ be held vertical, the bougie must first pass directly downwards for about six inches, until it reaches the commencement of the membranous urethra; this portion then runs almost horizontally for about three-quarters of an inch, and the prostatic urethra curves forwards and upwards for about an inch and a quarter before the bladder is reached. The mistake usually made is that the point of the instrument is not passed down far enough in the bulbous urethra and the handle of the instrument is prematurely