441 ELEPHANTIASIS SCROTI. affected should be removed, while at the same time care must be taken not to damage the penis, and the testicles must not be removed. It is most difficult to avoid injury to the penis which lies buried at the bottom of a deep pit caused by the downward drag of the hypertrophied scrotum. The chief trouble in removing these hypertrophied masses is haemorrhage. This may be temporarily controlled by an elastic ligature kept in position by long pins thrust through the scrotum on each side of the penis from behind for- wards about the level of the commencement of the hypertrophy of the skin. The incisions must be planned so as to remove all the diseased area, but if possible enough skin should be left to cover the testicles. Before ■commencing the operation it is well to ascertain the position of the penis and to isolate that. When enough skin cannot be left to cover in the testicles'Thiersch's grafts may be employed about ten days or a fortnight after the primary operation. LYMPH-SCROTUM. In this condition the scrotal lymphatics are markedly varicose and there are frequently small vesicles on the scrotum discharging a fluid consisting of a mixture of lymph and chyle. The condition seldom requires surgical interference unless inflammation occurs in connection with it. SYPHILIS OF THE SCROTUM. Scrotal affections are not uncommon in the first two stages of syphilis. Chancres may occur in the primary stage, and the scrotum is a comparatively common seat of co?idyIofnata in the secondary stage; many of the ulcers found on the scrotum in secondary syphilis are really ulcerating condylomata. Treatment,—This is similar to that of the affection in general (see Part I., Chap. XII.). SCROTAL TUMOURS. Tumours of the scrotum may be simple or malignant; the most common are probably sebaceous cysts, which need not be further referred to, and epithelioma, which is not an uncommon affection. EPITHELIOMA SCROTI.—'I'his disease has received the distinctive name of "chimney-sweep's cancer" but it appears not to be limited to this trade as it occurs also in paraffin workers and in others in whom the scrotum is liable to irritation from the material in which they work. Chimney-sweep's cancer usually manifests itself as a small, hard, warty scrotal growth covered with a firm scab and increasing very slowly at first. It may be several years before it assumes active growth but, however slow its early stages may be, a period comes at which it assumes the characters of an ordinary epithelioma and it is then followed by rapid enlargement of the inguinal glands and general dissemination.