THE SURCnCAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. In order to lessen these risks it has been proposed to remove one testicle only, preferably that on the side on which the hypertrophy is most marked; improvement has followed this procedure, although it is very imperfect and in no way approaches that following removal of both organs. Vasectomy.—In order to get rid of the risk attaching to castration, Mr. Reginald Harrison has proposed to resect a portion of the vasa deferentia so as to produce gradual atrophy of the testes without complete destruction, hoping thereby to produce the same effect upon the prostate as after castration. A certain amount of improvement has followed vasectomy^ especially when done very early before the enlargement is great and before complications have occurred; but it is only slight so far as we are able to judge. Our own experience is that these operations upon the testicles and vasa deferentia are disappointing. At the present time therefore one may say that the general procedure is to use the catheter in the early stages of the affection but that, should complica- tions arise or catheterism become painful and difficult, some more radical measure seems to be required and that this should be prostatectomy. We cannot help thinking that, as time elapses, the operation of prostatectomy will come more into vogue and that moreover it will be done much earlier in the case before the patient is the subject of various complications ; indeed it seems to us logical to recommend the operation strongly as soon as the condition of the prostate renders it certain that catheter-life will have to be entered upon unless it be done. Treatment of complications-—The treatment of cystitis must follow the lines already laid down for that affection (see Chap. XXVII1.). When it occurs in the early stages of the disease, local measures should be avoided as far as possible and the various general measures already recom- mended (see p. 281) should be had recourse to. Should the cystitis continue and become chronic, however, local treatment will be necessary. In the first instance irrigation of the bladder (see p. 285) should be adopted; instillations (see p. 285) may be called for provided that they do not set up irritation. In worse cases continuous drainage (see p. 286) may be necessary. In very bad cases the bladder may have to be opened, preferably above the pubes, and permanent drainage adopted, should the patient be unable to stand a radical operation or should he refuse it. Epididymitis is not an infrequent complication, and in order to avoid it patients who are the subjects of prostatic enlargement should wear a suspen- sory bandage, and the greatest possible care should be taken in securing asepsis of the instruments used. The treatment for the affection is similar to that for epididymitis from other causes and is separately described. It has been suggested that, when there are frequently recurring attacks of epididymitis, vasectomy should be performed, not only for its effect upon the prostate but in order to cut off direct communication between the testis and the urethra. This recurring affection however will bring strongly forward the question of prostatectomy, as it is practically impossible under these circumstances to