156 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE SPLEEN. led to serious symptoms ; for example, a patient from whom Mr. Ballance removed the spleen for injury began, after convalescence, to go downhill with weakness, emaciation, thirst, and drowsiness. She was given extract of sheep's spleen and raw bone marrow daily, and recovered completely. In another very similar recorded case cod-liver oil and bone marrow, and, subsequently, arsenic, were administered with good results. PROLAPSE OF THE SPLEEN. When there is a large penetrating wound over the splenic region the spleen may prolapse, and the question will arise as to the best method of treatment. If the organ be uninjured, it should of course be purified and returned into the abdomen, but in most cases it will be damaged and bleeding freely. If the wound in the spleen be slight, it may be secured and the organ returned just within the abdomen and possibly sutured to the parietal peritoneum, but the softness of its substance renders any real compression very difficult, and there will probably be no alternative but to remove the spleen; for the details of the operation see p. 159. WANDERING SPLEEN. This condition is not at all uncommon. It occasionally follows injury, but more frequently arises spontaneously, the attachments of the spleen becoming unduly stretched. Indeed, the pedicle may be converted into a cord which may become twisted and may give rise to gangrene of the organ. The degree of mobility varies; sometimes the spleen merely moves out from under the ribs for a short distance, whilst in bad cases it wanders widely over the abdomen, especially towards the left iliac fossa; it has even been found in the pelvis. A wandering spleen is generally also enlarged, and the enlargement may either be the primary cause of the mischief, or it may be secondary to the undue mobility as a result of the repeated congestion caused by kinking of the pedicle. SYMPTOMS.—These are comparatively few and are mainly a slight pain and uneasiness about the left side, with occasional intestinal symptoms from pressure. The only condition from which the affection requires to be diagnosed is movable left kidney. The size and shape of the organ should, however, render the diagnosis easy; it is generally possible to feel the notch in the anterior margin of the spleen. TREATMENT.—In mild cases without marked pain the best plan is to try a well-fitting belt, which in many cases suffices to cure the slight troubles of which the patient complains. In severe cases more radical measures are required, and here the surgeon has the choice between two methods; on the one hand the so- called splenopexy, or fixation of the organ in its proper position, and on