386 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. mischief is comparatively extensive and scattered over the urethra, a mild solution should be employed, as otherwise the reaction may be severe. A solution of five grains to the ounce should be employed in the first instance and it will be found that the number of granular patches will steadily decrease and then stronger solutions (up to 7)] or 3ij to the §j) may be safely used to those remaining. The application should be made at intervals of about a week and during the time that the patient is under treatment the general measures for acute gonorrhoea (see p. 376) should be adopted; that is to say, the drugs there recommended should be employed and the patient should be instructed to practice irrigation if the discharge resulting from the application be troublesome. The effect of the strong solution of nitrate of silver is to set up a fairly acute urethritis which may even give rise to a blood-stained discharge for 24 hours or so; this only lasts however for two to four days. No other complication should occur if the application be carefully made, and the patient should always be told to expect an increase in the discharge. In the treatment of intra-urethral ulcerations, especially in the fossa navicularis, very strong solutions of nitrate of silver (3j-iij ad gj) or even the solid salt fused upon a probe or equal parts of carbolic acid and glycerine should be used. Special care must be taken not to allow the application to come into contact with the healthy mucous membrane; the surface must be dried after the application has been made, and a good plan is to fill up the urethroscope tube with boracic lotion so as to dilute and wash away any surplus salt. If the ulcer be in the fossa navicularis, a layer of salicylic wool may be packed over the surface and left in position until the patient micturates and washes it away. After an application of this kind to an ulcer we generally introduce a soluble bougie (see p. 376) and leave it in position. A little wool is applied over the meatus, the prepuce is drawn forwards and a gonorrhoea bag is applied outside. Indurations of the submucous tissue may be treated in one of two ways. The minor varieties are satisfactorily overcome by the passage of full-sized Lister's bougies (15 or 16) or an Otis's urethral dilator. The old plan of pass- ing bougies as a routine treatment for gleet probably owes whatever success it enjoyed to the fact that it succeeds in these particular cases. Marked indurations however are best divided by suitable urethral knives (see Fig. 82) introduced through the urethroscopic tube and made to nick the constriction. Two or three drops of an 8% solution of cocaine with a little adrenalin chloride are put down the urethroscopic tube and in five minutes the excess of fluid is mopped up, the knife is introduced down to the con- striction and the latter divided by cutting downwards towards the floor of the urethra. This can be done without pain and in a few seconds, and more than one constriction may be divided if present. An iodoform bougie is introduced as before (vide supra). Persistent ifi/lafnmation or suppuration ifi Littre^s glands calls for active treatment. It will sufiice in most cases to touch any spot that fails to heal