3l6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. down to the bone,^ and detaching with a chisel a portion of the pubes to which the rectus on one or both sides is attached. This gives plenty of room, especially if the patient's thorax and pelvis be slightly raised so as to relax the abdominal muscles to the full; after the operation the detached portion or portions of bone may be fixed in position again with a few tacks. The result of these operations is sometimes very satisfactory but is often disappointing, because after a time fresh villous tumours form and the bladder may have to be opened several times. It will often be found that the recurrence has not taken place on the site of the old growth if the latter has been effectu- ally removed, but that fresh ones occur in other parts of the mucous membrane. Herring suggests that in these cases the bladder should be frequently irrigated with a solution of nitrate of silver"^ not^only to prevent bleeding but to cause shrivelling of the growths. (b) Of malignant tumours.—Attempts at removing malignant growths of the bladder are very disappointing, although temporary freedom from symp- toms is sometimes attained; this does not, however, usually last longer than a few months, and is only what is to be expected from the difficulty of getting sufficiently free of the growth. Occasionally, however, the tumour is so small and superficial that the patient's prospects are good, and in any case it is advisable to do a supra-pubic cystotomy when a malignant tumour has been diagnosed, as, if it be found impossible to remove it with any chance of success, supra-pubic drainage will at any rate afford relief to the patient's sufferings. The condition of a patient left to die of this affection is miserable in the extreme; supra-pubic drainage not only relieves the symptoms, but the progress of the growth may be to some extent arrested, as the constant con- tractions of the bladder cease to irritate it and give rise to haemorrhage. When supra-pubic cystotomy is performed as a palliative measure, the operation is done as already described (see p. 289). An india-rubber tube is tied in until the rest of the wound has healed, when a suitable gum-elastic or silver tube attached to tubing which passes into a urinal is substituted for it, and the patient can get about in comparative comfort and keep himself dry. As a rule the bladder should be washed out by the patient himself daily with a little warhi boracic lotion, and both the tube in the bladder and that to the urinal should be in duplicate and should be carefully cleaned and boiled each time before it is used again. When the operation is done as a radical measure, the wider transverse ^ This closely resembles the operation recommended by Kocher, who makes a transverse incision through the abdominal wall from a point just above and internal to the internal abdominal ring to a corresponding point on the opposite side. The recti are cut through* transversely just above their insertion into the pubes, and the front of the bladder is thus freely exposed, and can be opened by a transverse incision also. -A "standard solution" of nitrate of silver is made of the strength of one grain of the salt in a dram of distilled water slightly acidulated with nitric acid. Half a dram of the " standard solution " in four ounces of distilled water at the body temperature is injected into the bladder daily as long as the bleeding persists ; it is a good plan to increase the strength of the drug veiy cautiously until one or two drams of the " standard solution " are used.