PHIMOSIS. 423 serious results may follow the occurrence of venereal disease under these conditions. Finally, the constant irritation from the retained secretion may be a powerful predisposing cause of epithelioma of the penis. When the preputial orifice is very narrow there may be severe backward pressure in the urinary passages from obstruction to micturition. It is important to remember that this condition may disappear in time. Hence, although circumcision is a very valuable method of treatment, it is not absolutely essential in all cases, and, when the preputial orifice is not so tight as to interfere with micturition in any way and when there are no other symptoms present and the parents object to circumcision, the condition may be left, in the hope that it may disappear in time. ACQUIRED PHIMOSIS.—The most common cause of this is in- flammation or ulceration beneath an unduly long prepuce, and a common factor is frequently recurring balanitis which causes thickening of the prepuce and narrowing of its orifice. A similar condition may follow cicatrisation of multiple soft chancres about the preputial ring. Phimosis may also result from a faulty circumcision in which the prepuce has been cut unduly long and has not been slit up upon the dorsum. Treatment.—(a) Of cong'enital phimosis.—When the trouble is merely due to adhesion of the prepuce to the glans without undue elonga- tion of the former or narrowing of its orifice, it suffices to separate the adhesions so as to allow the prepuce to be retracted. The best plan is to insinuate the eyed end of a probe between the prepuce and the glans as far back as possible in the first instance and to sweep this around the glans, so as to commence the separation of the adhesions. The prepuce is then retracted and, as the glans appears, it is steadied with one hand whilst the prepuce is peeled right back with the thumb of the other. As the prepuce is fully withdrawn the small masses of smegma are exposed behind the corona, and these should be removed by the gentle application of swabs wet with warm boracic lotion. The glans must be completely exposed, as particular care must be taken to remove all the smegma in the neighbour- hood of the frenum. There is no need for an ansesthetic as a rule and there is no bleeding unless the adhesions be dense. The manipulations are a little painful while they last, but the pain ceases immediately the prepuce is drawn forward again. If the retraction of the prepuce has been effected without the occurrence of any bleeding, all that is necessary is to smear the glans well over with vaseline and then to draw the prepuce forward, and the nurse should be instructed to go through a similar procedure every morning and evening when the child is washed, and to see that the glans is kept clean and free from adhesion. It is important to caution her not to keep the prepuce withdrawn for any length of time, as otheiwise swelling may occur and there may be difficulty in pulling it forward again ; in other words, paraphimosis may occur. In the course of a week or two there is no likelihood of the adhesions recurring if the prepuce be retracted daily in this manner, and the cure is complete.