TUMOURS OF THK PROSTATE. 325 TUMOURS OF THE PROSTATE. CYSTS clue to dilatation of the glandular follicles are not uncommon. They are present in many cases of enlarged prostate, but in the great majority they give rise to no symptoms. When they are so large as to project into the bladder they are generally mistaken for an enlarged prostate. Fluctuation may possibly be recognised in them. Treatment.—If a cyst giving rise to symptoms be diagnosed, it should be opened and enucleated either through a median perineal incision when it is situated on the lower aspect of the organ or by a supra-pubic cystotomy when it projects into the bladder cavity. Echinococcus cysts are sometimes met with in the prostate, but it is doubtful whether they occur in the organ itself or in the cellular tissue around, as the tissues between the prostate and the rectum are a favourite seat of cysts of this nature. Treatment.—When the cyst is low down and comparatively small, an attempt should be made to reach it from the perineum by a transverse curved incision in front of the anus. Free drainage must be provided through the perineal wound, and there is, of course, always the risk of septic infection. When the cyst is larger and projects upwards towards the anterior abdominal wall, the best treatment is to perform laparotomy, and then, fixing the cyst in the abdominal wall, to open and drain it just as any other hydatid in the peritoneal cavity. These cysts should never be opened from the rectum. CANCER of the prostate is fortunately not very common, but it should be remembered that it may occur both in an enlarged and in a normal prostate. It is characterised by enlargement and fixation of the gland, with severe pain, and much bleeding when the tumour ulcerates; excessive pain is a very characteristic symptom. Micturition is also extremely painful and difficult. Treatment.—Radical treatment is not to be recommended. Many attempts have been made' to remove the prostate, but the disease has always recurred. As a palliative measure, the best plan is perhaps to establish supra- pubic drainage by puncturing the bladder with a trochar and subsequently introducing a catheter (see p. .314). TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE PROSTATE. Tuberculosis of the prostate is rarely primary ; it is usually secondary to similar disease elsewhere in the genito-urinary tract. In it there is an irregular enlargement of the lateral lobes of the organ, and the tuberculous masses undergo caseation and either become calcareous or lead to the formation of abscesses. Occasionally spontaneous arrest occurs and the tuberculous material becomes encapsuled. Symptoms.—When the urethral mucous membrane is implicated, the patient usually complains of dull aching in the perineum accentuated by I