28 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. These are very important, because the condylomata are constantly being mistaken on superficial examination for haemorrhoids, and the small ulcers for fissures of the anus, and very serious results may follow such a mistake, for not only is there no necessity for any operative interference in these syphilitic cases, but the discharges are excessively infective and it is most important therefore that a clear diagnosis should be made. The large condylomatous masses are usually situated close to the anal orifice, but there is often an interval of healthy skin around the anal margin which at once distinguishes the condition from haemorrhoids. The condyloma is a sessile, ovoid swelling, with its long axis generally radiating from the anal orifice, presenting a characteristic greyish-white surface and discharging a thin, watery fluid. With care the condition cannot well be mistaken. Treatment.—The ordinary anti-syphilitic internal remedies (see Part I., p. 231) must be administered, while the best local treatment is to keep the parts dry and clean, and dust them with calomel and starch (calomel one part, starch three). It is also advisable to introduce a pad of boracic lint between the buttocks so as to prevent the two sides touching, because the discharges are very irritating and fresh masses may be produced at any point of contact. Under this simple treatment the condylomata dry up in a few days. Similar treatment will apply to large mucous patches accompanied by ulceration about the anus; but there success may not be so readily attained, and it may be necessary to stretch the anus and cauterise the ulcer with pure carbolic acid or solid nitrate of silver, because, when ulceration has occurred, a fissure of the anus is apt to persist in spite of the improvement in the syphiHs. The most important affections are, however, the tertiary lesions, which are essentially extensive ulcerating syphilides; typical gummata, either in the rectum or about the anus, are rare. The condition is com- paratively uncommon about the anus ; when it occurs it takes the form of an ulceration, spreading somewhat deeply and irregularly, and leading to serious contraction. The usual condition is a deep tertiary ulceration of the surface of the rectal mucous membrane, more commonly met with in women than in men, in which chronic constipation is a frequent predisposing factor. Ulceration may appear at any time between the late secondary and the early tertiary periods, and usually occupies the lower part of the bowel, in the great majority of cases spreading from below upwards, and sometimes extending as high as the sigmoid flexure and causing serious obstruction. The fact that the mucous membrane is usually involved right down to the anal orifice is a very important point in diagnosing this condition from malignant disease, in which the mucous membrane about the anus is usually unaffected. The ulceration occurs primarily in the mucous membrane and sub-mucous tissues, but is soon accompanied by marked induration of the walls of the bowel. This condition is one of the chief causes of the extensive ulcerations