357 EPISPADIAS. (see Fig. 73). Two flaps are fashioned, one on either side of the urethral groove, by means of vertical incisions parallel to its margins. On the one side transverse incisions are carried inwards towards the middle line, whilst on the other they are carried outwards just below the glans penis and just above the orifice into the bladder. The two flaps thus fashioned are dissected up and the one that is raised towards the middle line is turned over so that its cutaneous surface forms the roof of the urethral canal and is fastened to the raw surface from which the other flap has been raised (see Fig. 73, II.). This second flap, which should be considerably larger than the first, is then pulled in over the latter so that the two raw surfaces are in apposition; its cutaneous surface therefore forms the cutaneous covering of the dorsum of the penis. The diagram (see Fig.. 73, III.) will serve to show how the sutures are inserted; it is important not Fig. 74.—Method of utilising the Prepuce in Plastic Operations upon Epispadias. This is the exact reverse of the steps of the operation shown in Fig. 72. to bury any of them, as the asepticity of the wound cannot be guaranteed; they are therefore so arranged that they are tied outside and can be removed easily. The urethra is formed over a glass rod of suitable size as in hypospadias. At the same operation the small triangular interval between the urethra in the glans and the newly-formed penile one is closed by utilising the prepuce in a manner very similar to that described for hypospadias (see Fig. 74). The urethra in the glans penis may be restored at the preliminary operation of straightening the organ. The final stage consists in connecting the proximal end of the new urethra with the bladder, and for this purpose Thiersch uses flaps fashioned as shown in Fig. 75. The edges of the defect are pared and the first flap is turned over so as to lie in the triangular space, to which it is stitched. The second flap is then bent downwards so as to cover the raw outer surface of the first and is fixed in position. The raw surfaces from which the flaps are raised may be allowed to heal by granulation or can be grafted. The difficulty about this operation is to secure union if urine be allowed to pass along the new urethra before healing is complete, and the best plan is therefore to make a button-hole opening in the perineum, to insert a tube through it into the bladder and to drain the organ in this manner for