4o6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. of eucaine may be injected down the urethra (see p. 402) previously. A full-sized bougie is passed into the bladder at the end of 24-36 hours, taking care to keep the point well in contact with the roof of the urethra ; this should be repeated every few days for two or three weeks and then at longer intervals for two or three months. The patient need only be confined to bed for three or four days and during that period should take one of the urinary antiseptics internally (see p. 274). There are practically no accidents likely to follow this simple operation. Haemorrhage is rare and is easily controlled by an ice-bag to tlie perineum ; in severe cases a Leiter's tube may be coiled round the penis. It would appear that in many cases there is little tendency for the stricture to contract after division in this manner; but after three months an instrument should be passed monthly for the following six months and then the patient should visit the surgeon two or three times a year in order to see that there is no recurrence. In favourable cases the periods may be lengthened after about two years, but it is always well for the surgeon to pass an instrument at any rate every twelve or eighteen months as a precautionary measure. External urethrotomy.—Although internal urethrotomy is of great value in a large number of cases, there are some for which it is not suitable. Thus, when the surgeon fails to introduce an instrument through a tight stricture, the only possible procedure is to divide the stricture through an external incision. Apart from these rare cases however there are others in which external urethrotomy should be resorted to, such as dense carti- laginous strictures in the vicinity of the bulb in which the stricture is tortuous and will not yield to dilatation; again external urethrotomy should be preferred for extensive traumatic strictures, while the same may be said of some cases of stricture with retention of urine and those accompanied by perineal fistulae. Cases accompanied by severe cystitis or by extravasation of urine also require this operation. At the present time the two forms of external urethrotomy most often practised in England are Syme's and Wheelhouse's. Of these Syme's is the easier, but it can only be done when an instrument can be passed through the stricture and the latter dilated up to the calibre of 3 or 4 English. This is the operation that should be chosen for all cases requiring external urethro- tomy in which these requirements can be fulfilled; when it is impossible to get an instrument through the stricture or when the latter cannot be dilated up sufficiently to admit Syme's instrument, Wheelhouse's operation is called for. It is evident therefore that the latter operation has only a limited range, perhaps fortunately, as it is often excessively difficult. Syme's perineal sectioti.—The stricture is first dilated up to the size of a No. 4 English by the intermittent method if time permits; if the case be urgent however, the patient is anaesthetised and the stricture is rapidly dilated with Lister's bougies until a Syme's staff (see Fig. 93) can be introduced. This staff consists of two portions, the terminal part being about the calibre of a No. 4 English, and joining the handle, which is a No. 12 gauge, by