THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER; bad infective cases the wall of the abscess may be actually gangrenous, and here recovery is rare, even after free drainage. Except in cases of embolic origin, the abscess usually commences deep in the substance of the liver and tends to spread to the surface. When of any size it generally projects from the convex surface of the right lobe, but may spread backwards to the area of the liver uncovered by peri- toneum and may also extend downwards towards the peritoneal cavity, especially in the neighbourhood of the stomach. When the pus reaches the surface, various complications may occur according to its situation. When it reaches the convex surface of the liver, as it most commonly does, that organ and the diaphragm become adherent, and the pus finds its way through the latter, causing the under surface of the lung to become adherent to the upper surface of the diaphragm, so that the pus may make its way into the lung and be evacuated through the bronchi. Occasionally the lung does not become adherent, and the abscess bursts into the pleural cavity and an empyema occurs. When the pus finds its way to the surface of the liver uncovered by peritoneum, the abscess tends to spread into the abdominal wall. When it points at the lower and front part of the liver, the stomach (in abscess of the left lobe), duodenum or colon may become adherent to it and the pus may discharge into the alimentary canal. SYMPTOMS.—In many cases hepatic abscess occurs in connection with some well-recognised disease, such as dysentery, and its presence may be obscured by this disease and may remain unsuspected for a long time. On the other hand, the liver affection may begin suddenly and be easily recognised on account of the acuteness of the symptoms. The typical symptoms are fever, pain in the right side, associated with chilli- ness or a rigor, and bulging of the parieties accompanied by progressive loss of weight. In some cases of tropical abscess, however, there may not be suflficient symptoms in the early stages to lead to a correct diagnosis," and cases have occurred in which the abscess has only been found post inortem, although it must have existed for a long time. There are one or two points, however, which, quite apart from the acute inflammatory symptoms, point to the occurrence of a liver abscess. There is a peculiar yellowish, earthy colouration of the conjunctivje and also of the skin without true jaundice. The position of' the patient is often symptomatic; the tendency is to bend towards the right side, tp draw up the right thigh and to firmly and permanently contract the right rectus and other muscles on the right side of the abdomen. Some authors assert that this position is typical of an abscess situated on the concavity of the liver, whereas when it is on the convexity the tendency is said to be to bend towards the left. Alterations in the shape of the liver are also observed. The organ is in any case somewhat larger than normal, and occasionally distinct irregularity in outline may be made out by percussion or palpation. When there is a large abscess on the con-