HYPOSPADIAS. 349 From the point of view of treatment the cases met with in practice may be divided into three groups : i. Those in which the fissure is limited to the glans ; 2. Those in which the cleft is in the penile portion and the orifice of the urethra opens anteriorly to the scrotum; and 3. Those in which the scrotum is cleft and the urine issues from an opening in the perineum. TREATMENT.—Treatment is only of avail when the urethral orifice is in front of the scrotum. When the latter is cleft and the urine passes through a perineal opening the chances of repairing the urethra are very slight and, moreover, operative interference is not called for so urgently as the trouble in micturition is not marked. Therefore it would seem advisable not to interfere in cases of complete hypospadias. When the hypospadias simply consists of an unduly large meatus it is often unnecessary to interfere at all. The only point of importance is to make sure that there is no constriction at the orifice of the urethra; should one exist it must be slit up in the manner already described for stricture of the meatus (see p. 347). When however the condition is one either of complete hypospadias glandis or of a cleft urethra anywhere between the glans and the scrotum, it is necessary to attempt to repair the urethral canal, and the first question is as to the age at which this should be done. The best age would seem to be before puberty, namely from six to twelve years of age; by that time the patient is amenable to discipline and there is also plenty of time for the genital organs to develop after the operation, and moreover there is not so much likelihood of trouble occurring from erection of the organ as there is when adult life is reached. Erections are very apt to be fatal to the success of any operation. Three points have to be attended to in treating a case of hypospadias. In the first place the curvature of the penis must be remedied; in the second, the natural orifice of the urethra must be made of normal size; and lastly, a fresh urethra must be made from this orifice to the end of the glans. The only satisfactory way of fulfilling these indications is to operate in stages, and generally four or five operations are necessary before the case is complete. The first operation should always be directed to remedying the incurvation of the penis and at the same time a new urethral canal may be made in the glans. The second stage will consist in making a new urethra between the meatus and the newly-formed urethra in the glans penis, whilst the final stages of the operation will be directed to enlarging the old meatus sufficiently and joining the various portions of the new urethral tube. Further smaller operations may be necessary to remedy failures in any particular situation. The treatment takes a long time, and it is well to allow a considerable interval to elapse between each stage, so that it is hardly safe to reckon on finishing with a case of hypospadias under a year at least. The longest interval should be allowed to elapse between straightening the penis and