326 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PROSTATE. defcecation or by exertion. Micturition is painful and frequent, and the last drops of urine are often blood-stained. The pain is referred to the tip of the penis or the neck of the bladder, and is most marked at the end of micturi- tion. Retention may occur from swelling in and around the prostatic urethra. If the urethral mucous membrane be unaffected, there may be few symptoms beyond a sense of fulness or uneasiness in the perineum combined with slight discomfort on defecation when the bowels are at all confined. The disease is readily detected by digital rectal examination, as the prostate, instead of being smooth and elastic, contains a number of nodules of varying size and is often very tender. These nodules vary in consistency and tend to soften, so that fluctuation may be detected. When this is the case, retention of urine and much pain on micturition occur. An abscess forming in connection with a tuberculous prostate not infre- quently bursts into the urethra, leaving a ragged ulcerating cavity into which urine makes its way. At other times, abscesses situated in the posterior part of the prostate may perforate the rectum, and further extension of the suppuration then takes place, and the opening may extend into the urethra and lead to the formation of a recto-urethral fistula. The abscess may also make its way down into the perineum and lead to sinuses which usually end in urinary fistulcC. The condition is very serious and very difficult to treat. Treatment.—In the early stages the treatment must be palliative. Rest, perfect hygiene and the avoidance of sexual excitement, combined with a general tonic treatment, are the main points. The use of instruments should be avoided, as they only irritate the prostatic urethra. When it is obvious that paUiative treatment is not succeeding and that suppuration is occurring, the serious risks of allowing the abscess to burst spontaneously must be avoided by evacuating the pus through a perineal incision as soon as its presence is determined. Here the incision already described for acute abscesses will not suffice, as there may be considerable difficulty in reaching the small scattered abscesses, and a curved incision with its convexity forwards just in front of the anus is the best. A sound is passed into the bladder so as to define the position of the urethra, and, as the wound is deepened, the urethra is pushed forwards and the rectum backwards until the levator ani is divided. If the abscess be of any size, it is usually detected at this stage and the finger passes into a ragged cavity containing pus, which should be scraped out as thoroughly as possible, great care, however, being taken not to scrape through the wall of the urethra or the bladder, which must be carefully defined by the sound; after this has been done, the cavity is packed with iodoformed gauze. A catheter should be tied in for a week or ten days and the packing renewed at the end of the second day and sub- sequently daily. If the abscess has burst into the urethra, a similar operation should be done, as without it the patient is practically certain not to get well. A soft catheter should be passed each time the patient desires to micturate until the wound has healed. Healing usually occurs satisfactorily