CHAPTER IX. PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM. By this term is meant a protrusion of portions of the mucous membrane or of the whole thickness of the gut through the anus. Some authors have divided the condition into two distinct groups, calling prolapse of the mucous membrane a prolapse of the anus whilst, when the entire wall of the gut is extruded, it is termed prolapse of the rectum. In the normal state of matters there is always a certain amount of protrusion of the mucous membrane during defecation; in some of the lower animals, such as the horse, this is very marked. In prolapse the sphincters are always much dilated, the external one particularly, and no longer exert their proper influence. CAUSES.—The most important cause is probably feebleness of the sphincter ani and this is usually accompanied by an unduly lax condition of the rectal walls, chiefly the submucous tissues; possibly also there is an unduly long meso-rectum. The result is that any straining protrudes the bowel, which is then protruded still further as a result of. the tenesmus to which its presence gives rise. The condition occurs at all ages but is most common in infancy and in old age. In young children it is generally caused by continued straining due to phimosis, constipation, the presence of worms or the existence of a stone in the bladder, and it is frequently met with in marasmic children, probably as the result of simple weakness. In old age it may also be caused by straining due to stone in the bladder, stricture of the urethra or enlarge- ment of the prostate, but here general weakness of the parts concerned plays a very important part. It is also predisposed to by the constant coughing and straining that occurs in chronic bronchitis. SYMPTOMS.—There is a frequent desire to empty the bowel, followed l)y the passage of mucus and the protrusion of a red, fleshy mass from the anus which usually returns spontaneously on the completion of the act of defcEcation, but which when large may remain outside and require reduction. The prolapsed mass differs from piles in that it does not bleed readily unless