363 RUPTURED URETHRA. the first instance, the proper line of treatment is to evacuate the urine by passing an instrument at intervals of four or six hours and to continue this for three or four days before the patient is allowed to micturate spon- taneously. In doing this it is essential that every precaution with regard to the disinfection (see p. 336) should be scrupulously employed. Moreover, when blood escapes from the urethra bacteria easily spread up along it and infection may therefore occur quite apart from the passage of the catheter; it is therefore most important that, as long as blood escapes from the meatus, the urethra should be treated just as any other wound and an antiseptic dressing should be applied to its orifice. The penis should also be put in a bag of antiseptic dressing and the meatus should be mopped out and disinfected (see p. 337) immediately before passing an instrument. It is a very different question however with the cases referred to as being supposed to be suitable for tying in a catheter. This is a very inadvisable procedure, as it is practically impossible then to prevent sepsis spreading up the urethra along the instrument, however carefully the latter be disinfected or however clean the orilice of the urethra be kept. It has been found as a matter of experience that, of the three methods of treatment indicated above, the cases treated by tying in a catheter have presented the greatest mortality and this is only what might be expected, since the presence of the catheter, while it no doubt prevents extravasation of urine, cannot in any way prevent infection of the wound in the urethra and the tissues around. Moreover it is very likely to set up some irritability of the bladder and then, not- withstanding the continuous drainage, a few drops of urine are apt to be squeezed out alongside the catheter and to reach the wound ; although the urine is not under any pressure and if aseptic will do no harm, it presents additional pabulum for bacteria and is therefore apt to increase the septic condition. Hence in our opinion the surgeon has only two alternatives in the treatment of this affection, on the one hand the passage of a catheter at intervals and on the other external urethrotomy, and, considering the great value of the latter method, we see no reason for looking upon it as a last resort to be avoided save in exceptionally bad cases. According to Kauffmann the mortality in cases treated in this way is less than in any other, whilst its advantages are numerous. In the first place it opens up parts infiltrated with blood, so that free exit is given and the chances of septic infiltration are lessened. It may be urged as an objection to the operation that sepsis may occur in the wound and this is no doubt true as it is difiicult to prevent infection in this situation, but it must be remembered that it is perhaps even more difficult to prevent infection of the tissues pe7- urethravi when a catheter is tied in, and that a subcutaneous infection is much more serious than when there is an open wound which may be freely drained and packed with antiseptic dressings. A second great