PANCREATIC CYSTS. lOI TREATMENT.—This must be surgical, and may take the form of repeated tappings, of incision and drainage, or of extirpation of the cyst. Puncture, as we have already said, is to be avoided; apart from the risk, the cyst will fill up again almost immediately. The first step, therefore, in all cdses is to open the abdomen in the middle line over the most prominent part of the swelling and to expose the cyst wall. As the position of the cyst relative to the stomach and the colon varies in different cases, these structures must be identified before pro- ceeding further. In the ordinary form, where the tumour makes its way forwards between these two structures, the great omentum is carefully torn through and the stomach and colon are separated until the thin bluish cyst wall is exposed, any vessels wounded in the process being tied. The abdominal cavity must be packed off with gauze, and a fine trochar and cannula is introduced into the cyst and the bulk of the fluid drawn off so as to avoid flooding the abdominal cavity. The cyst is then opened by a small incision, the edges of which are caught in forceps, pulled well up into the wound, and sutured to the abdominal incision after the gauze packing has been removed. A drainage tube nearly fitting the opening in the cyst wall is introduced and an antiseptic dressing applied. Sometimes the skin is irritated by the secretion from the cyst, especially in cases of true pancreatic cyst. This is best avoided by using a drainage tube large enough to fit the opening into the cyst tightly and connecting it with tubing which passes through the dressing into a vessel containing carbolic acid, thereby preventing contact of the secretion with the skin ; failing this, the latter may be smeared over thickly with boracic ointment. When the cyst cannot be brought up sufficiently to be stitched to the skin, a drainage tube is introduced and packed round with gauze so as to prevent the escape of fluid into the abdominal cavity, the packing being removed in 48 hours, just as in the case of an abdominal abscess which has not yet become adherent to the anterior wall (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 395). In some cases the finger may be passed into the loin through the incision and a counter-opening made.beneath the costal margin, preferably on the left side; through this a drainage tube is introduced into the cyst, and the opening in the anterior wall of the cyst is then sewn up. Healing is usually slow, and takes from one to four months. The mortality is quite small, up to the present time only about 4 per cent. The patient generally recovers quickly after the operation. The stomach troubles disappear and improvement in nutrition takes place, even when thin pancreatic juice is running out of the fistula. The real radical treatment is extirpation of the cyst, but this is only possible in true cysts and not in retention cysts, as some of these are. Apart from the difficulty of getting properly at the cyst, serious bleeding is apt to occur and damage may be done to important structures, so that, unless the cyst be almost pedunculated, it is better not to attempt it; adhesions between the cyst and neighbouring structures will prohibit the attempt.