CHAPTER VII. FISSURE IN ANO: ECZEMA AND PRURITUS ANI. FISSURE IN ANO. By this term is understood a small crack or fissure lying just within the sphincter and extending from the muco-cutaneous margin upwards for a short distance. It occurs more commonly in women than in men and causes extreme suffering, although the lesion itself is usually trifling. The fissure is generally situated about the posterior commissure of the anus, and it is generally possible, by slightly separating the buttocks, to see the lower end of the minute slit, which is usually quite shallow although it may occasionally extend down to the fibres of the external sphincter. At the lower end of the fissure there is generally a small projecting tag of mucous membrane which is often called a "sentinel pile." A fissure may arise in various ways. Probably the most common mode of origin is that described by Dr. Ball, namely, a mechanical detachment of a small piece of the mucous membrane in the act of passing hard ffeces; this is torn downwards and, like the somewhat corresponding condition about the finger nails, causes intense pain. A fissure may also result from some injury, and is not at all uncommon as a result of a superficial syphilitic ulceration. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms are very characteristic. There is an intense cutting or burning pain during the act of defsecation, lasting for some time after the act. When once the pain passes off, the patient is free until the next time the bowels are moved, and in consequence the action is deferred as long as possible, and then the scybalous masses give rise to increased agony. Sometimes the motions are slightly streaked with blood, but there is never any of the free haemorrhage characteristic of piles. On exam- ining the patient, the most obvious condition is spasm of the sphincter, which is increased at the slightest touch, so that it is practically impossible to pass the finger through the anus, and no attempt should be made to do so without a general anaesthetic. On separating the buttocks the sentinel