THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. not very distensible it is well to introduce a bulbous-ended metal sound in addition ; by depressing the handle of this, its point can be made to project beneath the abdominal wall just above the pubes, and the bladder wall can thus be easily defined. It was formerly the custom in all cases of supra-pubic cystotomy to employ an indiarubber bag to distend the rectum and still further push forward and make prominent the dilated bladder. This method is open to many objections however and has 'few if any advantages, and we therefore are not in the habit of employing it. In the cases under consideration however the use of the rectal bag may have a distinct advantage. It should be introduced into the rectum in the collapsed condition, and left thus during the earlier stages of the operation. Later on, when the bladder has been opened, distension of the bag with air pushes forward and steadies the base of the bladder and so renders the surgeon's subsequent manipulations much easier. The patient's legs are allowed to hang down over the end of the table, and an incision three inches long is made from the centre of the symphysis upwards in the middle line. If this be kept strictly in the middle line, the interval between the pyramidales muscles is hit off, and the loose pre-vesical cellular tissue is seen ; if the interval between the muscles be not found, they may be directly incised. If the abdominal muscles be now strongly retracted, inspec- tion of the pre-vesical tissues will generally show the line of the peritoneal reflection which can be seen to alter its level during respiration. The pre- vesical fat is then torn through with two pairs of forceps just above the symphysis, and the whole mass together with the reflection of the peritoneum is pushed well up into the upper angle of the wound.^ This will expose the bladder wall, which is known at once by its peculiar striation and by the presence of large veins over it. A third retractor is now added to pull up the fat and peritoneal reflection, and a couple of sharp hooks or two stout silk threads are made to penetrate the whole thickness of the vesical wall, one on either side of the proposed line of incision.^ The bladder is then incised vertically in the middle line between the two guides, or, if the surgeon has previously inserted a bougie, the tip of this may be made to project beneath the bladder wall so that it can be cut down upon directly. The knife should enter the bladder at the proposed lower limit of the incision and should cut upwards. Directly the bladder is opened, the wound becomes flooded with lotion and the bladder tends to collapse, but its retraction is prevented by the guiding stitches or hooks already inserted. The incision made should be large enough to insert two fingers in the first instance, and this may be increased later on if necessary. ' Special care should be taken not to burrow down in the pre-vesical cellular tissue behind the symphysis in the endeavour to get well below the peritoneal reflection, as this will leave a ragged cavity in which dangerous cellulitis may occur. ^ The advantage of the silk threads over the hooks is that in the later stages of the opera- tion they are very useful in pulling up and steadying the edges of the incision when it is desired to suture the bladder.