lOO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PANCREAS. originated from an injury, as they occasionally arise spontaneously, and it is not uncommon to find blood in cysts which have an entirely non-traumatic origin. The fluid in a pancreatic cyst is nearly always slightly blood-stained and shows albumen, urea and cholesterin ; it is very rarely pure pancreatic fluid. It is almost always alkaline, is generally somewhat tenacious and slimy and its specific gravity varies from loio to 1020; sugar may be present. The cysts may occur anywhere in the gland but are said to be more frequent in the neighbourhood of its tail. They are all retro-peritoneal and as they increase in size they push forward the lesser peritoneal cavity until at last the anterior wall of the cyst comes into close proximity with the anterior abdominal parietes. The exact relation of the cyst to the stomach and intestines varies in different cases (see Fig. 27). The commonest condition is for the cyst to find its way forward between the stomach and transverse colon, the former being pressed up against the liver and the cyst vrall being covered by the anterior layer of the gastro-colic omentum. On the other hand, the cyst may find its way below the transverse meso-colon or indeed above the stomach. A large cyst may cause serious pressure upon the duodenum, the common bile duct, the aorta, the vena cava or the portal vein and in addition there will be pain from pressure on the solar plexus. The cyst is scarcely at all mobile, in any case only the projecting portion moves with respiration; transmitted pulsation from the aorta may be very marked. The cyst is usually median ; but it may lie to the left or, more rarely, to the right of the middle line. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms are usually indefinite ; there is dyspepsia and pain, and true pancreatic symptoms, e.^. wasting, glycosuria, undigested fat in the stools or diarrhoea may arise if the cyst be large, but these may be entirely wanting. The cyst is usually globular, smooth and very tense and may be mistaken for a solid tumour. It may vary in size, apparently emptying and then re-filling; whether it empties by rupture or by absorption of the fluid is not clear. If left alone, it will ultimately rupture either into the alimentary canal or into the peritoneal cavity, and then recovery may take place. Death however may occur from obstruction, from haemorrhage, from peritonitis, from profound jaundice, from diabetes, or from wasting, and these cysts are accompanied by much more marked emaciation and loss of strength than are other cysts, such as hydatids, found in the same region. The cyst has to be distinguished from one of ovarian or hepatic origin, from hydatids, from an enlarged gall-bladder or spleen, from hydro-nephrosis, hydatid or hfemorrhagic cysts of the kidney, from aneurysm and from mesenteric cysts. Any attempt to make the diagnosis by puncture is to be condemned, as the needle is very apt to traverse either the stomach or the colon. Puncture should only be carried out, if at all, after exposure of the cyst by opening the abdomen ; as a diagnostic measure it is quite unnecessary.