THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. frequently the vehicles for the introduction of organisms, and all the conditions most favourable to the spread of septic inflammation are met with behind the stricture. Death may occur from cystitis, extravasation of urine, pyelitis or surgical kidney. SYMPTOMS.—There is steadily increasing difficulty in micturition, the act takes abnormally long and in bad cases is unduly frequent; the patient frequently has a sensation of incompletely emptying the bladder. Urine is also apt to collect in the dilated urethra behind the stricture and to trickle through after the act of micturition is complete, so that the clothes are constantly wet and have a strong urinous odour. The forked and twisted stream usually described in text-books is not characteristic of stricture and when it is met with is usually due to stricture near the meatus; when the stricture is situated far back, the urethra is uniformly filled with the urine and the stream, though somewhat smaller in calibre than it should be, is not necessarily forked. When complications like cystitis supervene they will be marked by their special symptoms. When the stricture is severe, particularly in gouty or rheumatic subjects, there is frequently purulent urethritis or a gleety discharge. The actual diagnosis is made by examining the urethra with special instruments (see p. 391); this is also the first step in the treatment. TREATMENT.—This varies in different circumstances. We may divide the cases met with in practice into two great groups, namely, I. Uncomplicated strictures and 2. Strictures accompanied by complications. The latter class must be considered according to the various complications present and we shall divide them into strictures complicated (a) with false passages; {^) with cystitis; (c) with epididymitis; (d) with retention of urine; (e) with peri-urethral abscess; (/) M'ith perineal fistula; (g) with extravasation of urine. 1. Of uncomplicated strictures.—These strictures are often divided into two groups which are termed permeable and impermeable strictures according as the surgeon is able to pass an instrument through them or not. Obviously there is no such thing as an impermeable stricture in uncomplicated cases, because there must be a channel representing the urethra as long as the patient can pass urine. The urethra may be temporarily occluded however and, even if it be not, it may happen, although rarely in skilled hands, that the surgeon is unable, even after many attempts, to pass an instrument through the stricture; as a rule he will succeed with patience and care in the vast majority of cases. The only true impermeable, strictures are those in which perineal fistulae are present and the patient has not passed any urine through the urethra for a considerable time owing to obliteration of the urethra from ulceration behind the stricture. The surgeon should always approach a case of uncomplicated stricture with the idea that it is possible to pass an instru- ment through it.