INJURIES TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS. 519 ever should be closed immediately without drainage, careful watch being kept for sepsis; if this occurs it will take the form of suppurative pericarditis and the wound must then be opened up and the pericardium drained. Occasionally a wound of the pericardium may be accompanied by severe hfemorrhage into the pericardial sac without the heart being wounded, and under these circumstances the case may prove fatal from the pressure of the effused blood upon the heart. If there be evidence of haemorrhage of this kind, it is well in the first instance to insert a drainage tube through which the blood may escape and so relieve the pressure upon the heart. Should the pressure continue in spite of this treatment, it will be necessary to open up the wound widely and attempt to secure the bleeding points. INJURY TO THE GREAT VESSELS requires no description as it is necessarily immediately fatal. INJURIES TO THE HEART.—These may take the form of rupture of the organ, severe compression, punctures caused by stabs or bullet wounds or injuries from fractured ribs. Ruptiure of the heart generally occurs from severe run-over injuries and is usually immediately fatal either from shock or from hsemorrhage; if death be not immediate it soon follows from haemorrhage into the peri- cardium. Wounds of the heart are usually of the variety known as penetrating wounds and nearly 90% of all cases are said to be of this nature. The prognosis is extremely bad, particularly when the auricle is wounded; the least fatal cases are those in which the apex of the organ is involved. It is said that about 10% of all cases of wounds of the heart have recovered from the immediate effects of the injury, but death may occur subsequently from yielding of the scar and the formation of an aneurysm or from endocarditis, myocarditis or pericarditis. Secondary rupture of the heart is also known from giving way of the scar. Treatment.—In a few cases in which the surgeon has been called in to a patient suffering from a wound of the heart, but in whom the haemorrhage has not been very great, the wound has been opened up and the incision in the heart has been sutured. The organ is best got at by an incision along the fourth left intercostal space for about four or five inches commencing half an inch from the sternal margin; at the outer end of this a second incision is carried as far down as the seventh rib, a portion of the fifth costal cartilage is removed and the pleura is either pushed to the left .side or, if it be impossible to avoid it, the two layers are sutured together (see p. 541) so as to avoid pneumo-thorax when it is punctured. This enables the clot to be turned out and the heart to be thoroughly exposed. There appears to be no .special difficulty or danger in exposing and suturing the heart, the chief point of importance being the extent of the wound in it. The sutures should be of fine catgut and should pass fairly deeply through the substance of the ventricle without taking up the endo- cardium. As soon as the wound in the heart has been sutured it will