ORGANIC STRICTURE. 397 The instruments used for dilatation may be either rigid or flexible; we have already given indications with regard to the choice of these (see p. 396). The best metal bougies are Lister's (see Fig. 87) which are conical instruments increasing three sizes from the tip to the shaft. The tip is bulbous so that, when the point has passed through the stricture, the narrow neck lies loose in the latter and the surgeon can therefore gently manipulate the conical portion through the stricture and thus dilate it. Of the soft instruments the best are the black olivary bougies (see Fig. 89) which are similar in principle. The solid instruments have the ordinary urethral curve; but, if the stricture be situated in the penile urethra in front of the bulb, a simple plan is to use straight instruments graduated in the same manner. By holding the penis vertical and putting the urethra fully on the stretch, straight instruments are more easily manipulated through the stric- ture. No attempt however must be made tn pass a straight metal instrument further than the bulb. Intermittent dilatation.—Before pro- ceeding to describe the steps of the treatment, there are a few points in con- nection with it deserving special mention and the first is that in a case of multiple stricture no attempt should be made to deal with the deeper strictures until the upper one has been dilated suffi- ciently freely to enable the instrument to be used for the dilatation of the deeper ones to be passed freely through it. If the anterior stricture grasps the bougie firmly, the surgeon has no control over the point, and attempts to pass it on through a deeper stricture are very likely to end in making a false passage. This is a most serious matter in these particular cases because, whereas a false passage is only serious as a rule in so far as it renders the passage of an instrument through the stricture difficult, a false passage between two strictures gives rise to very appreciable risks. Urine rarely finds its way down a false passage that has been made in front of a stricture in the ordinary way, as the false passage runs in the same direction as the urethra and the urine, after passing through the stricture, finds its way out of the urethra more readily than along the false passage and so there is no risk of urinary infiltration. If, however, the false passage be situated between two strictures and the stricture in front be not fully dilated, there is obstruction to the flow of urine and the latter may therefore find its way along the false passage and lead to urinary infiltration. Another point in dilating a stricture, particularly by the intermittent method, is not to do too much at one time. Opinions vary much as to Fig. 89.—Olivaky flexible " bougies A UOULE." Each instrument is bulbous ended, and made of flexible material. The olivarj' end is mounted on a thin neck which gradually tapers up to the shaft. I