THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. In the treatment of tight strictures the so-called " ut'ethral whips" (see Fig. 90) sometimes meet with great success. These are very long soft instruments tapering from a very fine point to a stout stem, the difference between the two ends being as much as eight or nine sizes. When the point of one of these instruments is got through the stricture, the rest of it is pushed on until the stricture is well dilated, the fine flexible end of the instrument curling up in the bladder. These instruments have the advantage that most of the dilatation is done with a single introduction. They have the disadvantage however that they are not so easy to manipulate as the smaller forms ; their length makes them somewhat unwieldy and they cannot be twisted through a tight stric- ture in the same way. After the first sitting the patient should be kept in bed for 24 hours at least and an interval of three days should be allowed to elapse before a second is undertaken. At this sitting an instrument of the same size as was originally passed on the first occasion should be used first, and two or three more instruments may be passed in succession. Three days are again allowed to elapse and the third sitting commences with a size larger than that passed first at the second sitting and is carried a little further. By proceeding in this gradual manner a 9-12 can be passed in two or three weeks and as a rule it is well not to go beyond this for one or two sittings. A certain amount of over-dilatation may be practised with advan- tage however if it be found that the stricture dilates easily, and the stricture may be dilated up to a No. 15 English. When this stage has been reached, the interval between the passage of the instruments may be increased. In the first place they should be passed every four or five days ; then a week may be allowed to elapse; then ten days and then a fortnight. After that, an instrument should be passed once every two or three weeks for several weeks, when the interval may be increased to a month or two, or even three. It is well however not to allow the patient to abandon instrumenta- tion entirely, as otherwise recurrence is apt to occur as time goes on. a Fig. 90.—Harrison's "Urethral "Whip" Bougie.