FOREIGN BODIES IN THE URETHRA. the point of the pin through the urethral wall and skin on the under surface of the penis (see Fig. 76, a). The point is now seized and the pin is drawn out as far as it will come, leaving only the head inside the urethra. The direction of the pin is now reversed by rotating the point downwards towards the anus, so as to make the pin lie now with its head directed towards the meatus when, by holding the point of the instrument, the head can be easily pushed along the urethra towards the meatus, through which it is protruded and withdrawn (see Fig. 76, v.). Fig. 76.—Method of extracting a Pin from the Urethra. I. The pin is shown lying in the urethra with its head towards the bladder. The latter is fixed by the fingers and the penis is stretched and dorsi-flexed as shown in II. so that the point of the pin is made to protrude at n. This is seized and pulled out as far as it will come, and then, by carrying the point in the direction shown by the dotted arrow, the direction of the pin is altered and its head is made to look towards the meatus (IV), through which it can now be pushed (V), the pinhole at a closing spontaneously. 2. Of foreign bodies in the deep urethra.—In this group of cases the treatment is identical whether the foreign body be impacted or not. The surgeon has to decide whether he will attempt to push the object into the bladder with a large sound and subsequently crush it with a lithotrite, or whether he will perform perineal section at once. Perineal section is to be re- commended in most cases as it insures removal without any damage to the delicate prostatic urethra, which is almost certain to occur if any attempt be made to push the body forcibly into the bladder. The latter method is most uncertain even with a small smooth object, and if it be attempted the greatest care should be exercised and the surgeon must be ready to cut down at once if the attempt fail. The cutting operation is very simple and takes the form of a median perineal section. A blunt-ended straight staff with a median groove (see ^'g- 77) is passed down until it rests in contact with the foreign body and