HYDRONEPHROSIS. 243 active measures are required on account of increasing size of the tumour, pain, or other symptoms : Simple tapping.—This operation was much practised at one time, and it has sufficed to cure the trouble; this however can only happen when the kidney structure is entirely destroyed and a cyst is left containing fluid, into which after tapping, possibly more than once, no fresh fluid is secreted, so that the cyst wall shrinlcs and the tumour disappears. It is important to secure complete asepsis, as otherwise suppuration will result. The best point for puncture is midway between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, about two and a half inches behind the level of the anterior superior spine. A needle passed horizontally in at this point would puncture the colon in a healthy subject, but hydronephrotic tumours which are large enough to require tapping will displace the colon sufficiently forwards for it to escape damage. A moderately fine aspirating needle is employed and no " evacuating bottle need be used, as the fluid is thin and the pressure within the cyst is sufficient to make it flow readily. As a rule this method is insufficient, and the surgeon has then to choose between the two following methods which involve free exposure of the hydronephrotic tumour and the parts in its neighbourhood : Nephrotomy.—This is best done by an incision corresponding to the upper half of the " lumbo-ilio-inguinal incision " (see p. 219), and the tumour is exposed in the ordinary way, isolated in the usual manner, and the ureter cleared and examined. If the tumour be large it may be necessary, after as much of the sac has been cleared as possible, to tap it before the ureter can be sufficiently got at. Examination of this structure is then easy as the cyst collapses. It is most important to ascertain the condition of the ureter as some removable obstruction may be found, the treatment of which may obviate the necessity for removing the kidney. The examination of the ureter can be effected partly by palpation and partly if necessary by making a small incision in the back of the infundibulum, and introducing a ureteral probe in order to determine its patency. If a stone be met with it should be removed (see Chap. XXII.), while a stricture should be treated on the lines laid down for plastic operations upon the ureter (see p. 246). In the majority of cases of bad hydronephrosis however the obstruction is irremediable by the time an operation is performed, and the surgeon has only to make up his mind whether he will establish a lumbar fistula or whether he will go on to remove the kidney. The third course of establishing a temporary lumbar fistula with a view to secondary nephrectomy will sometimes present itself to him. Neplirectomy. — When the kidney is completely destroyed, it is clear that this is the only suitable procedure; removal of the sac cannot interfere with the patient's urinary functions, and the only cases in which a surgeon will hesitate to perform nephrectomy is when the patient is so feeble, as for example from the result of the pressure of an enormous tumour upon the duodenum, that it is advisable to relieve this first, and to proceed to nephrectomy subsequently. Under these circumstances the sac should be