20 TUK SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. ulcerative or papillomatous proctitis becoming, after a time, complicated with sub-mucous infiltration and consequent stenosis. Ulcerative proctitis may occur under various conditions : it may follow traumatism; it may be a sequel to an acute inflammation in which an abscess forms or in which there is extensive sloughing; it may complicate hcemorrhoids. When an ulcer of the rectum has formed just above the sphincter it may remain open for a long time, as the contraction of the sphincter and the accumulation of faecal material above it retard healing very greatly. Papillomatous proctitis may occur alone, but is usually met with in connection with the ulcerative form just referred to. It is characterised by a large number of warty vegetations springing from the glandular elements of the mucous membrane, which vary much in size and extent. There is no induration about their bases. Stenosing" proctitis may occur in connection with non specific inflam- mations about the rectum, but is undoubtedly usually due to syphilis. It is characterised by inflammation of the submucous tissue, accompanied by ulceration of the mucous surface, and the result is atrophy of the mucous membrane, with gradually increasing rigidity of the walls of the rectum and progressive stenosis, which takes place irregularly, so that the lower end of the bowel becomes converted into a narrow tortuous canal. The condition is usually confined to the lower end of the rectum. The ulceration present gives rise to the greatest difficulty in treatment, as the pain due to the ulceration interferes with proper dilatation of the stricture. The bowel above the latter is dilated and early in the case becomes hypertrophied, the amount of dilatation being proportionate to that of the stricture present. SYMPTOMS, (a) Of ulcerative proctitis.—The symptoms are not very marked, unless the ulceration involves the sphincteric area. The chief troubles are discomfort, frequent stools and free discharge of mucus, often tinged with blood. When the ulceration involves the sphincters, symptoms of fissure of the anus are often present (see p. 42). An examination with a speculum will detect the ulcer, and this should always be used, because the finger may fail to detect a small ulcer unaccompanied by any induration. (b) Of papillomatous proctitis.—These are similar to those of the preceding form. The actual diagnosis is made by the speculum. If the vegetations be large they may prolapse through the anus. (c) Of stenosing proctitis.—The first symptoms are those of simple proctitis (see p. 19). Later on there are the painful symptoms due t9 ulceration accompanied by those of gradual stenosis. Thus the patient suffers from alternate attacks of constipation and diarrhoea, and the motions are flattened or like pipe stems, and there is increasing difficulty in passing them. There is frequent tenesmus, with griping pain in the colon, and the amount evacuated is usually very scanty and consists chiefly of muco-pus. In advanced cases there is often some abdominal distension, and, when the