259 METHODS OK DIAGNOSIS. The eye of the catheter should then be flushed out into a separate dish so as to see whether any material has been withdrawn by it. ^Vith a villous tumour situated near the neck of the bladder it is very common to find villi washed into the eye of the catheter with the escaping fluid, and torn off as the catheter is withdrawn. Some surgeons even attach an evacuating syringe to the catheter in order to suck villous processes into its eye. This is a most useful manoeuvre if practised with a metal catheter in cases of suspected stone which the sound fails to detect. As the stone is drawn up against the eye of the catheter'it gives the sharp characteristic click which cannot be mistaken. The sound will often give very valuable infor- mation. The most suitable instrument is a short- beaked bulbous-ended metal one at least fourteen inches long (see Fig. 54). The patient lies upon his back on a couch with the pelvis raised, and, if he be nervous or very young, the sounding should be done under a general anjesthetic as it is most essential that no movement should inter- fere with the exploration. The sound, sterilised by boiling, is lubricated with eucalyptus or carbolised vaseline and, before it is passed, the orifice of the urethra is disinfected with a pledget of wool dipped in a 1-2000 sublimate solution. Before a systematic sounding a catheter should be passed, the urine drawn off, and the bladder washed out and finally distended with three or four ounces of warm boracic lotion ; this is very important, both to enable the beak of the sound to turn easily in all directions, and also to prevent the folds into which the mucous membrane of the collapsed bladder falls from interfering with the examination. When the sound has been intro- duced, the exploration must be systematic so as to explore the entire interior of the organ ; this is described elsewhere (see p. 299). The sound will detect the presence of a stone, any roughness ■x^l'^^.tM^^^l-^ZZ. of the bladder wall, and sometimes the presence i>y a glance the m.nrk .iffixed to ' I the h.-iiKile. of a tumour. Under certain circumstances the most valuable method of e.\amining the bladder is by direct inspection with the electric cystoscope (see Fig. 55). The form in general use is that of Leiter. The instrument should be carefully tested before use to see that it is in working order, and the examination should be