477 HEMATOCELE. the results are not so satisfactory as, if the wall of the hjematocele be very rigid, it will not collapse properly. The difficulty of identifying the vas may easily be overcome by tracing it down from above, and hence in our opinion the proper treatment of a htematocele is excision on lines precisely similar to that of hydrocele. , In excising a hematocele the vas must first be carefully separated from the sac wall right down to the testis, after which the haematocele is isolated from its various coverings, its wall laid open, the clots turned out and the parietal portion of the tunica vaginalis clipped away completely. Castration may be necessitated by the presence of a very dense calcareous sac wall which cannot be clipped away, and it may be done all the more unhesitatingly because the pressure exerted by the calcareous sac wall will probably have damaged the testis irretrievably. The operation here is quite easy, as the cord can be divided an inch or so above the swelling and need not be followed up into the inguinal region. It is well to excise an elliptical portion of the scrotum in performing castration in order to avoid leaving a large pouch in the scrotum in which blood may accumulate. VARICOCELE. This is the name given to a varicose dilatation of the pampiniform plexus, which is a very common affection about the age of puberty. Various causes are assigned to the affection. It is probably predisposed to by the great length of and slow circulation through the spermatic vein, by the constriction exerted on the veins at the external abdominal ring and undoubtedly by hereditary tendency. The fact that it is more common on the left side than on the right is supposed to be accounted for by the fact that the left spermatic vein lies behind the sigmoid flexure and so has pressure exerted upon it when the loop of bowel is full of faeces, and also that the vein opens at right angles into the left renal vein instead of obliquely.. Some patients have very large varicoceles without any symptoms at all, whilst others suffer much from a comparatively slight degree of the affection and it is probable that the neurotic element enters largely into these cases. The complaint made is generally of an aching pain in the back and groin, especially in the region of the genito-crural nerve; the., patient is often alarmed lest the generative function of the testis should be impaired. It is however very rarely indeed that any real atrophy, of the testis occurs as the result of a varicocele. The troubles caused by the affection are much aggravated in hot climates, and the presence of a varicocele prevents the sufferer from entering the services or from following occupations in tropical countries; for these reasons treatment may be called for, although tliere may be no actual inconvenience complained of. TREATMENT, (a) Palliative.—When the patient does not desire an operation or when he lias no wish to enter one of the public services