138 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BILE PASSAGES. The best incision is a free vertical one from the edge of tlie ninth or tenth costal cartilages to the level of the umbilicus, and this may have to be prolonged downwards in order to get room (see Fig. 29). A favourite incision is a curved one about an inch below the costal margin, and this may be prolonged outwards into the flank as far as may be necessary and gives abundant room (see Fig. 30). This incision should run at least an inch below the margin of the ribs in order to afford enough room for proper suturing of the abdominal wall afterwards. Other surgeons add a transverse incision to the vertical one first described extending as far day for two or three days before the operation, and also by extra care in picking up and tying bleeding points at the time of the operation, combined with fairly firm packing of the wound at its termination; if necessary, this may be re-inforced by soaking the layers of gauze next the oozing surface in a solution of i part of adrenalin chloride in 1000 parts of sterile normal saline solution. When the peritoneum has been opened, the condition of the parts is examined. If the gall-bladder be not adherent to the anterior abdominal wall, the free edge of the liver is pulled firmly upwards under the ribs and is kept in position by a retractor outside an abdominal cloth. The surgeon then examines for adhesions and notes the condition of the gall-bladder and its walls. Next the cystic duct is examined, both for adhesions and for the presence of a stone. Finally, before settling upon what further is to be done, outwards as may be necessary and thus raising an abdominal flap. In all probability the ver- tical incision is the best in spare subjects, while the curved one beneath the costal margin may be used in other cases. A very useful incision described by Dr. A. D. Bevan {Annals of Sii?-gejy, 1899, p. 15) is shown in Fig. 31. It gives abundant room and causes little damage to the abdominal wall. Fig. 30.—ThrSub-Costal In'cision for Gai.l-Bladder Operations. This must be a full inch below the costal margin. When there is jaundice, all bleeding points should be liga- tured before the peritoneum is opened. If the patient be pro- foundly jaundiced, the danger of persistent bleeding after the operation is best guarded against by a preliminary administration of chloride of calcium in drachm doses per rectum three times a