244 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. laid freely open, its edges stitched to the lumbar incision, and a drainage tube inserted. In a few weeks' time, when the patient has recovered somewhat, a secondary nephrectomy may be done; whenever it is possible however primary nephrectomy should be chosen, as it is a much easier operation. When however a cet-taiti aviount of secreting tissue still remains, the important question is the condition of the opposite kidney. When this is clearly good, and only very little secreting substance is left on the diseased side, primary nephrectomy is the proper procedure. If there be any doubt, a temporary urinary fistula may be established and, when subsequent examinations have satisfied the surgeon that the opposite kidney is healthy, a secondary nephrectomy can be performed if the patient insists upon it, as he will if the fistula causes much inconvenience or if accidental circumstances, such as suppuration along the fistula, should occur and render its presence dangerous. We may sum up the radical treatment of hydronephrosis as follows: 1. Removal of any ascertainable cause of obstruction; this will probably result in a perfect cure. 2. When an irremovable obstruction is found low down in the ureter, the tube may be transplanted into the most suitable position available. 3. When no obstruction is found low down in the urinary tract, the tumour should be exposed and any removable obstruction properly dealt with. This again should result in a perfect cure. 4. When the obstruction is irremovable, a permanent urinary fistula should be established when there is a considerable amount of secreting structure left in the affected kidney, and the condition of the one on the opposite side is not satisfactory. 5. A nephrotomy followed by the establishment of a temporary renal fistula should be done when the patient is in a weakly state of health, which may be expected to improve after the cyst has shrunk up; this should also be done when the condition of the other kidney is not known, and also when some obstruction is found which it is possible to remove although it may be inadvisable to do so at the time the nephrotomy is performed. 6. Nephrectomy should be done as a primary operation when the kidney is completely destroyed, and a mere cyst is left. It should also be done for the cure of a renal fistula when the patient desires it, and the state of the other kidney is known to be good. INTERMITTENT HYDRONEPHROSIS. This is an important condition, the significance of which has been only recognised comparatively recently. In it there is intermittent dilatation of the pelvis and calices of the kidney by an obstruction, which is to some extent relieved from time to time. The patient may have