355 HYPOSPADIAS. operation a full-sized catheter is passed from the external meatus into the bladder and tied in position (see p. 345). The edges of the gap between the old and the new urethra are then pared, and the raw surfaces are brought together over the catheter by a few points of suture. The catheter is kept in for about six days and all the urine is allowed to drain continuously through it by means of an india-rubber tube carried into a suitable receptacle; at the end of that time it is withdrawn and the patient is allowed to micturate naturally. The operation done in three stages in this manner is very successful on the whole and gives good functional results. Several causes of failure however have to be carefully guarded against. In the first stage there may be severe and persistent oozing if the corpora cavernosa be injured, and union will be interfered with unless all haemorrhage is arrested before the sutures are put in. In the second stage partial defects of union such as are met with after operations for cleft palate may be encountered but these need not discourage the surgeon, as it is comparatively easy to remedy them by paring the edges and suturing them as long- as no urine passes through the canal. The worst difficulty is generally met with in the final stage when the two urethras are connected up, and the failure here may be so persistent that it may become advisable to make a button-hole incision into the perineum through which a catheter is passed into the bladder so as to divert the urine until union is complete, when the catheter is left out and the perineal opening closes readily. Some dilatation at the junction of the new with the old urethra may be noted after the operation and urine may collect there during micturition and escape afterwards. This however is easily remedied by pressing with the finger over the dilated spot so as to squeeze out any remaining drops. The condition tends to improve as time elapses.^ EPISPADIAS. This deformity is the reverse of hypospadias and in it the upper wall of the urethra is deficient. It is much rarer than hypospadias and, although the cleft may be limited to the anterior part of the urethra, it more commonly extends into the neck of the bladder and is a common complication of ectopia vesicae (see p. 264). In the complete form of the affection true incontinence of urine is present but, when the cleft is limited to the anterior part of the urethra, the patient may retain complete control. The penis ' In the British Medical Joicrnal of Nov. I7lh, 1900, Dr. Hamilton Russell of Melbourne describes an original operation for these cases for which he claims excellent results. We have not yet had an ojiportunity of testing the method, but the description given by Dr. Russell indicates considerable improvements in certain points, especially in the formation of the anterior part of the urethra, and the operation is certainly one v/hich should be considered in deciding as to the best method by which the deformity may be remedied. Those who are interested in the matter may consult Dr. Russell's original paper ; it will also be found (|uotcd in Jacobson's Operations of Sur^eiy.