THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. 204 ment of a peri-nephritis. Abscesses may also result from extension of inflam- mation from neighbouring parts such as the appendix, the pelvis, the colon, the duodenum, or the gall-bladder. Peri-nephric abscess may also occur in the course of some general septic condition or of a specific fever. Of the two other varieties of peri-nephric abscess, it is more common for the abscess to originate in connection with pyelitis or pyelonephrosis, with or without perforation of the kidney substance. Here there are symptoms of kidney trouble, such as haematuria or pyuria, in addition to the signs of peri- nephric suppuration. SYMPTOMS.—These vary according to whether suppuration has actually occurred or whether the case is seen before the abscess has formed. Peri-nephric inflammation is indicated by a peculiar flexion of the spine which is bent somewhat antero-posteriorly, and inclined to the affected side. The patient experiences pain in walking or stooping, and at the same time the affected thigh is drawn up and can only be moved with pain. The temperature is high —103° to 104° F.—and there is generally intense, deep-seated tender- ness in the loin, most marked above the crest of the ilium, and just outside the erector spinte muscle. When actual suppuration has occurred, there are often rigors, the pain is increased, and there is oedema of the cellular tissue in the flanks with firm contraction of the loin muscles, and subsequently a tumour, which may be found to fluctuate under an anaesthetic. This symptom is best examined for with one hand on the front of the abdomen and the other in the loin. It is seldom, however, that the case is allowed to go on until actual fluctuation can be made out. The presence of pus will be inferred from the length of time the inflammation has lasted, the character of the temperature and the informa- tion afforded by a blood-count (see Part VI., Sec. 1., p. 379). Unless the peri-nephric inflammation be secondary to suppuration in the kidney, examination of the urine does not help the diagnosis. Some information as to the site of the abscess may occasionally be gained by noting the character of the pain. When the abscess occurs about the upper part of the kidney this is usually of a pleuritic character. When the suppuration is opposite the centre of the organ it is referred along the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and gives rise to pain in the groin and scrotum, which may serve to distract attention from the actual seat of the inflammation. When the abscess originates about the lower end of the kidney the pain is mainly referred to the hip and thigh, along the external cutaneous, anterior crural and obturator nerves, and there may be pain in the knee and retraction of the testis. If left alone, the abscess spreads in directions varying according to the situation in which it originates. An abscess in the upper part spreads forwards, and gives rise to a sub-phrenic abscess or an empyema. When in the lower part it spreads downwards to the iliac fossa, and may point in the neighbourhood of Poupart's ligament. Pus from about the centre of the renal area has a tendency to spread directly backwards and point in the loin. The