CARCINOMA. 495 removal of the pectoralis minor as well in order to facilitate the clearing of the axilla but, if there be no reason to suspect infection of that muscle, it is quite easy to retain it and still clear the axilla satisfactorily; the subsequent movement of the arm seems to be better if this muscle be retained ; the fascia over it however should be taken away. The chief incisions for removal of cancer of the breast are shown in Figs. 108-112. They should be varied according to the seat of the disease and, in order to insure removal of sufficient skin from the neighbourhood of the growth, should generally be irregular in shape jather than the eUiptical incision commonly recommended; in any case they must run beyond the projecting portion of the organ. When the skin has been divided, the incision should not be carried straight through to the deep fascia, but the skin should be undermined right up to the clavicle, the Fig. 108.—Incisions for removal of a Can- Fig. ioq—Incisions for removal of a Can- cerous Tumour SITUATED IN THE outer quadrant cerous Tumour situated in the inner OF THE IIREAST. QUADRANT OF THF, HREAST. incision being gradually deepened until the fibres of the pectoralis major are exposed when the clavicle is reached. This undermining of the skin has never led to sloughing of the edges in our experience and insures removal of all outlying portions of the breast. The incision is prolonged right out on to the arm beyond the insertion of the pectoralis major, and the skin is then similarly undermined at the lower part of the incision and down over the axilla until the edge of the latis«imus dorsi is exposed. All bleeding points should be secured by the assistant as quickly as possible, and particular attention must be paid to picking up the anterior perforating vessels as they emerge between the costal cartilages. 'I"he removal of the pectoral fascia and the pectoral muscle is under- taken after the surgeon has made up his mind how much of the latter structure is to be taken away. The fascia and the superficial layer of the clavicular origin of the muscle are dissected down, and then the fingers are sunk right through the entire thickness of the pectoralis and this is raised from the underlying structures and its sternal attachment