THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. At the same time if the urethral orifice be found too narrow it may be slit up with a tenotomy knife until it will admit a full-sized instrument, and then the cut edges of the mucous membrane and the skin are stitched together. This gives a sufficiently large opening without any risk of stricture. Restoration of the penile urethra.—After having allowed sufficient time to elapse for these wounds to heal, and for the recurvation of the penis to be completely overcome, the closure of the urethra between the natural orifice and the glans penis may be proceeded with. This is best done by one of the operations known as Duplay's but Thiersch's method for the cure of epispadias (see p. 356) may also be employed. In Duplay's operation a vertical incision is made on each side of the cleft, extending from the glans penis backwards to the level of the urethral orifice. These incisions should be at such a distance from one another that, when the two flaps are dissected up and folded over, they can be made to meet in the middle line without any tension. At either end small transverse incisions are carried in towards but not actually to the middle line, so as to enable the flaps to be raised inwards. The incisions are carried right down to the capsule of the corpora cavernosa, and the flaps are dissected up on each side sufficiently to enable them to be folded over and united to one another in the middle Hne over a glass rod or suitable bougie; they thus form a urethral canal which is lined by mucous membrane the whole way. The flaps are united by a few fine catgut sutures, and their raw outer surface is then covered by sliding in skin flaps from each side. This is done by carrying incisions horizontally outwards from each end of the vertical ones, and dissecting up the flaps thus formed. These flaps can then be pulled in to meet in the middle line where they are united by quill or button sutures The wound is dressed with strips of gauze fixed on by collodion, and these need not be disturbed unless they become soiled with urine. If the dress- ing should be soiled, it should be thoroughly wetted with boracic lotion after micturition and then changed as frequently as may be necessary; it should not be allowed to remain on the wound if it becomes contaminated with putrefying urine. The glass rod should be left in position for the first three or four days at any rate, when it may be removed and need not be replaced. No instrument should be passed until healing is complete. The objection to this method is that there is often much tension on the skin flaps which cover the outside of the new urethra, and union is apt to give way, so that granulation and cicatrisation occur and the new urethra is considerably pressed upon. The tension on the flaps may be remedied by making a longitudinal incision through the skin of the penis in the middle line of the dorsum. This incision will generally heal readily enough spontaneously, or if not it may be covered with a skin-graft. Any slight contraction that occurs in it will help to prevent incurvation. This method is not applicable under all circumstances, partly because of the tension mentioned above, partly also because occasionally the groove