38o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. be done by compressing the urethra in the perineum behind the bulb of the irrigator whilst the lips of the meatus are pressed around the tube. We ourselves prefer to reserve this method for the cases where the object is rather to secure copious irrigation when there is a free discharge, whilst the other plan is more suitable for those in which the discharge is slight. For irrigation of this kind many substances are employed; sulphate of zinc (grs. i-iv ad 5 i), chloride of zinc (grs. ss-ii), acetate of zinc (grs. ii ad 3 i), per- manganate of potash (1-4000), perchloride of mercury (1-12000 to 1-2000), nitrate of silver or protargol (1-6000 to 1-3000), carbolic acid (1-60), sulpho- carbolate of zinc (grs. ss-iv), methyl-violet, etc., the quantity used for injection being one to two pints at a time and the irrigation being repeated three, four, or six times a day if the patient can spare the time. The drugs we prefer are the salts of zinc and permanganate of potash in the earlier stages, whilst nitrate of silver is more useful in the more chronic cases. Fig. 78.—Ukethral Pipe with backward flow. This may be used either with a Higginson's syringe when copious irrigation is required, or with the syringe figured below it when smaller quantities are to be used. The test as to whether a patient is cured is the absence of urethral discharge and shreds in the urine. It is not uncommon for patients to find, after all discharge has ceased, that if they pass urine into a glass the first portion contains a number of thread-like filaments ; these should be examined for gonococci but, whether the latter be found or not, their mere presence generally implies that the disease is not cured. Of course if gonococci be found, the disease must be looked upon as infectious and, as we have already said, even the absence of these must not be taken to imply a perfect cure except after repeated examinations extending over a prolonged period,—three to six months. It is not uncommon to find that a patient who has ceased to have any discharge leaves off the urethral injection and the discharge comes back two or three days afterwards; or he takes alcohol and gets a recurrence. In these cases the injections must be repeated. Of complications.—Most of the complications of gonorrhoea already referred to (see p. 375) are described elsewhere. Peri-iirethral abscess is not an infrequent complication, and the pus may find its way into the urethra, through the skin, or both. A urinary fistula may usually be avoided if the abscess be opened externally directly its presence is detected. When it opens spontaneously both into the urethra and through the skin a urinary fistula results ; under certain circumstances it may lead to extravasation of urine. This matter is dealt with more fully elsewhere (see Chap. XL.). '