viii PREFACE. We have not mentioned all the exceptional conditions that may be met with, but we have endeavoured to include all the circumstances with which the surgeon is most commonly called upon to deal. The task has been one of some difficulty, the more so as we have had, to a certain extent, to break new ground. This must serve as our excuse for the many shortcomings in the work. PREFACE TO PART VI.—SECTION II. This volume brings the work to an end, and its size will be a sufficient explanation of the delay in its issue. The success of the previous vol- umes has shown us that the book supplies a want; we have felt, therefore, that it would not be in any way advantageous to attempt to shorten this volume or hurry its issue. In writing the portion of the book devoted to the surgical affections of the Kidney and Ureter, we have derived great assistance from Mr. Henry Morris's exhaustive work upon the subject; and we are further indebted to him and to Messrs. Cassell & Co. for leave to reproduce several drawings, which will be found duly acknowledged in the text. Another work of which we have made free use is Fowler & Godlee's well-known book upon Diseases of the Chest. To M. G. Steinheil of Paris we are indebted for leave to reproduce several illustrations from Quenu & Hartmann's work, Chirurgie du Rectum^ and to Messrs. Lippincott of Philadelphia for the drawings illustrating Dr. Bevan's article upon the " Surgical Anatomy of the Bile-ducts" in the Annals of Surgery. Messrs. Down Bros, have again furnished the blocks of surgical instru- ments, as they have done in all the previous volumes, and to them our best thanks are due. All the remaining illustrations have been drawn from original sketches, and we offer our heartiest thanks to Mr. T. P. Collings upon the completion of his task. The indices to the book, as well as all the type-writing of the manuscript, are the work of Miss Grace Hill, and we are very grateful to her for the care that she has taken and for the ex- cellence of the work she has done. London, April, 1903.