412 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. the bladder insures dilatation. It is always best to give an anaesthetic, as spasm and straining are done away with and a larger sized instrument may often be passed than would otherwise be possible. Special care must be taken to see that only the eye of the catheter lies in the bladder (see p. 346) as otherwise its end may impinge against the mucous membrane and cause ulceration. Simple cases treated on these lines will be practically cured of cystitis in a few days, when the treatment of the stricture shoufd be continued by intermittent dilatation. When however the urine is very foul, it is possible that the mere retention of an instrument in the stricture will give rise to increase in the irritation and under these circumstances external urethrotomy, preferably by Syme's method will give better results, as it will enable a larger-sized instrument to be tied into the bladder and will therefore facilitate drainage. In these bad cases it will probably be well to pass the catheter not through the meatus but through the perineal wound so as to insure the freest possible drainage for a few days. When the condition of the urine improves, the instrument may be passed through the meatus into the bladder and tied in position. (c) Of strictures complicated by acute epididymitis.—The treatment for epididymitis is described separately (see p. 452). It is well not to attempt to dilate the stricture during the acute stage of the affection. When the acuter symptoms have subsided, 'either intermittent dilatation or external urethrotomy should be employed. (d) Of strictures accompanied by retention of urine.—Acute retention of urine, that is to say, complete inability to pass water, may be due to many other causes than stricture of the urethra. Thus it may occur in connection with vesical calculus or spasm of the sphincter vesicfe. Paralysis of the bladder may also give rise to a similar condition, as may enlargement, acute inflammation or abscess of the prostate. In young children the most common cause of acute retention is the impaction of a urethral calculus. These forms have already been dealt with. Retention may occur in any of the three forms of stricture already referred to (see p. 388). We shall here only describe the treatment of retention due to organic stricture; for that caused by congestive and spasmodic stricture see p. 419 et seq. The retention of urine in organic stricture is not entirely due to the narrowness of the stricture; even an extremely tight one will allow some urine to pass. In bad cases however inflammatioij is a very common accompaniment, more especially if instruments have been roughly employed, and the result of the swelling is to cause complete, though only temporary, blocking of the urethral canal. Hence the retention is usually associated with some more acute or congestive inflammatory condition in the neighbourhood of the stricture. Treatment.—Unless the distension of the bladder be very urgent, the first measures should be directed to relieving the spasm and congestion;