WANDERING SPLEEN. the other, the radical one of splenectomy. The latter is of course a radical cure, and the results obtained by it are very favourable, except when there is some primary disease of the spleen. At the same time, the operation is undoubtedly serious, and is only called for when the patient is gravely incapacitated and no other measures suffice, as, apart from the risks of the operation itself {vide infra), the mere loss of the spleen may affect the patient deleteriously. The operation of splenopexy is somewhat complicated if it is to be done efficiently. It is not sufficient simply to pass sutures through the capsule of the spleen and the under surface of the diaphragm, as no satisfactory adhesions result and the spleen soon becomes loose again. Hence a more elaborate operation is required; the following ingenious plan has been carried out with success by Rydygier {Aixhiv f. klin. Chir., 1895). and we have had a successful result with it in one case. Splenopexy —The abdomen is opened by a vertical incision either in the middle line or in the left linea semilunaris and the spleen is exposed and raised into its normal position. In order to keep it there, a pocket is made beneath the parietal peritoneum into which the lower end of the organ is inserted and fixed. To do this, a transverse incision is made through the peritoneum on a level with the junction of the upper with the middle third of the spleen in its normal position, and the peritoneum is separated from the abdominal wall downwards with the finger or the handle of the knife so as to form a pocket to receive the spleen. In order to limit the separation of the peritoneum from the wall of the abdomen below and to prevent the spleen increasing this separation by its weight and slipping too far down in the pocket, a few stitches may be passed through the parietal peritoneum and the subjacent muscles along a horizontal line marking out the lower limit of the pocket. Into the pocket thus made the lower part of the spleen is placed, and the free .border of the pocket is fastened to the gastro-splenic omentum by a few catgut sutures. This operation, however, is only suitable for cases of wandering spleen that have not undergone any marked enlargement. An enlarged spleen would be likely to drag downwards again by its weight, and in these cases, therefore, splenectomy (see p. 159) must be done. INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE SPLEEN. Inflammation and abscess of the spleen usually follow some general septic infection and therefore form part of a general disease and are not directly amenable to surgical treatment. ABSCESS OF THE SPLEEN has however been met with as an inde- pendent affection, for instance following typhoid fever, but its diagnosis is naturally extremely difficult. There is pain over the spleen and tenderness on deep pressure accompanied by fever and the usual symptoms indicating suppuration.