434 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS. etiology of the affection, probably owing to the continued irritation of retained secretion. As a rule the growth is warty in character and in the early stages is frequently confounded with a simple papilloma, whilst in the later stages it is mistaken for a gumma. Any warty growth upon the penis in an old subject should be looked upon with the gravest suspicion and careful examination will usually reveal an induration of the base from which it grows. In doubtful cases no time should be wasted in keeping the case under observation, but a portion of the edge of the growth should be removed for microscopical examination. The tumour is rapid in its growth and penetrates deeply into the glans ; when once it implicates the corpora cavernosa it spreads rapidly through that structure. It may spread into the corpus spongiosum and lead to difficult and painful micturition and ultimately to the formation of fistulse. The glands in the groin are affected early, very frequently on both sides. TREATMENT.—The only method of any use is amputation of the penis, and no time should be lost, as this is one of the most fatal forms of epithelioma. Amputation of the penis.—There are two methods at the disposal of the surgeon, one being amputation of the penile portion anterior to the scrotum, the other being the removal of the entire organ including the crura of the corpora cavernosa. Amputation of the penile portion.—This operation is suitable for those early cases in which the growth is situated upon the glans and has not infiltrated the corpora cavernosa or infected the glands in the groin to any extent. The patient should lie upon his back with the legs hanging over the end of the table or should be in the lithotomy position; the parts are shaved and purified in the ordinary manner and the penis is encircled- by india-rubber tubing or by some suitable clamp applied immediately in front of the scrotum so as to arrest the circulation (see Fig. loi). The organ is then held in the vertical position and a full-sized straight bougie is passed down the urethra as far as the tourniquet. The best form of amputation is that by a long flap fashioned from the skin of the under surface of the penis, which must be long enough to cover the end of the organ comfortably and should be slightly rounded, its length being rather more than half the circumference of the penis at the point of amputation. It should consist of. the skin and subcutaneous tissue and can be readily raised by a few touches of the knife. The penis should not be put upon the stretch as the flap' is cut. After the flap has been raised and turned back, its two ends are joined across the dorsum by an incision slightly convex downwards, and then the knife, with its blade horizontal, is thrust between the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum, its cutting edge is turned upwards and it is made to divide the corpora cavernosa at right angles to the long axis of the penis on a level with the base of the flap. A few touches of the knife will suffice to separate the corpus spongiosum from the divided corpora cavernosa and