THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. The only point in the after-treatment requiring consideration is the question of leaving a catheter in the bladder. The great objection to this, when the urine is aseptic, is the risk of introducing sepsis. At the same time it is hardly safe to allow the subject of an extensive rupture of the bladder to pass water spontaneously for the first few days, becaluse the stitches are pulled upon every time the bladder contracts, and the union may give way. On the whole it is well to tie in a catheter for a few days, especially when the wound is through the portion of the viscus uncovered by peritoneum. RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. Here the organ is injured without a skin wound, and the accident is a common complication of a fractured pelvis. In these cases the urethra is generally extensively torn also ; the laceration may extend from it into the neck of the bladder or a sharp fragment of the pelvis may be depressed and cause a large lacerated wound. Another not uncommon injury is rupture of the vesical wall without any perforation from without. This can only occur when the bladder is moderately distended, and usually takes place in elderly subjects with large prostates as a result of a blow upon the anterior surface of the abdomen. It may also occur as a result of violent compression of the abdomen not necessarily fracturing the pelvis, and it is said to occur spon- taneously as a result of a violent strain in people with atrophied and distended bladders. The rupture may be either extra- or intra-peritoneal, or both, and is a grave injury as in many cases the urine is not aseptic. SYMPTOMS.—In the first group of cases there will be a combination of symptoms due to the injury producing the rupture with those special to the injury of the bladder itself In the second group the latter symptoms alone are present. In all cases there will be great shock, and there is a constant desire to micturate, which may or may not be effectual, according to the size and situation of the rent in the bladder. If the patient can micturate, as may be the case when the rent is small, and especially when it is extra- peritoneal, the urine will be blood-stained When however there is an extensive intraperitoneal rupture, all the urine will escape through it, and none through the urethra. When the injury to the bladder is an extension from one in the urethra there will be symptoms of ruptured urethra (see Chap. XXXVII.) in addition, and it may be rather difficult to diagnose that a laceration of the bladder exists as well; this however is a most important point, as the injury to the bladder requires immediate treatment. The diagnosis will be confirmed by signs of urinary extravasation into the pre-vesical cellular tissue in cases of extra-peritoneal rupture, or into the peritoneal cavity when the rupture is intra-peritoneal. In extra-peritoneal cases there will be a tender boggy swelling, dull on percussion, extending up behind the pubes, and accompanied, in a short time, by all the signs of extravasation of urine. When the rupture is intra-peritoneal however, there will be signs of