396 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. stricture, an attempt is made to withdraw them. In this way the distance down the urethra both of the anterior and posterior edge of the stricture, and therefore its length, may be obtained. It is also important to ascertain whether there is more than one stricture present. This is easy if the stricture that is situated nearer the bladder be tighter than the one beyond it; if the largest instrument that the distal stricture will admit be passed, it will become arrested by the tighter stricture further down. If on the other hand the distal stricture be the tighter of the two, the proximal one will probably escape recognition until the distal stricture has been dilated beyond the number that the proximal one will admit. A final point of some importance about which information may be gathered from an examination like this is the dilatability of the stricture. By using graduated bougies as recommended below, the resistance of the stricture to the dilating force may be gauged to some extent and an idea may be gained as to whether the stricture is readily amenable to dilatation or not. There is considerable difference of opinion as to whether a rigid or a flexible instrument should be used for this purpose when the smaller numbers (from No. 6 downwards) have to be used. The advocates of metal instruments argue that with them the surgeon is able to work with greater precision, as he can guide the point in the direction in which he desires it to go; whereas a small flexible instrument is apt to curl up in the urethra and does not take the direction that the hand desires to impart to it. On the other hand those who advocate flexible instruments hold that it is difificult to direct the point of a fine instrument intelligently among the numerous folds met with in the urethra and further that it is often impossible, even in the most skilled hands, to avoid doing damage to a sensitive urethra. However this may be, it would seem that the wisest plan is for all but those who are specially skilled in the passage of bougies to refrain from using metal instruments of a smaller calibre than No. 5 English except under special circumstances. With the fine flexible instruments they can at least do- no harm, and repeated attempts will generally counterbalance early failures. On the other hand there is a distinct advantage in using metal instru- ments of such a size that their points are not likely to become entangled in the folds of the mucous membrane and are not likely to penetrate the urethra if they do. Metal bougies from No. 6 upwards can be more easily guided and are under better control, while at the same time the resistance imparted to them by a stricture is more easily detected than with a soft instrument. These remarks apply equally to the passage of instruments for investigation and for dilatation. Dilatation.—The object of this method of treatment is to place the patient in a position in which recurrence of the stricture may be prevented with a little care. Dilatation moreover is a necessary preliminary to other methods of treatment such as most forms of urethrotomy, and it is therefore important for the surgeon to be adept at it.