GALL-STONES, 145 sometimes be aided by pushing the stone up towards the neck of the gall- bladder. If this fails and the stone be very soft, gentle pressure between the fingers outside the duct may break it up and allow the fragments to be removed with the scoop. Should there be any difficulty in removing it in this manner, however, there are two plans open to the surgeon. In one an incision is made directly over the stone and the latter removed, taking care to make the opening somewhat on the hepatic aspect of the duct so as to secure adhesions between the incision and the liver and not between it and the stomach. After removal of the stone, the cut edges are united by Lembert sutures of fine catgut, and the opening in the fundus is sutured to the abdominal wall and drained as in cholecystostomy. The other and more rational method is to remove the gall-bladder and the cystic duct together with the stones in them. This operation—chole- cystectomy—has already been described (see p. 143), and we should recommend it for all cases except where adhesions or the condition of the patient render extraction of the stone through an incision in the duct imperative. Cholecystectomy has the great advantage that no biHary fistula is likely to follow it, whereas this may happen after removal of a stone from the cystic duct, as the inflammatory condition produced by the im- paction of the stone may end in a cicatricial stricture of the duct, which will give rise to a permanent fistula if cholecystostomy be performed. Moreover, it is more difficult to suture an incision in the cystic duct than to deal with its divided end. 6. When a stone is permanently impacted in the common duct.—When examination detects a stone impacted in the common duct, an attempt should first be made to remove it by incising the common duct directly over the stone,—choledochotomy. Choledochotomy.—The laparotomy incision will generally need to be lengthened, often considerably in fat subjects, in order to get proper access to the duct. If the condition of affairs be suspected before operation, it is well to employ the curved incision below the costal margin in all except spare subjects. As the shock may be extreme, the most energetic measures should be taken to combat it (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 177). After the incision has been enlarged, the surrounding parts must be displaced as far as possible so as to give a good view of the common duct, and the best way to effect this is to pull up the anterior edge of the liver rotating it upon itself around its transverse axis ; the common duct, is thus brought about an inch nearer to the surface than it usually lies. It is also a good plan to raise the trunk ' so as to allow the intestines to fall downwards by their own weight; they may be kept out of the way by a retractor applied outside an abdominal cloth and are packed off by abdominal ' A firm round bolster or a large sandbag should be placed beneath the upper part of the loins in such a way as to arch the back fully. This throws the liver well upwards into the thorax while the intestines fall downwards towards the pelvis. The suggestion i.s due to Mr. Mayo Robson and is a very valuable one. PT. VI. 2 K