36o THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. Lembert's fashion, avoiding the mucous membrane, and the soft parts around the urethra, and also the skin, should be sutured completely except at one spot which is kept open by a strand of iodoformed gauze to allow for the escape of urine. The catheter should be left in for 24 hours, when it is withdrawn and the patient is allowed to micturate naturally. With accurate suturing there is little risk of the wound being burst open during micturition and, if no catheter be used, there is no risk of the wound being damaged and urethritis is also avoided. It is well to administer bromide of potassium (grs. 25) and chloral (grs. 10) every evening at bedtime in order to prevent erections which might interfere with union. The cicatrix is small if the suture has been accurate and there is little tendency to contraction. It is well nevertheless to pass a bougie, at any rate for the first two years, at intervals gradually increasing in length from a fortnight up to six months or more, so as to make sure that no stricture occurs. If it does, the case becomes one of stricture of the urethra (see Chap. XL.). CONTUSIONS AND RUPTURES. Contusions of the urethra most commonly follow falls astride of an object such as a rail or a beam. They may also be due to kicks or direct blows upon the perineum and very commonly cooiplicate fracture of the pelvis. More rarely they are the result of slight violence, as for example a sudden erection in a patient suffering from chordee. In these cases the injury occurs only in the penile portion and will be referred to in connection with gonorrhoea (see Chap. XXXIX.). The injury to the urethra usually occurs near the junction of the bulbous with the membranous portion. When the rupture complicates a fracture of the pelvis the membranous and sometimes, though rarely, the prostatic urethra are lacerated. In falls astride the injury is produced by crushing the urethra against the side of the pubic arch in the majority of cases, the patient striking the obstacle somewhat sideways; in others however the membranous urethra may be torn across without any actual pressure against the bone. The degree of injury varies. The first structure to be damaged is the spongy tissue outside the mucous and submucous coats, and a large diffuse hsematoma may occur in this structure. In the more severe injuries however the submucous tissue is damaged and the mucous membrane is torn. In the most severe form of injury the urethra is torn completely across and this is most likely to happen when the injury occurs in the membranous portion. The chief dangers of these injuries are retention and extravasation of urine. SYMPTOMS.—When the urethral mucous membrane is intact, the main symptoms are a hgematoma in the perineum accompanied by a certain amount of pain. If the haematoma be large, its pressure upon