ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. be withdrawn until its point is near the surface of the liver, when its direction is altered and it is pkmged in once more. If a cannula or needle of fairly large bore be used, there is usually a free flow of blood whether pus be struck or not; and this is useful as showing the patency of the instru- ment ; if nothing comes through, it is probable that the cannula has become blocked with liver substance and it is well to force a few drops of boracic lotion through the needle without withdrawing it so as to clear it. In performing an exploratory puncture care must be taken to allow the needle to move freely with the liver in respiration as otherwise the liver substance may be unnecessarily torn. This mobility of the exploring needle is sometimes an important point, as the absence of it indicates the presence of adhesions to the diaphragm. When these occur, the right side of the diaphragm is usually more or less paralysed and the liver, and consequently the needle, are stationary. When pus has been found, the object of the puncture is attained and no attempt should be made to draw off any large quantity. The question now arises as to whether the needle should be withdrawn or whether the abscess should be cut down upon with it in situ as a guide. When the puncture has been made through an intercostal space, it is better to leave the needle in position but, if the puncture has been made through the abdominal wall, this is not necessary as the laparotomy will expose the surface of the liver and the point of puncture is easily seen, whereas the needle left in position might easily damage the liver substance as the abdomen is opened. The incision and drainage of the abscess should be done at one sitting. It was formerly the practice to establish adhesions at a first operation either by stitches inserted between the liver and the abdominal wall or by gauze packed into the wound, and a few days later a second operation was done for drainage of the abscess after the adhesions were established. There is at the present time a certain amount of dispute as to the necessity for preliminary stitching of the liver to the abdominal wall before the former is incised, but all surgeons are agreed that the operation should be done in one stage. Whilst we admit that any attempt to stitch the liver to the abdominal wall is necessarily imperfect owing to the friability of the liver, we think that, wherever possible, means should be taken to shut off the peritoneal cavity from infection, and these means have already been dealt with in speaking of appendicitic abscess (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 395). By packing gauze around the drainage tube for 24 to 48 hours one can practically always reckon upon avoiding infection of the peritoneal cavity even by the most virulent pus. When the abscess has to be opened from the abdomen, a free oblique incision should be made just below the costal margin or directly over any prominence that may be present. When the liver is exposed it is first palpated, when in all probability the abscess will be made out; if not, a large aspirating needle should be introduced and the pus again sought for. Before doing this however gauze or abdominal cloths should be packed in