HYDROCELE. injection would certainly fail, for example when the sac is multilocular or contains loose bodies. The fluid formerly used for injecting hydroceles was the Edinburgh tincture of iodine, which is stronger than that of the British Pharmacopoeia, and a drachm or more of this was introduced into the sac and left there. This operation is accompanied by considerable pain at the time and brisk inflammation afterwards and for this the patient has to He up. Recently iodine has been largely abandoned in favour of undiluted carbolic acid, which is the fluid that we should recommend when this operation is decided upon. It is probably more efficient than iodine and its use is not accompanied by the pain that follows injection of the latter fluid. The method is as follows: The skin at the proposed seat of puncture is shaved and disinfected, the patient sits well forward upon the edge of the chair with the legs apart so as to prevent him shrinking back when the puncture is made, and a medium-sized trochar and cannula is thrust into the hydrocele. The point chosen for the puncture should be at the anterior part of the swelling rather above the middle and at a spot free from visible veins, and meanwhile the skin should be made tense over the tumour which is grasped behind its median transverse plane between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand ; as the thumb and finger are approximated, the tumour slips forward and the skin is pulled backwards and made quite tense. It is always advisable to make out the position of the testicle beforehand both by palpation and by the translucency test, as in some rare cases the ordinary position of the testis, namely below and behind, is altered and the organ is situated in front. The cannula is held as shown in Fig. 105, the forefinger of the left hand being placed three-quarters of an inch from the point of the trochar so as to prevent it from going too deep, and is introduced by a sharp stabbing thrust. Directly it has reached the interior of the cavity—as will be ascertained by the cessation of resistance—the point is tilted upwards, the trochar is withdrawn and the open end of the cannula is somewhat depressed and pushed a little further onwards so as to avoid any risk of its slipping out of the tunica vaginalis. The fluid is drained off as completely as possible, the tunica vaginalis being compressed by the left hand. When all the fluid has escaped, carbolic acid is introduced through the cannula preferably by a syringe which fits the nozzle of the former. Should the surgeon not happen to have a syringe of this kind at hand, the best plan is to take a hypodermic syringe with a long exploring needle and to pass the latter down the cannula well into the tunica vaginalis and to inject the fluid in this way. The fluid for injection is made by liquefying pure carbolic acid by heat and adding a few drops of glycerine to prevent it from crystallising in the needle. For a small hydrocele 20 min. will he sufficient, while for a large one the