366 THE SURGICAL AFP^ECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. packed with iodoformed gauze for a day or two. The sides of the wound fall together when the legs are in the horizontal position and tied together, and there is no necessity for stitches; indeed the insertion of sutures in this situa- tion might lead to septic infiltration. A large antiseptic dressing is applied over the perineum, and the catheter is tied into the bladder (see p. 345), and is fitted with india-rubber tubing carried into a basin of boracic or carbolic lotion so as to insure continuous drainage. The practice of plugging the catheter and occasionally removing the plug for the purpose of emptying the bladder is not good, as urine is very apt to escape alongside the instrument and to complicate the case. After-ireatment.—The catheter is left undisturbed for about four days, when it is removed and a fresh, carefully-sterilised instrument is substituted. This should be of a somewhat smaller size; if a No. 12 instrument has been employed in the first instance, the next size introduced should be a No. 10, and this should be kept in position for two days, when it should be removed and another of the same size substituted. For the first fortnight it is well to keep a catheter constantly in the bladder, but after that time the patient may be allowed to micturate naturally, and an instrument should be passed every three days to prevent the recurrence of contraction, and this should be continued at gradually increasing intervals for a very consider- able time in order to make sure that no stricture results. For this purpose Lister's bougies (see Fig. 87) should be used. In the first instance they should be passed twice a week for several weeks; the interval is then gradually increased if no contraction seems to be taking place. First a week, then two, three, four weeks and so on may be allowed to elapse, but the patient must be cautioned that for the rest of his life he is liable to stricture and that, should this once become well developed, it is very difficult to treat, and he must therefore never be allowed to pass from observation, and should have an instrument passed once in three months at least in order to be safe. The external dressings should be changed every twelve hours, whilst the packing is renewed daily for a couple of days. The perineal drainage tube should be left undisturbed for four days, when it may be dispensed with. The perineal wound should not be syringed out, as this will only interfere with healing and cannot do good. The bowels should be kept confined for four or five days by suitable doses of laudanum, and should then be made to act by the administration of salines, so as to obtain liquid motions, without strain- ing. The external dressing should be removed just before defaecation, and a piece of gauze wet with 1-2000 sublimate solution should be kept over the perineal wound and then, as soon as the action is complete, the parts should be thoroughly washed with a 1-20 carboHc followed by a 1-2000 sublimate solution, the temporary gauze covering should be thrown away, the edges of the wound washed and the external dressing renewed. If sufficient care be taken in this manner the wound will remain aseptic, and it will generally heal in three or four weeks.