CHAPTER XXVII. TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. WOUNDS OF THE BLADDER. Wounds of the bladder, as distinguished from lacerations or ruptures, are all serious in nature, and are perhaps most common in military surgery ; in civil practice they usually follow falls upon some object, such as a spike, which either traverses the abdominal wall or the pelvic outlet. The bladder may be wounded in operations, such as excision of the rectum, or portions may be removed designedly, as in cases of malignant growth. In all these cases there is an external wound and the diagnosis is clear, as urine escapes through it; that which passes through the urethra is blood-stained. TREATMENT.—The object of this is, firstly, repair of the damage to the bladder wall, and, secondly, provision for drainage so that urine shall not collect either in the peritoneal cavity or in the pre-vesical cellular tissue; hence, the parts must always be well opened up and the wound in the bladder fully exposed. In wounds made accidentally or intentionally during the course of an operation the edges will be cleanly cut, and the obvious procedure is to suture them at once (see pp. 271 ^/ seq.). The second point is to prevent urinary infiltration. When the wound is through the portion covered by peritoneum, the urine collects in the peritoneal cavity; and after this has been removed, and the rent in the bladder sutured as recommended below (see p. 273), there is no need for drainage, and the abdominal wall is closed in the usual manner. When however the wound involves the cellular tissue and a part of the bladder uncovered by peritoneum, the wound must be thoroughly opened up, large drainage tubes inserted, and the skin wound left almost entirely open so as to allow the freest possible escape for the discharges. Urine must already have infiltrated the cellular tissue to some extent in these cases; and although the small amount that has entered the tissues will not do any great harm if the urine be aseptic and the wound be kept from infection, yet there is a risk of the most serious septic complications unless free drainage be provided.