TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS. it is only in the course of a search for the source of the bleeding that the diagnosis of ruptured spleen is made. The first question that arises in the treatment is whether the abdomen should be opened at once, or whether an interval should be allowed to elapse for the patient to recover from the shock. Undoubtedly the longer the time that elapses the greater is the bleeding, and consequently the worse the chance of recovery. At the same time, if the patient be profoundly collapsed and the diagnosis be uncertain, it may be best to wait for a short time and to employ remedies against the shock before proceeding to operate; On the other hand, if the case be clearly one of hsemorrhage, the only chance of saving the patient will be to open the abdomen and clamp the pedicle of the spleen, trusting to intra-venous saline infusion to restore the circulation. If it be recognised that the spleen is the organ ruptured, the best incision is one parallel with and an inch below the left costal margin. In cases of uncertain diagnosis, however, the incision should be in the middle line, and, if large enough, this gives good access to the spleen unless the patient be very stout; in that case a transverse incision outwards to the left, just above the umbilicus, may be added. When the abdomen has been opened, the clot is rapidly turned out, the hand is slipped in, the spleen is felt for, and its pedicle is compressed between the finger and thumb, so as to stop the bleeding. An assistant clears away the blood with sponges, so that the lesion in the organ may be examined and further treatment decided upon. If there be merely a rent in the capsule of the spleen, or a small penetrating wound, an attempt may be made to arrest the bleeding by passing deep catgut sutures through the spleen at least an inch from the cut surface on each side, so as to compress the splenic tissue thoroughly, as is done to arrest haemorrhage from the liver (see Chap. XII.). After this has been done, the wound is kept open a short time to see that all bleeding has stopped and the spleen is examined to make sure that there is no second wound. In the great majority of cases, however, there is a severe coritusion or a rupture, and the only treatment is to remove the spleen; the operation is described elsewhere (see p. 159). The first step is to clamp the pedicle with long powerful pressure forceps, and then to rapidly remove the organ, taking care not to cut the pedicle too close to the forceps. The extravasated blood is then removed, the parts cleaned up, and the pedicle secured permanently as for splenectomy (see p. 160). The chief point of importance is to clamp the pedicle as early as possible, so as to avoid further loss of blood. During or after the operation it will probably be found necessary to administer an intra-venous infusion of saline solution (see Part I., p. 136). Unless the patient has lost too much blood, recovery is usually quite satisfactory, and during it the superficial glands generally enlarge and remain hypertrophied. Occasionally, however, the loss of the spleen has