THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. The ribs most commonly fractured are the middle six, the first three being protected by the clavicle and the thick muscular layers over them, whilst the last three are so mobile that they yield before the pressure. Occasionally the rib is incompletely fractured, generally after the applica- tion of indirect violence, the outer surface alone being broken through, and then the displacement is practically nil, the fractured ends being held together either by the periosteum or by a few osseous fibres on the inner surface of the bone. There is only slight displacement when a single rib is fractured, unless the bone be broken in more than one place, when one fragment lies inside the other. SYMPTOMS.—There is a severe, sharp stabbing pain on breathing or coughing, with extreme tenderness on pressure, but in many cases no crepitus can be made out nor can any displacement be found. The best way to diagnose a fracture of the ribs when crepitus cannot be felt is to compress the chest from front to back; in a fracture sharp pain will be referred to the spot at which the bone is broken. Crepitus is often obtained by placing the hand flat upon the suspected area and making the patient breathe deeply or cough. It is never advisable however to cause the patient pain by making serious attempts to obtain crepitus, as a case suspected to be one of fracture of the ribs should be treated as if the diagnosis were certain. Should the ribs be merely bruised, the rest and support afforded by the treatment will relieve the pain. COMPLICATIONS.—The chief importance of these injuries lies in the complications which may accompany them, and foremost among these are the injuries to the intra-thoracic organs. For example the pleura may be punctured and the intercostal artery may be torn and haemorrhage may occur into the subcutaneous tissues and pleural cavity and a considerable hamo-thorax may be produced; or air may escape from the lung into the pleural cavity,—pneumo-thorax—and when this occurs it is not uncommon for the air also to escape through the wound in the parietal pleura and become diffused in the subcutaneous tissues, giving rise to surgical emphysefiia. AVhen the fractured ends perforate the lung there will be hamoptysis. Heemoptysis may also occur without any direct injury of the lung by the fractured ends, as a result of severe compression of the chest which causes actual contusion of the lung substance. Other viscera, such as the kidney, the liver, the diaphragm, the spleen or even the stomach may be wounded when the lower ribs are the seat of fracture. Among the more remote complications are pleurisy, which is not at all uncommon around the seat of the fracture; pleuro-pneumonia, when the lung has been damaged; mdet7ia of the lung, which is commonest in old people in whom also bro7ichitis is frequent, especially when they have been previously subject to the affection. It very frequently happens that bronchitis is actually present at the time of the accident and the latter then merely aggravates the condition because the patient cannot properly empty the bronchial tubes, partly on account of the pain and partly