88 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. the wound in case any portion of the union gives way and fecal extravasa- tion occurs. The best plan is to leave the wound well open and to pack it with strips of iodoformed gauze for a few days. When granulation is fully established, the edges of the wound may be brought together by deep stitches if there be no sepsis, a drainage tube being inserted to carry off any discharges. The bowels should be kept confined as long as possible and, after they have been made to act, they should be kept acting regularly every day. 2. Excision by the perineal route.—This, the old method, was the one always employed until the introduction of Kocher's and Kraske's operations but for many reasons it is bad. The operation is done through an incision from the anus to the tip of the coccyx and the result is that it is difficult to see what is being done and to properly secure the bleeding points. The greatest drawback however is that the operation as usually done leaves several inches of raw granulating surface below the open end of the rectum and the result is that there is not only a risk of sepsis, but severe pain accompanies defsecation, while the constant passage of bougies is necessary to maintain the patency of the opening, and finally a stricture of the most intractable kind results. In the perineal operation it is very difificult to make sure that the line of section is well above the growth and the surgeon is almost invariably tempted to do too little rather than too much ; moreover there cannot be the same satisfactory removal of glands. In certain cases however the operation is undoubtedly the one of selection ; it should be limited to those of growth at or in immediate proximity to the anal orifice. It is best done as follows : The patient is placed in the lithotomy position and a median incision is made from the tip of the coccyx to the mid-point of the perineum, diverging on each side at the posterior margin of the anus to enclose the latter in an elliptical incision either along the muco-cutaneous margin or further out upon the skin if the growth encroaches upon this situation. The incision from the anus to the coccyx should be carried deep into the hollow of the sacrum; a large sponge thrust into it will check heemorrhage. The fore- finger of the left hand is introduced into the rectum the limits of which are defined and the gut is dissected from the surrounding structures with scissors, the thumb being used to retract the bowel. Much can be done with the closed blades of the scissors, the structures being snipped through where necessary and bleeding points picked up with forceps. The separation of the bowel, especially behind and on either side, as far as the levator ani is easily accomplished : the connection in front with the vagina or the prostate and urethra is very intimate and great care must be taken. A finger in the vagina or a large sound in the male bladder will help the finger in the rectum to define the latter structure efficiently. The entire wall of the bowel must be dissected up and not the mucous membrane only. The next step is to divide the levatores ani all round (see Fig. 24) and this should be done slowly, any vessels being picked up as they are divided. The