47 h.^:morrhoids. hi^morrhoidal veins, but in them there is also direct irritation of the rectal mucous membrane by various articles of diet. Constipation is also of the very highest importance in the etiology ; it does not act so much by direct pressure on the veins as by leading to ineffectual straining at stool, which causes temporary pressure on the veins and congestion of the part. Prolonged straining at stool is also likely to be followed by slight damage to the anal mucous membrane which in its turn gives rise to a certain amount of phlebitis and vaso-motor congestion of the parts, and thus brings about the formation of the true hjemorrhoid. SYMPTOMS.—The symptoms may be classified^ according as the patient suffers, i. from an ordinary uncomplicated attack of piles, or, 2. from an exacerbation of the ordinary symptoms, usually spoken of as an "acute attack of piles." In the latter case the patient may have so little trouble between the attacks that he requires no treatment and does not even know that he suffers from haemorrhoids. In other cases, generally after two, or three of these acute attacks, the piles remain permanently in evidence, and the patient therefore suffers from the symptoms due to an ordinary uncomplicated attack of piles with occasional exacerbations. In an ordinary uncomplicated case of piles, the patient is usually con- scious of uneasiness, irritation, or itching about the anus, around which are soft compressible swellings which become turgid during defsecation. The pain is only quite slight and of a dull aching character. Should the patient suffer from internal piles alone, the pain is usually only present when the tumours are protruded through the anus and disappears entirely when they are returned within it. External piles are soft, fleshy masses situated around the margin of the anus within which they cannot be reduced and they do not bleed, although there are often cracks and fissures in the mucous membrane between them. Internal haemorrhoids on the other hand are not visible unless they are extruded by straining or unless the patient suffers from a so-called "acute attack" of piles. They bleed freely, often on the slightest touch, and the blood is generally arterial in character, but it may be venous. Bleeding usually only occurs during the act of defaecation, and the blood spirts over the pan in a very characteristic manner. This blood comes from the surface of the pile in the form of a capillary oozing; occasionally there may be a minute opening into one of the large venous spaces, and most serious and even fatal ha;morrhage may occur. In these particular cases, and also when the piles are inflamed and protruding through the anus, bleeding may occur independently of defaecation. There is always 3, certain amount of mucous discharge and considerable pruritus. In an acute attack of piles there is a condition of acute inflammation, practically phlebitis and peri-phlebitis. This usually complicates the internal variety of piles and may lead to complete thrombosis of the veins forming the piles affected. Far from curing the pile, this merely produces induration in it and often renders it more prominent in the quiescent intervals, and therefore more likely to be the seat of fresh acute attacks, as it becomes