478 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTIS. or to live in a tropical climate, only palliative measures are necessary and these chiefly consist in supporting the testis with a well-fitting suspensory bandage, keeping the bowels regularly open in order to prevent accumula- tion in the sigmoid flexure, and bracing up the parts by the employment of cold douches every morning. The patient should be reassured as to the likelihood of damage occurring to the generative function of the testis. (b) Operative.—When for any reason an operation is desired, a com- plete cure can be effected by a very simple operation which has no risk if it be done aseptically. Various operations have been introduced; the one we prefer is done as follows : The parts are shaved and disinfected in the usual manner, the penis is stitched to the skin of the opposite thigh and an incision about an inch long is made over the cord immediately below the external abdominal ring, the veins and the other structures of the cord being rendered prominent by grasping and making the skin tense over it. As soon as the fascia covering the cord is reached, the finger is introduced and the whole of the cord is pulled out of the small wound and thoroughly exposed with very little trouble. With a few touches of a blunt dissector the cord can be cleared from the external ring right down to the testis and the next point is to isolate the vas from the other structures of the cord. The spermatic artery and nerve go with the vas and it is usually well to leave one or two small veins in connection with this structure. The whole of the remaining mass of veins is then isolated, first above where the veins converge and join up into a few large trunk-s And where therefore the separation is easiest, and from this point they are easily stripped downwards as far as may be desired. The whole of this mass is then ligatured in two places and the intervening portion is excised. The distance at which the ligatures are placed apart, i.e. the length of the portion of veins excised, will be determined by the degree to which the testicle is pendulous; in the usual cases where the affected testicle does not hang unduly low, about an inch is quite sufficient. The simplest way of determining the amount is to tie the lower ligature first just, above the epididymis and then, holding the upper part of the cord firmly in position, traction is made upon this ligature so as to pull up the testis and to see how much shortening is required. In removing the mass of veins a good quarter of an inch should be left beyond the ligature in order that the latter may not slip off. The ends of the ligatures are left long and are finally tied together firmly, so as to bring the two divided ends of the cord into apposition, and then cut short. By this plan the veins are entirely removed, and the testis is braced up and secured in its proper position. Finally all bleeding points are tied, the wound is sutured, and healing is complete in a few days; afterwards the patient will lequire a suspensory bandage for a few weeks, when he may be considered perfectly and permanently cured.