TUBERCULOSIS. 289 are almost always harmful in these cases. The iodoform and glycerine emulsion has been much used, but is disappointing in its results; if employed it should be diluted three or four times with water before being injected. Iodoform pills (half to one grain) internally are perhaps more effectual than the local use of the emulsion. Our own experience is that irrigation with warm boracic lotion relieves the patient as much as anything. The use of 1-5000 sublimate solution has been advocated by some. The various urinary antiseptics (see p. 281) and sedative drugs, such as tincture of hyoscyamus and decoction of triticum repens are also useful; morphine may be required if there be much strangury. Attempts to increase the capacity of the bladder by gradually distending it with fluid are not promising. (b) Operative.—This aims at giving complete rest to the bladder by opening the organ above the pubes. Even if this fails to cure, it relieves the patient immensely, as the repeated painful contractions of the bladder are avoided. Perineal drainage is objectionable because the tube lies in contact with the ulcerated portion of the bladder in a very sensitive painful area, while it is very difficult to prevent sepsis occurring in that situation. The supra- pubic operation has the further advantage that the interior of the bladder may be inspected and suitable local treatment applied to the ulcers. Supra-pubic cystotomy.^—The pubes is shaved and disinfected in the usual manner, and the patient lies upon the back with the pelvis well raised, so that he is almost in the Trendelenburg position. This is useful, as the intestines gravitate towards the diaphragm, and the peritoneal pouch is carried as much as possible out of harm's way. In order to expose the organ with the least damage to other structures, it is always well to render it as prominent as possible, and we are accustomed to do this by distending it with as much warm boracic lotion as it will conveniently hold.^ Before the boracic lotion is left in the bladder, the organ is washed out thoroughly (see p. 281), and the patient should be fully under the anaesthetic so as to diminish irritability. The amount employed for distending the bladder will vary; a healthy organ will easily hold from eight to ten ounces, but a contracted one holds much less, and the distension should not be pushed beyond the point at which the patient commences to make expulsive efforts. The catheter is now withdrawn, and the urethra is occluded either by tying an indiarubber band around it or by an assistant's fingers. When the bladder is ' Some surgeons distend the bladder with air, on the ground that there is less risk of soiling the wound when the bladder is opened. This cannot be a matter of much importance as it is quite impossible to keep the wound free from infection during the subsequent manipu- lations. There is also a certain amount of risk in doing it because one cannot gauge the amount of air introduced in the same way as one can measure the amount of water, and to pump in air with a bicycle-pump might very readily lead to over-distension of the bladder. There- fore, if air be employed, the bladder should not be filled up until the abdominal wall has been opened. The incision above the pubes should be made, the muscles separated, the bladder wall felt, and then the organ may be gently distended with air. It must not be forgotten that distension of the bladder with air may result in the introduction of organisms which set up decomposition of urine.