THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS. If, however, retraction of the prepuce gives rise to a considerable raw surface, it is best on the whole to proceed to circumcision because balanitis must otherwise result and the treatment will be painful and probably imperfect. Some surgeons strongly object to circumcision and prefer to dilate the narrowed preputial orifice repeatedly with a special instrument like a glove-stretcher until the tendency to contraction has been completely overcome. This method however is unsatisfactory and if employed must be done so gently as to avoid any cracking of the mucous membrane which would give rise to inflammation and cicatricial contraction. There is no valid objection to circumcision and indeed it possesses great advantages, especially as a precautionary measure against masturbation. In all cases therefore in which the prepuce cannot be fully retracted and in those in which retraction is accompanied by much bleeding from the separation of adhesions, it is best to perform circumcision. Circumcision.—This operation may be performed in various ways; the method that we prefer is as follows. The preputial orifice is seized on each side of the middle line in catch forceps, pulle.d well forward and put upon the stretch. One blade of a pair of blunt-pointed scissors is insinuated between the prepuce and the glans and the whole thickness of the prepuce is slit up in the middle line of the dorsum as far as the corona (see Fig. 97, A). It is needless to say that care must be taken to see that the blade of the scissors does not injure the glans or pass into the meatus. It is sufficient to mention the risk of such an occurrence, which should not happen with the exercise of ordinary care. As soon as the first incision has been made, the glans is seen and can be entirely freed from the adherent prepuce right back beyond the corona, and the mucous membrane and the skin must be slit up well beyond this point. When the prepuce has been peeled back on each side and all smegma removed, a third pair of forceps is placed upon the frenum and the redundant prepuce is cut away on each side (see Fig. 97, B), with scissors. Enough mucous membrane must be left to overlap the corona comfortably and, if the parts be divided as shown in the figure, the frenum itself will not be divided and therefore the unsightly oedematous button which takes a long time to dis- appear and which is so often seen after this operation will be avoided. The incision usually runs about a quarter of an inch from the corona and this leaves sufficient prepuce to cover the latter easily. Any bleeding points are twisted; it is very important to stop all hremorrhage before proceeding to suture the cutaneous to the mucous surface, as otherwise bleeding into the substance of the prepuce may occur and will lead to an unsightly and troublesome hgematoma. Fine catgut sutures are now made to approximate the cutaneous and mucous surfaces carefully throughout, so as to secure primary union everywhere. After-treati7tent.—When the separation of the prepuce from the glans does not give rise to a raw surface, the simplest plan is to dry the line of incision, lay a little salicylic wool over it and fix it in position with flexile