CALL-STONES. with a piece of wet gauze, and the surgeon purifies his hands afresh and palpates the duct through the abdominal wound to see whether any stone has been pushed into the cystic duct; it is well also to try and pass a probe along the cystic duct so as to determine its patency, guiding the instrument by the finger outside. When everything is found to be clear, the incision in the gall-bladder is closed by one or two rows of Lembert's sutures and the organ is then dropped back into the abdomen, which is closed as after an ordinary laparotomy. In case leakage should occur, it is well, however, to introduce a drainage tube or gauze packing through the abdominal wound down to the region of the incision in the gall-bladder so that, should re-accumulation occur and the incision in the gall-bladder give way, adhesions will have formed, and the bile will be conducted through the abdominal wound. The drainage tube is dispensed with in about a week's time. This method is only suited for some cases as the large majority have some inflammatory complication, such as cholecystitis, which requires drainage. Moreover, suture is only possible when the walls of the gall-bladder are fairly thick ; when thin, as they often are, the sutures will certainly penetrate its cavity. Apart from this also it is very difficult to be certain that the bile passages are clear of Fig. 33.—DiAGKAM to illustrate the method ok SUTURING THE Gall-Blaudek IN Cholfcystostciiy. This is fully described in the text. It shows the Yalve-like papilla that is formed by the inverted gall-bladder wall when the tube is left out and the opening in the abdominal wall contracts. Stones. The tortuosity of the cystic duct renders it easy for a stone to escape detection, especially if there be adhesions in the neighbourhood, and the surgeon may erroneously conclude that he has removed all the stones; if now the gall-bladder be sutured completely without making provision for drainage, fresh accumulation will occur, the stitches may give way, and there will be extravasation into the abdominal cavity, and possibly fatal peritonitis. (b) Cholecystostomy.—In a very large number of cases it is well to provide temporary drainage of the gall-bladder (cholecystostomy), especially when there is an inflammatory condition of the mucous membrane, for the cure of which drainage is necessary. This operation may be done either in two stages or in one. In the former case the gall-bladder is exposed but not opened at the first operation and is merely fixed in position until adhesions have occurred shutting off the peritoneal cavity; at the second sitting the stones are extracted. In our opinion there is no object in doing the operation in two stages and it has the serious objection that, although the condition of the common duct may have been made out at the first sitting, it is