436 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE PENIS. One or two points must be carefully attended to in order to perform this operation successfully. The first is that the relative positions of the .skin and the body of the penis should not be disturbed; that is to say the skin should not be drawn forwards when the flap is being fashioned as otherwise it will be too short. A second point is that all bleeding points must be arrested before the flap is sutured or otherwise union will fail. The third point is that the orifice of the urethra must be made over full size and carefully sutured so as to allow for any subsequent contraction. A flap from the under surface of the penis is preferable to one from the dorsal surface, as the urine does not pass over the line of union when the patient micturates. The flap operation is far better than the ordinary circular amputation as there is less pain on micturition afterwards, healing is more rapid and there is less contraction about the urethral orifice subsequently. The patient need not be confined to bed for more than two or three days. It is very rarely necessary to pass a bougie, but it must be employed should any sign of contraction be apparent. Complete extirpation of the penis.—This is much the better operation when the disease is more extensive and definitely encroaches upon the corpora cavernosa. In cases of very extensive disease it is obviously the only possible operation, but in any case its complete character gives the patient a much better chance of avoiding recurrence than can an amputation in front of the scrotum when the growth has invaded the corpora cavernosa. It is performed as follows: The patient is put in the lithotomy position, the parts are shaved and purified as usual, and an incision is made through the middle line of the scrotum splitting it right down to the corpus spongiosum as far back as the bulbous urethra. A full-sized gum-elastic bougie is passed down to the triangular ligament in order to facilitate the recognition and isolation of the urethra in that position. The corpus spongiosum is now divided transversely about an inch and a half in front of the triangular ligament, isolated from the corpora cavernosa and left hanging out of the wound whilst the rest of the operation is proceeded with. The bougie is removed after the urethra has been divided. The incision splitting the scrotum is now carried up around the root of the penis on each side, uniting over the dorsum of the organ and pro- longed up to the symphysis pubis over the suspensory ligament of the penis. The incision is gradually deepened, the two halves of the scrotum are drawn aside and the crura are exposed to view. The incision along the dorsum is deepened up to the front of the symphysis pubis, the sus- pensory ligament of the penis is exposed and divided and the dorsal vessels are secured. The crus penis is then peeled off from the pubic arch on each side, partly wjth a periosteum-detacher and partly with the knife. When the crura are detached, the entire penis is removed by a few touches of the knife. We are not inclined to perform castration simultaneously with the amputation, as some surgeons recommend, because of the serious psychical effects that may follow the operation.