44 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM, just described. The pain, although most marked on defsecation, is also frequently present in the intervals. The treatment should consist in dividing the ulcer and scraping its surface, just as for a fissure in ano {vide supra). ECZEMA ANI. Chronic eczema of the anus is not uncommon when there is some cause of irritation about the anus, such as fissures, piles, worms, acrid discharges, or want of cleanliness. The eczematous condition causes intolerable itching, and the patient scratches the part and increases the trouble, so that in bad cases it is almost impossible to sit, walk, or lie down in comfort. Treatment.—^The cause must of course be removed before anything else is done. Fissures should be treated, piles removed, or worms got rid of, and the parts kept clean. They should be well washed with warm water and superfatted soap two or three times a day, and this should be followed by irrigation with warm boracic lotion. The parts should then be thoroughly dried by dabbing them over carefully with a soft bath-towel—they must not on any account be rubbed dry—after which a dusting powder of equal parts of boracic acid and oxide of zinc is applied, and a piece of boracic lint placed between the buttocks and fixed on with a T-bandage. When there are acrid discharges, a lotion of carbonate of soda may be employed in place of the boracic lotion ; when the condition is chronic and there is much thickening of the parts, io% ichthyol ointment is often very valuable. PRURITUS ANI. This is a most troublesome condition which may or may not be associated with the previous one and which is characterised by intense itching around the anal orifice and all over the perineum. Amongst the general causes of the affection may be enumerated gout, diabetes and errors in diet, especially overfeeding, whilst occasionally it is of an entirely neurotic origin. Among local causes the most common are constipation, piles, fissure or fistula in ano, whilst it also occurs in subjects of chronic diarrhoea, and may be set up by irritating vaginal discharges, the presence of worms in the rectum, etc. The itching, which is often present without any visible lesion, is sometimes intolerable and is generally most marked on sitting down or going to bed, and scratching aggravates rather than relieves it. After the condition has lasted for some time, the skin about the parts may become indurated, cracked and fissured and marked eczema may be present. Treatment.—This should be both constitutional and local. Any con- stitutional disease, such as gout or diabetes must receive appropriate treatment. The diet should be carefully regulated, the amount of nitrogenous food reduced and all highly spiced dishes interdicted. Heavy wines, such as port or Burgundy, should be given up. The parts should be kept clean as in