134 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE lilLE PASSAGES. death from the want of coagulating power, and therefore no exploratory operation should be undertaken under these circumstances unless there is a fair chance of relieving the obstruction. PROGNOSIS.—This is always doubtful even in those who only suffer from occasional attacks of mild colic, and there is no possibility of predicting the course that any given case will run, as a series of very mild attacks may be followed by exceptionally severe complications, while, on the other hand, severe attacks may end in a more or less permanent cure from ulceration of the stone through into the alimentary canal from the gall- bladder or bile duct. The tendency to spontaneous cure is however very slight and as a rule the best that can be hoped from palliative measures is to get comparatively long periods of quiescence. The prognosis is much improved by early operation, and there is then very shght danger accompanying almost any form of operative interference. This cannot be said of the cases operated upon late in the disease, especially where there are septic complications such as cholangitis or cholecystitis. Even when there are no septic complications but when repeated attacks have led to the occurrence of extensive adhesions, the operation is rendered much more serious, while fever occurring in any case of gall-stones is a bad sign and points to the occurrence of suppurative cholecystitis or cholangitis. We may divide the cases met with in practice into five large groups: 1. The gall-bladder may contain one or more gall-stones but the cystic duct is quite patent; 2. The presence of stones in the gall-bladder is complicated by the passage of a gall-stone along the cystic duct; 3. There may or may not be stones in the gall-bladder but the principal trouble is in the cystic duct which is occluded either by a stone tightly impacted in it or by complete obliteration from inflammatory adhesions or ulceration due to the antecedent passage of a stone. This may lead to one of two conditions : either, (a) Hydrops of the gall-bladder, in which the organ contains a glairy, viscid, mucoid fluid ; or (b) Empyema of the gall- bladder in which the contents are purulent. 4. The patient may suffer from symptoms due to the passage of a stone along the common duct on its way to the duodenum ; 5. A stone may be permanently impacted in the common duct, being too large to pass through its duodenal orifice; 6. Cases presenting many of the symptoms of gall-stones are met with in which no gall-stones are found upon opening the abdomen either in the gall-bladder or the bile-ducts, but instead there may be either extensive adhesions external to these structures, or cholecystitis or cholangitis accounting for all the symptoms. TREATMENT.—The first point for decision in cases of gall-stones is whether operative interference is required, or whether palliative measures are likely to suffice. On this point views differ profoundly. Thus, some advise