341 ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. these are performed from the perineum or by the sacral route, but in them the great difficulty is to deal effectually with that portion of the prostate above the prostatic urethra; until recently it could be hardly said that they had gained sufficient success to entitle them to a prominent place amongst recognised methods of treatment. In carrying out McCiill's operation some surgeons, ourselves amongst the number, have given up tearing off the obstructing portions with forceps and have divided the mucous membrane over the prominent portion and shelled out the mass. It is true that our own attempts have been limited to the part projecting into the bladder and the upper portion of the prostate, and we have been accustomed to look up this as merely another way of doing McGill's operation. Freyer however has gone further than this, and has introduced a procedure which, judging by the published records, seems destined to take a prominent place in the radical treatment of these cases. In it the removal is not limited to the upper portions of the prostate, but embraces the whole of the enlarged mass; it appears to be followed by remarkably successful results as regards recovery of function. Freyer opens the bladder supra-pubically in the ordinary manner and investigates the condition of affairs. One or two fingers of the right hand are then introduced into the bladder, and the mucous membrane over the project- ing portion of the tumour is torn through all around the urethral orifice. The finger is then gradually insinuated around the outer surface of the enlarged mass, and its coverings are peeled off. As already said, the mass projecting into the bladder finds its way between the mucous membrane and the sphincter vesicee, and therefore the projection is only covered by mucous membrane. The finger is kept close to the enlarged prostate and insinuated between the true capsule outside and a sort of fibrous sheath which immediately surrounds the organ until the whole of the enlargement is gradually enucleated. This requires a good deal of force, and the prostate has to be pushed forcibly up by the fingers of the other hand in the rectum so as to render its lower part accessible. In some cases the gland comes away in two halves, but it may be taken away whole. Anteriorly the finger generally slips mto a sulcus between the two lobes, and thus the urethra may be separated from the tumour. The identification and separation of the urethra is facilitated by a stiff gum-elastic catheter passed into the bladder and kept in position through- out the operation which involves continuous hard work for ten to fifteen minutes; at the end of this time the prostate, lying loose within its capsule, can be pushed into the bladder, seized with forceps and pulled out of the wound, leaving a large cavity traversing the centre of which is the prostatic urethra. The wall of this cavity is formed by a certain amount of muscular tissue forming the sphincter of the bladder and, although free oozing takes I)lacc from the surface, according to Freyer no dangerous bleeding occurs, and he does not spend any time in attempts to check it; the cavity is merely washed out with saline solution at about 105° F. A drainage tube of the largest size is introduced through the supra-pubic opening, so as to carry off