399 ORGANIC STRICTURE. shown him the stricture will admit, passing it in the manner already described (see p. 392). In using fine instruments the point often catches in folds of the mucous membrane as it passes down to the region of the stricture and this is best avoided by keeping the penis vertical and putting it well on the stretch so as to obliterate the folds as much as possible. W/ieu a meial instrument is used the chief error likely to be made in deep-seated strictures is to think that the opening in the triangular liga- ment has been reached before it really has. The handle of the instrument is thus raised prematurely and its point is forced through the roof of the canal running thence down beside the urethra, behind which it passes until it lies between the prostate and the rectum (see Fig. 83). When the point of the instrument has arrived at the stricture, the greatest gentleness must be employed, and the surgeon should try to find the passage through it by using the instrument more as a probe; the handle should be lightly grasped between the thumb and forefinger and no pressure should be exerted while the position of the tip of the instrument is altered in the attempt to find the way through the stricture. If this fails the " tour de maitre" (see p. 394) will often succeed if a metal instrument is being used. No attempt should be made to force the instrument onward until it is definitely engaged in the stricture. The grip of the stricture is quite characteristic and when it is felt it is allowable to force the instrument gently onwards; even here however no great amount of force should be used. In difficult cases the left forefinger may be introduced into the rectum and pressure made by it at the junction of the membranous with the prostatic urethra as the handle of the instrument is raised. The finger in rectum will also help the surgeon to be sure that the instrument has not gone into a false passage. When a false passage has been made, the point of the instrument lies between the prostate and the rectum and is felt clearly by the finger in the rectum ; if, however, the bougie be in the urethra, the substance of the prostate intervenes between the finger and the instrument. When small flexible instruments are employed, the black olivary bougies (see Fig. 89) are generally chosen; for the very tight strictures catgut or whalebone instruments may be used. Much patience must be exercised, as there is little power of guiding the tip of the instrument. These fine instruments are easily passed down to the stricture; if the point catches in the mucous membrane the bougie is withdrawn for a quarter of an inch or so and then passed onwards, the penis being kept fully on the stretch. When the face of the stricture is reached, attempts are made to find the opening and insinuate the point of the bougie through it by frequently withdrawing the instrument slightly and then pushing it on. When the point becomes engaged in the stricture the bougie can often be easily passed through it if a slight rotary movement be imparted to it so as to screw it through the stricture as it were.