275 VESICAL FISTULA. or malignant disease of either organ; communication between the bladder and the rectum in the later stages of inoperable cancer of the rectum is fairly common ; tuberculous disease of the prostate may give rise to an abscess which opens into the rectum, the prostatic urethra and the base of the bladder; fistute may also follow perforating wounds of the bladder. When the fistula discharges externally, the diagnosis is readily made by observing the escape of urine; if the urine comes from the bladder, the escape is continuous, whereas if from the urethra it only escapes during micturition. Recto-vesical or vesico-vaginal fistulte are also easily diagnosed; in both the orifice of communication can be inspected through a speculum. When however the fistula occurs between the bladder and some part of the intestine higher up than the rectum, the diagnosis is not always quite easy. When there is a communication with the small intestine, gas and ffecal material will be found in the bladder in comparatively large quantities. The presence of gas in the bladder is not pathognomonic of a vesico intestinal fistula except when the patient passes large quantities and does so continu- ously. Fascal material is always present at some time or other, and micro- scopical examination will detect its presence. A further test is to give by the mouth substances, such as charcoal, which undergo little change in the intestine; their presence will be detected in the urine some time afterwards. An examination of the fa;cal material in the urine may throw some light upon the portion of the bowel involved in the fistula; the contents of the small intestine are fluid, partially digested and contain much bile pigment, while material from the large intestine is in fully digested lumps and gives no bile pigment reaction. TREATMENT.—This will be largely determined by the situation of the fistula and the nature of the affection to which it is due. Of vesico-intestinal fistula.—The communication between the bowel and the bladder should be cut off if possible, as otherwise fatal ascending pyelitis and pyelonephritis are very apt to set in. When the fistula is due to extensive malignant disease however, the question of shutting off the communication will be determined largely by the distress it entails. Unless the patient suffers serious inconvenience, it is hardly worth while to submit him to a somewhat severe operation when life cannot be prolonged for any length of time, more especially as it merely substitutes an artificial anus on the skin for the vesical communication. However, should be deemed advisable, as it may be in cases where the fistula is due to malignant disease of the rectum, a left inguinal colotomy with complete division of the bowel will considerably relieve the symptoms, although, since the communication is due to growth, a certain amount of discharge will still find its way into the bladder. Should the fistula be due to a communication between the appendix or an appendix abscess and the bladder, it may be possible to do a laparotomy, detach the appendix completely, and then to invert and suture the opening into the bladder. This will give rise to a cure unless there be advanced renal mischief.