453 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. shoulders should be kept low, and in this way the testicles are elevated and immobilised, and the pain soon diminishes. The best local application in the first instance is cold either by an ice-bag •or by Leiter's tubes (see Part I., p. 9). The tenderness is such that very little pressure can be borne and a very small ice-bag should be suspended from a cradle and a double layer of lint applied between it and the scrotum; watch must be kept to see that the cold is not too intense as otherwise sloughing of the scrotum will occur. If the cold be producing injurious effects there will be slowing of the circulation and the scrotum becomes blue; to avoid this the application sTiould be intermitted for an hour or two at a time. When the inflammation is not very acute, sufficient cold may be obtained by the application of ordinary evaporating lotions (see Part I., p. 8). Cold is only of value for the first two or three days as a rule. Fig. 103.—SuHFORT kor the Testes in Acute EriDiDVMiTis. The shape of the support is shown in a. The larger figure shows its method of application. In some cases the pain is so intense that cold fails to relieve it and then more benefit will be obtained from hot fomentations. A piece of mackintosh the .same size as the support upon which the testicles lie {vide supra) is placed beneath the scrotum, and the fomentation is laid over the front of the testicle; the mackintosh is then folded over so as to cover the fomentation, and a mass of hot cotton wool is applied outside and fastened on by a bandage. Fomentations are especially valuable when suppuration is ■occurring, but on the whole cold is probably more effectual in arresting the inflammation, as it acts directly on the vessels of the cord ; it should therefore always be tried first. The venous congestion may be relieved by emptying tlie h;\jmorrhoidal plexus by a brisk saline purge and keeping the bowels open daily. ^Vhen the inflammation is very severe, benefit may be obtamed by using leeches, but there is always some risk in employing them as it is difficult to arrest the bleeding from the scrotum afterwards ; it is better to apply them over the external abdominal ring than to the scrotum. When the inflammation is •extremely acute, an even better plan is to purify the scrotum and to open