CANCER. 71 In examining the rectum various points have to be made out with refer- ence to the question of treatment. In the first place, the position of the disease has to be ascertained. In the second, the length of the stricture and its calibre; whilst, in the third place, the mobility of the parts, as indicating extension or otherwise through the rectal wall and adhesion to neighbouring structures, must be noted. Growths comparatively low down soon become adherent to the base of the bladder, the prostate or the vesiculse seminales in the male, while in the female adhesion to the posterior wall of the vagina also occurs quite early. Another important point is the relation of the growth to the anal margin; cancer in this situation usually recurs much more rapidly than when it is situated entirely within the rectum. TREATMENT.—There are three courses open to the surgeon. In the first place the disease may be left alone; the patient may decline operation or the surgeon may either think that operative interference is out of the question or the time for it has not arrived. In the second place, there is the question as to whether a true radical operation, such as excision of the affected portion of the bowel, is feasible. Finally, the surgeon may content himself with a colotomy, considering radical treatment to be out of the question and desiring to prevent impending obstruction or to remove obstruction already existing. The decision as to which of these lines of treatment he will adopt is the first and most urgent point to which the surgeon must direct his attention and it is most important in the first place to decide whether a radical operation is possible or not. Arising out of this question also comes an equally im- portant one, namely, whether the radical operation is advisable as well as feasible. Cases suited for excision.—'I'he important points for consideration in deciding upon the feasibility of a radical operation are chiefly the situation of the growth and its mobility. The situation of the grozvth is most important from the point of view of its accessibility by one of the routes employed for excision. A growth near the anus is readily accessible, whilst one situated at the very commencement of the rectum is much more difficult to get at, and it was the rule until recently that growths that were reached with difficulty by the finger in the rectum were to be looked upon as beyond the range of an excision. It must not be considered however that the mere position of the growth renders its removal impossible. A growth situated at the very com- mencement of the rectum may be excised readily enough through a laparo- tomy wound, provided that there be no other contra-indication to its removal, although it may be t[uite impossible to reach it satisfactorily either by the perineal or the sacral route. The really difficult cases are those in which the growth is situated near the middle of the rectum, as, if the tumour be at all extensive, the sacral route may prove unsatisfactory. Even here however, if other conditions be favourable, the growth can usually be removed by a combined abdominal and perineal operation. Therefore the situation of the disease is of more importance in deciding the method of operating than in determining whether radical measures should be undertaken.