THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. the excessive suffering caused by the slow granulation of the perineal wound and the subsequent stricture far outweighs any possible disadvantages. A suppository is introduced into the bowel and a gauze dressing applied and kept in position by a T-bandage. The after-treatment will vary according to the manner in which the end of the bowel is treated. When the mucous membrane has been brought down to the skin, the after-treatment is identical with that of Whitehead's operation for piles (see p. 51). Should a large raw surface be left, however, the wound should be packed with strips of mushn saturated with eucalyptus ointment, and this will require changing daily or even oftener. The bowels should be confined for the first four or five days, after which they may be opened every alternate day by a suitable laxative. Healing by granulation usually takes twelve weeks or more and in the later stages it will be necessary to pass a well-oiled bougie every few days in order to prevent contraction. 3. Excision through, the vagina.—Very excellent results may be obtained by operating by this route in cases of malignant disease in the female comparatively low down. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, the vagina is thoroughly douched with 1-2000 sublimate, and the perineum is divided in the middle line from the posterior commissure of the vagina back to the external sphincter, but not through it; the forward end of the incision is then carried up the posterior wall of the vagina nearly to the cul-de-sac. When the tumour does not infiltrate the vaginal wall, the latter is easily turned back on each side and the rectal wall exposed; when there is any infiltration of the vaginal wall, an eUiptical portion of the latter should be removed. The rectum is defined and the surrounding structures are stripped off it with the finger and a blunt dissector. The levator ani is divided on each side, and the reflection of the peritoneum, if well above the growth, may be pushed up with the handle of the knife, or, if not, may be opened and the lateral reflections divided. The rectum is then gradually isolated, and the glands and fat in the hollow of the sacrum are also removed; if there be sufficient healthy bowel below the tumour, the anus is dilated, an incision is made around the muco-cutaneous margin, as in Whitehead's operation (see p. 51), the mucous membrane is dissected off the sphincters, and then the whole thickness of the muscular wall of the rectum is divided at the level of the upper border of the internal sphincter. The mucous membrane already dissected up from the lower part of the rectum is then seized in catch forceps and pulled down through the anus, and the upper end is freed so that, when .the growth is removed, the cut end can be brought through the sphincters and stitched to the anus; if necessary the skin at the anal margin can be loosened and pulled in, so as to reach the mucous membrane. In stitching up the incision in the vaginal wall at the end of the operation, it is well to carry the stitches through the muscular coat of the bowel also; they thus hold the bowel down in position and prevent dragging on the anal sutures. The perineum is then repaired and the