362 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. and spongy tissues have also been damaged. It is important however to ascertain the precise condition of affairs in the urethra, and this, requires to be done immediately, even when the case is one of fracture of the pelvis; the preliminary treatment of the rupture of the urethra—i.e. the means of avoiding extravasation of urine—must be adopted even before that of the fracture of the pelvis. The condition of the urethra is ascertained by passing a scrupulously sterilised gum-elastic catheter with all the precautions as to disinfection already mentioned (see p. 336). The blood should be expressed as com- pletely as possible from the urethra before the instrument is passed. It is best not to use the ordinary soft black catheter as there is no command over the direction in which its point goes and it will give little information; a gum-elastic instrument upon a stylet bent to the ordinary urethral curve is a better instrument. Should the surgeon succeed in passing the instrument into the bladder—and in order to do this successfully he must take care to keep the point well in contact with the roof all the way—he at once draws off the urine, ties in the instrument and then the appropriate treatment for any other injury present may be proceeded with. .Should the attempt to pass the catheter be unsuccessful, attention must be paid to evacuating the contents of the bladder before anything further is done. When the bladder is distended, some surgeons prefer to aspirate it above the pubes at once. This is a method which is quite legitimate when the surgeon is not prepared to proceed immediately to repair the urethra or when the patient is so collapsed as to be unable to stand operation. It is not advisable as a routine method however although some surgeons advocate not interfering with the urethra at all but prefer to aspirate the bladder above the pubes at regular intervals for several days so as to allow the urethra to heal. This plan we do not advise. Various views are taken as to the right line of treatment. Some say that, when a catheter can be passed easily, no operative interference should be practised, an instrument being merely passed at regular intervals to draw off the urine. They further advise that, when catheterization is difficult but still possible, an instrument should be tied in for some days, and finally that, when catheterisation is impossible, external urethrotomy should be performed. As we have already pointed out, serious consequences may arise from septic infection of the clot effused into and around the urethral walls quite apart from the trouble due to extravasation of urine, and mere evacua- tion of the urine does not therefore meet the requirements of the case. It is also important to remember that passing a catheter is one of the most potent means of infecting a wound in the urethra and that, when instruments are passed repeatedly, .septic material is almost inevitably introduced at some time or other and will probably lead to the phlegmonous inflammation it is so desirable to avoid. We are however of opinion that, if the injury to the urethra be only slight and if there be no difficulty in passing a catheter in