5i8 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE THORAX. Pneumo-thorax may complicate the hsemo-thorax—when it gives rise to the condition known as pneumo-hsemo-thorax—or there may be very little blood effused and so much air that the term pneumo-thorax alone suffices to indicate the state of matters. The condition may also occur apart from contusions of the chest as the result of other injuries; it is common in fractures of the ribs and penetrating wounds of the chest, in which case the lung collapses and air is drawn into the pleura at every inspiration and, if the opening be valvular, this does not escape on expiration so that a pneumo-thorax is produced. When pneumo-thorax results from rupture of the lung it is not uncommon for the opening to be valvular and for air to accumulate in the pleural cavity during inspiration, and considerable pressure may thus be exerted upon the lung. Pneumo-thorax may also occur in connection with tuberculous cavities. As a rule suppuration does not occur when there is no external wound because the air is apparently filtered before it finds its way into the pleura; suppuration however is not at all infrequent when the pneumo- thorax is caused by a penetrating wound of the chest. The affected side of the thorax is more or less immovable, the heart may be displaced, and in severe cases the intercostal spaces may bulge considerably. There is a tympanitic note on percussion aijd the breath sounds are distant or absent. Treatment.—The condition usually subsides without much difficulty unless it be due to an external wound or to an extensive rupture of the lung, and nothing need be done provided no great dyspnoea is occasioned. When this is marked however, when there are other symptoms of pressure or when the air is not rapidly absorbed, the pleural cavity should be punctured with a trochar and cannula and some of the air let out. The very strictest precautions must be taken to secure asepsis, otherwise an empyema will result. Pneumo-thorax occurring in connection with tuberculous disease is referred to later (see p. 538). INJURIES OF THE PERICARDIUM.—These are necessarily very severe and generally cause death from shock. Injury to the pericardium rarely occurs alone, as the heart and great vessels are usually implicated and then death may be due to haemorrhage as well as shock. In some cases however the parietal pericardium is injured alone as a complica- tion of fracture of the ribs, sternum or costal cartilages; when the injury is due to a penetrating wound there is commonly a wound of the heart. Treatment.—Injury to the parietal pericardium requires no treatment per se; this will be required however for the associated injuries. When it is associated with an external wound, the parts should be disinfected and, if there be any chance of sepsis, a drainage tube should be intro- duced and Inade to project just into the pericardial sac. The external opening of the tube should be covered by a piece of protective so as to prevent the entrance of air. A clean punctured wound how