72 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE RECTUM. The relation of the growth to the neighbouring parts and its consequent mobility are far more important. As long as the portion of bowel involved is freely movable it implies that the disease is confined to the rectal wall and has not infiltrated the surrounding tissues. The only exception to this state- ment is that possibly the peritoneal surface may be involved while the growth remains freely movable. If the bowel be mobile we may fairly assume that the disease has not reached the peri-rectal cellular tissue and that therefore it is suitable for removal. On the other hand, if the bowel be immobile it implies that the growth has passed beyond the bowel wall and is infiltrating surrounding structures and that the chances of excision are small. If it be adherent in the hollow of the sacrum, and particularly if there be symptoms referable to involvement of the sacral nerves, the chances of obtaining a radical cure are remote indeed, for not only will it be extremely difficult to dissect out the tumour from the peri-rectal tissues, but the disease will almost certainly have involved the glands so high up that their effectual removal is out of the question. When the growth has only passed beyond the limits of the rectum anteriorly and has begun to involve the prostate, it is no doubt possible to remove it along with a portion of that organ; but it must be admitted that, as soon as the growth has lost its free mobility in any direction, the chances of a radical cure are very slight, and an attempt at obtaining one is only justifiable in the presence of very strong reasons for it, such as a tumour of extremely slow growth in a vigorous patient who urgently desires a chance of life and declines palliative treatment. In our opinion want of mobility of the tumour strongly contra-indicates radical operation. Symptoms pointing to the involvement of other organs, more particularly the liver, are also against radical operation. This is however not by any means the universal opinion as some strenuous advocates of excision advise it in preference to a colotomy even when the liver is known to be affected, and assert that the secondary lesions grow much more slowly than that in the rectum and that therefore the patient may have his life considerably prolonged if the local spread of the disease be cut short by excision; they further urge that the functional result is better after an excision than after inguinal colotomy alone. Although we do not think the latter point can be strongly upheld, there is no doubt that a growing cancer in the pelvis is a source of increasing trouble to the patient and may cause a vast deal of misery before secondary deposits in the liver or elsewhere cause death, and therefore there may be some justification for the foregoing view. In our opinion however it is well to regard secondary deposits in the liver or in any inaccessible organ as a strong contra-indication to radical operation, except under very excep- tional circumstances. A third question, namely, the presence or abse?icc of obstructive symptoms, has also to be taken into consideration. A patient suffering from intestinal obstruction is clearly not in a suitable condition for a radical operation, although other circumstances might render it advisable. The obstruction