INJURIES TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS. plan is to open up the latter and remove it by that route; in other cases it may be some considerable distance away and this is very likely to be the case with bullets, which can be localised by the X-rays, cut down upon and reached by the shortest route. When the foreign body is a fragment of clothing and cannot be localised by the X-rays, the only thing is to open up the wound and examine the track of the sinus very carefully until the foreign body is felt. If it can be removed through the wound this should be done; if not, its exact situation should be ascertained and the thorax should be opened in the most suitable situation. Drainage must be employed sub- sequently. If the case be not seen until some time after the accident, either the foreign body will be quiescent or symptoms of empyema or pneumonia will have de^^eloped; the case then becomes either a pulmonary abscess or an empyema and must be treated accordingly. INJURIES TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS. These form a much more important group of cases and are very diverse in their nature; they may result from compression of the chest, from fractures of the ribs, or even from muscular action. RUPTURE OF THE DIAPHRAGM.—This usually occurs on the left side and is generally part of a very severe injury, but it is sometimes occasioned by bayonet or gunshot wounds ; it also has been known to occur from violent straining. Various abdominal viscera may find their way through the opening into the pleural cavity, giving rise to the so- called diaphragmatic hernia, which however is not a true hernia as it possesses no hernial sac. The symptoms vary according to the nature of the injury and largely according to the particular structure that has passed through the rent in the muscle. Diaphragmatic respiration is much reduced or altogether abolished ; there is great pain, which is increased on deep respiration or coughing; there is also considerable difficulty in breathing, and before long vomiting and various other symptoms set in which are due to the passage of some particular abdominal viscus through the opening, which may actually become strangulated later on. Symptoms of pleurisy develop after a short time, and the percussion note is markedly altered accord- ing to the nature of the organ that has passed through the opening. The prognosis is not good, but a certain number of cases have been operated upon with satisfactory results. Treatment.—Operative interference takes the form of a laparotomy through an incision parallel to the border of the ribs and about an inch below them, so that the diaphragm is exposed at once, the exact condition of affairs can be ascertained, the prolapsed organ restored to the abdomen and the rent in the diaphragm stitched up. Riedinger has collected eight cases of operation for this injury which had