ORGANIC STRICTURE. 395 when the instrument will readily pass on; if it fails to do so in spite of this, a ti-ue organic stricture is present. BnOS..-A.OtWOBM Fig. 87.—Lister's graduated metal Bougie. When however the instrument is arrested on its way from the bulbous into the membranous urethra, the obstruction may be a •due to spasm of the latter. Therefore, before con- cluding that a stricture is present and withdrawing the instrument, gentle pressure should be kept up against the obstruction for a short time to see whether the instrument will not pass ■ into the bladder, as spasm usually gives way suddenly. If in spite of this the instrument will not pass through the triangular liga- ment, an organic stricture in the bulbous or bulbo- membranous portion will be diagnosed. Obstruction to the passage of an instrument in the prostatic urethra is due either to enlargement of the prostate or to spasm of the sphincter vesicee. In this way the existence of a stricture is diagnosed, and the distance from the meatus at which it is situated should always be measured off along the bougie for future reference. The examination does not cease here however, as it is necessary to ascertain the length and tightness of the stricture and whether more than one is present. Hence smaller instruments .must now be employed, both for examination and also for treatment. When the surgeon has failed to pass a full-sized instrument (No. 12) the next size chosen should be a No. 9-12 Lister's graduated metal bougie (see Fig. 87); should that fail, a No. 7-10 should be tried, and so on downwards, substituting the soft black olivary or acorn tipped bougie (see Fig. 88) for the metal instru- ment below a No. 6. It is important to ascertain the length of the stric- ture, especially when an internal urethrotomy is likely to be required, and this may be done by using bulbous-ended instruments or better still the acorn- tipped bougies (see Fig. 88) which not only meet with resistance when they enter the stricture but, owing to the shape of the shoulder, meet with resistance when, having been passed through the Fig. 88.—Acorn-tii'I-ed hougie for the diagnosis OF Uretiikai. Stricture.