TUMOURS. that it will be dealt with more easily through a transverse than through a vertical opening {vide infra). The "caisson" speculum (see p. 291) is most useful for these cases, as by it the growth can be isolated, dried and inspected in a good light, and its exact relations ascertained. If the tumour be a villous papilloma, it is seized in a pair of forceps and cut away, either with suitable scissors or by a small elliptical incision, together with a small portion of the whole thickness of the mucous membrane from which it springs. While this is being done, an assistant, who takes no further part in the operation, presses the base of the tumour forward with a finger in the rectum, or a rectal bag may be used. It is always advisable to remove the area of mucous membrane from which these tumours spring, although they are non-malignant in jjature. There is usually little bleeding, which is easily stopped by temporary pressure with forceps. Ligatures are nearly always unnecessary. Unless the elliptical wound thus made be very small, it is well to insert a stitch or two in its centre, and for this purpose the finest catgut should be employed in a fully-curved Hagedorn needle, and the ends should be cut quite short; the sutures soon become absorbed, and do not give rise to trouble. After the main growth has been removed, the whole surface of the mucous membrane is gone .over carefully with the speculum in order to detect any smaller ones, which, if found, should be similarly snipped off. When all have been removed, the bladder is sutured completely in the ordinary way (see p. 271) if the urine be aseptic, a drainage tube being inserted from the abdominal incision into the pre-vesical space. The after- treatment has already been described (see p. 274). Recovery is rapid and the patient may be up in three weeks. Should there be free oozing, which has not quite stopped when the operation is completed, it is well to introduce a tube through the supra-pubic opening, as otherwise clots may cause distension of the bladder and leakage through the stitches. A good plan is to introduce two or three loose catgut sutures through the muscular coat of the bladder opposite the point at which the tube emerges, and to leave their ends long, so that they can be tied and the cut edges of the bladder thereby approximated when the tube is withdrawn. A similar plan should be adopted with the abdominal muscles and skin. The tube may be withdrawn in two or three days, the bladder in the meanwhile being washed out twice daily so as to get rid of the clots. A separate drainage tube should be inserted in the pre-vesical space. In these cases a large mass of dressing will be required, and the best plan is to surround the tube and the wound with the ordinary gauze dressings, • while around this, and especially about the groins, are placed large pads of sterilized compressed moss to soak up the urine. The dressings will retiuire to be changed 4 or 6 times daily. When the tumour is very extensive and involves the mucous membrane to a greater extent, it may be very difficult to work properly through the ordinary vertical incision, which may then be enlarged by carrying a transverse incision outwards from the lower end of the vertical one on one or both sides right