258 THE SURC^.ICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. Percussion only gives imperfect information. It must be remembered that in the female the bladder soon becomes an abdominal organ, and therefore a moderately distended bladder may be readily made out by percussion. In the male however the organ passes more backwards into the pelvis, and does not project upwards into the abdomen until it is considerably distended, and therefore much more importance should be attached to the presence of a hypogastric swelling in these cases. This is especially the case in subjects of enlargement of the prostate. Palpation of the bladder may be valuable, but is of little use in fat subjects. The thighs should be flexed so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and the palpation is practised by placing the hand flat ypon the abdomen just above the symphysis while the patient breathes deeply with the mouth wide open. The ulnar border of the hand is pressed as far into the pelvis as possible, and •distension of the bladder can thus be easily made out in thin people. The bladder may also be pushed up towards the hand upon the abdomen by the forefinger of the other hand introduced in the rectum or the vagina. If the bladder be inflamed, palpation will elicit tenderness, while the manipulation may give rise to free bleeding in the case of a villous tumour. In very spare subjects bi-manual palpation practised thus may enable the whole of the bladder to be examined, and stones, tumours, or other enlargements may be recognised. The palpation should be begun without an anaesthetic in order that tenderness may be recognised if present, but it should be completed under general anaesthesia after the bladder has* been emptied. This examina- tion gives very satisfactory results indeed in the female, and the ureters may also be felt through the vagina if they be thickened or contain a stone. Instrumental examination.—The information derived from the use of mthelers is often highly important. If the patient empties his bladder and a catheter be passed immediately afterwards, the question whether " residual mine " is present can be definitely settled. Moreover the character of the flow through the catheter may throw light upon the condition of the vesical walls ; if the urine be expelled in a good stream, the musculature of the bladder is vigorous, whereas if it simply escapes by gravity the bladder is atonic. In many cases it is well to test the distensibility of the organ while the catheter remains in the bladder. If large quantities can be injected without exciting contraction, atony or paralysis is present; if on the other hand only half an ounce or so can be injected without exciting expulsive efforts, there is the condition present known as " irritable bladder " due to some form of cystitis, and this will be further evidenced by the presence of pus in the urine. If however there be pyuria with normal bladder distensibility it is strong evidence that the pus is of extra-vesical origin, and has not yet given rise to cystitis. It is an important fact to bear in mind that even general anaesthesia does not increase the distensibility of the bladder when chronic cystitis is present. \\^hen there is a suspicion of villous tumour of the bladder, it is well before withdrawing the instrument to inject two ounces of fluid and allow it to flow out, and then to withdraw the catheter as the last drops are being expelled.