INJURIES OF THE THORACIC WALL. wounds of the vessels already mentioned there may be injury to the lung, pleura, pericardium, heart, great vessels, diaphragm, oesophagus, trachea or thoracic duct. As a sequel to these injuries hernia of the lung may be met with or complications such as hjemo-thorax, pneumo-thorax, pyo-thorax or suppurative mediastinitis or pericarditis. All these conditions are dealt with separately. Penetrating wounds of the chest may be due to stabs, gunshot wounds or extensive contusions. The prognosis depends on the cause of the injury and on the question of bleeding and sepsis. Treatment.—In all cases the wound must be thoroughly purified in the ordinary manner, care being taken to see that no strong antiseptics run into the pleural cavity. In military surgery the possibility of the presence of a foreign body, such as a portion of clothing, must be remembered, and if present this should be found and removed. The patient should then be put to bed lying on the injured side and kept absolutely at rest, and it is important in these cases not to employ too vigorous measures to counteract the shock from which the patient always suffers, because the faintness produced by the severity of the injury is very valuable in stopping haemorrhage, especially when the lung has been injured; free haemorrhage from the lung, which might well prove fatal, may recur if stimulants be employed. Leiter's tubes or an ice-bag should be applied to the affected side of the chest outside the dressing. Ice should be given to suck and morphine may be administered hypodermi- cally. The further steps in the treatment will be largely influenced by the question of the presence or absence of blood or air in the thoracic cavity. Of wouiids of tlie pleura.— W/iefi the hcemo-thorax or pneumo-thorax is only slight and does not incommode the breathing, the best plan is to close the wound into the pleural cavity by fine catgut sutures after thorough disinfection, and then either to close the external wound entirely or to introduce a small drainage tube into it for a few days, suturing the rest of the wound completely. When there is considerable hcemo-thorax forming rapidly, it is well to enlarge the wound, to clear , out the blood and clots and to search for the source of the bleeding. If this be an intercostal vessel it is easy to secure it (see p. 512). When however the exact seat of the injury is unknown, it is doubtful whether any good is likely to come of extensive operation, as the prolonged search necessary to expose the source of the bleeding and the difficulty of securing it when found are likely to prove too much for the patient's strength. The treatment of hcemo-thorax sufficiently severe to cause pressure symptoms when the blood is unable to escape externally is dealt with later (see p. 517) as is also that of pneumo-thorax (see p. 518). When the pneumo-thorax occurs with an external wound however it seldom gives rise to any serious pressure symptoms as it finds its way out through the opening in the thoracic wall. PT. VI. 2 2 K