I08 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. of room to work through, and this should be done as rapidly as possible. Should it be quite obvious from the injury that the damage extends towards the outer aspect of the right lobe, for instance, the incision may be made at once in the right linea semilunaris and a second one carried from this beneath the costal margin. The incision should be widely retracted immediately the abdomen is opened and the blood rapidly swabbed away so as to ascertain the direction from which it comes. Directly the bleeding area is found, the oozing is stopped by thrusting sponges or tampons into the gap. This gives time for blood and bile to be cleared out from the peritoneal cavity around, and the surgeon is thus enabled to investigate the exact extent and character of the lesion. It must however be admitted that it is often excessively difficult to arrest the haemorrhage, even after free exposure of the liver, and the surgeon may see the patient steadily losing blood to an alarming or even fatal degree. This must not however deter him from operating upon these cases, as operation does not increase the haemorrhage, whereas it gives the patient the only chance of life. When there is a clean-cut laceration of the liver, attempts to clanip or ligature bleeding vessels on the surface of the organ are futile and moreover the free capillary oozing is sufficient to cause death quite apart from that from the larger vessels, and it is therefore a mere waste of time attempting to clamp or tie them. It is best to trust to pressure, except occasionally when one large vessel is torn and can be secured by under-running it with catgut. The best way of employing pressure is to insert deep mattress sutures through the substance of the liver so as to press the bleeding surfaces together over a fairly large area, in much the same way as for similar injuries in the kidney (see Fig. 28). A large blunt needle on a handle threaded with stout silk or catgut is thrust through the capsule some distance from the edge of the wound on one side, carried deeply through the hepatic substance and brought out at a corresponding point on the opposite side, where the end of the suture is caught by an assistant. The needle is then withdrawn without unthreading it and passed through the liver a second time in a similar manner an inch or so further down the line of laceration. When its point emerges at the opposite side, the needle is unthreaded and withdrawn and the suture is tied. Before doing this the assistant must carefully approximate the torn surfaces and the suture must be tied just tight enough to approximate them firmly without any risk of cutting through the friable liver substance. Other mattress sutures are then introduced in a similar manner if necessary ; it is well to put in enough to bring the ruptured surfaces accurately in contact every- where and the repair of the damage is completed by uniting the capsule throughout by a continuous fine catgut stitch. After this the region is thoroughly flushed out and a drainage tube is inserted at the most de- pendent angle of the wound to enable all blood and bile to escape, and the rest of the wound is sutured, a loose stitch being inserted where the