97 CHRONIC PANCREATITIS. will probably not be made or, if made, cannot lead to any satisfactory practical result. The only condition for which surgical intervention offers any hope is that of circumscribed abscess either in or around the pancreas. In these cases, too, the diagnosis is extremely difficult. At the onset there are symptoms of acute pancreatitis followed by localised pain and tenderness in the epigastrium, with the formation of a tumour in the region of the pancreas, frequently accompanied by symptoms refer- able to organs such as the stomach or the liver in the immediate neigh- bourhood, jaundice not being infrequent. The prognosis is very bad. Treatment.—In a few instances abscesses of the pancreas have been successfully treated by drainage. The best plan is to reach them from the front through a median laparotomy wound above the umbilicus, and then to tear through the gastro-colic omentum, taking care not to wound any large vessels. When the abscess is reached it is opened by a small incision in the first instance, after the most careful packing off of the surrounding peritoneal cavity, in order to prevent the abdomen being flooded with pus. A retro-peritoneal opening of the abscess has been practised through a lumbar incision, but it is very difficult to cut down from the loin directly on to an abscess in the pancreas, more particularly when the diagnosis is as uncertain as it generally is, and the best plan appears to us to be to open it first from the front, and to ascertain subsequently by means of a long probe or the finger, whether the cavity projects into the loin, and whether, therefore, it is possible to reach it by a lumbar incision, whereby more satisfactory drainage can be secured than is possible when the cavity drains through the anterior abdominal wall. If so, the point of the probe is cut down upon from behind, and large drainage tubes are inserted, while a single large tube, packed round with gauze, is placed in the anterior opening and allowed to emerge through the abdominal incision. When adhesions have occurred around this, both the tube and the packing are withdrawn, and the front wound is allowed to heal, while drainage is effected satisfactorily through the posterior opening. CHRONIC PANCREATITIS.—The chief importance of this affection is the difficulty in diagnosing it from malignant disease. The condition occurs chiefly in connection with calculi in the pancreatic duct with some diffuse inflammatory affection of the organ, or possibly after an injury. Symptoms.—These are very indefinite. The most marked are dyspeptic troubles, irregularity of the bowels, loss of flesh and strength, accompanied by pain in the epigastrium, and sometimes jaundice when the head of the pancreas is affected and the common bile duct is pressed upon. The importance of the condition is the knowledge that this affection, which is a recoverable one, may easily be confounded, even after careful examination through a laparotomy wound, with cancer of the pancreas which, of course, is necessarily fatal. It has happened that cases diagnosed as cancer of the pancreas, where the abdomen has been PT. VI. 2. G