ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 343 not satisfactory from the aseptic point of view and the operation involves division of the membranous and prostatic urethra. Whichever route be adopted, we have little doubt that enucleation is the method of choice in the treatment of enlarged prostate. When catheter-life must otherwise be entered upon, it may well be urged if the patient be in a good condition to stand the operation, as he will thereby be relieved of the risks that must attend the habitual use of a catheter. When a patient who has entered upon catheter-life is constantly troubled with cystitis, the operation is even more urgently required as, unless it be done, the health is almost certain to be broken down and the patient to be so worn out that he passes beyond the reach of surgical measures. The galvano-caustic method.—This method (Bottini's) aims at burning away the obstructing portions of the prostate at the neck of the bladder by a special form of electric cautery introduced through the urethra and heated when it is in actual contact with the obstructing mass so as to burn a deep furrow through it. We ourselves have no experience of this operation, which for a long time made little or no progress in public favour. Recently however many surgeons have adopted it and advocate it strongly. Judging by the results of subsequent cystoscopic examination, the groove burned by the mstrument tends to heal up and practically disappear, but nevertheless, even in these cases, considerable improvement seems to follow. It is said that about 75% of the cases are improved, a certain proportion of these being permanently cured, whilst about 15% get no benefit; there is apparently a mortality of 7%-io% attaching to the operation which is very much the same as in Freyer's operation although the ultimate results can hardly be claimed to be so certain.^ The operation has been followed by acute epididymitis, retention, incontinence or even fatal suppression of urine. Operations upon the testicle and vasa deferentia.— Castration.—Castra- tion was practised for the cure of this condition almost simultaneously by Ramm of Christiania and White of Philadelphia and is founded upon the fact that atrophy of the prostate occurs after double castration. There seems to be no doubt that a remarkable improvement has followed the operation in a considerable number of cases, the prostate gradually undergoing atrophy, the cystitis di.sappearing and the power of micturition being regained. At the same time, however, an unusually high mortality has followed this apparently simple operation. Some patients die of acute mania, others go steadily down- hill without any definite lesion, whilst others again, although they escape a fatal issue, become morose and lose their mental faculties to a very marked extent. The exact percentage of cases in which this occurs is not clear; some surgeons have had an almost uniformly bad experience, whilst others have had very little. But there can be no question that there is a serious risk of these psychical disturbances, and the mortality does not seem to be less than that of the more logical and complete operation of prostatectomy. ' l'"ull details will be found in Vol. 53 of the Dculstlu- Chirurgie, where Ihe upeiiUion is .strongly advocated.