CHAPTER XVIII. MOVABLE AND FLOATINCz KIDNEY. Movable kidney is the term applied to cases in which the undue mobihty is moderate in amount and occurs in the upward and downward direction behind the peritoneum ; while the term Floating kidney is used to denote a kidney that is extremely movable and can be easily pushed all over its own side of the abdomen. The normal kidney is somewhat movable in the vertical direction, but when the range of movement exceeds an inch and a half abnormal mobility may be said to exist. Floating kidney may be of either congenital or acquired origin. In some very rare cases there is an exceptionally long renal pedicle, and this and the kidney are completely surrounded by peritoneum, so that there is a distinct mesonephron ; in the great majority of cases, even of floating kidney, there is no true mesonephron, although the pedicle becomes elongated and the peritoneum also invests the kidney more completely than usual. ETIOLOGY.—The affection is something like six times more common in women than in men. The right kidney is more frequently affected than the left and this has been explained by saying ,that one of the agents in retaining the right kidney in position is the lowei" edge of the liver, and that the kidney is pressed downwards as a result of tight lacing or a sudden strain and, so to speak, dislocated from under the edge of the liver and does not return to its proper position. Associated with the development of movable kidney is often found general emaciation, with consequent absorption of the adipose capsule of the kidney, and those who hold that the fatty capsule is one of the chief agents in keeping the kidney in position look upon this absorption as one of the chief reasons of the undue mobility. Mobility of the kidney may follow pregnancy, partly from the distension of the abdomen and the subsequent laxity of its walls and possibly partly as a result of violent contractions during delivery. In many instances, no doubt, the immediate cause of the mobiHty, or at any rate of the patient noticing it, is some injury, such as a blow, a kick or a violent exertion, e.g., jumping, in which it may be assumed that some dislocation of the kidney has occurred.