THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. recovery. At the same time, if the stone be small and the operation likely to be a short one, renal disease does not necessarily contra-indicate litholopaxy as long as the urine is not septic. 6. Stricture of the urethra may lead the surgeon to perform lithotomy in preference to litholopaxy under certain circumstances. A slight stricture may be dilated sufficiently to allow of the introduction of a full-sized lithotrite and therefore need not influence the question. For dense and narrow strictures, however, a perineal lithotomy is probably the best procedure, the simplest plan being to divide the stricture by a Syme's external urethrotomy (see Stricture of the Urethra) and then to prolong the incision up into the bladder as a median lithotomy. The objection to supra-pubic lithotomy in these cases is the difficulty that may arise in the healing of the supra-pubic wound, and it will be necessary to perform an external urethrotomy in addition in order to prevent obstruction to the outflow of urine. Therefore, if the stone be small enough to be extracted by a median lithotomy, there will be no necessity for doing a supra-pubic operation ; for a large stone however the supra-pubic operation is a necessity and with it should be combined Syme's perineal section either at the time of the operation or as soon after- wards as possible. 7. In stone in the female the procedure adopted will depend upon the size of the calculus. When this is quite small, the urethra may be dilated and the stone removed through it; for larger stones the lithotrite is very suitable, while for very large ones a cutting operation may be demanded, and a supra- pubic lithotomy is better than any form of vesico-vaginal section, which might lead to a fistula subsequently. Litholopaxy.—Before operation, a few days' preliminary treatment is necessary. The patient should be in bed, and any cystitis present should receive treatment (see p. 280); although the cystitis may not be cured, it will be much improved. Just before operation the perineum and pubes should be shaved, whilst the glans and the meatus should be disinfected, first with a 1-20 solution of carbolic acid, and subsequently with 1-2000 sublimate. The danger in litholopaxy lies in introducing septic material into the bladder, and every precaution must therefore be taken, notwithstanding the fact that there is to be no cutting operation; the instruments and the operator's hands should be strictly disinfected. The patient, who should have had the bowels thoroughly cleared out overnight, is placed upon the table with the pelvis raised upon a suitable cushion, and the legs encased in long warm stockings. The operation should be done upon a hot-water table if possible, as it may be prolonged, and in any case hot-water bottles should be at hand. The patient may either lie with the legs hanging over the end of the table or he may be tied up in the lithotomy position; the parts should be surrounded with aseptic towels.^ The anaesthesia must be profound, at any rate in the early stages. ^An excellent plan is to cut a small hole in the centre of a sterilised towel and bring the penis out through this; there is then less likelihood of the towel becoming ■displaced during the manipulations.