279 ACUTE CYSTITIS. those interfering with the proper evacuation of the bladder or the nutrition of its walls. A typical example of this condition is paraplegia. A great variety of organisms are found associated with cystitis, amongst the commonest of which are the various forms of cocci which decompose urea and give rise to ammoniacal urine. Of these the most common are said to be the diplococcus urese candidus, diplococcus ureae Hquefaciens or the bacillus liquefaciens. Another common organism found in cystitis is the bacillus coli communis, whilst in others the ordinary pyogenic organisms are present, and in typhoid fever the typhoid bacillus. ACUTE CYSTITIS. This may be either a superficial catarrhal inflammation affecting the mucous membrane only, or it may be a deeply-seated interstitial affection. In the acute catarrhal form, the mucous membrane is injected and there are numerous ecchymoses. Superficial ulceration may also occur if the disease lasts for any length of time. When the affection has penetrated deeply, the muscular and submucous coats become thickened and lose their elasticity and in rare cases abscesses may form and burst into the bladder. This leads to shrinkage of the organ so that it is no longer dilatable, and the bladder may even become adherent to other structures. A rarer form is that known as " membranous " or " diphtheritic cystitis " in which there is violent infiamma- tion of the bladder wall followed by necrosis of the mucous membrane with extensive membranous deposits on the surface which peel off and are dis- charged as more or less complete casts of the bladder. SYMPTOMS.—In acute cystitis the first symptoms are increased frequency and urgency of micturition so that the patient is compelled to evacuate the bladder immediately the desire arises. There is also pain, most marked at the end of the act as the bladder contracts to expel the last few drops of urine, and there is pus in the urine. There may be vesical tenesmus and spasm of the urethra, or the bladder may be so irritable that it is con- stantly contracting, and the patient suffers from a condition closely resembling incontinence. There is generally a sensation of weight in the perineum and tenderness in the hypogastric area. The urine is turbid from the presence of pus and may be ammoniacal; if it be alkaline, the pus becomes thick, ropy and tenacious. There may be blood in the urine, but it is usually present in such small quantities as only to be demonstrable by the microscope. There is loss of appetite, sleeplessness and a moderate degree of fever. In membranous or diphtheritic cystitis, the severity of these symptoms is extreme. The pain is generally widespread and radiates into the loins, thighs and abdomen, whilst the urine contains large quantities of muco-pus and is strongly ammoniacal and sometimes very foul, whilst in bad cases much blood is present. When gangrene of the bladder wall occurs, the urine is almost frecal in odour, brown in colour, and contains shreds of necrosed mucous membrane. The temperature in bad cases may range from 102° to 104° F.,