I06 THE SUR(^,ICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. In the portal fissure the order of the structures is duct artery and vein from before backwards. The function of the gall-bladder is to act as a reservoir for bile and it probably fills up during the night and during fasting and empties itself whilst digestion is progressing. Its complete removal causes no inconvenience and it has been known to be entirely absent. TRAUMATIC AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. CONTUSIONS AND RUPTURES.—These injuries are not at all uncommon ; in fact the liver is the viscus most commonly damaged in all severe blows or run-over injuries about the upper part of the abdomen. The peritoneal coat of the organ gives way and there is extravasation of blood and bile in the abdominal cavity. As we have just said there is a tendency for this extravasated material to collect between the colon and the liver and to be passed down towards the right side and, if the extravasation be small in amount and occur gradually, it may remain limited to that region. The seriousness of the case varies with the extent of the injury to the liver and more particularly with the injury to large vessels. If the larger branches of the hepatic vein be torn, free hjemorrhage is the result, as the orifices of the vessels remain patent, and in many cases the patient is moribund from the haemorrhage when first seen. In any case, bleeding is apt to be persistent, probably from the fact that the admixture of bile prevents proper haemostasis. The amount of bile escaping in an injury of this sort will depend upon whether the large bile ducts are injured or not. The gall-bladder or the bile passages are not infrequently lacerated. In severe fractures of the ribs the broken ends of the bone occasionally penetrate the liver substance. Penetrating wounds of this kind are not very common, the injuries usually met with varying from a simple fissure on the surface of the organ near the anterior margin to a large stellate contusion, an actual detachment of a portion of the organ or a pulping-up of its substance. SYMPTOMS.—In bad cases death occurs rapidly from a combination of shock and haemorrhage. In all patients that survive long enough to come under the notice of the surgeon there is the intense shock met with in bad abdominal contusions (see Part VI., Sec. I., p. 177) and in most cases there will be signs of haemorrhage in addition. The symptoms special to the injury of the liver are persistent pain over the organ referred also to the umbilicus, the xiphoid cartilage and the right shoulder, and extreme tenderness on palpation over the damaged area; the liver dulness is generally increased, especially on the right side. There may be bilious vomiting and some jaundice later. As a rule the extravasation of a small amount of bile into the peritoneum is not fatal but, should this occur in large quantity, it is a serious matter and fatal peritonitis may result,