87 CANCER. and into this collar of denuded muscular wall the lower end of the upper segment is passed and secured by a series of Lembert sutures. In our opinion this gives a much better union than the ordinary form of end-to-end anastomosis. It is most important that the surgeon should not endeavour to adopt either of the last two methods unless he is sure that the conditions are favourable. If there be much tension on the upper end of the rectum when attempts are made either to approximate it to the lower portion, or to bring it down to the anal margin, it is far safer to bring the open end out beneath the sacrum and to make an artificial anus there, as the traction required to bring it into one of the other positions will either so endanger its blood supply as to give rise to sloughing of the posterior wall, which is apt to be followed by spreading pelvic cellulitis, or else the stitches will cut through and a very troublesome band of cicatricial tissue will form across the lumen of the bowel. After-treattne?it.—A dose of opium is administered after the operation and, if the latter has been long and severe, measures against shock may be required (see Part I., p. 139). When the rectum has been sutured beneath the sacrum, the bowels should be kept confined as long as possible so that the healing of the wound may be fairly advanced when the first action occurs. Before this happens, all deep stitches should be removed so as to avoid infection along the stitch tracks, and any portion of the wound that is left open should be carefully covered with gauze so as to prevent infection; if no septic infection has occurred, the drainage tube should also be removed. The dressings after this should be changed three or four times daily. After the outer pad of dressing is removed, any ffecal material is washed away by irrigating with boracic lotion, after which the deeper dressing is changed. With an intelligent nurse the case will often follow an almost entirely aseptic course. Should primary union occur, the patient will be well in three or four weeks; if any large amount of the wound has to heal by granulation six weeks or more may elapse before he can get about. He should first wear a pad fastened on with a T-bandage, but when the parts are quite sound he may be provided with a suitable truss with a plug fitting the artificial anus. After an operation done in this manner the patient is usually comfortable as long as the bowels are not relaxed. If an hour or so each morning be devoted to ensuring a complete evacuation of the bowels and to thorough cleansing of the parts, the patient goes through the rest of the day without inconvenience ; after the lapse of a considerable period he may even dis- pense with a plug as considerable control may be regained; indeed, unless there be an attack of diarrhoea, there is very little incontinence. The circular fibres of the bowel assume a certain amount of sphincteric action after some time. When the bowel has either been sutured to the anal margin or an end- to-end union has been effected, thorough drainage must be provided for