THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST. the centre of the breast. On the other hand, retraction of the nipple is met with in chronic inflammatory conditions. In time the growth spreads to and infects the skin, leading to the formation of a cancerous ulcer. In other cases the skin may be red and oedematous immediately preceding the ulceration and this may be followed by a diffuse development of cancerous nodules in the skin which run together and produce a hard, brawny, red patch,—the condition known as " cancer en cuirasse"; this is usually met with in the more rapidly growing forms. A striking evidence of the great contraction that usually occurs in cancerous tumours of the breast is that the organ may actually appear smaller than its fellow, although the tumour may be of considerable size. Indeed in atrophic cancer the breast may disappear almost entirely. Even at a comparatively early period it will be found that the affected breast is not only somewhat smaller but that the nipple is higher up and the breast is less pendulous than its fellow. Before long the tumour becomes adherent to the pectoral fascia and subsequently to the pectoralis major. Adhesion of the tumour to the fascia occurs comparatively early in some cases, at any rate when the tumour occurs towards the deeper part of the breast, and is usually detected by instructing the patient to stretch out the arm so as to render the pectoral muscle tense and then attempting to move the breast and tumour in the direction of the muscular fibres. This adhesion is of great importance because it implies that the whole of the pectoral fascia must be looked upon as possibly infected, and it is still more important when the muscle itself is actually involved because the arrange ment of the lymphatics is such that they are likely to disseminate the disease throughout it. The axillary glands will be felt to be enlarged at a fairly early period of the disease, but it must be borne in mind that they are probably infected long before they can be felt. The glands first enlarged are usually those along the edge of the pectoralis minor; the infection extends from this point up along the axillary glands and thence into those at the root of the neck. Cancer of the breast is usually associated with a characteristic stabbing pain from a very early period, and it is generally this pain that leads the patient to examine the breast and discover the tumour. In a considerable number of cases however there is no pain at all, and the tumour is only discovered accidentally. In the early stages the patient remains in good health but, after the disease has lasted for some time, there is a definite weakness and loss of flesh, and a pale, earthy, cachectic look makes its appearance; this does not however imply infection of internal organs and may disappear after a complete operation. As a rule the cancer remains limited to the breast first involved, but a tumour may be felt in the opposite gland in a certain number of