Il6 THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. Aspiration.—This was formerly a favourite method of treatment, the pus being drawn off at one or more sittings through as fine a needle as it could be made to flow through. This method has occasionally cured chronic cases, but in our opinion more efficient methods are available at the present day, and we shall not therefore refer further to it. An advance on this plan was the introduction of a large trochar and cannula into the abscess cavity, the cannula being left as a permanent drain. As a rule however the cannulse are much too small. Incision and drainage.—The only method that offers a prospect of a really good result is free incision, and the technique of the operation varies with the presence or absence of adhesions and the situation of the abscess. Some surgeons lay great stress upon this question of adhesions, and when none are present they proceed to shut off the peritoneal cavity by sutures in a methodical manner. Others on the other hand open the abscess freely even in the entire absence of adhesion between the liver and the abdominal wall at the point of incision. In our opinion much depends on the situation in which the abscess has to be opened. If this has to be done through the anterior abdominal wall, the greatest care must be taken to prevent extravasation of pus into the abdominal cavity, just as in the case of an appendicitic abscess. If however the abscess be situated on the convex surface of the liver and the opening be made through the diaphragm, experience shows that the majority of cases do perfectly well if a drainage tube be introduced directly into the cavity without any preliminary suture of the liver to the diaphragm. Before proceeding to operation it is always well to ascertain that pus exists by puncturing the liver with a trochar and cannula. The spot selected for puncture will depend upon circumstances. When there is distinct bulging below the ribs on the right side and there is reason to believe that the abscess is situated towards the under surface, the puncture should be made below the ribs behind; but in the majority of cases it should be made through an intercostal space, as the abscess will be on the convex surface. The usual rule given is that the needle should first be thrust inwards and backwards through the seventh or eighth intercostal space in the anterior axillary line and the liver explored in various directions from this spot. If no pus be found, the needle may next be introduced just below the ribs in the nipple line and, failing to find pus there, it may be thrust through the ninth or tenth interspace, immediately below the inferior angle of the ,scapula; this avoids puncturing the pleura. It is always well to have an exhausting syringe or an aspirator bottle that will fit the cannula and, as soon as the tip of the latter reaches the liver, the air should be drawn from the cannula so that pus will flow out directly it is struck; otherwise the cannula may actually pass through the abscess cavity without drawing off the pus. This procedure is also valuable for avoiding infection of the wound or the peritoneal cavity by the pus in the cannula as it is withdrawn. If pus be not struck when the cannula is first thrust in, the lattpr should