2IO THE SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF THE KIDNEY. with proper drainage. It may happen that an abscess of this kind is found in connection with calcuH in the substance of the kidney, or the organ is cut down upon under the diagnosis of renal stone. PYONEPHROSIS.—Here there is dilatation of the renal pelvis and calices in addition to suppuration. The condition results from some obstruc tion lower down the urinary passages upon which suppuration has supervened. It may arise under three different sets of circumstances : (a) A previously existing hydronephrosis may become infected and suppuration may occur in it; (/^) Suppuration and dilatation commence coincidently in cases of obstruction low down in the urinary passages accompanied by an infective condition of the urine; (c) The pyelitis may precede the dilatation ; here the distension of the pelvis is due not so much to mechanical obstruction lower down as to blocking of the ureter by pus and clot or calculi. Pyonephrosis is a not uncommon complication of renal calculus. Causes.—The most frequent is renal calculus. The condition may arise from the pressure of tumours on the ureter, from vesical affections, such as stone, papilloma and malignant disease, or from urethral or prostatic obstructions. It is very common in tuberculous disease (see Chap. XXL). The septic infection may be derived from the blood or the lymph stream, but more probably it is an ascending infection secondary to the dilatation. The kidney is frequently enlarged and lobulated owing to the distension of the calices. The loculi communicate with one another and witff the dis- tended renal pelvis, whilst the renal cortex undergoes sclerosis and atrophy; the septa between the various loculi may be dense and fibrous or may be actually destroyed so that several of the sacs communicate. The interior of the pelvis is frequently lined by a phosphatic deposit. The condition is often unilateral when it is due to renal stone, but it may be bilateral when it is due to obstruction to the outflow of urine. After a time peri-nephritis occurs, and the kidney becomes bound down to the structures in its neighbourhood. A peri-nephric abscess may occur from the spread of infective organisms through the wall of the renal pelvis into the fatty capsule without any fistulous communication, or there may be direct communication between the pelvis of the kidney and the surrounding structures. When the affection is due to a calculus, the distension of the pelvis may be intermittent; when the distension is greatest there may be no pus in the urine, but this will be followed by profuse pyuria as the distension subsides. Symptoms.—In addition to the symptoms of pyelitis there is a tumour in the loin, and frequently profuse intermittent pyuria; the tumour is somewhat nodular and elastic. The condition of the urine varies according as the communication between the kidney and the bladder is free or not. In most cases there is a certain amount of pus in the urine; in some, the amount is large, in others the pyuria is of an intermittent type, and in them the cause is probably a stone acting as a ball-valve in the pelvis. The reaction of. the