641 STRUMOUS LIP taken to separate the alte of the nose freely from their bony attachments before proceeding to pare the edges of the cleft. In those extreme cases where the central portion of the lip is attached to the tip of the nose (fig. 241), it is useless to attempt to form part of the lip trom It, and the plan which I adopt is to cut away the os incisivum and a portion of the septum of the nose, and then turn up the central portion ot the hp to form a new septum. The lateral edges of each cleft are then pared and united to each other in the middle line, if the soft parts, and especially the aire of the nose, are freely separated from the bones beneath this can generally be done, without such an amount of tension as will prevent union by the first intention. In these complicated cases of hare-lip, after the operation there is a risk ot asphyxia, from the tension of the upper lip and blocking of the nasal passages. I am in the habit, therefore, of inserting a small piece of indiarubber dramage tube into each nostril for some hours after the opera- tion, through which the infant can breathe. It is advisable after the operation to feed the child with a spoon, and this is what IS generally done in hospital. In private practice, however, I usually allow the child to take the mother's breast from the first, and have never seen any harm arise from the proceeding. Median hare-lip.--Occasionally, but very rarely, instances are met with where the cleft is in the middle line. Two varieties of this condition are met with, (i) The first is where there is a wide cleft due to absence of the whole of the prcxmaxillary bone, as well as the soft parts over it Ihese cases ought not to be classed as cases of median hare-lip Thev are really mstances of bilateral cleft with absence of the central piece (2) 1 he other more mteresting condition is where there is a true cleft in the middle hne._ It is generally incomplete, but may be complicated with a bifid condition of the os incisivum. The deformity would appear to be due to failure of union of the two endognathia, or globular processes of His of which the os incisivum is made up. Hypertrophy of the lips.—True hypertrophy of the lips— macrocheiha—xs a very rare condition ; but there are other forms of enlarged lip which are usually termed hypertrophies, which are probably inflammatOTv in their nature, as the strumous lip and the syphilitic lip. Macrocheilia is a congenital affection which may attack either or Doth lips. It IS a condition of chronic lymphangiectasis, resembling macro- glossia, which will presently be described, and consists in an increase in size and number of the lymphatic vessels and spaces, with overgrowth of the connective tissue. The lips become greatly enlarged, and feel firm and solid; when the lower hp is affected, it becomes everted and depressed irom Its own weight. The treatment consists in excising a wedge-shaped piece of the hp throughout its whole depth, and uniting the cut edges ,-hil?.« "??^^ °^ common occurrence, and occurs in tuberculous cnuciren. It commences as a fissure or crack in the lip, most frequently hv .^^P"""', "^^'^"^^ inflammatory process, attended at first m-.tllT r'lf''^"'?^ """"^ subsequently by the formation of a new fibroid TfrnrrWiK ■ ^^/^y/t^ge^' ^^hile the Swelling is still soft, relief may be frnn 1 ^''"'^ ''"^ ^^^^ administration of cod-liver oil and perm'anlT ^^^e growth becomes hard and firm, the condition is S t , advised under these circumstances to excise a wedge-shaped portion of the lip, but the deformity produced by the scar is almost as great as that produced by the enlargement. ^ T T