635 MACROSTOMA the end is then bent up round the angle of the mouth on to the cheek, and fixed there with strapping. The saliva being thus guided into the mouth by the probe, will not flow out through the fistula, and this will in many cases heal. When it does not, or when the opening of the duct into the mouth cannot be found, the disease must be treated by making a new passage for the saliva from the gland into the mouth. A straight needle armed with a stout piece of silver wire is passed from the bottom of the fistula through the cheek into the mouth, with an inclination backwards. The needle is withdrawn from the mouth and unthreaded. It is then threaded on to the other end of the wire which projects from the cheek, and the needle is again introduced through the fistula, but with an inclina- tion forwards, into the mouth, so that a loop of wire now presents externally and the two free ends in the mouth, at a distance of about half an inc h from each other (fig. 238). The two ends are to be twisted tightly, so as to strangle the intervening tissue, and the loop of wire allowed to ulcerate Treatment of salivar}'fistula. Fig. 239.—Macrostoma. Its way into the mouth. When it comes away a triangular gap, with its apex at the opening in the duct, will be found, through which the sahva will easily find its way into the mouth. If the edges of the external fistulous opening are now cauterised, it will probably heal Malformation of the lips.—The various malformations of the lips are due to defective blending together of the five processes around the primary mcuth orifice, which by their development form the face. The most common of these is hare-lip, which in its usual form is due to a want of complete union between the fronto-nasal and the maxillary processes ; but in addition to this there are some rarer malformations, which It will be convenient to allude to first. Macrostoma arises from a want of fusion between the maxillary and mandibular processes, and results in the formation of a fissure, which may be unilateral or bilateral, extending from the angle of the mouth into the cheek (fig. 239). It may vary much in extent, from a slight gap at the angle of the mouth to a cleft which may extend as far as the last molar tooth or even farther. It produces a most unsightly deformity, more