1137 THROUGH THE SHOULDER JOINT sound side, and making an incision from the outer extremity of the clavi- cuhir incision, over the spine, to the angle of the scapula where it joins the anterior incision. The skin and subcutaneous tissues are reflected backwards as far as the vertebral border. The insertion of the trapezius is cut through. The scapula now falls away from the chest, and the remaining muscles attached to its superior and \ertcbral borders are divided. In severing the levator anguli scapulae the posterior scapular artery will be cut and must be at once seized with clip forceps. No other vessel of any size will be wounded, except the suprascapular, which has been secured at an earlier stage of the operation. The tendon of the latissimus dorsi is divided near its insertion, and the whole limb removed. The operation is necessarily attended by a large amount of shock, and there is also danger from htemon-hage, especially where the vessels are en- larged on account of the growth. Entrance of air into the veins, which occurred in one case, is prevented, as a rule, by the preliminary ligature of the subclavian Fig. 431.—Lines of incision in Berger's operation for removal of the upper extremity. vein. For the most part, cases which have not succumbed to the initial dangers of shock and haemorrhage have done well ; but from the nature of the disease for which the operation is performed, recurrence is the rule rather than the exception. Amputation through the shoulder joint is principally required for (l) injuries, such as gunshot wounds and other compound comminuted fractures into the joint ; (2) for disease of the articulation unsuited for excision, or where excision has been performed and failed ; and (3) for new growths. There are many different methods of disarticulating at the shoulder joint, but probably the best, where the surgeon can choose his flaps, is that recom- mended by Spence, especially because it enables the operator to make his first incision and examine the joint, before he finally determines whether to excise or amputate. The method employed by Larrey is also a good one. The old plan of removing the upper extremity by a large deltoid flap, by transfixion, which was formerly the method adopted on account of the rapidity with which it could be performed, is now seldom resorted to- 4 D