384 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES filarife may be detected. The enlargement does not subside, and a second attack of inflammation is followed by a further enlargement, and so on, until the scrotum may reach an enormous size. This enlargement is fur- ther increased by the collection of fluid in the tunica vaginalis, which is a very common accompaniment of this disease. The swelling is pear- shaped, with its narrowest part above at its attachment to the pubes. The penis is usually buried and concealed, and the testicles lie at the lower and back part of the swelling. The skin is tense, coarse, and tuber- culated, and often presents crusts formed by the discharge from the lymphatics and ulcers where these crusts have separated. A similar condition sometimes affects the labia of the female. Treatment.—The treatment of elephantiasis is not very satisfactory. Considerable relief may be given by the methodical application of a Martin's bandage in cases of Barbadoes leg. The limb should be ele- vated, and while in this position the bandage firmly and evenly applied. This will reduce the size of the limb, but the swelling always returns when the bandage is left off. Dr. Manson practises excision .of longi- tudinal strips of skin from the leg, in the hope that the cicatrices formed will by their contraction prevent further enlargement. In elephantiasis of the scrotum considerable success has attended the removal of the diseased scrotum ; but the operation is a formidable one on account of the haemorrhage. The scrotum is first to be elevated for an hour, in order to drain away as much fluid as possible, and then its neck is to be encircled with an elastic cord or clamped with Turner's clamp, con- sisting of two parallel bars, united by screws, so that they can be ap- proximated to or separated from each other. Short flaps are to be cut in the skin to cover the penis and scrotum, and the whole scrotum rapidly removed, care being taken to preserve the penis and testicles.