629 ETHMOIDITIS this is to impregnate some cotton-wool tampons with the antiseptic in the form of an ointment, and introduce these Hght'ly into the nostril. The antiseptic which has answered best in my hands is iodoform, the disagreeable odour of which may be disguised by a little oil of bitter almonds (iodoform, 5j ; ol. amygd. amar. n{v; lanolin and vaseline, aa fss). At the same time the general health must be attended to. This plan of treatment will usually materially relieve the patient and enable him to live in comfort; but he should be told that it will probably be necessary for him to continue the douche at least once a day for many years, though he may be consoled by being informed that the malady lessens with advancing years. Syphilitic ozaena.—Gummata in syphilitic cases are apt to form under the periosteum of the nasal fossee. These soften and break down and form ulcers, often associated with necrosis, which gives rise to an exceedingly foetid discharge of a yellowish colour. The disease can be distmguished from true ozsena by the profuse discharge, by the presence of other syphilitic lesions, and by the detection of exposed bone upon examination. The treatment must consist in the appropriate constitutional remedies for syphilis—iodide of potassium or mercury—and in the constant irrigation of the nares by means of the syphon douche with some antiseptic solution, of which perhaps potassium permanganate is the best. The douching will generally loosen and bring away the necrosed bone in the form of black, crumbling, offensive pieces. If not, they must be removed with forceps as they become loosened. Tuberculous ozaena.—Tuberculous children are subject to an offensive discharge from the nostril, which arises from a tuberculous ulceration of the mucous membrane of the nares. This is accompanied by purulent discharge, and, like the syphilitic form, may be associated with disease of the bones, which may lead to flattening of the nose and great deformity. Upon examination of the anterior nares the mucous membrane is found to be much thickened and often deeply ulcerated; the ulcers being frequently covered by black adherent crusts. The treatment IS the same as in the syphilitic form of the disease as regards the local measures, namely, by persevering use of the douche; whilst internally cod-hver oil and iodide of iron should be administered, with strict attention to dietetic and hygienic measures. Ethmoiditis.—The upper part of the nasal foss^ is occasionally the seat ot a septic inflammation, which appears generally to be due to septic infection from without, and usually begins in the middle turbinated bone, and from this may spread to the other parts of the ethmoid and to the various sinuses connected with the upper part of the nasal fossa, and in some instances through the cribriform plate to the membranes and sub- stance of the brain. The disease begins as an infiltration of the sub- mucous tissue, which rapidly runs on to suppuration, and spreads to the periosteum covering the bones, which become necrosed. When the sinuses are implicated they are filled with pus. In some cases the caver- nous sinus is thrombosed, and a general condition of pyjemia set up. The disease is characterised by severe, deep-seated pain about the bridge of the nose and back of the orbit, with redness, swelling, and discharge of pus from the nose, which is usually not offensive. Upon examination of the interior of the nostril, the upper part is found to be blocked with a mass of granu- lation tissue, and a probe passed into this mass can usually be felt to reach exposed bone. There is often high fever, rigons, and delirium. The