ARTERITIS does not disappear. We have therefore in a varicose aneurism a combina- tion of an ordinary traumat'ic aneurism and an aneurismal varix. The sounds heard in these tumours are two : in addition to the loud rasping bruit, similar to what is heard in an aneurismal varix, and which arises from the communication between the artery and vein, there is a soft blowing systolic murmur caused by the aneurism. In the aneurism itself there is a distensile pulsation synchronous with the pulse, while in the dilated vein over it there is the continuous thrill similar to that felt in an aneurismal varix. Treatment.—As the aneurismal sac has a tendency to increase in size and eventually burst, operative interference is necessary. Some few cases have been recorded where a cure has been effected by digital compression applied at the same time to the artery above the tumour and to the opening of comihunication between the aneurismal sac and . the vein, but the treatment is very uncertain, and has failed in very many instances; it seems better, therefore, to expose the aneurismal sac, lay it freely open, turn out the coagula, and tie the artery above and below the opening of communication. The operation is best performed by opening first of all the dilated vein, and tying it on either side; a director is then introduced through the opening between the aneurismal sac and the dilated vein, and the sac slit freely open, when the wound in the artery will be found after the clots have been removed, and a soft bougie introduced through this will form a guide to finding the artery. DISEASES OF ARTERIES Arteritis.—Inflammation of arteries may be divided for purposes of description into Acute and Chronic Arteritis. Acute arteritis presents itself under two different forms : (i) plastic or aseptic, and (2) septic arteritis. 1. Plastic or aseptic arteritis is the result of traumatism and is strictly local. It can scarcely be regarded as a disease, since it is nature's process of repairing injury. It is strictly analogous to the process of healing of wounds in the soft parts by first intention, consisting in hypereemia, effusion of inflammatory products and their organisation, which either occludes the end of a divided artery or scars a wound in a vessel which has been only partially divided. It has been described in the section on Arrest of Hfemorrhage (page 288). 2. Septic arteritis.—This is an acute inflammatory process, caused by the introduction of pyogenic micro-organisms. These organisms may either be introduced from without, from a septic ligature, or from extension of suppuration in the neighbouring tissues to the wall of the vessel; or from within, from an infective embolus which has been washed into the vessel from, for example, one of the aortic valves in a case of ulcerative endo- carditis, and where the micro-organisms find their way from the plug into the wall of the vessel. The disease is attended by all the phenomena of inflammation ; the vasa vasorum become dilated, then stasis and emigration of the blood corpuscles take place, and the walls of the vessel become infiltrated with leucocytes. The coats of the vessel become softened and ulcerate. While this has been going on a clot forms in the interior of the vessel, and this clot often extends beyond the infected part. Were it not so, hemorrhage would