CAUSES OF CARCINOMA 253 fat molecules, and where the degeneration js more advanced the cells have disappeared and only granular debris remains. As the tumour grows it makes its way to the surface, and uifiltratmg the skin for a considerable distance around, it ulcerates and forms an uidolent ulcer, with hard, elevated edges. This ulcer is very prone to bleed, and discharges an offensive ichorous fluid, which tends to undermme the patient's strength and cause death from exhaustion. Cancerous tumours, therefore, may be said to degenerate and soften in their centre and to ulcerate on their Causes.—With regard to the causes of carcinoma very little is known. There does not appear to be any constitutional condition, such as one recognises in tuberculosis, which is characteristic of this disease. Patients who are attacked by cancer may be apparendy in a condition of robust health, but, on the other hand, are frequently weak, ancemic, and worn out. Even the hereditary nature of the disease is by no means certain. Formerly great stress was laid on this, and the hereditary tendency was always looked upon as an essential feature in the diagnosis; but many observers in the present day are inclined to beHeve that the heredity of cancer is by no means proved, and when we consider the wide-spread diffusion of the disease, it is no matter of wonder that in a vast number of family histories which we investigate we should find some traces of cancer having affected some members of the family. There is, however, no doubt that age has an important intiuence on the occurrence of cancer. It is a disease which is rarely seen before the age of 20, and from this age it increases in frequency, being comparatively uncommon during the first decade, and then increasing up to the age of 45 to 50. After this age the number of deaths from cancer begins to decline, but the proportion of deaths from cancer of those living over the age of 50 continues to increase, according to Walshe, up to the age of 80. The sex has also some influence on the occurrence of cancer ; it is rtiore common in the female than in the male : this is on account of the fact that cancer so frequently attacks the two organs special to the female generative system, the breast and the uterus. Locality is believed by some to have an influence on the occurrence of this disease. Certain districts, especially low-lying ones, near rivers, which are liable to floods, and even certain houses, have been described as being situations in which cancer is prone to occur. The fact that houses have been known to be occupied by people, often of diff"erent families, who have one after another become victims of cancer, raises the question whether the disease is contagious or not. Up to recent times, it has been believed that it certainly is not. One other point requires mention in connection with the predisposing causes of cancer, and that is the fact that there can be little doubt from the statistics of the Registrar-General that cancer is largely on the increase in this country. According to Spencer Wells, the number of deaths from cancer in 1887 was nearly double what it was in 1861. Some have attempted to explain this by the greater accuracy of diagnosis in the present day, and by the fact that the deaths fifteen or twenty years ago from sarcoma were recorded as cancer, but this would scarcely explain the great difference in the figures. As regards the exciting cause of cancer, our knowledge is scarcely more definite than in regard to the predisposing causes, but there is a growing tendency on the part of those who have especially worked at this subject, and are therefore best qualified to give an opinion, that the disease depends