958 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS usually little pain, and it is merely the colour of the urine which excites the patient's attention; but sometimes the pain may be very severe when a portion of the growth is carried into the orifice of the urethra and becomes grasped by the sphincter. In these cases there may be complete retention. After a time the bleeding recurs, and attacks come on at irregular intervals. A severe attack may sometimes be excited by the passage of a catheter. As the disease advances, frequent desire to pass water, and other signs of irritability of the bladder, may set in. The diagnosis rests in these cases on the exclusion of other forms of hsematuria, and espe- cially on the recognition of por- tions of the growth under the microscope. Occasionally small particles become separated and are passed in the urine, or may be broken off by a catheter introduced into the bladder and brought away in its eye ; and if the urine is examined carefully day by day, the surgeon will not fail eventually to find some of the growth. Examination by the finger in the rectum affords little assistance beyond helping to eliminate malignant disease as a source of the haemorrhage. Of late years an additional means of diagnosis has been afforded by the use of the cystoscope; but this requires very great care and a practised hand for its management, as it is absolutely necessary that the fluid in the bladder during the examina- tion with this instrument should be clear, and unless very gentle handling is carried out, hsemorrhage from the villous growth is likely to ensue, and the examination will then be impossible. The cystoscope consists of a straight tube, with a short beak at its end, in which an electric light is placed, the wire connected with it passing , down the tube. At the other end of the tube an eyepiece is inserted. Either on the concavity or convexity of the bend, according to the part of the bladder which is to be examined, is a window of rock crystal, and m the interior of the bend is a prism arranged in such a manner that the portion of the bladder wall illuminated through the window by the electric lamp is reflected down the tube on to the eyepiece. In using the mstru- ment, a small quantity of clear boric solution should first be introduced, to prevent the mucous membrane of the bladder coming in contact with the heated beak of the instrument. The cystoscope may be used for diagnostic purposes in other cases besides those of villous tumour. Treatment.—When villous tumour of the bladder has been diagnosed, its removal is indicated, since the prognosis is by no means good if this is not done, and the probabilities are that the growth will destroy the patient either from haemorrhage or septic complications; or, like papillomata else- FlG. 364.—Villous tumour of the bladder. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)