TREATMENT OF ARTHRITIS 537 that position in which the ligaments are most relaxed and which is therefore the position of greatest ease to the patient. The limb is fixed in this position by reflex contraction of the muscles, and any attempt to move it is attended with the greatest pain. The termination of this condition may be in resolution. The symptoms gradually subside, and the patient recovers in most instances with an ankylosed joint. More commonly the disease runs on to suppuration. The joint becomes filled with pus, which bursts through the capsule, and may either find its way to the surface or burrow through the tissues of the limb. The ligaments becoming destroyed, the bones move more freely on each other, and actual displacement may take place. Sinuses now form in every direction, and the disease becomes chronic, the patient frequently succumbing to hectic and lardaceous disease unless amputation is performed. The case may, however, terminate fatally during the acute stage, from pyremia or septicfemia. The pathological changes which take place in the various structures of the joint have already been alluded to in speaking of arthritis from a septic wound (page 494). Treatment.—The most essential points in the treatment of acute arthritis are rest and extension. The limb must be put up in some efficient splint which will keep the joint perfectly immobile and not allow of the slightest movement between the two joint surfaces. In addition to this, means must be devised to separate the articular surfaces from each other. As long as the two surfaces are pressed together by the spasmodic contraction of the muscles, the destructive disorganisation will go on and the pain will continue; but if extension is made, which can generally best be done by a weight extension attached to the limb below the affected joint, the pain will often be at once relieved, the painful startings of the limb at night will not occur, and the pressure of the inflamed articular surfaces on each other being removed, this cause of unrest to the joint will be done away with, and a great step will be gained towards the cure of the patient. In adjusting the spUnt, it must always be borne in mind that ankylosis may be the outcome of the case, so that the limb must be put up in such a position that, if ankylosis does ensue, it will be of the greatest use to the patient. The local application of warm Goulard lotion and opium is often comforting to the patient. Should these means fail in arresting the disease, and evidence of suppuration show itself, the joint should be laid freely open on either side and thoroughly irrigated with a weak antiseptic solution or hot sterilised water, and a drainage tube inserted. Any abscesses outside the joint must be similarly treated, and the limb maintained in the fixed position. The irrigation of the joint must be continued daily, and strict antiseptic precautions observed. Under favourable circumstances recovery may take place with an ankylosed limb. The discharge lessens and becomes thinner and more .serous; the temperature falls to normal, and eventually the wounds heal. But in most of these cases the prognosis is not favourable : either decomposition sets in, and pyaemia is developed; or the continuous discharge is followed by a condition of chronic septic poisoning (hectic fever), and is accompanied or followed by lardaceous disease, and death is the result unless amputation or excision is performed. The cases in which excision can be done are very few; but now and then cases do occur in which the peri-articular structures are not much involved and where the disease is principally confined to a rarefying ostitis of the ends