962 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the urethra, for the purpose of digitally exploring the bladder or removing a stone, especially if the dilatation has been performed gradually. With regard to the treatment of these cases nothing can be done, beyond providing the patient with a urinal, which will have to be worn night and day. They must not be mistaken for distension of the bladder with overflow, which may arise from paralysis of the detrusor urince (see page 749), or from enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate, which forms a sort of valve and prevents the passage of water until the bladder is full, so that its neck becomes dilated and the valve inefficient. The diagnosis is made by examining the hypogastric region, when the distended bladder will be at once detected. Atony of the bladder is a term used to imply mability on the part of the patient to empty his bladder, not because it is paralysed, but because the muscular coat has lost its power of contracting, from loss of tone. This loss of tone may be due to several causes. It may be due to (i) an acute active over-distension of the viscus. A patient either voluntarily or compul- sorily retains his water for too long a period, and when he attempts to pass it, finds that he is unable to do so because the muscular coat of the bladder, from having been overstretched for too long a time, has lost its power of con- tracting. (2) It may be due to a more gradual and chronic distension of the organ, as in cases of stricture and prostatic disease. In consequence of the obstruction to the passage of the water caused by these diseases, the bladder is not able to completely empty itself, and a small quantity is retained after micturition; the amount gradually increases, as the muscular fibres lose their tone and the bladder becomes distended. This condition generally arises m the old and feeble, in whom no compensatory hypertrophy of the muscular coat takes place. (3) Atony of the bladder may follow cystitis in those cases where the inflammation has spread to the muscular coat and produced fibroid or fatty changes in it. (4) Finally, it occurs in old age, from loss of nerve tone and senile degeneration of the muscular coat of the bladder. _ The treatment in these cases must depend upon whether the condition is due to a single over-distension or to any of the other causes. The first class of cases are amenable to treatment; the others are practically incurable, and treatment can only be adapted to relieving the distension and prevent- ing any evils arising therefrom. In cases of atony originating from a single over-distension, a catheter must be passed two or three times a day to empty the bladder. Tonics, especially strychnia, phosphoric acid, and iron, must be given, and galvanism applied two or three times a week. "\^ here the atony is due to advanced age or to changes in the muscular coaJt, a catheter must be passed regularly twice a day, or oftener if necessary. 1 ne patient must commence what is known as ' catheter life,' and once haying commenced it, will never be able to reUnquish it. The object of this is to mechanically empty the bladder twice a day, so that no residual unne, which he is unable to expel, shall be left behind, as it would certainly undergo decomposition and set up cystitis. The patient should be taugm to pass the instrument himself, so as to be entirely independent ot out- side aid. . Retention of urine.—When a patient is unable to pass his xvater, so that it is retained in the bladder and this organ becomes distenaea, retention is said to have occurred. It may arise from many different causes • (i) From inability of the muscular fibres of the bladder to e.vpel its content, from (rt) paralysis due to injury or disease of the brain or spinal cor , {!>) from loss of tone (atony); {c) from reflex paralysis, often occurring anc