868 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Trusses should be worn both night and day, but a very much lighter one is all that is necessary for night wear, and the patient should be pro- vided with one of this sort, which he should be enjoined to change after he has retired to bed, or at all events in the recumbent position. He should also be provided with a second day truss in case anything goes wrong with the one he is wearing; and, finally, he requires a bathing truss a truss covered with some impermeable substance, which he can wear while taking his morning bath. In order to measure for a truss the patient should be m the recumbent position. The end of the measuring tape should be placed over the spot which the pad is to occupy and carried round the body, midway between the crest of the ilium and the great trochanter, and across the back of the sacrum to the point from which it started. This measurement, together with the variety of hernia and the side, is all the information which the instrument maker requires. It is generally advisable, however, to mention whether the abdomen is very prominent or not. To ascertain whether the truss fits, attention must be paid to the spring and the pad. The spring should everywhere be in contact with the skin, without pressing upon it, and the patient should be able to move his body in any direction without shifting its position. The pad should be larger than the aperture through which the hernia protrudes, and should not be too convex, so that its summit presses on the ring. In an inguinal hernia the pad should press mainly upon the internal ring, and the pres- sure should be upwards with an inclination backwards and outwards. In a femoral hernia the pad should not be large enough to press on the femoral vein. The pressure should be made almost directly upwards, as the pad rests on the saphenous opening. 2 Treatment by operation.—The subject of the radical cure of hernia is one which has attracted very considerable interest of late years, and there is very great difference of opinion as to the cases in which this operation should be performed, and as to the best method of performing it. Indications for the operation.—As long as a hernia is small, it can be always retained by a truss; and if the patient is not exposed to any violent exertion, the risks of such a rupture are slight, the prognosis favourable and no operation is called for, and if one is performed it should only be done at the request of the patient, to free him from the irksomeness of wearing a truss, from the slight risk which he runs of strangulation, and in order to render him physically sound. There are certain cases in which there can be no question as to tne advisability of an operation. Among these are cases where no truss seems adequate to keep the rupture up. This is most frequently so with inguinal hernise of moderate size, but with a large ring, in whicti no instrument can be adjusted which will retain the rupture in position, at au events without causing great distress to the patient. These are cases which require operation. Then again there are cases where the patie t s desirous of entering one of the public services, to which he is I'^eligible ii he is the subject of hernia. In such cases there can be no dx)ubt as to the propriety of operating. The radical cure is also called foi in most cases of irreducible hernia, and after the operation of herniotomy, i he e cases will be considered in the sequel; at present we are simply dealing with reducible hernia. . mipstion of In addition to these cases there are many others in which the question o performing a radical cure will have to be considered, and there are sever