ios8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS abdofnen having been cleansed and the pubes shaved, the patient is anaesthetised and the abdomen opened in the usual way by a median incision, which is carried down to the symphysis pubis, or nearly so. When the peritoneum has been incised the intestines are pushed to the upper part of the abdomen and held there, out of the way, by hot towels or fiat sponges. The uterus is then seized with a strong volsellum and pulled over to one side while the ovarian and uterine arteries are secured. This is done by three ligatures, which are made to transfix the broad ligament close to the uterus, and are looped over each other so that they interlock. The first one secures the Fallopian tube and the ovarian vessels, the second one secures the round ligament and the pampiniform plexus, and the third one, which is inserted but not yet tied, is intended to secure the uterine artery. The accompanying figure (fig. 400) shows the relative position of these structures. The upper part of the broad ligament, with the Fallopian tube and round ligament, is now divided on the uterine side of the ligatures as low as the lower level of the second ligature, and the process repeated on the other side. It will then be found that the uterus can be raised out of the pelvis. A transverse incision is now made through the peritoneum, where it is reflected from the anterior surface of the uterus on to the back of the bladder, and the peritoneum is peeled from the surface of the uterus until the vagina is reached, and the anterior wall of this tube is cut across. The uterus is now turned forwards and the peritoneum at the bottom of Douglas's pouch incised transversely, and the posterior wall of the vagina divided across until it meets the incision on the anterior wall. The uterus is now almost free, and is held only by the lower part of the broad ligament on either side, containing the uterine artery. The third ligature, which was passed through the broad ligament, and interlocked with the second, is now made to encircle all this tissue by passing one end behind it into the vagina and bringing it up in front, and the ligature is then tied, thus constricting the uterine artery. The tissues are divided between the ligature and the side of the uterus.