TREATMENT OF STRICTURE 1003 Treatment of permeable stricture.—The treatment of a permeable stricture of the urethra may be conducted in several different ways: (i) By gradual interrupted dilatation ; (2) by gradual continuous dilatation ; (3) by forcible rupture; (4) by electrolysis; (5) by internal urethrotomy; (6) by external urethrotomy ; (7) by excision. It must be borne in mind that by none of these methods can a permanent cure be brought about, except, perhaps, in very recent cases, where the inflammatory exudation has not yet been converted into cicatricial tissue, but that a stricture having once formed will always remain, and, unless prevented by appropriate treatment, will always have a tendency to contract and reproduce the obstruction. The treatment aims at dilating the canal to its normal calibre, and then keeping it so dilated. I. The treatment by gradual interrupted dilatation consists in passing instruments of increasing size at short intervals. This is the usual and most successful mode of treating an ordinary stricture. It_ excites the least irritation, and can be carried out without interfering with the patient's pursuits or occupation. It aims at promoting absorption of the inflamma- tory products, which have been eff"used into and under the mucous mem- brane, and is therefore particularly suitable to recent strictures. It is also the best plan of treatment in cases of stricture where the kidneys are diseased, as it is safer than any other procedure. The plan of proceeding consists in passing the largest instrument which at the preliminary examina- tion of the stricture was found to pass without using any degree of force. After it has been passed it is allowed to remain in the bladder for about five minutes and is then gently withdrawn. If the introduction has not been attended by any sensation of faintness and nausea, and the patient at the first introduction suffered from no shock or urethral fever, he may be allowed to go about at once; but if there are any unpleasant symptoms caused by the passage of the instrument, he should remain quiet for a few hours, warmly covered up until these symptoms have subsided. On the second or third day the same instrument should be again introduced, and if it passes with ease, it should be at once withdrawn, and the next larger size introduced and allowed to remain in for five minutes. If there is still some difficulty in passing it, it is as well not to attempt the introduction of a larger instrument. This proceeding is continued, an instrument being passed every second or third day, and the augmentation in the size of the instruments being very gradual. In this way a stricture may be gradually dilated to admit a No. 12 English size catheter in the course of a few weeks, and after that the patient may be taught to pass an instrument for himself, with instructions that he is to do so once a week for a twelve- month, and after that probably once a month for the rest of his life. If this is not done the stricture will assuredly recontract. As far as possible it is desirable that these proceedings should be carried out with soft flexible catheters. They cause less pain and irritation, and there is laot the same risk of making a false passage. When, however, the stricture is very tight and of long standing, it is sometimes impossible to introduce a soft catheter, and then a metallic instrument must be used. Probably the best form is Lister's conical steel bougie, and it should be used with every possible care and gendeness. After the stricture has been dilated by means of these instruments up to a certain point, the further treatment may be conducted with an ordinary soft catheter. On no account what- ever should a patient be entrusted with a metal instrument to pass on himself.