STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONE and elongated with an anterior curvature, and the result is a permanent elongation of the leg. The diagnosis is to be made by the presence of other evidences of inherited syphilis. The treatment must consist in the administration of the ordinary remedies for inherited syphilis, but nothing seems to be of much service in remedying this condition. Syphilitic dactylitis occasionally occurs in children the victims of inherited syphiHs. It consists in a gummatous deposit in the medullary tissue of the metacarpal bones and phalanges of the fingers. It leads to expansion of the bone, and may be mistaken for tuberculous dactylitis, but it usually yields readily to iodide of potassium, and the diagnosis is to be made by the history of the case and the effects of treatment. HYPERTROPHY AND ATROPHY OF BONE Hypertrophy of bone is a term which has been very loosely applied, and is often made to include those instances where an enlargement of bone has taken place as the result of inflammation or structural changes ; but clearly the term hypertrophy of bone should be confined to those cases where the increase in size has been without any alteration in form and structure, and these are very rare. The best and truest illustration of true hypertrophy of bone are those cases where the bone becomes enlarged and stronger, with greater development of its ridges and processes, from excessive muscular action, as in the arm of a blacksmith. But'other examples of hypertrophy are met with. Thus we may have hypertrophy of one of two parallel bones when the other is partially destroyed by disease, or we may have a congenital hypertrophy of the bones of one hmb which from birth is longer than the other. Atrophy of bone is very common, in fact it is the usual accompani- ment of old age; it also occurs from disuse; from any diminution of nutritive supply, as where the nutrient artery of a bone has been torn across ; it is also common in the general paralysis of the insane. The bone becomes light and porous, the cancellous tissue becomes expanded, its meshes disappear, and its red marrow converted into fat; the compact tissue becomes thinned and reduced to a mere shell, so that the whole bone becomes thinner and lighter than natural. This rarefaction of the cancellous tissue and thinning of the compact tissue render the bones very fragile, so that they easily give way and fracture from slight causes. STRUCTURAL DISEASES OF BONE Mollities ossium {osteo-malacia) is a singular and rare affection of bones, characterised by the absorption of the mineral portion, as a result ot which softening takes place, and bending or fracture is liable to occur. Jitiology.—Ihe causes of the disease are obscure. It is much more common in the female than the male, in the proportion of about lo to i, and in the majority of cases occurs in connection with pregnancy, the disease showing itself during this condition. Rheumatism, syphilis, pro- longed lactation, and insufficient animal food have all been regarded as causes of this disease. It may occur at any age from 20 or under to advanced life, but it most commonly shows itself first between the ages of 25 and 35. & I I