I045 CHAPTER XVII INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE VULVA Contusions of the vulva may be caused by falls on any project- ing object or by kicks, or by a direct blow on the part. Owing to the lax and vascular nature of the tissues injured, a large extravasation of blood takes place, which is known by the name of hematoma. They may also be caused by the rupture of a varicose vein, especially during parturition. The vulva becomes enormously swollen, and of a dark purple or black colour, and is hard and firm to the touch. As a rule the blood is absorbed without trouble, but occasionally it may suppurate. The treatment consists in rest, the application of cold lotions or an ice bag; and if swelling persists, or signs of suppuration ensue, an incision should be made, and the contents evacuated; the cavity is then washed out with some antiseptic solution, iodoform sprinkled over it,_ and it is stuffed with gauze. As careful antiseptic precautions as is possible are to be taken. Wounds of the vulva may be produced by falls on pointed objects, by kicks, and frequently by a chamber utensil, on which the patient is seated, breaking. Lacerations may also occur during labour, or from the use of forceps. The wounds are generally lacerated and bleed freely. They must be carefully cleansed with antiseptic lotion, the edges accurately adjusted with sutures, and as strict antiseptic measures as is possible adopted. Rupture of the perineum is an accident which occasionally takes place during labour. It may vary from a slight tear of the fourchette, which is an exceedingly common or almost invariable occurrence in a first labour, and is a matter of very little importance, to a complete rent of the perineum extending into the rectum, and tearing the recto-vaginal septum. When slight, the rupture gives very Httle trouble, but when extensive, from the loss of the support of the perineum, prolapse of the anterior wall of the vagina and the posterior wall of the bladder, or prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina, with the contiguous wall of the rectum, takes place, and with this there may be a certain amount of prolapse of the uterus. And where the sphincter ani is involved, there is added to this_ a loss of control of the ffeces. Under these circumstances the patient's life is rendered a misery to her, from the loss of control over her fceces, and from the feeling that the womb is coming down whenever she assumes the erect position or moves about. In addition to this, there is often irritability of the bladder, with frequent micturition and sexual disability, which adds to the patient's distress.