LACERATION OF THE BRAIN 599 patient survives for some time and then dies, and the brain is examined, a peculiar condition which is known under the name of yelloiv softening will be found in the brain matter around the laceration. This condition is due to a disintegration and liquefaction of the brain substance by means of fatty degeneration from obstruction and arrest of the circulation. The appearance of the parts as now seen is a broken-down mass of blood clot of a black or brownish hue, surrounded by a halo of yellowish pulpy material, which breaks down and is washed away by a stream of water. If a section is made at the margin of this softened part, where the process is going on, and is examined under the microscope, groups of fat granules can be seen aggregating themselves between the nerve fibres ; in a more advanced stage nothing is to be seen but broken-down debris with fat granules and granular cells suspended in the fluid products of softening. Death in cases of laceration of the brain may occur in several ways : (i) from the effects of compression of the brain, i.e. cessation of respira- tion ; (2) from spreading oedema leading to general cerebral pressure and death. The formation of this spreading oedema is explained in the following way. The blood extravasated around the laceration presses on the veins of the pia mater, and thus causes obstruction to the return of Fig. 223.—Contusion and laceration of the cortex of tlie brain. (From tlie Museum of St. George's Hospital.) venous blood. This sets up a passive congestion in an area around the laceration, and the watery constituents of the blood filter through the coats of the capillaries and produce oedema. When this has once commenced, it may progressively increase, since the venous circulation in the oedematous area becomes in its turn interfered with. This goes on until sufficient exudation has taken place to produce fatal compression of the brain ; (3) death may be caused later on in case of laceration of the brain from the effects of yellow softening, especially if the softening ex- tends to vital parts of the brain ; or (4) encephalitis may be set up, which may lead to the formation of a local abscess or to diffuse suppuration. Symptoms.—The symptoms of contusion and laceration of the brain are mixed up with those of concussion; for an injury sufficiently great to cause contusion or laceration of the brain must have been severe enough to produce concussion. In addition to this there is no sharp line of demarcation between concussion and contusion, for in all cases of concussion when the patient is slow in recovering consciousness there has probably been some contusion or it may be laceration of the brain ; and in those severer cases which were described above as cases of cerebral irritation (page 592) there seems no reason to doubt that the peculiar train