VULVITIS 1047 compared with a lid of a box in shape, contracts and forms an irregular semicircle, which only now partially covers the freshened surface, which is somewhat quadrilateral in shape (fig. 395). The vaginal flap is seized with forceps and held forwards, and in the same way the rectal flap is held backwards. Silkworm or silver sutures are now introduced by means of a long needle on a handle. The point of the needle is introduced on the freshened surface directly inside its left edge, and is passed transversely through the tissues and made to emerge at a corresponding point on the opposite side. Four sutures are generally sufficient; of these the anterior one should penetrate the recto-vaginal septum a little beyond the level to which it has been split. The stitches are then tied and the edges of the wound drawn together in such a way that the line of union is antero- posterior. Towards the anus there is a fold which corresponds to the middle of the posterior flap, whilst in the vagina there is a corresponding Fig. 395.—Diagram showing the manner of performing Lawson Tail's operation for ruptured perineum. fold from the puckering up of the anterior flap. Lawson Tait did not advocate the use of any superficial sutures, but many surgeons recommend that a few superficial sutures should be inserted between the cut edges of the skin, where they are brought in apposition by the deep sutures. The rectum and vagina should be washed out daily, and the sutures may be left in situ for a fortnight or three weeks. The bowels should be kept confined for a week. Yulvitis.—The term vulvitis is applied to an inflammation of the lining membrane of the vestibule. In its acute form it is generally due to gonorrhoea, but may arise also from want of cleanliness, especially m unhealthy constitutions ; or may follow upon injury or severe cold. In children it is frequently caused by the irritation of worms, which find their way out of the rectum into these parts. It is characterised by swelling, itching, or smarting pain, especially during micturition or on walking;