553 CYSTS IN AND ABOUT JOINTS comes to a sudden stop when the bands are put on the stretch; but in the extra-articular form there is no free movement, but a general stiffening of the articulation. Treatment.—The treatment of ankylosis must depend partly on its nature and pajtly on the amount of inconvenience it causes. In bony ankylosis, if the bones are ankylosed in a position which is most favourable for the use of the limb, they should not be interfered with as a rule. An ex- ception to this may be made in the case of an ankylosed elbow joint, when, on account of the favourable results which attend excision, this operation may be undertaken with the view of substituting a movable for an immovable articulation. If, however, the position of the ankylosed limb is faulty, operative interference, by osteotomy or removal of wedge-shaped pieces of bone, may be undertaken in order to remedy the deformity and increase the comfort and wellbeing of the patient. In fibrous ankylosis a great deal will depend upon the amount of stiffness present and the strength of the adhe- sions. Where they are very strong, and only the slightest amount of motion is obtainable between the two articular surfaces, the case should be treated as one of bony ankylosis ; that is to say, if the limb is in a good position, no attempt should be made to break down the adhesions, for if it be done they are almost certain to unite. The amount of injury which is done by the operation is so great that passive motion cannot be applied for some time afterwards, and during this time reunion occurs. If, however, anky- losis is in a faulty position, the patient should be placed under an anaes- thetic, the adhesions forcibly broken down by a movement of flexion rather than extension, and the limb restored to a good position. If the adhesions are slighter and there is more freedom of motion, much can be done by constant passive motion, by massage and hot douching, and possibly, in some cases, by forcibly breaking the bands under an anaesthetic. Long patience is required to bring about this result, but with perseverance much may be accomplished by these means. CYSTS IN AND ABOUT JOINTS Not infrequently cysts form in the neighbourhood of joints, connected with the synovial membrane. One variety of this • condition has already been alluded to, where the normal bursse in the neighbourhood of a joint and communicating with it, as the bursa beneath the semi-membranosus in the ham, become dilated and distended with fluid (page 400). But in addition to these there is another class; where pouches of the synovial membrane protrude through, the capsular structures and form cystic swell- ings, sometimes at a considerable distance from the articulation. These are liable to be mistaken for independent cystic tumours, for the .communi- cation with the joint is often so small that pressure on the swelling will not force the fluid back into the joint cavity. The diagnosis of these tumours is not difficult. A soft elastic swelling in the neighbourhood of a joint, of slow growth and without any signs of inflammation, with evidence of some disease in the joint, would sufficiently point to the nature of the case. ^ And in addition to this, in many cases, the tumour will be found to diminish and sometimes entirely disappear on pressure. The treatment is the same as that recommended for bursse in the neighbourhood of joints (page 401).