GENERAL DISEASES 242 The amount of epithelium varies. In warts there are many layers of stratified epithelium, which gives to the growth a hard, horny appearance : and in some cases the cells are pigmented, so as to give to the tumour a brown or black colour : in the rectum, on the other hand, the papillomata are covered with a single layer of cells and are very soft. The principal cause which gives rise to papillomata is irritation : thus they are common on the hands of children from the irritation of dirt ; around the corona glandis of the penis, where the secretion of the glandulae odoriferse is retained in cases of phimosis, or about the vulva of the female from the irritation of leucorrhoea or gonorrhoea. The principal forms of papilloma on the skin are warts and condylo- mata. On the mucous surfaces they occur most frequently in the larynx, rectum, and bladder. They will be described in their appropriate sections. VI. Adenoma.—The adenomata or glandular tumours are those growths which in their minute structure resemble secreting glands, but they differ from them in being unable to produce the secretion of the gland they resemble. They grow always from some form of secreting gland, as the breast, the prostate, the secreting glands of the intestine, &c. As there are two forms of secreting glands, the racemose and the tubular, so we find two forms of adenomatous tumour which are named respectively the racemose and the tubular adeno7?iata, and their structure is that of epithelium, of the same character as that of the gland from which they grow, arranged either in acini or tubules, bound together by connective tissue. A^ery often the amount of connective tissue is out of all proportion to the epithelium ; and then the term fibro-adeJioma is applied to the growth ; and again sometimes the epithelial spaces are greatly enlarged and distended with fluid, and then the term cystic adenoma is applied to them. The racemose adenomata occur most frequently in the mammee and prostate gland. They also occur in the parotid, but here they are generally associated with m}T{oma and chondroma. Cases have been recorded in which they have originated in the sebaceous glands of the skin, the glands of the soft palate, and other situations. They are composed of small sacs or spaces, irregular Fig. 54.—Racemose adenomatous in shape, lined with epithelium and con- tumour. Diagrammatic. nected together by fibrous tissue (fig. 54). The tubular adenomata are principally found in the intestinal canal, especially the rectum, and consist of tubules, resembling the crypts of Lieberkiihn, lined by epithelium. They are often pedunculated. The adenomata are tumours of early life. They do not recur if removed; do not infect neighbouring lymphatic glands; nor give rise to secondary deposits. GROUP III. EMBRYONIC CONNECTIVE TISSUE TUMOURS The tumours belonging to this group are composed of tissue resem- bling embryonic or immature connective tissue, in which cells of various