83 HYDROPHOBIA causes a pain in the pit of the stomach and induces the patient to catch his breath and hiccough. Then all the muscles of respiration and deglutition become involved, the thoracic and abdominal muscles become rigid during the attack, and after a time all the extraordinary muscles of respiration become involved ; but there are intervals of complete relaxation between the spasms. Finally the whole muscular system may become implicated. During the attacks respiration may be entirely suspended for some moments, and when the muscles of the larynx become involved, death may ensue from spasm of the glottis. If the patient attempts to swallow, he will be seen to make a determined and laborious effort to do so : the cup is slowly carried to the lips and the contact of the vessel may be sufficient to induce spasm ; if not, a small quantity of fluid will be taken into the mouth and an attempt made to swallow it. This is immediately followed by an intense spasmodic' contraction of the muscles of deglutition, and the fluid is violently expelled : the spasm passes on to other muscles; the muscles of. respiration contract and respiration is momentarily suspended ; the muscles of the face become rigid, the eyes wild and staring, the nostrils dilated, the lips tense, and the whole countenance presents an expression of a mixture of terror and rage. Finally a violent convulsive seizure affects the whole body. After a time the spasms pass off, only to recur when induced by any external impression. As the disease progresses the spasms become more and more frequent, and at last seem to recur without any exciting cause. Towards the close of the case they may cease altogether, and the patient dies of exhaustion. The condition of the mind of the patient is characteristic of the disease, and early shows itself. It is a mixture of terror and distrust. There is a condition of mental agitation and ill-defined dread of the disease from which he is suffering, and with this there are often hallucinations, the patient fancying himself to be surrounded by spectral forms or horrid beasts, and, combined with these, there is a peculiar suspiciousness. He eyes his attendants with a look of distrust, and watches their every movement with suspicion. Sometimes patients become violent and maniacal, but as a rule they retain a certain amount of reason, and can be controlled by a firm and kind attendant. There is often congestion about the mouth and fauces, and considerable thick tenacious saliva and mucus clings about the lips, and is constantly being ejected by the patient. It should be borne in mind that this material contains the virus, and may be inoculated if it is brought in contact with any abrasion on the hands or other exposed surface of the surgeon or attendant. The temperature is not as a rule much raised, generally fluctuating between 100° F. and normal. The pulse is quick, weak, and often irregular; the respirations shallow and rapid. As the case progresses the strength of the patient fails, a cold, clammy sweat bedews his brow, and he dies generally in from forty-eight hours to four days from the commencement of the acute symptoms ; death, taking place, as we have seen, either from asphyxia, during an attack of spasm ; or from exhaustion, when prior to death there may be a complete cessation of the spasmodic attacks and the mind may become perfectly clear. There are two popular fallacies with regard to hydrophobia, which it is worth while alluding to. The term hydrophobia implies a dread or fear of water, when as a matter of fact no such dread or fear exists ; the patient, as a rule, cannot and will not drink. He cannot drink because any attempt to do so at once excites a reflex spasm of the muscles of deglutition, which prevents his doing so; and he will not drink because he knows that the sufferings