TREATMENT OF FRACTURED THIGH 449 behind. After the foot has been fixed to the splint, and extension made to reduce the displacement, these two ends are fixed over the notch in Desault's splint, or through the holes in Liston's _ sphnt, and thus the perineal band is intended to act as a counter extension. Other plans of extension which have been employed are by means of elastic accumulators adapted in various ways. Mr. Bryant recommends a double long splint, one on either side of the body, the two being connected by crossbars, one over the chest, another below the feet, and states that it is more comfortable, absolutely immobilises the limb, and maintains parallehsm of the two extremities. Extension is made with this splint by an elastic accumulator. The double inclined//a;/^.—This mode of treating fractures of the femur was formerly much in vogue, but has now to a great extent fallen into disuse, though it is still usefully employed in fractures near the hip and knee joints, where there is great deformity. The rationale of this plan of treatment is by flexing the thigh on the pelvis, and the leg on the thigh, to relax the muscles which are principally concerned in bringing about the deformity. There are several different ways in which this may be done. Both limbs may be flexed on a special bedstead known as Earle's bedstead, or a frame- work of wood may be readily constructed, as in fig. 155, or an ordinary Fig. 155.—Double inclined plane, for the treatment of some fractures of the femur. Maclntyre's splint may be bent to the proper angle. But the most con- venient mode of applying the double incline is by the splint of Nathan Smith or of Hodgen. Dr. Nathan Smith's splint consists of a framework of stout wire, bent in such a way that when it is applied to the limb the leg is flexed on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis (fig. 156). The splint is applied to the front of the thigh, leg, and dorsum of the foot, and securely fixed by bandages or strapping, and is then suspended by two hooks, inserted into it, to the ceiling, or a bar fixed over the patient's bed. Hodgen's splint is very similar; but instead of the limb being bandaged to the splint, it is supported on a cotton sacking fixed to the framework. The double inclined plane should be reserved for those cases (i) of fracture of the femur high up, when the upper fragment is tilted forwards, forming a projection under the skin, and is too short to be controlled by the ordinary splints, and (2) fractures of the lower end of the femur, when the lower fragment is flexed on the tibia by the action of the gastro- cnemius, and its upper end projects under the skin in the popliteal space. Another way in which the same end as that desired to be gained by the double inclined plane may be obtained is by laying the limb on its outer side, with the thigh and leg flexed, and fixing it in this position. Some surgeons recommend putting up fractures of the thigh in an immovable apparatus almost from the first, and allowing the patient to get up and go about on crutches, but the ordinary custom is to confine the patient to bed GG