H 1! 2 CIRSOID ANEURISM ANGIOMA By the word angioma we mean a tumour composed of an abnormal formation of blood-vessels and consisting mainly of these structures. When the arterial system is principally or exclusively involved, the disease is spoken of in general terms as a cirsoid aneurism; but when the veins and capillaries are for the most part implicated, the term navus is applied to the tumour. Cirsoid aneurism.—Though the term cirsoid aneurism is applied to those forms of angiomata where the arteries are mainly at fault, there are three different conditions included under this head to which different names have been given. When the disease involves a single artery, which becomes dilated, with pouch-like sacs, and is elongated and tortuous, the term arterial varix is applied from its resemblance to a varicose vein (fig. 117). When a number of small arteries become dilated, elongated, and tortuous, forming a tumour composed of a collection of these vessels packed together, the disease is termed a true cirsoid afieurism. And finally, when there is dilatation of the veins and capillaries of the part, as well as the arteries, so that the tumour is composed of all three classes of vessels, the term aneurism by anasto- tnosis or plexiform angiomata is applied. These three conditions are, however, closely connected together, and in prac- tice are often indistinguishable from each other. The disease is a rare one, and most frequently affects the arteries of the scalp or those of the orbit, but isolated cases have been recorded where it has occurred on the trunk and limbs. In ^^^^ 117..-Arterial varix. (From most of the cases there is the history of ^ drawing in the Museum of some injury, as a blow. They most often St. George's Hospital.) make their appearance in a young adult, though they may occur at any period of life, and occasionally originate in a nasvus. Pathology.—The disease appears to consist principally in an atrophy of the middle coat of the arteries involved, though all the coats of the vessels are thinner than natural, and conjoined with this the arteries become dilated, and assume a varicose condition, being dilated into small sinuses. When occurring on the scalp the skin over them becomes thinned, and the subjacent bone may be absorbed. Symptoms.—They form tumours of varying size and irregular shape, which are soft, compressible, and not distinctly circumscribed. There is a distinct pulsation in the tumour, and a peculiar vibratory thrill. Upon listening with a stethoscope a bruit can be heard, which varies in character, sometimes being loud and harsh, and at others soft and purring in character. Numerous large pulsating vessels can usually be traced into the tumour. When the form of disease is the arterial varix, a single, enlarged tortuous artery may be seen and felt pulsating under the finger. When the