466 INJURIES ANH DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES illness while the necrosed bone is separating, and an operation for its removal when this has taken place. This will be considered when we come to .speak of necrosis. OSTITIS In describing ostitis or inflammation of the substance of bone as a distinct disease, and apart from periostitis, it must be understood that this is merely for convenience of description, since the two diseases almost always except perhaps in their very earliest stages, co-exist, and it is very rare to find the bone substance inflamed without the periosteum and medullary membrane being more or less involved. Etiology.—Injuries of all kinds are among the most common causes of ostitis • fractures, simple or compound, gunshot wounds and amputa- tions, contusions and burns. Sometimes a very slight injury in certain constitutional states may be the exciting cause of a long abiding inflamma- tion of the bone injured. This is especially so in tuberculosis ; the most frequent cause of tuberculous inflammation of a bone is a tnvial injury which is regarded as of little importance at the time. Cold, damp, and malaria are also to be regarded as exciting causes of ostitis, especially in certain specific diatheses, as syphilis, rheumatism, and tuberculosis Pathology.—The changes which take place in inflammation of bone are identical with those that occur in inflammation in other parts, except that the same amount of exudation cannot take place, owing to the density of structure of the tissue in which the inflammation is situated When a bone becomes inflamed there is the same determinatwn ot blood and vascular engorgement as is seen in other structures. Ihis is followed by stasis and an emigration of leucocytes through the walls ot the vessels in the Haversian canals into the connective tissue which lies in these channels. Very soon the canals become filled with leucocytes. If the process is very acute the canals become so choked that the vessels are pressed upon and occluded, and all circulation m the inflamed portion of the bone is arrested, and necrosis results. What generally happens is that the emigrated leucocytes at once begin to attack, absorb, and replace the walls of the bony canals, so as to form large somewhat crescentic, erosions, which are known under the name of HowflPs laamce. By this means the size of the vascular channels is increased and they become irregular in outline, and the whole bone becomes more porous and fighter. If a microscopic examination be made ot a piece oi bone in this condition it will be found that the Haversian canals, instead of presenting a regular outline, are excavated by many hollow spaces, which have been formed at the expense of the osseous tissue around the canal These spaces are filled with cells, some of which are of considerable size and multi-nucleated. They bear a striking resemblance to the giant cells which are found wherever a bone is undergoing absorption. 1 ney are known as osteo-clasts, and their exact origin is uncertain. Around these large multi-nucleated cells are a large number of small round cells, , which are the emigrated leucocytes. r -■ • This process of gradual absorption is known by the name o{ 7a7eJ)ing ostitis, and the inflammatory exudation which takes .P^.^^f ^ 1? tissue thus formed may undergo various changes, which are identical vith those which take place in inflammatory exudation m other P^yts. m favourable cases where the irritation which produced the inflammation ,s