924 INJURIES ANJ) DISEASES OF SJ'ECIAL ORCJANS longitudinal bands of its muscular coat—the further steps of the operation will depend upon whether it is the intention of the surgeon to complete the operation at once and open the gut, or whether he proposes to defer opening the bowel until adhesions have formed. As nowadays the cases in which lumbar colotomy is performed are cases of urgent obstruction, the former of these two procedures is indicated, and this will first be described. The gut is pulled as far out of the wound as possible, packed all round with antiseptic pads ; a small incision is then made, and a Paul's tube tied in. The patient is now turned on to his back and brought to the edge of the table, and the contents of the colon allowed to escape. When the gut has become flaccid and empty, it is attached to the external wound by a few sutures inserted round the tube, and the rest of the wound closed with silkworm gut or silver sutures. Gauze is apphed over the wound around the tube, and an abundant supply of carded oakum or wood wool made to cover the whole, into which the discharge from the tube finds its way. The tube will separate in a few days, but by that time adhesions will have taken place, so that no harm will result from the fccces which will escape from the opening in the gut. If the patient is m a condition to permit of the operation being done in two stages, the plan advocated by Mr. Davies-CoUey should be adopted. After the colon has been found and drawn up into the wound, two harelip pins are passed through the protruding piece of bowel at right angles to the wound; these are allowed to rest on the surface of the body, separated from the skin by a strip of gauze. The pins should be passed at such a distance from each other as to permit of an opening being made in the gut between them. The rest of the wound is then closed and dressed in the ordinary way. On the fourth or fifth day a small crucial opening is made in the colon between the pins. . . 2 The curative treatment of cancer of the rectum consists in excising the lower end of the rectum, with the growth, by an operation which is known under the name of proctectomy. The operation should only be attempted in those cases where it is possible to remove the whole ot the growth.^^^ two ways in which the operation may be performed: (i) through the perineum; and (2) by Kraske's operation or some modifi- cation of it. . ^, •, The operation through the perineum.—The cases in which this operation can be performed are very few indeed. Before the surgeon attempts to remove the lower end of the rectuni through the peri- neum, he should satisfy himself on the following points: («) that the finger introduced into the rectum can reach well beyond the growtn throughout the entire circumference of the bowel; {b) that the growth has not extended outside the coats of the bowel, and that it is freely movable on the bladder and prostate in front, and on the sacrum and coccyx behind: U) that there is no reason to suspect any enlargement ot tne lumbar glands or secondary implication of the liver; (^) that the patient is in fairly good health and has not been worn out by the disease The number of cases suitable for excision by this operation is therefore exceedingly small. • . • i ^^a fh^ The operation is performed as follows: The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and a finger being introduced mto the tectum beyona the growth, a sharp-pointed curved bistoury is inserted along the linger and the point made to enter the mucous membrane on the posterior wall