634 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS drawn downwards three or four times, so as to scrape the posterior wall. l"he finger is then introduced, and the remainder of the growth scraped away with the finger nail, special attention being paid to the orifices of the Eustachian tubes and to the posterior nares. The bleeding is often very profuse, and as soon as the operation is com- pleted the child should be turned over into the prone position, so as to allow the blood to run out of the mouth. The bleeding usually quickly ceases; if not, the pressure of a sponge introduced behind the soft palate will arrest it. The after treatment consists in syringing out the nose and mouth will) a weak antiseptic solution, and keeping the child in the house for two or three days. Injuries and diseases of the cheeks and lips.—Wounds about the cheeks and lips are of common occurrence, but on account of their free vascular supply they unite readily. They present no features of any peculiarity, and the only point which requires especial mention is the treatment. This should be conducted with the greatest care, and the edges of the wounds brought accurately into apposition, so as to prevent scarring as far as possible. After having been thoroughly cleaned and all foreign bodies removed, they should be carefully adjusted and united, if superficial, with horsehair sutures, or, if deeper and involving the whole thickness of the lip or cheek, with fine silver wire. Even if the edges of the wound are considerably contused and lacerated they should be united, for although the edges may slough, the deformity will be less than if the margins of the wound had not been brought together. After the wound has been closed it should be covered with one or two layers of gauze, over which collodion is painted, and the whole covered with a layer of dry wool. It must be borne in mind that the sutures themselves cause marks if left in too long. They should therefore always be removed within forty-eight hours of their insertion. Salivary fistula.—It occasionally happens that in wounds ot the cheek Stenson's duct is laid open or divided across ; in consequence of this the saliva escapes from the opening in the duct and prevents the external wound closing. In this way a salivary fistula may be formed. This con- dition may also arise from the formation of an abscess in connection with the duct, generally caused by an impacted salivary calculus. A salivary fistula, when formed, causes great annoyance and discomfort; as soon as the patient begins to eat, the saliva commences to flow down the cheek, the skin around becomes excoriated, and the orifice of the sinus is usually surrounded by a few small granulations. Treatment.—The cure of this condition is often very difficult. It recent, the opening can sometimes be closed by one or two applications of the Paquelin or electric cautery; but when this fails, the treatment must vary according to whether the distal end of the duct can be found or not. If it can, a very flexible probe or a gum-elastic catheter of the smallest size is to be introduced through the orifice of the duct in the mouth, which is to be found opposite the second upper molar tooth, and carried along the duct until it emerges at the fistulous opening on the cheek. The opening of the proximal end of the duct is now to be sought for, and can be found by noting the exact spot where the saliva flows from. \\ hen found, the end of the probe which has emerged at the fistulous opening is to be bent down and inserted into the orifice, and pushed some little distance up the proximal part of the duct. The probe is now to be with- drawn from the mouth until it lies evenly in the duct, across the wouna ,