- GENERAL INJURIES patient may be perfectly conscious. The temperature is sul^normal • the pulse very rapid and scarcely to be felt; the respirations quick and shallow The tongue and mouth are dry, and great thirst is experienced. Vomidn. often occurs, and mvoluntary passage of the urine and f^ces. There if extreme mental depression and often delirium. In this stage many case prove fatal, great restlessness setting in, followed by stupor, coma, and death At the post-mortem examination nothing is found except congestion of the internal organs, especially the brain, where blood-stained serum may fh. uZ "^''ff'^'S ventricles. _ Dr. Burdun has recently examined the bodies of five children, who died within a few hours of receiving extensive superficial burns. He found swelling of the lymphatic glands throughout the body, and also of the gastro-intestinal lymph tolhcles He considers that the changes seen were very similar to those observed after fatal cases of certain fevers, the main effects of which are ascribed to toxic substances circulating in the blood, and he attributes the death in these cases to toxemia.' Should the patient not die, reaction sets in, in about twenty-four to forty-eight hours. (2) Stage of reaction.—This is accompanied by local inflammation. 1 he parts around the burnt surface become red, swollen and painful and the sloughs begin to decompose, usually with a very offensive odour l^ever now sets m, due to the absorption of the chemical products of putre- taction, and is therefore a true septic traumatic fever. It is proportional to the extent and depth of the burn. The symptoms are those of ordinary traumatic fever, with special symptoms dependent upon inflam-^atory affections of the internal organs. These are obscure at first, especially as a physical examination cannot often be made. There may be inflammation ot the gastro-mtestinal mucous membrane or peritoneum, or of the lungs or pleura, or the kidneys may be affected, denoted by the presence of albumen and sometimes blood in the urine. The brain is not so frequently implicated, even when the burns are on the scalp. Amongst these condi- tions must be mentioned perforating ulcer of the duodenum, which appears to have attracted more attention than its rarity would seem to merit It consists in ulceration of the mucous coat of the bowel, which gives rise to no special symptoms until the ulcer either perforates through the coats of the intestine and sets up a rapidly fatal infective peritonitis, or else perforates into one of the large duodenal vessels, causing death from hemorrhage. Neither of these sequelae necessarily takes place, for cases have been recorded where cicatrices have been found in the duodenum of patients who have been burnt and have died from other causes. Some authors statfe that it is not absolutely limited to tlie duodenum, though certainly this appears to be the most common situation where it is found. The accepted opinion of the pathology of this condition is that the circula- tion in patches of the mucous membrane becomes arrested as the result, partly of a congested condition of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane,' and partly from the presence of a septic poison in the blood, and that these thrombosed patches are digested by the action of the gastric juice. The old idea that the disease began as a congestion of Brunner's glands, which had been called into excessive action by the destruction of the sweat glands of the skin, has been quite discarded. (3) Stage of exhaustion.—The stage of exhaustion usually com- mences about the time the sloughs have separated, usually towards the end ' British Medical Journal, l-'cbruary 5, 1898.