2 79 CHAPTER II INJURIES AND DISEASES OF VESSELS Injuries of Arteries.—The injuries of arteries may be classified in the following manner: (i) Contusion; (2) Subcutaneous laceration, which may be partial or complete; (3) Division, which may also be partial or complete. 1. Contusion.—Little is definitely known about contusion or bruising of the coats of an artery; but cases have been recorded in which after a blow or crush an artery has become slowly and completely occluded by clot. This is believed to be due to some change in the endo- thelium, as the result of the injury, which causes the leucocytes to adhere to the wall of the vessel; they then disintegrate, and setting free the fibrin ferment, the formation of a thrombus is the result. In other cases bruising of an artery may be followed by contraction and permanent diminution in the size of the vessel. Both these conditions may lead to gangrene. The injury is rarely un- complicated, nor can the exact condition of the artery be diagnosed. 2. Subcutaneous Laceration. — The coats of an artery may be torn by a blow, crush, or strain, or by a stab with a blunt instrument, as the horn of a bull, or by a spent bullet, and the tear may involve only the two internal coats of the vessel (partial laceration) or all the coats may be torn (complete laceration). Partial laceration consists in the tearing of the internal and middle coats, while the external coat remains entire. The internal and middle coats of an artery are very brittle, and liable to give way from external violence which is not severe enough to tear the tough external coat. Under these circumstances the two internal coats, being ruptured by a crushing, twisting force, are separated from the external coat to a considerable extent, and, being highly elastic, curl up in the interior of the vessel, and partially or completely occlude it, leaving the external coat of the vessel expcsed (fig. 76). At the injured spot coagulation takes place, and a thrombus is formed, which further occludes the vessel, and gangrene of Fig. 76.—Partial lacera- tion of an artery. A portion of the axillary artery, showing lacera- tion of its two internal coats, which have be- come separated from the external coat and turned inwards into the cavity of the vessel, so as to block it up. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)