OSTEO-MYELITIS of one of the long bones. This is especially severe at night; in fact, during the day the patient may be able to go about his ordinary avocations suffering little or no inconvenience, but as soon as he gets warm in bed the aching, gnawing pain will commence and prevent his sleeping. The pain is also intermittent in character. At times it will disappear altogether for weeks or months, and then reappear without any assignable cause. Upon examining the limb it will generally be found that there is definite tenderness at the spot where the pain is complained of, and firm pressure in this situation may cause an excess of pain, which may last for some hours before it subsides. Sometimes slight enlargement of the bone may be detected, and later on a little dusky red patch may appear at the painful spot. Treatment.—The treatment in these cases consists in making a crucial or T-shaped incision over the painful spot down to the bone and applying a trephine in this situation. The trephine need not be a large one, and should be made without any overhanging shoulder, so that it can pene- trate to any depth. When it is judged that the centre of the bone is reached the trephine must be withdrawn, and a little pus will probably follow. If not, the neighbouring bone should be pierced with a small gouge in every direction, when probably the abscess will be opened. Should, however, no pus be found, the operation will nevertheless prob- ably relieve the patient, as the case will be one of ostitis in which no matter has formed. Some surgeons recommend perforating the bone in the first instance with a drill until the pus is found, and then using the drill as a guide to the abscess. Others recommend opening it with a gouge. After the pus has been evacuated the cavity should be well scraped with a sharp spoon, to get rid of any granulation tissue, flushed and packed with iodoform gauze. 4. Necrosis.—Death or necrosis is another result of ostitis, but as it may also result from osteo-myelitis its description will be deferred until that disease has been considered. OSTEO-MYELITIS Inflammation of the marrow of bone, osteo-myelitis or etidostitis^ resembles in its features inflammation of other soft structures, and may be divided into (i) simple, localised osteo-myeUtis, which may be acute or chronic, and (2) diffuse septic or infective osteo-myelitis. I. Acute simple osteo-myelitis is traumatic in its origin. It is generally the result of an injury to the bone, exposing the medulla, as in compound fracture or amputation; but no doubt it occurs in a minor degree in simple fractures, forming the internal callus. In these latter cases, however, it never runs on to suppuration, the inflammatory products bemg converted into bone. When the medulla is exposed the inflamma- tion may run on to suppuration, and under these circumstances may spread some distance up the bony canal. In amputation it is this form of osteo-myelitis which closes the medullary canal. The treatment consists in keeping the wound, if there is one, aseptic. Chronic simple osteo-myelitis is of little or no clinical im- portance, and indeed is nothing more than a part of general ostitis and periostitis. Thus, in chronic osteo-plastic ostitis the medullary canal becomes narrowed by an inflammatory condition of the marrow, leading to the formation of bony ti.ssue, which may eventually close it.