THE OLD OPERATION 333 arise from the spread of inflammation from the wound, from too much handling of the sac prior to the operation, or from the sudden filling of the sac with soft coagulum. Treatment after ligature.—The limb should be swathed in a thick layer of cotton wool, retained in position by a flannel bandage. It should be raised on pillows, and if the vessel tied is in the lower extremity, the limb should be laid on its outer side with the knee and hip slightly flexed. Hot-water bottles may be placed in the bed, but should not be brought in contact with the limb. The patient must be kept in bed till complete consolidation of the aneurism has taken place. If gangrene threatens, the measures recommended on page 142 must be resorted to, and if, in spite of this, moist gangrene is set up, amputation above the aneurism should at once be performed. If dry gangrene occurs It is proper to wait till a line of demarcation is set up. In cases of secondary hemorrhage the plan of treatment advocated on page 303 must be adopted. In cases of suppuration involving the sac, free incisions should at once be made into it and the clots turned out. In some cases the artery may be tied above and below and the sac excised ; but if the mflammation is widely spread, or the sac of the aneurism large and deeply placed, amputation must be performed. _ Failure to cure the aneurism by the Hunterian operation is of occa- sional occurrence, and is one of the main objections to the operation It may arise from several causes: (i) from too free collateral circulation and Avant of formation of clot in the vessel as well as the sac of the aneurism. This may arise from the collateral vessels being enlarged by previous attempts to cure the aneurism by pressure, either digital or instrumental (see page 327). (2) Failure may arise from the ligature not proving efficient in closing the vessel. This may be due to too rapid absorption of the ligature, to giving way of the knot, or from the first knot slipping before the second is tied, so that the vessel is not entirely occluded Recurrence of pulsation m an aneurism after ligature does not indicate that failure has taken place, and the surgeon when this occurs must simply wait, and it will be found in many cases that it will cease in a few days Where it does not, but rather increases in amount, it is an indication that the operation has failed. Under these circumstances the main artery sliould be compressed, and the limb gently bandaged from the foot upwards This in many cases effects a cure. Should it not do so, the better plan would appear to be to ligature the artery immediately above the sac (Anel's operation), or tie it above and below and excise the sac The old operation, as practised by Antyllus and other older surgeons was an operation of great difficulty and danger, and was rarely performed on account of the fata results which usually ensued from either Lcondary hemorrhage, diffuse inflammation and suppuration, or gangrene The operation consisted in first controlling the circulation throulh ^he limb and then in exposing and opening the sac and turning ouVthe clots which o'r^^^^^ the part of the sac vnicn overlapped it, and tied. 1 he same process was repeated below and el ^o'illTa^Vu'n^IlT-,"'"^ ''''' ^''^ '''' large'wound left 'w"S areW^^^^^^^ quite recent times this operation has'been mrTiLlarIv Td.nte^ °^ traumatic aneurism, for which it is aneuri m ancl k Inl.^ ^^^^^ recommended it in cases of axillary b cL^e^'nf cri. '•PP^''^'" ''^''^ t° the best means of treatment in cases of gluteal aneurism, where the Hunterian operation is scarcely