7IO INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS but it is always safer to examine first witli the finger, and if nothing can be felt a probang should be passed. Even when this is done the foreign body may elude detection, and in many instances skiagraphy steps in and renders important aid in diagnosis. Fig. 271 is a skiagraph of a little bov who'swallowed a halfpenny, which became impacted in the oesophagus, where it remained five days, eluding detection until a skiagraph was taken, which revealed its presence. The early recognition of a foreign body impacted in the oesophagus is of importance, since sooner or later the mvicous mem- brane swells and the muscular coat yields, and thus the foreign body becomes inclosed in a pouch-like dilatation from which it is impossible to dislodge it. Frequently it also causes ulceration; matter forms which may burst into the pleural cavity, or pneu- monia may be set up and cause the child's death. Treatment—The treatment must depend in a great measure on the situation and nature of the foreign body. If it is a coin, the 'coin- catcher' (fig. 272) will be_ found a most useful instrument for its extrac- tion, and the same instrument may often be usefully employed in ex- tracting a plate of false teeth. When the foreign body is small, as a fish bone or pin, it is best removed with an ex- panding probang. (Esophagus forceps are principally useful in removing foreign bodies, such as pieces of bone or plates of false teeth, from the upper part of the oesophagus ; they can seldom be successfully used where the foreign body is situated lower down. Where the impacted body is soft, as a bolus of food, it may be gently pushed down into the stomach, but this plan should never be adopted where the foreign body is hard and irregular. Where these measures are unsuccessful and the foreign body is situated in the upper part of the cesophagus, oesophago- tomy should be performed, and the operation should be done as soon as all other measures have proved futile. If done early it is not a P^J^'^^'l^'H dangerous proceeding, but if left until ulceration and suppuration l->a\e taken place the risks are materially increased. ^.^vinnslv CEsophagotomy.-The patient's neck having been previous!) rendered asepnc, the head is extended and turned to the right side, ana i Fig. 272.—Probang with expanding bristles, and coin-catcher, for removing foreign bodies from the oesophagus. I