LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN 345 times. According to Mr. Jacobson tliese five cases are: Smyth's in 1864 ; Mitchell Banks' in 18S3 ; Lewtas's in 1889 ; Coppinger's in 1893 ; and Symonds' in 1894. The operation should only be done in those cases where the aneurism is so limited that there is reason to believe that the innominate artery is not involved, and any alteration in the shape of the bones or joint over the artery would be a clear indication that this was not so. Prior to the operation the patient should be brought into as satisfactory a condition as possible by preparatory treatment, and before and during the operation the most rigid antiseptic precautions should be observed and continued until the wound is soundly healed. The patient should be slightly turned to the left and propped up with pillows in this position, with the head turned to the same side and the shoulder depressed as much as possible. An incision is made about three inches in length along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and a second of the same length along the inner third of the clavicle, which meets the first at an angle just internal to the sterno-clavicular joint. The skin, platysma, and fasciae are divided in these incisions, and the triangular flap dissected up. The clavicular and sternal origins of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno- hyoid, and sterno-thyroid are now successively divided on a director These muscles should not be divided close to the bone, so as to allow for their more easy suturing afterwards. The carotid sheath is now fairly exposed, after division of a layer of cervical fascia which runs down behind the depressors of the hyoid bone. The surgeon must follow the carotid artery downwards to its origin, keeping his director as close to the anterior surface of the vessel as possible. As soon as the finger is in the thorax, beyond the bifurcation of the innominate, the cleanin<^ of the vessel must be undertaken with the greatest caution, especially''on the outer side where are the innominate vein and the pneumogastric nerve as well as the pleura. By gentle teasing, the vessel may be cleared and the aneuriSTO needle passed from below and to the outer side, upwards and inwards_ This mancEuvre may be facilitated by drawing up the carotid, havmg first tied it and left the ligature long. It is well to be provided with an aneurism needle made of flexible metal, so that its curve can be tTt In cases where the bifurcation is very low, so that the needle cannot be inserted around the artery, it mav be necessary to remove the inner end of the clavicle and, it may be a nortion of the sternum. The needle having been inserted,'it is^hr aded and withdrawn and the knot tied. This must be done ^o as not to lacerate any of the artena wall, but sufficiently tightly to stop the pulsation ^n the sac of the aneurism. Probably the best form of ligature to use is a kangaroo tendon but silk and catgut have been used successfully After h^t T ^TV'^"^ f"^ should be ligatured if th has no already been done. The severed muscles are now to be unked with buned sutures; a drainage tube inserted, and the wouJd closed and dressed. Morphia is generally necessary afte^ the operation as absolute ?o the side' '^'''i '°^' ^he arm shouS be ightly banXed eUt hours. the first fofty- It sfems^™ 1°^ °f subclavian artery.- It seems scarcely nece.ssary to .say much about ligature of the first do^ on al pr^rabiitr^illT'' ""•'°™^>' P^^-^ fatal and'^l? hi probability ^v,ll never prove a successful operation, on account of the