INIURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES considerably into disuse. There are serious objections to their employment. The '.Middlesex plan' consists in applying a square piece of moleskin plaister to the lower part of the thigh, so that the lower border, in which a notch is cut to fit the upper fragment of the patella, shall press upon this piece of bone. India-rubber bands are then attached to the inferior angles of this border, and being put on the stretch are attached to the foot-piece of the splint on which the limb is placed. By their elastic tension they keep the fragments in position. A somewhat similar plan of bringing down and keeping in position the upper fragment by elastic tension.is advocated by Manning. He fixes a piece of webbing to the back of the thigh by means of strips of strapping, which are made to encircle the thigh and are sewn to the webbing, the lowest strip being an inch or two from the patella. The webbing is then passed through a hole in the back splint. Fig. I6o.—Skiagraph of a transverse fracture of the patella united by silver wire. on which the Hmb is placed, about midway between the knee and ankle, and is fixed to the foot-piece by an elastic band. Treatment by operative interference may be considered under two heads : viz. firstly, treatment by exposing the fracture by an incision and wiring the ends together; and secondly, treatment by subcutaneously suturing the fractured bone. The first or open plan of treatment consists in making a vertical or horseshoe-shaped incision over the patella and freely exposing the joint, removing all blood from, its interior and any portions of ligamentous tissue from the fractured surfaces and then wiring them together with a stout silver wire (fig. i6o). One wire is generally sufficient, but if there is any difficulty in obtaining accurate contact two should be used. Holes are first drilled in the bone from the anterior surface to emerge on the fractured surface close to the articular cartilage. Care must be taken in dnllmg these holes that they exactly correspond on the two surfaces, so that when the portions are brought together there shall be no unevenness of the