ENCYSTED HYDROCELE OF THE CORD 1039 retained or malplaced testicle, enlarged prostate, and, perhaps, more rarely for old syphilitic disease of the organs, and after some injuries. The operation is a simple one. The parts having been shaved and rendered aseptic, the scrotum is seized from behind with the left hand, so as to render the skin tense, and an incision is made from _ the external abdominal ring to the bottom of the scrotum. If the testicle is adherent to the skin, or there is any suppurating sinus, two semilunar incisions should be made, including this part. At the upper end of the incision the cord must be exposed and isolated, and if it is healthy an aneurism needle should be passed through it, armed with a stout silk ligature, and the cord tied in two halves, and divided below the ligature. If the cord is not healthy at the external ring it must be followed up the inguinal canal, tied, and divided as high as possible. After the cord has been divided, the testicle is easily shelled out of the scrotum by the finger, assisted by a touch or two of the knife. After all hemorrhage has been arrested, the wound is closed with horsehair sutures, a drainage tube being inserted at its most dependent part for twenty-four or fourty-eight hours. Care must be taken in the after treatment to prevent the dressings being soiled by the urine. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPERMATIC CORD Acute inflammation of the cord.—Inflammation of the cord may be the result of injury, or may commence in the vas deferens as an extension of gonorrhoea from the urethra, and spread to the other constituents of the cord. It is characterised by a rapid, painful swelling, and when abscess forms, the skin over it becomes red and oedematous, and fluctuation is perceived. The treatment consists in the application of hot fomentations and incisions as soon as suppuration has taken place. Chronic inflammation is usually tuberculous, secondary to a similar condition of the testicle. The vas deferens becomes enlarged and nodular, and then one or more of the nodules undergoes caseation, and a rounded swelling is formed in the substance of the cord, which slowly softens into a fluctuating swelling, and after a time bursts and discharges curdy pus. The treatment must vary according to the condition of the testicle. If a caseating or discharging focus exists in the testicle, this organ and the vas deferens, to as great an extent as possible, should be removed. The inguinal canal should be opened to its fullest extent, and it may be even considered desirable to open the abdomen and trace the vas backwards to the base of the bladder. If the testicle is in a quiescent condition, it may be worth while to attempt first, by scraping the suppurating focus, to get rid of the disease. This operation can be rarely satisfactory, for it must be remembered that the function of the testicle will be destroyed by the obliteration of its duct. Hydrocele of the cord is an effusion of serous fluid into the cord, usually enclosed in a distinct cyst, when it is known as encysted hydrocele of the cord, or possibly diffused among the cellular tissues of the cord; this is diffuse hydrocele of the cord. Encysted hydrocele of the cord.—The cyst in these cases may be formed in two ways: {a) Where a small portion of the funicular process of peritoneum remains unobliterated, a little cavity is formed, and in this serous fluid accumulates, and so the encysted hydrocele is formed. In some cases the obliteration is very imperfect, the funicular process