SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS DISLOCATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY Of the sterno-clavicular joint.—The clavicle may be dis- located from the sternum in three different directions : forwards, backwards, and upwards. The cause of these dislocations is nearly always violence applied to the acromial end of the bone ; and the variety of the displacement depends upon the direction in which the force is applied, and in which therefore the bone is driven. But in cases of injury to the acromial end of the clavicle the bone generally gives way and fracture occurs; and therefore, owing to this and to the great strength of the ligaments which bind the clavicle to the sternum, dislocation at this joint is very rare. Dislocation forwards.—This is the most comnion form of dislocation at the sterno-clavicular joint, and occurs in those cases where the violence is applied rather to the front of the acromial end of the bone. The end of the bone is displaced forwards, inwards, and a little downwards, and rests on the front of the manubrium. The signs of the injury are very characteristic : the end of the bone can be felt as a rounded boss on the front of the sternum ; there is approximation of the shoulder to the middle line of the body, and great pain on movement. The only injury for which it may be mistaken is fracture of the sternal end of the clavicle ; but the absence of crepitus, and the rounded outline of the end of the bone, sufficiently indicate the nature of the lesion. Treatment.—The dislocation can usually be easily reduced by placing the knee in the middle of the patient's back, betweeii the two scapulse, and drawing the shoulders forcibly backwards. After reduction, the end of the bone is very liable to slip out of place again, owing to the shape and different sizes of the two articular surfaces. To prevent this a figure-of-8 bandage should be applied over the two shoulders, crossing in the middle of the back ; a large pad should be placed in the axilla, and the arm bound to the side. For some time after the injury the patient should wear a truss, with the pad over the joint, so as to prevent a recurrence. Dislocation backwards is caused by violence being applied to the back of the shoulder, so that it is driven forwards and .inwards. It is said also to occur sometimes from direct blows on the sternal end of the bone. The articular end of the bone is displaced backwards and inwards and generally a little downwards, so that it rests behind the first piece of the sternum. Signs.—There is a well-marked depression where the articular end of the bone ought to be. The shoulder is thrown forwards and approxi- mated to the mesial Hne, and the head is incHned to the injured side. There may be dyspnoea from pressure on the trachea; dysphagia from pressure on the cesophagus; and congestion of the head and face, and perhaps even semi-coma, from pressure on the large veins at the root of the neck. Treatment.—The dislocation can usually be reduced by the same method which was recommended in the dislocation forwards; but a similar difficulty will be experienced in keeping the end of the bone in its place. To attain this object, a large pad or "cushion should be placed between the shoulders, and they should be bandaged backwards over it by a figure-of-8 bandage. In cases where the bone cannot be kept in its place, and symptoms of dyspncea, dysphagia, &c., are constantly recurring, It becomes necessary to excise the end of the clavicle.