494 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES access to the joint after its infliction, acute infective arthritis is set up, which unless vigorously treated may result in the loss of the limb or the life of the patient. Pathology.—In favourable cases—that is to say, in aseptic cases—beyond a little transient effusion, which is soon absorbed, there is nothing to note. The wound heals by first intention, and the movements of the joint are soon restored. But if any septic material has been introduced, the joint speedily becomes filled with fluid, which is turbid in character and consists of synovia mixed with the products of inflammation, and presents, on microscopic examination, micro-organisms. The synovial membrane becomes intensely injected, soon loses its natural lustre, and in the course of a few days is converted into granulation tissue. The fluid in the joint, at first turbid, becomes thicker and thicker, flakes of lymph will be found floating in it, and it soon presents all the characters of pus. The ligaments become involved, and are swollen and softened. The cartilages lose their natural lustrous appearance and become opaque and yellow and then eroded, and the articular ends of the bones become exposed and superficially ulcerated. The inflammation extends to the structures outside the joint, which become infiltrated with inflarnmatory products. Eventually the whole of the structures of the joint—the synovial membrane, the ligaments, the cartilages, and the articular lamella of bone—become destroyed and replaced by granulation tissue, and the cavity of the joint filled with pus. If the patient's strength has survived this protracted destruction, the pus having found its way to the surface and been discharged, a reparative process sets in. The superficial part of the granulation tissue which now Unes the cavity, which was once the joint, perishes and disintegrates from malnutrition ; while the deeper layers, being nearer the blood supply, undergo developmental processes and become converted into first fibrous tissue, and then, where it is situated between the opposing osseous surfaces, into bone, so that_ a complete synostosis takes place ; the granulation tissue around the site of the joint forming a dense fibrous cicatrix. Symptoms.—If the wound is large, so that the articular surfaces are exposed and can be seen, there is no difficulty in arriving at a conclusion as to whether a joint has been opened or not. But when the wound is a small punctured one, the exact nature of the injury is not so evident, especially if the wound is situated some little distance from the joint and is obhque in direction. The presence of a drop of synovia exuding from the wound is an indication, when present, that the joint has been opened. An exact history of the manner in which the accident happened, the position of the patient and the instrument at the moment of infliction, and the length of the instrument, will be some guide to the surgeon in coming to a conclusion. On no account should the wound be probed; for if it is it may have the efi"ect of completing the perforation into the articular cavity which did not, perchance, previously exist. If the injury has been inflicted by a presumably aseptic instrument, the skin arouna should be cleansed and the wound treated antiseptically, and the result waited for. If the instrument is known to be septic, it is wiser to en arge the wound, ascertain by ocular demonstration whether the joint has been opened, and proceed accordingly. If in the case of a wound of a joint acute septic arthritis is set up, within a few hours the joint beco es greatly swollen and severe lancinating pain is experienced. _ Ihe s\vc-um„ at first assumes the shape of the synovial sac, but after a time the tissut.