650 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS being done thoroughly, and no fear need be felt about the wounds not healing, as they always appear to do so. Two other methods of operating in a cleft of both iiard and soft palate have been introduced, but as far as I am aware they are not often practised, and it is scarcely necessary therefore to describe them. (i) Fergusson's plan consists in dividing the bone of the palate longitudinally with a chisel and prising it inwards until it reaches the middle line, where it is united by sutures to the bone of the opposite side, similarly displaced. (2) Davies-Colley's plan consists in transplanting a flap of muco-periosteum across from one side to the other. It is recommended in cases where the cleft is too wide to be united by the ordinary method, or in those where this method has failed. In those cases where the cleft is confined to the soft_ palate, the operation consists in performing staphylorraphy alone. This comprises paring the edges, uniting them by horsehair sutures, and making lateral incisions to relieve tension, in the manner described in the complete operation. The after treatment must be conducted with care. No food should be given until all vomiting has ceased, and then nothing but milk, and later on beef tea which has been strained. No bread or solid food of any sort should be given, as crumbs are very likely to become lodged in the wound. The child is to be kept as quiet as possible, and prevented from crying, or if old enough from talking. The mouth should be washed out after each meal with weak Condy or Sanitas if the child is old enough to do so. No inspection of the wound should be made for a week, as the effect of open- ing the mouth wide is to put a strain on the sutures. The stitches should not be removed for ten days or a fortnight. Eesults.—The result of the operation for cleft palate, as far as articu- lation is concerned, is not in some cases so favourable as could be wished, while in others it is most satisfactory. This is mainly due to the amount of stretching to which the soft palate has to be subjected in order to bnng the cleft surfaces together. In some cases, where the segments of the palate are almost vertical and the arch of the palate very high, when the muco-periosteum is separated, the flaps fall considerably and meet easily in the middle line; under these circumstances the soft palate is flexible, and can be easily drawn up so as to close the posterior nares; under these conditions the nasal intonation is entirely, or almost entirely, lost. In those cases, however, where the segments of the palate are more or less horizontal, when the soft parts are separated from the bones and brought together, they are tightly stretched, and under these circumstances the velum cannot be raised to shut off the posterior nares, and the nasal intonation still persists. In spite of this, the patient derives considerable comfort and advantage, in other respects, from the operation the food no longer has a tendency to find its way into the nasal cavities, and the senses of taste and smell are much improved. After the operation for cleft palate a great deal may be done to uu- prove the intonation by careful and systematic training. Immediately after the operation it will be found that there is litde or no improve- ment in the voice, and it is only gradually and by careful training that the child can be taught to enunciate its words distinctly. Stomatitis, or inflammation of the mucous membrane of the moutti, is a common affection, and occurs under several different forms. Simple stomatitis may arise from many different causes, such as