78o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS stabs with some sharp-pointed instrument, as a knife, sword, or bayonet. They may be non-penetrating or penetrating. The former are not of much importance, and must be treated as similar wounds in other parts of the body. Penetrating wounds of the chest wall, when uncomplicated, are wounds in which the pleura costalis has been perforated without wound of the pleura pulmonalis or lung. They are of very rare occurrence, since a wound which has divided the parietal layer of the pleura, in most instances, injures the lung also; but they do occur, and are believed to be due to the fact that the injury was caused by a blunt weapon, which pushes the lung before it. They may also occur in those cases where the pleural sac is opened below the level of the lung. That penetration has taken place is usually evident by the fact that air can be heard bubbling into and out of the chest (traumatopnea); or blood may be expelled with each forcible expiration or during coughing; or the lung may protrude through the wound. But these signs may be absent, and then the con- dition of things can be ascertained by the careful introduction of an aseptic finger, which is less likely to do harm than a probe. The signs that penetration of the chest wall has taken place without wound of the lung, are moderate emphysema about the wound, produced by air being sucked into the wound during inspiration; and failing to escape during expiration, through the lips of the wound falling together, it is driven into the subcutaneous tissues ; traumatopnea, or escape of air from the wound, sometimes with a whistling noise ; and pneumothorax, from air being sucked through the wound into the pleura and being unable to escape. There is no haemoptysis or hsemothorax, as com- monly occurs when the lung is injured. The injury is followed by subsequent pleurisy. This may be simply local, set up by the injury, but as the entrance of septic organisms with the air passing into the wound is possible, it is very often infective in its character. Treatment.—It is scarcely necessary to discuss the treatrnent indepen- dently of punctured wounds where the lung is injured, as it is the same. It mainly resolves itself into strict attention to asepsis. Complications.—A penetrating wound of the chest may be complicated with (i) wound of one of the intercostal or internal mammary vessels; (2) injury to the diaphragm; or (3) hernia of the lung. I. Wound of the intercostal vessels is not common in punctured wounds of the chest, as they are protected by the overhanging inferior border of the ribs. Wound of the internal mammary vessels is more likely to occur in cases of punctured wounds of the front of the chest. There is sometimes considerable difficulty in ascertaining in cases ot hemorrhage from a wound of the chest whether the blood comes from a wounded vessel in the parietes or from a wound of the lung; for if the open- ing is at all valvular the blood does not escape, when a parietal artery is wounded, with a jet, but is spirted out with each expiration and cough, as it would be in wounds of the lung. Moreover, it is mixed with air, which is sucked in from without. The diagnosis can usually be made by 1."^';°'^?; ing the finger into the wound and making pressure against the nb in tn course of the vessel. This will arrest the bleeding if a parietal vessel is injured, but will have no effect on haemorrhage from the lung. Moreove , in those cases where the lung is uninjured there will be no hfemoptysis- Treatment.—The best treatment is to expose the bleeding ^'f s*^'.^"^ j it. This is sometimes difficult, especially in the case of the mter