ro28 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Fig. 391.—Encysted hydrocele. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) is usually I'ound in connection with the globus major of the epididymis, growing out from among the vasa efferentia. Tlie cyst is usually single, and rarely attains a larger size than a walnut. It consists of a thin wall of connective tissue, often with .some mus- cular fibre, and lined by columnar cells. Its contents consist of a limpid opalescent or milky fluid, containing only a small quantity of albumen, and being of a lower specific gravity than ordinary hydrocele fluid. Upon microscopic examination it is found to contain spermatozoa, and the opalescence of the fluid is no- doubt due to the presence of these bodies. Many causes have been assigned as the origin of these cysts. They have been regarded as due to (d) dilatation of the seminal tubes ; (b) rupture of one or more seminal tubes, and the formation of an adventi tious cyst j (c) a primary cystic formation in the connective tissue, and the sub- sequent rupture into it of a seminal tube ; (d) embryonic remains undergoing cystic formation in after life. Of these, the ducts of Kobelt, remnants of the tubes of the Wolfifian body, are the most probable source ; but the hydatid of Morgagni, the organ of Giraldes, and the vas aberrans of Haller have all been stated to be the seat of this cystic formation. Symptoms.—The symptoms consist in a slowly growing, painless swelling, which is tense and elastic in consistency; does not envelop, the testicle ; and is situated below and in front of the swelling. It is usually smooth and globular in outline, and the sac wall is thin and the tumour translucent. It has been mistaken for a supernumerary testicle, which it sometimes resembles, but it has no testicular sensation, and the translucency can generally be made out. The treatment consists in the first instance in tapping the hydrocele and drawing off the fluid, and very often this is all that is necessary. If this fail, incision or even excision may be practised, for these cysts can usually be isolated without difficulty. As a rule, the disease occasions so little discomfort that patients are unwilUng to submit to these operations, and the necessary confinement which they entail; nor, indeed, is it necessary^ to insist upon their performance. d. Encysted hydrocele of the body of the testicle — This is a condition of absolutely no importance. It is merely a little serous cyst, formed in the connective tissue between the tunica albuginea and the tunica vaginalis, generally on the anterior surface of the testicle. It rarely attains any size, gives rise to no inconvenience, and as a rule requires no treatment. r n • r 6. Hydrocele of a hernial sac—Another form of collection ot fluid in the neighbourhood of the testicle is a hydrocele of a hernia sac, where an inguinal hernia has previously existed, but has been cured by its communication with the peritoneal cavity having been closed, but where the sac of the hernia still remains, in which fluid collects. The fluid con-