I040 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS being pnly obliterated at its two ends (see page 883). Then the cystic tumour is much greater, and forms a sausage-shaped swelling, which distends the inguinal canal, and projects into the scrotum. This condition is, how- ever, very rare. The cyst may result from the formation of an inde- pendent cyst in the cellular tissue of the cord, from a distension of one of its cyst spaces. The disease is commonest in boys about the age of puberty, or in young adults. Symptoms.—The unobliterated portion of the funicular process is generally situated in the upper part of the scrotum, just below the external abdominal ring, and in this situation will be found a small, round, tense swelling, which has often the consistence and feel of a testicle, and has sometimes been mistaken for a third gland. It is separable from the testicle below, and generally from the external ring above, or it may extend through it into.the inguinal canal. It is then somewhat difificult to diagnose it from a hernia, as it is reducible, and can be pushed backwards into the abdominal cavity. The diagnosis may be made by observing the behaviour of the testicle when the swelling is reduced. It will be noticed to ascend in the scrotum, whereas in the reduction of a hernia the testicle remains stationary. The encysted hydrocele is, moreover, dull on percussion, has no impulse on coughing, and is not reduced with a gurgle, but is pushed bodily back into the abdomen. Occasionally its translucency may be detected. Treatment.—In very young children the application of a discutient lotion (chloride of ammonia) will effect a cure. In older boys tapping has sometimes succeeded, but is very uncertain; and tapping with the injection of iodine is not always safe. The best treatment is to dissect out the cyst, care being taken not to injure the other constituents of the cord. Diffused hydrocele of the cord.—This condition was de- scribed by Pott. It is very rare, and would appear to "be merely a dropsy of the cellular tissue of the cord. Hsematocele of the cord is a very rare disease and scarcely requires mention. It appears usually to arise from the rupture of a varicose spermatic vein from some severe strain or blow. Blood is extravasated into the constituents of the cord, and forms a swelling along the inguinal canal into the upper part of the scrotum. The blood may become encysted and remain for years. The treatment consists, iii the early stage, in rest and applying evaporating lotions, and, if the blood is not absorbed, in an antiseptic incision. Varicocele, as it name implies, consists of a varicose condition of the pampiniform plexus of veins. It is an affection of puberty and eirly manhood, rarely appearing after the age of thirty-five, and is much more common on the left side than on the right; varicocele of the right side alone being almost unknown. Pathology.—The veins become enlarged, elongated, and tortuous ; their coats are for the most part thickened, but places are sometimes to be seen where the walls are thinner than normal. The varicosity rarely affects the veins in the inguinal canal, but is mainly confined to the scrotal portion of the vessels, where they He unsupported in a loose connective tissue. Causes.—The theories which have been assigned as the cause of varico- cele are very numerous. By some the cause is believed to be a con- genital abnormality or malformation in the spermatic veins ; by others, an over-development of the veins ; while others again have considered that they are caused by various anatomical conditions, such as : (i) theu' want