1152 AMPUTATIONS made across the dorsum of tlie foot, from the tul^erosity of tlie fifth metatarsi bone tp the joint between the first metatarsal and the internal cuneiform bS tha IS, an mch in front of the tuberosity of the navicular. The incision should be slightly rounded u'lth its convexity forwards. The plantar flap is now formed by an incision starting from one extremity of the dorsal incision and runn n . along the border of the foot to the head of the metatarsal bone, tlien oblique v across the heads of the metatarsal bones, so that the flap shall be a little lonS at Its inner than its outer border, and along the other side of the foot to the extremity of the dorsal cut. The flap is then dissected up as thickly as possible Disarticulation is now proceeded with. The surgeon, grasping the anterior pan of the foot firmly in his left hand, introduces his knife close behind the tube rosity of the fifth metatarsal bone and opens the joint between the base of this bone and the cuboid by cutting obliquely forwards and inwards, as if he were aiming to cut through the head of the first metatarsal bone ; he then inclines us knife a little more inwards, as if aiming for the middle of the first metatarsal Ijone, and severs the connections between the fourth metatarsal and the cuboid and external cuneiform bones. Turning his knife so as to cut transversely inwards he divides the ligaments between the third metatarsal bone and the external cuneiform. He now withdraws his knife and attacks the joints from the inner side of the foot, dividing the ligaments which connect the first metatarsal bone to the internal cuneiform. The articulations of the second metatarsal bone now a one require to be dealt with. The fore part of the foot is forcibly depressed and the point of the knife is inserted on the dorsum of the foot into the joint between the second metatarsal bone and the middle cuneiform. This will be found half an mch behind the level of the internal cuneiform. The joint is thus opened, a touch or two of the knife will divide the remaining connec- tions, and the operation will be completed. Hey performed a somewhat similar operation to Lisfranc, but disarticulated through the four outer metatarso-tarsal joints, and sawed ofif the projecting portion of the internal cuneiform. Skey also modified the operation by dis- articulating the three outer and the inner joint, and sawing through the second metatarsal bone on a level with the other articulations. Amputation of the great toe (fig. 440), including its metatarsal bone, IS best removed by the ' racquet-shaped incision.' The incision is commenced on the inner side of the dorsum of the foot, half an inch behind the tarso-meta- tarsal articulation, and is carried along the dorsal aspect of the bone to the level of the web between the first and second toes ; it is then continued round the great toe in a circular manner, so that it passes through the point where the web joins the toe on its outer side. The soft parts are to be separated from . the bone on its upper, inner, and ^■^^l^ ... ■ y under surfaces, keeping close to the bone. On the under surface, ^—y<^l^-/ "'"' ,. • care must be taken not to leave ( /!^--''''^>'''• • • '^''''^Ss^ ' sesamoid bones in the flap. { C. \y--^;i^ ]^ The head of the bone is to be '^^^^^^-^ ' —""^ seized with a pair of lion forceps, and the knife being inserted round Fig. 440.—Amputation of the big toe its outer side, the tissues on this at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. surface are carefully separated from the bone until the tarsal end is reached. By now forcibly pulling the bone inwards, the ligaments of the tarso-metatarsal joint are put on the stretch, and a touch or two of the knife completes the amputation. Amputation of the great toe through the metatarso-phalangeal joint is an operation which is much more frequently required than the pre- ceding. It is usually performed by the racquet-shaped incision, and the opera- tion of Faraboeuf gives the best results (fig. 440). An incision is commenced over the head of the metatarsal bone, on the inner side of the extensor longus hallucis