582 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS to the fingers, and after a time emphysematous crackHng may be felt. The swellin^f may extend on to the face, the eyelids becoming tfidematous and closed.lind the nose swollen. The condition is accompanied by severe con- stitutional symptoms, which rapidly assume an asthenic type, and muttermg delirium sets in with great depression of the vital powers. The inflamma- tion of the cellular tissue terminates in sloughing, and through openings m the skin, made either by the surgeon's knife or by ulceration of this struc- ture masses of sloughing tissue are thrown off. The treatment of this condition consists in giving free exit to the effused material. In quite the early sta"-e, when the wound is first noticed to be swollen and painful, any sutures which may have been inserted should be removed, and the wound freely opened up with a probe and a hot boracic fomentation applied. If this is done at the onset, the disease will probably be arrested ; but if the swellin'^ spreads, free incisions must be made in the scalp down to the bone to allow of the escape of matter and sloughs. Hot boracic fomen- tations should be constantly apphed, and the patient's strength supported by good nutritious food, stimulants and tonics. In the third variety of scalp wound, where the pericranium is injured and the bone exposed, there is often more or less bruising and injury to the bone itself, which may lead to serious complications, though in many cases these injuries are recovered from without any evil consequences. (1) When the pericranium has been extensively stripped off the bone, the blood supply to this structure is partially cut off and the external table of the skull, which receives its supply mainly from the pericranium, may necrose and exfoliate, but this is not necessarily the case. Iri many instances where a large surface of bone is exposed and becomes dry and white, after a time little vascular spots will appear upon it by extension ot vessels from the deeper parts into it, and its vitahty will be preserved. (2) Another complication which may occur m those cases ot scalp wound where the bone is injured, is a chronic ostitis. This may go on to sclerosis and great thickening of the skull. The patient apparently recovers from his injury and the wound heals, but he soon begms to sutler from a gnawing, aching pain in his head, which is worse at night and prevents sleep. This may go on for months, and as the bone becomes thickened symptoms of brain irritation appear, often showing themselves in the form of epileptic seizures. , , , Ur.v,^ (-i) If suppuration occurs in the wound of the scalp, where the bone has been injured, the septic inflammation may spread through the bruised bone to the veins of the diploe, and a septic osteo-phlebitis is set up, which will almost immediately terminate in pycemia. This condition, wnicn formerly was of common occurrence, is now happily very rare, owing to the more rigid cleanliness which is observed in the treatment ot wounds. The symptoms in these cases are recurrent rigors, with an irregular temperature, sweating, quick and feeble pulse, followed by chest or abdominal symptoms or swelling of the joints. After death, the diploe is found to be bathed in pus, with septic thrombi in the sinuses of the skull, and secondary abscesses in the lungs or other viscera. _ , -^^ (4) Another comphcation which-may arise in these cases is an extension of the inflammation through the bone to the membranes or substa"c^ ot the brain, and as a result intra-cranial suppuration. ^ ^e suppmation n these cases may be, and generally is, either deepl)^ seated f ;\hue matter of the Convolutions or on the surface of the bram in the sub arachnoid space, and these cases will be considered later on. But in lare