EPIPHYSITIS 473 bone, in which suppuration has taken place, the patient has a rigor with deep-seated pain in the part, and an unhealthy and infiltrated condition of the soft parts. If the case is one of amputation, the end of the bone will be seen to be denuded of periosteum, and a fungous mass projecting from the cut surface of the bone. Accompanying this will be symptoms of high fever, repeated rigors, profound constitutional disturbance, and delirium. Unless active measures are at once undertaken, the patient will rapidly succumb to p3'cemia. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition must be energetic and undertaken at once. It consists in laying the wound freely open, and exposing the medullary canal. All the inflamed marrow must be scraped away with a sharp spoon as high as can be reached. The cavity is then to be flushed out with a strong solution of corrosive sublimate (i in I,coo), and a drainage tube inserted for a few days. If there is any doubt about the whole of the medullary tissue not having been removed, it is a wise precaution to swab out the cavity with pure carbolic acid or solution of chloride of zinc (gr. xl to ^i). All the soft parts around must be carefully disinfected. If this plan of treatment succeeds, it will be followed by a subsidence of the general symptoms; should this not occur, amputation through the joint above the bone implicated must be under- taken as a last resource. 2. In cases where acute septic osteo-myelitis occurs from infection from within, the virus is believed to be carried to the affected bone by the blood. It runs the same course as diffuse septic periostitis, and speedily results in a panostitis or septic inflammation of the whole of the structures of the bone, and terminates in complete necrosis, should the patient survive. The disease is characterised by great constitutional disturbance, a high temperature, rigors, and early delirium, and combined with this acute deep-seated pain in the bone. In these cases the only treatment is to remove the infecting focus, and this can scarcely be done except by amputation. The whole of the bone implicated must, in most cases, be removed ; but inasmuch as in cases of infective osteo-myelitis of the femur amputation at the hip joint would probably prove fatal, amputation should be performed high up in the thigh, and the medullary tissue scraped away from the stump of the bone, and the cavity disinfected. EPIPHYSITIS Epiphysitis is the name given to an infective disease of the ends of the long bones, in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage, which more often affects the growing end of the shaft than the epiphysis itself. It may occur as an acute, subacute, and chronic condition. Acute epiphysitis is a disease almost entirely confined to infants under twelve months of age, and is an infective condition, similar in nature and origin to the diffuse septic periostitis and osteo-myelitis which have already been described, and is due to the invasion of the part with pyogenic cocci. _ The mode of origin of the infection is not always clear. In quite young infants it may be due to changes during the separation' of the cord, but in a large number of the cases there is the history of some slight injury or strain. It affects most frequently the upper end of the humerus or one or other_ extremity of the femur. The inflammation rapidly runs on to suppuration, and the epiphysis becomes separated from the shaft of the