ii8 GENERAL DISEASES which went on discharging for a long time until hectic fe\"er was set up, and this was followed by lardaceous disease of the viscera and the death of the patient. All this has now been materially altered by the careful aseptic treatment of these cases, and these conditions are rarely met with. It is important to bear in mind, in considering the treatment of chronic abscesses, that it is not sufficient to evacuate their contents in order to get rid of the whole of the disease. As I have already pointed out, the so-called pus is caseated tuberculous material; but the whole of the tuberculous material is not liquefied, and the wall of the cavity is lined by a layer of the same matter, and our aim should be to get rid of this also. The best way of doing this, but one which can only be carried out in some cases, is to regard the swelling as a tumour, and treat it as such by dissecting it out. We have seen that outside the caseating tubercle there is a zone of newly formed fibroid material which forms a sort of capsule, which is sometimes so defined that the swelling can be dis.sected out like a cyst. In those cases, therefore, where it is anatomically possible to carry out this treatment, this is the plan which should be adopted; and there are a considerable number of cases in which it can be done, as in subcutaneous tuberculous abscesses of children ; abscesses connected with caseating tubercle of glands; abscesses connected with superficial bones, as the ribs or metacarpal bones, &c. In the latter cases where it is con- nected with bone, the portion of bone implicated must be removed as well. There are very many cases of chronic abscess which cannot be treated in this way. _ Take, for example, a psoas abscess, in which it would be im- possible to dissect out the whole sac. Under these circumstances other means must be resorted to ; always having the same end in view, namely, to get rid of the tuberculous material which lines the sac. And there are two plans of proceeding, both based on the same principles, which may be resorted to in these cases ; one or other being employed according to the nature of the case. If the abscess is in some exposed part of the body and can be reached freely in its entire extent—such an abscess, let us say, as is connected with one of the bones of an extremity—it should be incised from end to end, so as thoroughly to expose it. The whole of the interior of the sac should be snipped away with scissors, or, where this cannot be done, diligently scraped with a sharp spoon, until every trace of tuberculous material is removed. In doing this;, especial attention must be paid to the exposed bony surface, if there is one, and this must be scraped away until hard, healthy bone is reached. When the whole cavity has thus been thoroughly cleansed, it should be sluiced with a weak solution of corrosive sublimate to wash away all debris; dried; dusted over with iodoform and packed with iodoform or cyanide gauze. The packing may be left in for several days, and when removed a fresh packing should be introduced. Soon granulations will spring up over the surface of the sac, and the cavity fill up and heal in a very short time. The whole essence of this proceeding is in the free ex- posure of the interior of the sac; no part should be left which cannot thoroughly be explored by the surgeon, and all trace of diseased tissue removed. In many cases it must happen that this plan of treatment cannot be carried out. In a case of psoas abscess, for instance, it is impossible to lay open and explore the whole of the sac ; then less efficient means must be resorted to. An opening into the abscess should be made sufficiently large