626 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS congestion ; or it may occur in the cachectic or anaemic, or in those suffer- ing from Bright's disease, pernicious anaemia, leucocythemia, i<cc. It also occurs in patients suffering from purpura and scurvy. In the.se cases it may prove fatal from repeated recurrences. Treatment.—The treatment of epistaxis must depend upon the cause. In the epistaxis of children the bleeding may generally be arrested by placing the child in the recumbent position and raising the arms above the head ; the usual position of bending the head over a basin has a tendency to increase the haemorrhage. At the same time the nostrils may be pinched between the finger and thumb until clotting of the blood in the vessels has taken place. A recurrence must be prevented by regulating the diet, enjoining more exercise, and administering purges. In haemorrhage from the nose in full-blooded, plethoric individuals the bleeding .should not be too suddenly checked, as it may be the means of averting graver mischief by relieving the cerebral congestion. But in people advanced in life and who are anaemic, or in those suffering from scurvy or purpura, active measures must be taken to arrest the haemorrhage, which may otherwise prove serious. This may usually be effected by freely washing out the nares with ice-cold water by means of the nasal douche, and by the administration internally of gallic or tannic acid or liquid extract of ergot. The nasal douche consists of an india-rubber tube, one end of which is placed in a receptacle raised above the patient's head, and the other has a nozzle attached to it which is inserted into one nostril so as to completely fill it (fig. 234). The patient sits with his mouth open, breathing through it, and abstains from making any movement of deglutition. The receptacle being filled with ice-cold water, or with some astringent solution, a constant stream of fluid will pass from the one nostril through the naso-pharynx into the other, and flow out of the anterior nares without entering the mouth. Should this plan of treatment fail, the nostril Fig. 234.—Nasal douche, may be plugged with an india-rubber tampon, consisting of a thin india-rubber bag, which is pushed up into the nostril by means of a probe or director in a collapsed state and then blown up, and the air retained in the bag by means of a stopcock attached to it. One or other of these methods will usually succeed in' arresting the haemorrhage, and it is rarely necessary nowadays to plug the posterior nares. This operation is one not devoid of danger, especially in old people, and should never be resorted to unless absolutely necessary. It is best effected by means of Bellocq's sound (fig. 235), or, if this is not available, a soft Jacques catheter may be used. The sound or catheter is introduced along the floor of the nostril until the end appears in the pharynx. If the sound is used, by pressure on the knob, the stilet is made to protrude, and curves forwards into the mouth; if the catheter is used, the end can be seized with a pair of dressing forceps and drawn into the mouth. To the end of the stilet a string is attached, and the instrument withdrawn. In this way a piece of string is made to pass round the soft palate, one end hanging out of the nostril, the other out of the mouth. To the middle of the piece of string which projects from the lips a piece of sponge or lint, the size of the terminal phalanx of the