FILARIA SANGUINIS HOMINIS 267 the condensation of the surrounding tissues (fig. 72). It is of about half an inch in length in its mature condition. After the process of encyst- ment is completed the worm remains quiescent, and all local symptoms cease. It may perish and the capsule become calcareous. Symptoms.—In some cases where the amount of ' measly meat' ingested has been large, there may be immediate symptoms of intestinal irritation. Within a few hours there may be nausea and sickness, with vertigo and a rise in temperature, and this may be followed by diarrhtxia. In cases where less has been ingested, there may be simply a feeling of malaise and loss of appetite. In about a week, stiffness and rigidity of the affected muscles set in ; they become swollen and extremely painful to the touch, and any attempt to put them in action is accompanied by excru- ciating agony. Accompanying these local signs there is grave constitutional disturbance. The temperature is raised, the pulse rapid, and the respiratory movements increased in frequency. There is sleeplessness, and very often delirium. Often there is also diarrhoea, which further exhausts the patient. If death ensues, it is generally in the fiq. 72.—The trichina third or fourth week ; but if the patient survives spiralis inclosed in a a month or so, the constitutional symptoms capsule in a voluntary usually begin to abate, and the patient's strength muscle, gradually returns. Treatment.—If the disease is recognised immediately on the occurrence of the first symptoms of intestinal irritation, an emetic followed by a brisk mercurial purge may expel the trichinje at once and relieve the patient; but if active migration and colonisation of the embryos has taken place, the case must be treated on general principles, with a view to lessening the fever and supporting the powers of the patient. FILARIA SANGUINIS HOMINIS The filaria sanguinis hominis is a nematode worm, which gains access to the body through the alimentary canal. It is supposed to be transmitted through the mosquito as an intermediate host. This insect abstracts blood, containing embryos, from infected bodies. These embryos undergo maturation in the body of the mosquito, and this insect, after depositing its eggs on water, dies and falls into the water, and through this means the worm gains access into the human alimentary canal. It migrates thence into the lymph stream, and here it produces many embryos, which pass into the general circulation. So that the filaria exists in the human body in two distinct forms, as the mature animal in the lymphatic vessels, where it may produce lymphangitis and abscess, and as the embryo, which may obstruct the lymph stream and be followed by varicose dilatation of the lymphatic vessels (lymphangiectasis) and lymphatic oedema; or a communication may be established between the dilated lymph vessels and some part of the urinary tract, and a condition of chyluriais set up, in which the urine has a milky appearance and coagu- lates on standing.