LARYNGOTOMY the child's head has not been thrown sufficiently back, or the external incision is not free enough, or has not been made in the middle line. If these points are attended to there ought to be no difficulty in finding the trachea, except in those cases where it has been pushed to one side of the neck by a growth on the other. 3. A greater difficulty sometimes arises in opening the trachea after it has been exposed, and it is on this account that many surgeons recom- mend the introduction of a sharp hook into the trachea to steady it before opening it. It has always seemed to me to be quite as difficult to introduce the hook as to incise the trachea, and I have generally found that by fixing the parts with the finger and thumb in the manner described, there is no difficulty in opening the trachea after it has been thoroughly exposed. In addition to this, it has appeared to me that by fixing the trachea and drawing it up, there is more danger of pushing the knife through the tube and wounding the oesophagus. 4. Another difficulty is making too small an opening in the trachea. ^Vhen the point of the knife is introduced, if it is not carried fairly into the tube it is apt to slip out again as it is carried upwards, and thus instead of a free opening dividing two or three rings being made, only a small puncture exists. When this has taken place it will be indicated by a slight hissing sound at the moment of the puncture, and by the absence of any relief to the dyspnoea. Under these circumstances the opening must be enlarged by a second introduction of the knife. 5. Finally there may be difficulty in introducing the tube. In the first instance, unless care be taken, the surgeon is apt to push the tube down between the trachea and the deep fascia of the neck instead of into the wound; and again, if a bivalve tube be used, and the operator is not careful to keep the two blades in contact, he may push one into the opening and the other by the side of the trachea. If only he will take care to keep the two blades in contact and feel with the top of his forefinger for the open- ing, there ought never to be much difficulty in introducing this form of tube. Laryngotomy.—The operation of laryngotomy has sometimes to be performed at a' moment's notice in cases of urgent dyspnoea. It may be done by plunging a penknife transversely into the crico-thyroid space, and by means of a piece of wire, or a hairpin twisted into the form of a hook, pulling the edges of the wound apart. A toothpick may then be inserted as a temporary tube through which the patient may breathe. When it can be done as a more deliberate operation, a vertical incision is made in the middle line, over the crico-thyroid space, of about an inch in length. This will expose the crico-thyroid membrane, which is then divided transversely close to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, so as to avoid wounding the crico-thyroid artery, which usually lies in the upper part of the space. A tube is now inserted and the operation com- pleted. In children the crico-thyroid space is so small that the operation of laryngotomy cannot be performed so as to admit of a sufficiently sized tube, and some surgeons have recommended that in these cases a laryngo- tracheotomy should be performed, that is to say, that the crico-thyroid membrane and the cricoid cartilage should be divided. The operation has now, however, fallen into abeyance, and is not to be recommended, as It interferes with the integrity of the larynx. A high tracheotomy ought therefore always to be performed in children. After treatment of tracheotomy and laryngotomy.—AVhen an opera- tion, m which the air passages have been opened, has been performed, the