301 SECONDARY H/EMORRHAGE repeated impact of blood against it, or it may be caused by the knot giving way from having been tied as a granny knot, or from the ends having been cut off too closely, or from the surgeon having used too rigid a material for his ligature, as badly prepared catgut or silkworm gut. If reactionary hemorrhage occurs the blood distends the wound, causes great pain to the patient, and after a time soaks through the dressing and appears externally. The treatment consists in opening up the wound, turnmg out the clots, and securing the bleeding vessels. No doubt in many cases of reactionary haemorrhage the bleeding may be arrested by raismg the part and applying pressure, and this plan may be adopted if the wound is not distended with clot; but if the wound is distended with blood, it is a better plan to open it up and get rid of the clots, as they are a source of pain to the patient, and form an obstacle to the rapid union of the wound. The surgeon should always bear in mind the possibility of reactionary hemorrhage occurring, and should not therefore be in too great a hurry to rally his patient from his faintness after an operation by the administration of stimulants, &c. Secondary haemorrhage is usually defined as bleeding which comes on at a later period than twenty-four hours after a wound has been inflicted until it is completely healed. It is, in fact, hemorrhage which occurs in consequence of the failure of the process of repair of the wounded vessel. In a large proportion of cases secondary hemorrhage occurs as the result of septic arteritis, going on to ulceration, and therefore it is of very infrequent occurrence at the present day; it may, however, also occur from the newly formed cicatrix giving way from the pressure of the blood behind it. Septic arteritis may be caused by the use of a septic ligature, or by the presence of an infective material in the wound. As a result of this, the coats of the vessel become infiltrated with micro- organisms, they undergo a progressive molecular disintegration, become softened and eventually give way, generally at one minute spot in the first instance, from which the progressive disintegration gradually increases. When an artery is tied in its continuity, the hemorrhage most frequently occurs from the part of the artery which is distal to the ligature. The cause of this may be that the circulation in the vasa vasorum supplying this part of the vessel must necessarily be interfered with by the ligature, while it does not affect those vessels supplying the artery above the ligature. Secondary hemorrhage may occur from the giving way of the newly formed cicatricial tissue from the pressure of blood, before it has acquired sufficient resisting power to withstand the onward pressure. This giving way of the cicatrix may arise either from the increase of pressure from some constitutional causes, as cardiac hypertrophy or chronic Bright's disease, or from failure in the formation of the cicatricial tissue, from general causes such as septicemia or pyemia, hemophilia, or cachexia, or from local causes, as the proximity of a large branch coming off from the artery close to the point of ligature, through which the blood continues to flow. In the old days when ligatures had to separate by a process of ulceration of the outer coat of the vessel, secondary hemorrhage most frequently occurred at the time of the separation of the ligature ; namely, about the tenth day. In consequence of the septic changes going on in the wound, the proper development of granulation tissue and formation of a plug in the vessel was interfered with, and when the process of ulceration had per- forated the external coat, hemorrhage occurred. The way in which