GANGRENE FROM ERGOT OF RYE 141 place in the vessels themselves. In consequence of the irritation which is h duced by the presence of the sugar in the blood, a chronic endarteritis s set up and produces extensive arterial degeneration, the vessels becom- ing thickened and roughened ; and therefore as regards this element in its causation, diabetic resembles senile gangrene. But there are beheved to be other elements at work. Changes in the nervous system due to diabetes assist in causing the disease; sometimes this is a peripheral neuritis; in others, innervation from the central nervous disturbance. Moreover, diabetes is associated with a general malnutrition of the tissues, and they are therefore unable to recover from injury or resist the invasion ot "''^Diabetic gangrene is characterised by the large amount of inflammation of surrounding tissues which attends it, and by the rapidity with which it spreads It is of the moist kind and resembles to a certain degree cellulitis ; that is to say, a slight wound in a diabetic subject is often followed by a rapidly spreading inflammation, which speedily runs into gangrene There is generally a considerable amount of fever of a low type, and the . case usually terminates fatally from asthenia or diabetic ^°™Treatment.—An essential feature in the treatment of this disease is the preventive treatment. Any person who is the subject of diabetes should be careful to avoid all starchy foods and sugar. The dieting of diabetic patients belongs more, however, to medicine than surgery, and need not be more fully discussed in this place. At the same time the diabetic patient should be cautioned to avoid anything Hkely to cause injury, which is often the exciting cause of this disease. When the gangrene has actually set in, the question of amputation is one of paramount importance, and the remarks which were made upon amputation in senile gangrene apply equally to these cases, but with this essential difference, that whereas senile gangrene runs a very slow course and the patient may remain for a year or more without developing any grave constitutional disturbance, in diabetic gangrene the disease runs a very rapid course, and terminates, in most cases, fatally in a very short space of time, so that amputation appears to be much more indicated in this latter disease than in senile gangrene. It is true that the operation, even in these antiseptic days, is one of con- siderable risk ; but if strict asepsis is maintained, septic inflammation of the stump is avoided, and the other danger, viz. diabetic coma, is probably as likely to occur if amputation is not performed as if it is. The amputa- tion must be done high up, for fear of a return of the gangrene in the stump. , • T (c) Gangrene following the use of ergot of rye.—This disease occurs in districts where rye bread is eaten, but it would appear not to be due to the rye when it h healthy, but to a diseased condition which sometimes appears in certain districts. This form of gangrene is epidemic and endemic, and indeed seems sometimes to affect a single family or group of families where diseased rye has been used in the manufacture of their bread. It is due to a continued spasmodic contraction of the muscular coats of the smaller arteries, which narrows their calibre and diminishes the supply of blood to the part. The disease is almost unknown in modern surgery, and appears to have been formerly more common in some parts of the Continent than it was in this country. The gangrene is of the dry variety, and is preceded by diarrhoea, cramps, and coldness of the extremities.