VARIETIES OF FRACTURE of the radius in women, the proportion between the two sexes is reversed ; fracture in the female being more common than in the male. The fractures which arise from a minimum degree of violence, quite insufficient under ordinary circumstances to produce a solution of con- tinuity of the bone, are usually termed spontaneous fractures. They occur in those cases where the bone has been weakened or rendered brittle by disease, such as mollities ossium, sarcomatous and secondary cancerous growths, or hydatid cysts in bone, caries and necrosis, or absorption of bone by the pressure of neighbouring tumours, or from atrophy of bone from disuse or certain diseases of the central nervous system, especially general paralysis of the insane. Syphilis, tuberculosis, and scurvy have all been credited with being predisposing causes of spontaneous fracture, but there is not sufficient evidence to show that this is so. In speaking of the causation of fracture two special forms must be alluded to, the intra-uterine and the congenital. The intra-ttterine fracture usually occurs during the later months of pregnancy, from some injury, a blow or a fall, on the abdomen of the mother, especially in those cases where there is a deficiency of the liquor amnii. They also occur as a consequence of syphilis, and are then very generally multiple. They may be simple or compound. They are usually accompanied by great deformity. In spite of the injury, the mother may go her full time, and the child be born with the fracture united in a distorted position, or no union may have taken place. Congenital fracticres are those produced during the act of parturition, and are usually the result of instrumental delivery. Thus the bones of the skull may be fractured by forceps, or the humerus or femur from traction. Varieties of fracture.—The varieties of fracture have to be considered in regard to their nature and their direction. Varieties as to their nature.—Fractures are divided principally into two great classes, between which there are important and essential differences : (i) simple, (2) compound. 1. The simple or subcutaneous fracture is one in which there is either no wound, or if there is a wound it does not communicate with the fracture, so that no air is admitted to the ends of the bone, and therefore direct infec- tion is impossible. In this particular it corresponds to a bruise of the soft parts. 2. A compound fracture is when the skin or mucous membrane over the fracture is torn, and there is a communication between this external wound and the fracture, and direct infection is possible. The external wound in compound fracture may be caused in one of two ways : either from without, in direct fracture, the same cause which produces the fracture producing also the wound; or from within, in indirect fracture, the broken end of the bone perforating the skin and causing the wound. The former of these two conditions is the more serious, because there is more bruising and laceration of the soft parts, and more probability of subsequent sloughing. In addition to these a simple fracture may become secondarily compound by the separation of a slough ; or may be made so by an incision, or by perforation of the skin by a fragment, from incautious movement or rough handling. These fractures, whether simple or compound, may be complicated with other injuries, which are sometimes of more importance than the fracture itself, (i) They maybe complicated with an injury to some internal organ, as the brain in fracture of the .skull, the lung in fracture of the ribs, and