58 GENERAL INJURIES cases, depending upon the amount of tension, the direction of the wound and the tissues divided. All wounds which are made into parts which are in a state of tension gape widely; thus the edges of an incision made into a limb which is the seat of diffuse cellulitis will be noticed to become widely separated on account of the tension to which the skin is subjected from the effusion beneath. Transverse wounds gape much more widely than longitudinal ones. The more elastic a tissue is, the more it retracts. Thus skin, which is a very elastic structure, retracts very much, whereas fibrous tissue, which is inelastic, retracts but little. Again, the vital con- tractility of muscles has an important influence in the amount of separation of the edges of a wound ; when a muscle is cut across, its severed surfaces separate widely from each other. 2. Haemorrhage.—The bleeding which occurs in an incised wound depends principally upon the size and number of the vessels wounded, but is always greater than in a contused and lacerated wound of similar' size and position; this is due to the fact that the vessels are cleanly cut instead of being torn, and therefore there is less tendency for clots to form in the open mouths of the vessels, as will be explained when speaking on the subject of hsemorrhage. 3. Pain.—The pain of an incised wound is of a burning, smarting character, and varies in its degree according to its position and the tissues divided. Some parts of the body, as, for example, the hands and the face, are much more sensitive than others, and the pain of wounds inflicted in these situations is much greater than in wounds of the back or buttock. Then again some patients are much more sensitive to pain than others, and suffer or appear to suffer much more acutely after the infliction of a wound. In addition, the influence of the mind or the condition of the patient at the time of the receipt of the injury has an important influence on the amount of pam felt. A wound inflicted in the excitement of a battle, or on a man m a state of drunkenness, is sometimes unfelt. Treatment of incised wounds.—In the treatment of an incised wound, whether inflicted by the surgeon through unbroken skin or occurring from accident, we should endeavour to obtain union by first intention or by blood clot, and prevent healing with suppuration. Where the wound is made by the surgeon the result is much more likely to be favourable, as it practically depends upon the care which he exercises ; while in accidents bacteria have already entered the wound, and here the eff"orts of the surgeon to get rid of them may not be successful I have said that in operations the result which is obtained practically depends upon the care which the surgeon exercises in his conduct of the case, and this is undoubtedly true ; but in spite of every care and precaution, now and then it happens, I believe, to all operating surgeons that some slight error or omission of detail occurs, the result of which is failure to obtain union without suppuration, though I ani bound to say that in the hands of the most careful surgeons these re- sults occur but seldom. Still the fact remains that they do occur: quite unconsciously some shght slip or error is made, bacteria are admitted to the wound, and suppuration or something worse is the result. It seems to me, therefore, that we are not justified in telling a patient that there is abso- lutely no risk from a contemplated operation, since a surgeon is but human, and, as I have said, a slight error, which may be fraught with the gravest consequences to the patient, may ensue^ Our object in endeavouring to obtain union by first intention is to prevent that constitutional disturbance which occurs where the wound is