934 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS or sub-acute interstitial nephritis ; (d) suppurative pyelo-nephntis; (r) hydro- nephrosis ; pyo-nephrosis ; {e) peri-nephntis. 1 hese secondary changes are set up in the kidney as the result of three conditions: (i) increased pressure in the tubules, from obstruction to the escape of urine ; (2 reflex irritation of the kidney; and (3) septic matter in the pelvis of the kidney, and the invasion of the kidney by septic organisms a Acute or sub-acute interstitial nephritis.-lhis condition, though primarily owing its origin to some disease in the lower urinary organs which has caused obstruction to the flow 0 urine and therefore undue pressure on the tubes of the kidney, is liable to be excited bv some reflex irritation, such as the passing of a catheter in a case of old-standing stricture. It affects both kidneys, though frequently one is much more implicated than the other. They become soft and swollen ; their capsules opaque and adherent, and their surfaces coarse and granular, nresenting a mottled appearance, the stellate plexuses being particular y marked. On section of the kidney, the pyramids are found to be intensely iniected and the structure soft and tumid. „ , • Svmptoms.—In the acu/e form the disease usually begins after some sui-ical procedure, and is generally ushered in with a severe rigor, the emperatire mounting to 104° F. or 105° F. This is followed by profuse sweating, and the temperature falls, but does not regam the normal, remain- ing one or two degrees above it. The patient lies in a semi-drowsy condition ; thire is nausea and vomiting, and generally diarrhoea ; the skin is hot and pungent ; the tongue dry, red, and fissured ; the pulse quick, small, and weak There is great distaste for food, and rapid emaciation, fre- quently a crop of herpes appears about the lips. The urine is usually scanty blood-stained, Ld. contains a trace of albumen, but in some cases a considerable quantity is passed; in the later stages there may be suppression^ Upon making deep-seated pressure over the kidney, pain is elicited, and the patient frequently complains of aching in his loins. _ • .:„,„u, In the sub-acute form the symptoms come on much more insidiously_ The patient is weak and languid, loses his appetite, and complains ot. nausea There is a nighdy rise in the temperature of one or two degrees. The patient gradually loses flesh. A fair amount of urine is passed but as there is usually some antecedent bladder trouble which alters the character of the urine, no information can as a rule be obtained from JJ^;:;'";^; tion The sub-acute form may after a time become acute, and these cases are generally fatal. Drowsiness sets in, with low muttering delu-mm and this is followed by coma and death. In those cases which terminate favourably, the symptoms gradually disappear. Treatment.—The cause of the obstruction which has set up the disease must, if possible, be removed, or at all events the free exit of ^rine Irom the bladder must be provided for. The skin should be kept acting by the administration of diaphoretics, hot-air baths, &c. The patien r^^u confined strictly to bed, in an equable temperature. Fluid diet P""c.paU) milk, should be given. Dry cupping to the loins is said t^ .bejDenehm^^^^^ L Suppurative pyelo-nephritis. - This condition is naptij termed surgical kidney, probably because it occurs m t^e .^o'^'^^. ° many surgical conditions of the lower urinary organs, ^^'^'^^^''^f Jl^ the want of proper surgical aid, and in others from causes be}X)nd ne control of the surgeon and in spite of efficient catheterism m^.gat on of the bladder. It is usually due partly to backward F^^^Xtntimi S to the extension of septic inflammation, and there is dilatation p •