976 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS blades closed, and the stone felt for. The instrument is placed along- side of the stone, and the blades opened ; by depressing the lithotrite against the floor of the bladder, the stone will probably roll between the open blades and can at once be seized (flg. 376). If it does not do so, by slightly shaking the instrument, or jarring it with the other hand, the stone will be felt to fall between the blades, and it is then seized by pushing the male blade down upon it. The Hthotrite is then locked and screwed up, and the stone will be felt to give way. Without moving the instrument, the blades are again opened and the manoeuvre repeated, and this is con- tinued as long as any fragments can be coaxed to fall between the open blades. All this may sometimes be done without once moving the lithotrite from the position that it was first made to assume, and it must be ever present in the surgeon's mind that the less he moves the instrument about in the bladder, the less damage he will do. The other method of Fig. 377.—Diagram showing a second method of seizing a stone in Hthotrity. (From Holmes's ' Principles and Practice of Surgery.') seizing the stone is not nearly so good, because it necessitates the moving about of the lithotrite in the bladder, with consequently more injury to its coats. It has, however, to be resorted to when the stone is lodged in a pouch behind an enlarged prostate and cannot be seized in any other way. This plan consists in turning the lithotrite in the bladder, so that the blades are directed downwards or to one side, and then, after opening them, to attempt to pick up the stone (fig. 377). In this proceeding there is always the risk of including a portion of the mucous membrane of the bladder between the blades of the instrument; and therefore it is necessary, after the stone is seized, to move the lithotrite towards the centre of the bladder before the stone is crushed. After all the fragments which can be found have been crushed, the lithotrite is withdrawn, and the largest size evacua- ting tube which can be passed is introduced into the bladder. In omer to do this, it is generally necessary to incise the orifice of the urethra. The evacuating tubes are made either straight or slightly curved at their