370 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES one is used, it should always be perforated. Whichever plan is adopted the patient should be cautioned always to apply the pressure when the veins are empty, either before he gets up in the morning, or by lying down and raising the limb for some minutes before the bandage or stocking is applied. The curative treatment consists in obliterating the vein by operation. It should only be resorted to in selected cases and after the palliative treatment has had a fair trial and failed—in patients who are in good health, not advanced in life, where the veins cause pain and discomfort which is not relieved by compression; where a vein is likely to burst and where the varicosity is chiefly confined to one vessel. Many plans have been resorted to for obliterating the veins, such as subcutaneous division, acupressure, ligature, the actual cautery, &c. ; but they are all inefficient, because they all aim at obliterating the vein at a single point. This they no doubt succeed in doing, but a collateral circulation is rapidly set up, and very soon there is a return of the disease. The only efficient way of curing varicose veins is by their excision or partial excision, and with rigid antiseptic precautions the operation may be performed without any fear of evil consequences, and is followed by the most satisfactory results. The operation may be performed by removing the whole of the varicose vein from end to end, or by removing about an inch or an inch and a half in several places. My own experience would lead me to say that the more of the vein removed the better for the patient; the risk of the operation is not materially increased, the time occupied in its per- formance is not greater, and the results in my hands have certainly been more satisfactory. The operation is performed by first of all seeing that the limb is most rigidly cleaned and dressed for some hours with gauze wrung out in an antiseptic solution. The position of the vein should be marked out with an aniline pencil, with the patient in the erect position, if there is any difficulty in accurately defining it. A longitudinal incision is made over the vein, and the vessel exposed in its whole length and separated from surrounding structures. A catgut ligature is then placed round the vessel at its cardiac end and tied. The vessel is seized just below with a pair of clip forceps to prevent its bleeding, and divided between the ligature and clip. It is raised from its bed, each collateral branch being seized with clip forceps as it is pulled up and divided until the lower end of the incision is reached. The vein is now tied here and removed. The wound is sutured with a continuous suture of horsehair, dressed, and placed upon a back splint with a foot piece. It occasionally happens that in a case of varicose veins requiring operation, there is also a varicose ulcer; under these circumstances the patient should be confined to bed, and the ulcer treated and healed before any attempt is made to excise the vein. Trendelenburg recommends in certain cases of varicose veins the ligature of the internal saphenous vein in the thigh as a means of cure. He says that there is a variety of varicose veins in which the varicosity first appears in the saphenous trunk, and in these cases, if the patient is made to lie down 3,nd the limb is raised in order to empty the varicose veins, and pressure is made on the vein as it passes through the saphenous opening, and the patient then again assumes the erect position, the varicose vessels will not become distended. For these cases he recommends ligature high up in the vein. Favourable results have been said to follow the operation.