GENERAL DISEASES 202 Th§ fate of the tubercle.—Before tubercle has reached any con- siderable size or has existed for any length of time, it begins to undergo a degenerative change ; that is to say, fatty degeneration or caseaiion. This process begins in the centre of the nodule, at the part farthest removed from the source of nutrition. The nodule becomes opacjue, yellowish white, and friable, and forms a cheesy-looking mass, which is circumscribed, homogeneous, and firm. It is now to be regarded as a piece of dead tissue or a slough, which has to be got rid of or rendered inert. The further changes which it undergoes are in one or other of these directions. It may act in the same way as a piece of dead tissue ; it may cause irritation in the tissues around and set up suppuration and be cast off as a slough. Generally, however, at the same time that suppuration is going on in the tissues around, a lique- faction of the caseated material takes place, and it becomes con- verted into a creamy or curdy material. This is sometimes called pus, but it is not so ; it is merely a curdy fluid consisting of the debris of the caseated material and water, any pus cells which it may contain being derived from the suppuration in the tissues around. A caseous mass of tubercle may be rendered inert by becoming encapsuled. A sort of fibrous envelope is formed as the result of inflam- matory changes in the normal tissues around, and the cheesy matter becomes inclosed and shut off from the rest of the body. Caseous tubercle may also to a great extent be rendered inert by undergoing a process of calcification; it dries up, becomes firm and hard and infiltrated with Hme salts, so as to form a chalky mass. But it must be borne in mind that this cretaceous mass may at any time be awakened to renewed activity, and suppuration may take place around it. When tubercle liquefies it forms what is called a tuberculous abscess. This is the cold abscess, which has already been described (p. ii6). The causes.—The immediate cause of tuberculosis is the presence of the tubercle bacillus, but for it to become operative something more than its presence is necessary; we must have in addition a suitable soil in which the micro-organism can grow and flourish. We shall have, therefore, to consider first the causes which favour the entrance into the body of the bacillus, the seed; secondly, the causes which render the tissues favourable for its reception, the soil. The seed.—As we have already seen, the tubercle bacillus can be intro- duced into the body through a wound, or by the mucous surfaces of the respiratory and digestive tracts. That the tubercle bacillus can be trans- mitted by inoculation has been abundantly proved both by experiments on animals and also by clinical experience. If cultivated bacilli or some product of tuberculous disease is inoculated into an animal, it produces a tuberculous condition at the seat of inoculation, and from this a general