872 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS hernia. (3) Treves recommends that the sac should be isolated, the lower part dJt away, and the upper part twisted into a cord and ligatured. This cord is then carried through an incision made in Poupart's ligament close to the pubic spine, and fixed in this position. Radical cure of umbilical hernia.—This is nothing more than the ordinary procedure of sewing up an abdominal wound : the sac is divided close to the opening, and the cut edges of peritoneum sutured together; the margins of the ring are then in their turn brought together by a buried suture, and the skin united in the ordinary way. The operation for the radical cure of a reducible hernia is not a dangerous one, but it must be borne in mind that it sometimes fails in attaining the end in view, and is followed by a recurrence. Often, however, where the proceeding fails to cure the hernia, some improve- ment is obtained by the operation, especially when the operation is undertaken for a large scrotal rupture, which no truss seems competent to retain. In these cases, it will generally be found, if the hernia is not radically cured by the operation, that a truss can be applied which will fulfil the purpose for which it was intended. The main objection to Bassini's and Halstead's operation is that this would not appear to be so; if the condition recurs after operation, it partakes more of the character of a ventral hernia, and as such is very difficult to retain. 2. Irreducible hernia.—An irreducible hernia is where the con- tents of the sac cannot be replaced into the abdominal cavity ; in all other respects it resembles an ordinary reducible hernia; that is to say, the passage of the contents of the intestine are in no way impeded in those cases where there is gut in the sac, nor is the circulation of blood through it in any way interfered with. It therefore gives rise to no symptoms of obstruction or strangulation, although it may cause flatulence and dyspepsia. Causes.—The chief causes of the irreducibility of a hernia are: {a) some altered condition of the contents of the sac. It may be the presence of adhesions, either between the sac and its contents, or between the contents themselves. Adhesion of the omentum to the sac wall very frequently takes place, and this is one reason why omental herniae are so often irreducible ; the intestine is not nearly so liable to become adherent to the sac wall. In other cases, inflammation may occur in the omentum, and it may become converted into a solid mass, which cannot be un- ravelled and cannot therefore be reduced, {b) The large size of the hernia may prevent its reduction. Where a large scrotal hernia has been down for years, the abdominal cavity becomes contracted, and therefore there is no room for the displaced gut. {c) A large deposit of fat may take place in an epiplocele, and may prevent its reduction, {d) The neck of a herniated omentum, when it passes through the ring, may become atrophied by the constant pressure of the encircling band, and the fat may entirely disappear from this part; this renders the omentum irreducible. Occasion- ally, however, the irreducibility may depend upon changes in the sac itself: the neck may become narrowed and unduly thickened, or bands of adhesion may stretch across the sac and may prevent the reduction of any gut or omentum which may be present in the sac. Symptoms.—The symptoms referable to the hernia itself are the same as those of reducible hernia, except that the rupture cannot be returned ; there is the presence of a pyriform swelling, with an impulse on coughing, and the other physical signs enumerated above. And in some cases there is no additional trouble, but usually the condition is accompanied by flatu-