GENERAL DISEASES 244 them—though to this there are many exceptioiiH—but by the blood-vessels ; this may probably be, at all events in part, due to the close relationship of the vessels.to the cells. The sarcomata may, and frequently do, undergo developmental changes. The most elementary and simplest form of sarcoma is the small round-celled, with a scanty homogeneous matrix. This form exactly resembles ordinar)' granulation tissue, and can scarcely be distinguished from it. And as in granulation tissue the round cells, in their process of development into fibrous tissue, first become elongated and spindle-shaped, so in sarco- matous tumours the round cells may become elongated and the spindle- celled sarcoma is formed. Then a further developmental change may take place and fibrification may ensue, and the greater part but not the whole of the sarcomatous tissue may become converted into fibrous tissue, for at the growing margin of the tumour a certain amount of sarcomatous tissue will always be discoverable. Again, in other cases, the new growth becomes converted into other forms of connective tissue, cartilage, and bone. These tumours were formerly known as fibro-sarcoma, chondro- sarcoma, and osteo-sarcoma, but it is more correct to speak of them as fibrifying, chondrifying, or ossifying sarcomata. The fibrous transformation most frequently occurs in sarcomata of the subcutaneous tissue, or the fasciae or intermuscular planes; the cartilaginous in sarcoma of the testicle ; and the bony in those of the bones. Sarcomata are also very liable to undergo degenerative changes. They may undergo fatty degeneration, but the change is not generally sufficient to obscure the true nature of the tumour; or they may undergo calcareous degeneration, which may involve the greater part of the tumour, and completely destroy its original structure. They are very liable to undergo mucoid softening in their centre, and form a cavity which con- stitutes one form of the so-called cystic sarcoma. When by reason of their growth they reach the surface of the body, the skin over them gives way, and they form a large fungating, sprouting mass, which bleeds freely and is known by the name of fungus hsematodes. Cysts are often con- tained in sarcomatous tumours. These, as just mentioned, may be the result of mucoid degeneration in their centre, or from the mixture of gland tissue with them, for they are often found in such organs as the breast and testicle The naked-eye appearances of sarcomatous tumours vary consider- ably, but for the most part present a grey or brownish-grey succulent, semi-translucent appearance, not unlike size; on section they frequently present patches of extravasated blood, both recent and old. Many of them are encapsuled and appear to be completely isolated ; others are circum- scribed, but have no capsule; and again others scarcely form definite tumours, but present the appearance of infiltrating masses. • The clinical characters of the sarcomata vary so much that it is impos- sible to give any general account of their symptoms and course. They may grow in any part of the body; in both sexes; and individuals of all ages are liable to them. They are, however, essentially a disease of early life, and are the usual form of malignant disease met with in childhood; the carcinomata scarcely ever appearing in early life. All sarcomata must be regarded as malignant, but the degree of malignancy varies within extreme limits, from the melanotic sarcoma, which may be regarded as the most malignanc of all tumours, to the myeloid sarcoma of bone, which can scarcely be regarded as a malignant tumour. The degree of malignancy depends