795 RUPTURE OF THE INTESTINE Fig. 305.—Complete rupture of the intestine. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) Rupture of the intestine.—Rupture of the intestine is usually produced by a smart, sharp blow, and is influenced to a great extent by the degree of its distension. It is usually stated that the portion of the intestine most commonly ruptured is the jejunum, then the ileum, then the duodenum, and lastly the colon ; but from a consideration of the anatomy of the intestine, it would seem that the transverse portion of the duodenum is the part that ought to be most frequently injured, as it is more or less fixed and cannot float out of the way of a blow like the rest of the gut, and moreover it rests on the hard and rigid bodies of the vertebrae, against which it would be compressed in the event of a blow being inflicted upon it. Against this, how- ever, it may be said that it is in a somewhat more pro- tected situation under the left lobe of the liver. The rupture may be complete— ivel is that is to say, the bowel is separated into two pieces (fig. 305)—but in the ma- jority of cases is incomplete. In some cases there are no symptoms of any marked character for a few hours; but as a rule there is evi- dence of shock from the first, with intense burning pain over the abdomen and persistent vomiting, first the contents of the stomach being rejected ; then a bilious fluid, often mixed with blood, and sometimes, in the later stages, faeculent matter. The pulse is feeble and intermittent ; the countenance betokens great anxiety ; there is much thirst; rigidity of the abdominal wall, with perhaps tympanitis, and in many cases retention of urine. There may be emphysema of the abdo- minal wall, from escape of flatus. This sign, if present, is of great dia- gnostic value, but it is rarely met with. Cases of rupture of the intestine are almost always fatal if left to themselves, death occurring from shock or peritonitis ; or at a later period, if the patient survive so Ions, from obstruction. Treatment.—In cases of rupture of the stomach and intestine, if the diagnosis is established, or even if there are reasonable grounds for believ- ing that one of these injuries has taken place, a laparotomy should be per- formed, and the sooner it is done the better chance the patient will have of recovery. Even a very considerable amount of shock ought not to deter the surgeon, though if it is very profound it may be perhaps desirable to wait and endeavour to rally him before proceeding to operation. In at least 95 per cent, of cases, rupture of the stomach or intestine proves fatal, and an exploratory operation, even though no rupture is found, IS • a !esser_ evil than delaying the operation until the diagnosis is made certain by the advent of symptoms of diffuse inflammation. The incision is best made in the middle line ; in cases of ruptured intestine WK ^^^^^ °^ incision being indicated by the situation of the blow. When the peritoneal cavity has been opened, the laceration must be sought tor, and when found brought up to the surface of the wound.