TREATMENT' OF BURNS of the second week. It is due to the excessive discharge which is caused by the introduction of bacteria into the wound. It may terminate in septiccemia or pyeemia if the bacteria effect an entrance into the cir- culation; or the patient may get weaker and weaker and develop a condition of hectic, which is probably also a form of septic poisoning, from which he may succumb. Death is frequently induced in these cases from a low form of inflammation of the lungs or pleura, or from exhaustion. Lardaceous disease of the viscera not unfrequently also ter- minates the existence of the patient. Treatment—The treatment of burns and scalds must be both local and general. . The local treatment must mainly be directed to the prevention ot sepsis, except in burns of the first and second degree, when this is not to be apprehended. In burns of the first degree the only indication is to exclude the air, when the pain will rapidly subside. Dusting the part with some simple powder or the application of warm Goulard lotion, to which if desir- able a little laudanum may be added, is all that is necessary. In burns of the second degree, the blister should be punctured so as to allow the fluid to drain away, but the cuticle should on no account be removed, as it forms a protection to the sensitive denuded papilla underneath. The part should then be covered with some simple ointment—boracic ointment is perhaps the best—and swathed in cotton wool, which may be left undisturbed for a few days, by which time fresh epithelium will have formed over the denuded papillse and no further treatment will be necessary. In the severe forms of burns, sepsis is to be feared, and every means should be taken to avoid it as far as possible. Many different applications have been recommended. It must be borne in mind that the surface of a burn is a very absorbent one, perhaps as much so as the raw surface of a wound, and therefore it is not safe to use antiseptics possessing toxic principles, such as carbolic acid, corrosive subhmate, and iodoform. The remedies usually employed are boracic acid, salicylic acid, picric acid, eucalyptus oil, and creolin. The use of picric acid has in my hands been so satisfactory, that I do not think it is necessaiy to do more than allude to the other non-toxic antiseptic remedies. I must mention, how- ever, that other remedies are also constantly employed, of which Carron oil is perhaps the favourite. It consists of equal parts of boiled linseed oil and lime water. It is anodyne, but possesses no antiseptic properties. The plan which I adopt is first of all to immerse the patient in a hot boracic bath, which relieves the pain and collapse, or thoroughly sluice the burnt parts with boracic acid lotion, and then cover them with lint soaked in picric acid solution. This solution is prepared by dissolving 5 grammes of powdered picric acid in 80 grammes of rectified spirit, and then adding 1,000 grammes of boiled distilled water. The solution of the acid in the spirit should be kept in stock, and the water only added when the lotion is required. Over the lint thus applied a layer of jaconet or other water- proof material is placed, and the whole swathed in a thick layer of cotton wool and bandaged. The first dressing may be allowed to remain undis- turbed for three days, when it must be removed, and after this the parts must be dressed daily in the same way. The dressing is anodyne and antiseptic : by its use the severe pain is materially relieved, the sloughs separate with a small amount of suppuration, and there is little or no fever. I have treated a large number of cases, especially children, in this way, and have had no cause to be dissatisfied with the result. The only objection is