432 INJURIES AND DISEASES OK SPECIAL TISSUES The sig-ns of this fracture are unmistakable ; the arm lies helplessly h\ the patient's side, and he is unable to move it. The increased mobilit\ and the presence of crepitus at once indicate the nature of the injury There are two special points of interest about fractures of the shaft of the humerus which require mention : one of these is the involvement of the musculo-spiral nerve, which may be injured by the broken ends ol the bone or may subsequently become included in the callus • the other IS the frequency of non-union after fracture. Many causes'have been assigned for this, but the most probable is the difficulty in fixing the upDer end of the bone and so procuring immobility of the upper fragment Treatment.-The usual mode of treatment which is recommended for fracture of the shaft of the humerus is an internal angular splint reachin- from the axilla to the wrist, and three short lateral splints to the arm This Fig. 143.—Figure showing the treatment of fracture of the shaft of the humerus. The bandage fixing the shoulder cap is not represented for the sake of clearness. Fig. 144.—Diagram showing the more common forms of fracture of the lower end of the humerus. IS entirely wrong because it does not fix the upper fragment. The only way to secure immobility is by employing some form of splint which will fix the shoulder jomt The most convenient form is a poro-plastic splint moulded to the shoulder and covering it both in front and behind, and carried down the arm as far as the bend of the elbow. The displacement IS first overconie, and while extension is still being kept up, the splint is rapidly moulded to the shoulder and arm, and a short lateral wooden splint IS applied on the inner side and the two securely bandaged in position. Ihe hand, not the forearm is now placed in a sling, so that the weight of the elbow may drag down the lower fragment, and the arm is fixed fo the side by a broad belt or bandage (fig. 143) 3 Fractures of the lower end of the humerus. -The usual fractures of the ower eiid of the humerus are : (a) Transverse fracture above the condyles; (/^) fracture of either condyle; (c) J- or V-shaped fracture ; (d) separation of the epiphysis (fig. 144) " a. Transverse fracture above the condyles is b) no means an uncommon accident, especially in early life. It may be produced by