CHOLELITHIASIS 829 swelling becomes more diffused, and the movements are not so marked. After a time the gall bladder ulcerates and perforates, and a local septic peritonitis is set up, which may in some instances become general. Usually the pus makes its way to the surface, and points under the right costal margin, or at the umbilicus, following the course of the suspensory ligament of the liver, and the result is fistula. The treatment consists in opening the abscess and draining, after the gall bladder has been attached to the external wound, if adhesions have not taken place. If the inflammation has arisen from the presence of gall stones, they should be removed at the same time. Cholelithiasis'is the name given to the presence of gall stones in the gall bladder. They may give rise to very few symptoms, as' long as they remain quiescent (fig. 324), beyond a certain amount of dyspepsia with an ill-defined pain or sense of uneasiness in the right hypochondrium, or they may lead to dropsy of the gall bladder, due to accumulation of the natural secretion of the mucous lining. In these cases a tumour presents itself below the eighth or ninth rib. It is somewhat pyriform in shape, and its long axis is usually directed from the ninth costal cartilage downwards and inwards to the umbilicus. It is firm and elastic, and moves with respiration, and may attain a very considerable size. When the gall stones attempt to escape by the ducts from the bladder, a very characteristic train of symptoms is set up, which is known under the name of biliary colic^ and may come on at intervals, _ constituting recurring biliary colic. The patient is suddenly seized with the most acute pain in the right hypochondrium, radiating to the right scapular region and shoulder. It is accompanied by great prostration and exhaustion, and continues until the stone finds its way into the duodenum or falls back again into the gall bladder. In some in- stances in the passage onwards of a gall stone through the ducts it becomes impacted in one of these tubes ; the symptoms then vary according to the position in which impaction has taken place. If the stone is impacted in the common bile duct, the symptoms are jaundice with absence of enlargement of the gall bladder; and frequent attacks of pain, during which the jaundice IS mtensified. The duct is .seldom completely obstructed, so that there wu ■'sufficient backward flow to produce dilatation of the gall bladder When the stone is in the cystic duct (fig. 325), there is distension of the gall bladder with mucus (dropsy), but no jaundice. After the gall stone has passed through the bile ducts and escaped into the bowel, it may give rise to symptoms of intestinal obstruction. This may be simply from mechanical obstruction and damage to the bowel from a large concretion • Fig. 324. —Gall bladder full of gall stones. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)