loyo INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS but . rises up into the abdomen, and there produces an enlargement, which is usually noticed to begin on one side. If the tumour is cystic, the swelling is rounded in general outline, though its surface may be irregular. It feels elastic, and a sense of fluctuation can generally be detected. In some cases where the tumour is unilocular, or where, in a multilocular tumour, one cyst attains a large size and forms the greater part of the swelling, the sense of fluctuation and a wave can be felt by placing the hand on one side of the tumour, and sharply tapping the other with the finger. When the swelling is made up of a number of smaller cysts the sense of fluctuation is not so well marked, and the wave across the tumour is absent. When these smaller cysts are filled with a colloid material, it may be impossible to distinguish the tumour from a solid growth. The swelling is more marked below the umbilicus, and is absolutely dull to percussion, the dullness being greatest at the summit, and gradually becoming less marked towards the periphery. The flanks are resonant. The dullness does not alter in character with altera- tions in the position of the patient. When an ovarian tumour becomes so large as to distend the abdomen, it may press upon and irritate the stomach and intestines, and produce nausea and vomiting, diarrhoea and colic. The respiration becomes thoracic, and the heart may be displaced. The tumour may press upon the ureters, producing dilatation of the pelves of the kidneys, and subsequently nephritis. The urine passed is often small in quantity and concentrated, and may be albuminous. The patient's health suffers; there is impaired digestion and loss of appetite ; she is worn by pain, want of sleep, and mental anxiety ; she emaciates, and her face assumes an expression of anxiety and suffering. Upon examination per vaginam, which should always be done by the bimanual method, the patient lying on her back, the relations of the tumour to the pelvic viscera can be ascertained. It is usually situated behind the uterus, which is generally displaced to one side. The tumour will be felt to be free of the uterus, and upon introducing the sound the uterine cavity will be ascertained to be of normal size. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of ovarian dropsy is not always easy, arid it has frequently been mistaken for other conditions, of which perhaps the following are the most common: (i) ascites; (2) pregnancy; (3) fibroid tumours of the uterus ; (4) cystic disease or large cysts of the kidney; and more rarely for hydatids, distended gall bladder, pancreatic cysts, hydro-salpmx, and cyst of the mesentery, phantom tumours, and many other conditions. I. From ascites it can usually be recognised by a careful examination of the abdomen. It will be noted that in ascites the abdomen protrudes more at the sides than in front, where it is more flattened and less conical than in ovarian tumour. The greatest circumference of the belly is above the umbilicus, rather than below it, in ascites. It may be noticed also that the shape of the belly changes with alterations in the position of the patient, bulging at the most dependent part, and this is not so marked in ovarian dropsy. Upon percussion it will be found that in ascites the flanks are dull, and, indeed, if the peritoneal cavity is full of fluid, the abdomen will be uniformly dull; if not so full, there will be resonance above the umbilicus, from the tranverse colon and small intestines floating to the surface, when the patient is lying on her back. 'I he dullness varies with position; when the patient is lying on her side, the flank which is uppermost will be resonant. In ovarian dropsy the