788 INJURITiS AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS with the ribs and the pus evacuated. An india-rubber tube of large size, with a shield'attached to the end of it, is introduced, and the wound partially closed at either extremity with a silkworm-gut suture. The tube need only be sufficiently long to fully enter the pleural cavity ; a longer tube unnecessarily Dresses upon and irritates the lung. The wound should be dressed with a thick layer of some absorbent material, of which wood-wool impregnated with corrosive sublimate is probably the best, into which the pus dis- charges itself When it has been determined not to excise a portion of rib the incision is made along the upper border of the sixth rib and the dissection is carried down to the pleura, which is then opened and the pus allowed to escape. It is not desirable to irrigate or wash out the cavit>^ unless the pus becomes foul and foetid, as several cases have been recorded where sudden death has followed this practice. If it becomes necessary to wash it out, the rules mentioned on jDage 786 must be attended to. When the operation is performed early, the lung generally expands, the -cavity contracts, the discharge of pus ceases, and the wound closes^: but when the operation has been delayed too long, or m some very chronic cases the lung becomes covered with a thick membranous layer of scar- like tissue which prevents its expansion, a cavity remams, and the open- ing is persistent, discharging a variable amount of pus. When this is the case, Estlander's operation should be performed. This consists in removing portions of several ribs, in order that the walls of the cavity may collapse, and this should be done as soon as it becomes evident that no further natural obliteration of the cavity can take place. The amount of rib removed must depend to a great extent upon the size of the cavity which it is desired to close. The operation may be either performed by making one large flap which corresponds with the shap and extent of the cavity, and contains any muscles which cover the chest or a number of smaller flaps, corresponding to the number of ribs requiring partial excision. Whichever plan is adopted the ribs a e exposed, and^he exposed portion removed, with its Penosteum by cum, it hrough at either extremity with cutting bone forceps. The pleura 1 hen to^e incised, and by some it is reconimended that as much a pos ible of the thickened membrane should be removed ; the cauty 1 scraped and washed out to remove all degenerated tissue, the Aap 0 flap are reolaced and the remains of the walls of the cavity are allowed to fal Tm^ch afio sible in contact, and are then dressed with gauze and firmly SXed The operation is one which is often attended with a conside.- able amount of shock and is followed by great deformity. _ Operations on the lung.-Pneumotomy, or incision of 1 lung has been mainly performed for two different affections, i. Thu cases in Sh it is especialfy^alled for and has yielded the -ost saU^f^ results are those of hydatid disease of the lung. In AustraUa, ^^neI hydat ds are very common, treatment by incision and d^-a^f f S followed byVeat success, .and ought always to be r^^^^^^^^^ nrpfprence to aspiration or the injection of iodine or othei stimuiui b SuS In gangrenous abscess of the lung, incision and d-mage ha^^^ beln followed with a considerable measure of success. cases suited for it are those in which the gangrene is at no great distance hon he chest wall, and the lung adherent to f-Z^i^^P^^.^.^^elie, a the incision and the insertion of a drainage tube g ve great relict, offensive secretions are no longer locked up in tl e lung. ,,„a Pneumotomy has also been performed for tubeiculous absce.se .