ACUTE ABSCESS the micro-organisms, the cells die; the fluid which has passed out of the blood-vessels as the result of the inflammation, and which has been prevented from coagulating by the peptones resultmg from the growth of the organisms—for they have the power of peptonismg albumen—soaks m, and the cavity contains a fluid in which are numbers of dead leucocytes, i.e. pus, and in this way an acute abscess is formed. It remains now only to consider the fate of the micro-organisms, and this is by no means certain. It may be that, adopting Metchnikoff's view of phagocytosis, they are destroyed by the leucocytes ; or it may be that the serum of the blood or materials formed by the breaking up of the corpuscles destroys them ; or it may be that in their growth they themselves develop products which are hostile to their own existence, as is known to be the case with some other micro-organisms. Abscess.—Two perfectly different conditions are classed together under one designation, namely. Abscess. These two conditions are named respectively Acute and Chronic Abscess, but they differ essentially from each other in their pathology, their symptoms, and their treat- ment. The acute abscess is the one which is connected with the process of suppuration we have just been considering, and is formed in the manner which has been described. This we shall first consider, and then turn our attention to Chronic Abscess. Acute abscess.—The symptoms of acute abscess may be considered under two heads : (i) Local and (2) constitutional. The local symptoms or signs of acute abscess are those of inflamma- tion : pain, heat, redness, and swefling. They differ, however, in character from those of acute inflammation, unattended with suppuration. The pain is altered ; it is at first dull and aching, and then throbbing. The swelling, which in simple inflammation is hard and brawny, is soft and fluctuating at the centre, and the skin over the swelling is cedematous; instead of being diffused, it is more localised. The redness is of a more dusky hue. Fluctuation is perhaps the sign which is most relied upon as indicating the presence of pus, and is perhaps the one in which error is most likely to creep in, as, unless the abscess is near the surface, it is not always easy to detect it. If the fingers of one hand are placed upon the swelling and those of the other made to press upon it in another part, a wave of fluid will be set in motion by the latter, which will be felt by the former, and the sensation thus produced is termed fluctuation. The constitutional symptoms are those which have already been referred to in the section on Inflammation.' The most characteristic of these symptoms is the occurrence of a rigor, though this does not occur in every case, for more commonly there is merely a feeling of chilliness. A single rigor is the indication of suppuration ; repeated rigors point rather to general blood poisoning. The temperature rises considerably, to 102° F. or 103° F., and falls as soon as the pus is evacuated. If it does not, it indicates that there is still some matter retained in the wound. The evening temperature is higher than the morning one. The diagnosis of acute abscess is generally easy, but occasionally difficulties are experienced and mistakes made. Fluctuation may be thought to be present when it is not really so : many other swellings give to the fingers an undulatory sensation which cannot always be distin- guished from fluctuation ; the presence of inflammatory infiltration in the subcutaneous tissues and soft tumours, e.g. some forms of sarcoma and fatty tumours, may give a sensation to the fingers very similar to that of 1 2