875 STRANGULATED HERNIA circulation of blood through the herniated portion of gut or omentum, or whatever the contents of the sac may be. An obstacle to the passage of the intestinal contents is not a necessity, since a portion only of the lumen of the -ut may be involved (Richter's hernia), but nevertheless is usually nresent^and the hernia is at the same time irreducible. Omentum may be stran^ulated-that is, may have the circulation through it interfered with when it is herniated-just as much as intestine, but it is infinitely less common We shall consider first the strangulation of a knuckle ot in- testine AVhen a portion of intestine is forced through a narrow aperture for the first time, as in a congenital hernia, the unyielding margins of the ring may press upon the blood-vessels in such a way as to retard the circulation through them, and produce a condition of venous congestion in the herniated portion of bowel; or when, in a hernia which has existed for some time, an additional amount has been extruded from any cause acting from within, as coughing, sneezing, and vomitmg, the same thing is brought about, the bowel becomes constricted so that the venous circulation is interfered with, and strangulation is the result. When once the bowels have been thus constricted, all further changes which take place are due to the interference with the circulation. The vessels, especially the veins, are constricted, and the portion of bowel which is herniated becomes turgid with black blood, since rhe blood which still finds its way in cannot find its way out; and so the part becomes swollen and black, and the difficulty in reduction is increased. Finally, the circulation in the arteries comes to a standstill, and the lack of supply of fresh blood imperils the hfe of the portion of bowel which is involved. Unless relieved, the condition speedily ends in gangrene. _ 1 r .t, -.if The constricting agent in most cases is either the neck of the sac itselt, or it may be the ring of tissues outside the sac, as, for example, Gimbernat's ligament in femoral hernia; but in rare cases it maybe due to adhesions in the sac under which a coil of intestine becomes strangulated, or to a twisting of a loop of intestine in a hernial sac. Strangulation most commonly follows the protrusion of an unusual amount of intestine which is forced through the hernial orifice by pressure acting from within the abdominal cavity; it is often due, therefore, to some sudden exertion or to some violent expulsive effort. But this is not always the case for a hernia has been known to become strangulated during sleep; so that increased peristalsis from some intestinal irritation, or increased swellmg m the contents of the sac, may produce such a condition as will interfere with the circulation and produce strangulation. 1 When a portion of intestine becomes strangulated, it is hrst purple and then black; its walls are thickened from exudation taking place from the loaded vessels, and its surface loses its natural shiny appear- ance from shedding of its epithelium. Occasionally some of the loaded vessels give way, and spots of ecchymosis appear on the surface, flakes of lymph may now appear upon it, and it becomes dull and sticky, bo tar, however, it is in a perfectly recoverable condition, and if the cause of the strangulation is removed it speedily recovers its natural appearance. But it the strangulation is continued, it becomes ashy grey in colour usually in spots, and loses its elasticity, it is soft and doughy, and falls into a condition of gangrene, which may affect the whole or only a.part of the stran- gulated loop. The sac may be unaltered or it may be inflamed, and eventually gangrenous owing to the action of the bacilli cob communis which have found their way through the damaged gut into the sac. A certain amount