LYMPHADENOMA 381 crossed behind the neck and carried down the back, gradually diverging to embrace the lateral aspects of the chest; here the ends are fixed by a rib-roller (fig. 119). , ■ , j Syphilitic lymphadenitis—In syphilis the lymphatic glands become enlarged, hard, and prominent (seepage 187). This is due to an inflammatory condition, attended by a plastic effusion into the gland tissue. They rarely suppurate, but remain hard and isolated, and feel like bullets under the skin. Under the influence of mercury they disappear. Non-inflammatory enlargement of glands.—The glands vary much in size in different individuals, and in children are proportionally larger than in the adult, so that they are often to be felt in some situa- tions beneath the skin, e.g. the groin; the condition being one quite consistent with perfect health. In addition to this the glands occasionally undergo a painless hypertrophy, and two forms of this are commonly described : lymphoma and lymphadenoma. Lymphoma.—When a gland enlarges without any visible cause and unaccompanied by any inflammatory symptoms, the condition is termed lymphoma. The lump is smooth and round or oval; firm but elastic; quite painless and not tender. It is movable, and does not contract adhesions to surrounding parts. Usually a single gland will be found, it may be in the neck, the groin or the axilla, but occasionally there are two or three. It does not in any way affect the patient's health, and is a purely local affection. It is composed of an increased growth of the lymphoid cells of the lymphoid tissue, which are in such abundance as to obscure the trabecular network of the gland, and in some cases the trabecular structure becomes entirely lost. The gland often disappears under treatment by change of air to the seaside and the internal administra- tion of arsenic. If it causes any distress to the patient it may be removed, and shows no tendency to return. Lymphadenoma {Hodgkin's disease) is a more extensive develop- ment of the same condition, but of far graver import. Certain glands slowly and painlessly enlarge without apparent cause and without any signs of inflammation. The enlargement takes place in one gland after another until the whole of a chain of glands may become enlarged. The same thing then takes place in another group of glands, until at last all the superficial glands become involved. And not only do we get this pro- gressive enlargement of the lymphatic glands, but the whole of the lymphoid tissue throughout the body becomes similarly implicated, dis- seminated lymphoid tumours being found in the spleen, liver, kidneys, and the medulla of bone, as well as in other parts. The enlargement affects usually the cervical glands in the first instance, then subsequently the axillary, the inguinal, and others. The cause of the disease is entirely unknown. The tumours formed consist of large, smooth, bossy masses made up of clusters of enlarged glands, which do not contract adhesions to each other, and show no tendency to break down. The disease is most common in the young adult, and occurs more frequently in the male than in the female. In some cases it is associated with a condition known as lei/cocythccmia, . or leuk(emia, in which there is a great excess of white corpuscles in the blood. It is then known as lenkcBinic lymphadefioma, and in these cases the lymphoid tissue of the spleen is early and considerably involved. As the tumours appear and increase, there is marked deterioration of the patient's health. He becomes ansemic and emaciates and loses his strength.