io6o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS important to bear in mind that an intra-mural myoma may distend tlie uteriiie cavity, and then after dilating the os may descend into the vagina and may resemble a polypus. These tumours are often of much larger size and may become gangrenous. Under these circumstances they will have to be removed, and in order to do this, when they are large, it may be necessary to cut them away piecemeal with scissors. If the tumour is gangrenous, the haemorrhage is not great, but dangerous septicaemia will in all probability be present, and the life of the patient is in considerable peril. 3. Sarcoma is a very rare disease of the uterus, and very little is known about it. Occasionally a form of polypus is found growing from the uterine cervix which partakes of a sarcomatous nature, consisting of spindle-shaped cells, mixed with glandular structure, and probably being an adeno-sarcoma. It has a tendency to recur if removed. 4. Carcinoma.—Carcinoma of the uterus occurs iii two forms : (a) Columnar carcinoma; Squamous carcinoma or epithelioma. a. Columnar carcinoma may commence either in the cervical tissues or in the body of the uterus. The two conditions will have to be considered separately, as they differ considerably in many details and in their treatment. Columnar carcinoma of the cervix is very much more common than the same disease in the body of the uterus. It occurs in younger women, generally between the ages of thirty-five and fifty, and rarely appears after the menopause. It is more common in women who have borne children. The disease begins in the glandular structure of the cervical canal, most commonly in the lower half, as a nodule in the wall of the cervix. This nodule grows and infiltrates neighbouring parts; it spreads laterally into the broad ligaments, and the uterus becomes fixed ; it spreads backwards and forwards into the recto-vaginal and vesico-uterine septa and upwards into the body of the uterus, which in the later stage may become an excavated cavity from ulceration of the growth. The recto-vaginal and vesico-uterine septa may be perforated, and fistulous communications formed with the rectum and bladder. The patient generally dies of exhaustion, but may succumb to peritonitis, from perforation of the body of the uterus, or from pyelo-nephritis, from septic inflammation spreading up the ureters in cases where the bladder is involved. The symptoms of cancer of the cervix are hemorrhage, pain, and offensive discharge. Haemorrhage is usually the first sign, and is followed by a foetid discharge as soon as ulceration has taken place. Pain is not usually an early symptom, but in the later stages of the disease is very severe. The presence of bleeding, coming on at irregular intervals and accompanied by an offensive blood-stained discharge, should always mduce the surgeon to make a vaginal examination, when, if cancer be present, the cervical tissues will be felt to be enlarged, hard, and nodular, and on examination with the speculum the os will be found patulous, with a fungus- like protrusion from it. Later on the cervical tissues will be found to have entirely disappeared and to be replaced by a foul, ulcerating cavity, with indurated edges and base. Treatment.—The treatment of this form of the disease must depend upon the stage in which it is when first discovered. When the disease is strictly limited to the lower portion of the cervix, amputation of the vaginal segment may perhaps be all that is necessary. But the cases are rare in which the disease is met with in this early stage, and the operation in i^elt is not satisfactory, as it is usually followed by speedy recurrence. 1 ne operation of supra-vaginal amputation is therefore usually necessary, or, ii