856 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS APPENDICITIS The word appendicitis is the term commonly a])i)lied to a class of cases which was formerly known under the name of typhlitis or perityphlitis. It is now, however, very universally admitted that though true typhlitis or inflammation of the caecum may occur, in the majority of cases the inflammation originates in the appendix, and therefore the word appendicitis is employed to designate this condition. There are one or two points in connection with the anatomy of the appendix to which it is desirable to refer, as they have an important bearing on the etiology and pathology of this disease, (i) The appendix, with the caecum, is com- pletely invested with peritoneum, and therefore any inflammation of it rapidly involves its peritoneal covering, and moreover it cannot be reached in the natural condition without opening the peritoneal cavity. (2) It is, at all events in the male, supplied by a single artery, which runs through its mesentery to it. In the female it is occasionally supplied also by a branch from the right ovarian artery. (3) It has an abundant supply of lymphoid tissue in its wall. (4) Its position varies. Most usually it is directed upwards and inwards behind the caecum, but at other times it is directed upwards and outwards towards the kidney, or downwards towards the pelvis; or, finally, it may be herniated into the sub-cfecal or ileo-c£ecal peritoneal pouches lying behind the caecum. Etiology.—The causes which may give rise to appendicitis are several, (i) It may be set up as a result of congestion from interference with its circulation. When the caecum becomes distended with gas or faecal matter, it causes dragging on the mesentery of the appendix, which is usually so short that the tube is curved on itself and cannot be straightened out. This tension interferes with the circulation through the single vessel which runs in the mesentery to supply the appendix, and produces congestion and tumefaction, and so alters the condition of the coats of the tube that the bacillus coli communis, which has no power of evil in contact with healthy mucous membrane, acquires pathological properties, and an infective inflammation is set up. (2) Appendicitis may be caused by the presence of some extraneous substance in the tube, rarely a foreign body, such as an orange pip, a bead, or cherry stone, which has been swallowed; more frequently a faecal concretion which has become lodged in it. (3) Typhoid ulcers are occasionally found in the appendix, and may lead to appendicitis and perforation. (4) Rheumatism, tubercle, and actinomycosis are also given as causes of this affection. Pathology.—The inflammation probably commences in the lymphoid tissue of the mucous membrane, and this accounts for the frequency of the disease in the young, in whom this tissue is most abundant. Into this structure the bacteria find an entrance either through the swollen and softened mucous coat or through some abrasion from the impaction of a foreign body, and speedily the inflammation spreads to the other coats, and the muscular, fibrous, and peritoneal coats become involved and infiltrated with inflammatory deposit. The inflammation may stop here, and the result may be merely a glueing of the appendix to neighbourmg parts by adhesions. In other cases the inflammation goes on to suppuration; the pus, however, may be limited by adhesions forming between the ecus of intestine and other structures around, and a circumscribed abscess may result which, although intra-peritoneal, is still shut off" from the general