PYLORECTOMY 819 a diagnosis. This is especially the case when the disease affects the pylorus. Symptoms.—The disease commences with ordinary symptoms of dyspepsia-pain and discomfort after taking food. This is followed by vomiting and rejection of a portion of the food after it has been in the stomach some time. Accompanying this is severe pain in the right hypochondrium and in the back, between the scapulfe. The patient wastes rapidly, and after ulceration has taken place h.-ematemesis sets in, and blood is sometimes brought up in large quantities. When the pylorus is affected the stomach becomes dilated, sometimes enormously, and a hard fixed mass can after a time be detected in the situation of the pylorus. When the cancer is in other parts of the stomach, a hard, somewhat irregular tumour can usually be felt in the situation of the disease ; this is more movable than when the growth is situated at the pylorus. Treatment—The surgical treatment of pyloric cancer consists mainly in performing one of two operations: (i) resection of the pylorus - or (2) gastro-enterostomy. Other operations have been recommended; (3) curetting, which consists in removing with a sharp spoon as much of the cancerous growth as is possible through an opening made in the stomach; and (4) duodenostomy or jejunostomy, making a fistulous open- ing into the small intestine, through which the patient is fed. These two latter operations are not to be recommended. In selecting one of the two operations, resection of the pylorus and gastro-enterostomy, the surgeon must be guided by the condition of parts when the abdomen is opened. AVhen the tumour is freely movable and the neighbouring parts are not impHcated, resection is to be recommended as the more curative proceeding of the two. But in the majority of cases' before operative proceedings are undertaken, the tumour has become so fixed and has so far implicated surrounding parts as to render removal impossible; under these circumstances gastro-enterostomy, or making an artificia communication between the stomach and intestine, must be undertaken. The operation of resection is therefore rarely performed and It would appear that in most cases in which it has been done' recurrence has taken place very rapidly; moreover, it is an operation of great severity, and is attended by a very large mortality. Resection of the pylorus (/y^r^rW).—There are two methods of performing this operation—by direct suture, and by the use of some appliance, as Murphy's button or Senn's plate. Since the introduction of this latter method the results obtained have been more favourable as the time taken in performing the operation is very materially curtailed The stomach should be thoroughly washed out before the operation, and the abdomen having been opened, the growth is thoroughly isolated from the omenta and surrounding structures and brought up to the surface of the r -i ? stomach and duodenum are clamped well beyond the disease on either side, and the parts are carefully packed round with a ring of sponges to prevent any of the contents of the stomach or intestine getting into he peritoneal cavity. An incision is then made from the lesse? cu vature downwards towards the greater curvature so as to extend about halfway across the organ, well on the proximal side of the disease 1" •■ ^^^'c^h opening thus made in the stomach is now closed by a o^lZ-f C'^''."y-L.embert sutures (fig. 319, b). The third step in the Tch Z? " u «^'"Pl^t"^g the section of the stomach, and dividing the duodenum well on the distal side of the growth and removing the tumoun 3 G 2