733 AFFECTIONS OF THE PAROTID DUCT of the tumour, and is frequently adherent to its capsule; it may, however, be superficial to it, and this fact should always be borne in mind, and any incision into the capsule made in a horizontal direction. In removing these growths, the surgeon should always make a free incision over the most prominent part of the swelling, so as to be able to thoroughly expose the capsule; when this has been done, and the capsule freely opened, the tumour can usually be enucleated without difficulty, bat care must be taken that every lobule is removed. The transverse facial artery is fre- quently divided, but can easily be secured; in the deeper part of the dissec- tion the position of the temporo-maxillary vein and the external carotid artery must be borne in mind. Malignant tumours of the parotid may be either sarcomatous or carcinomatous. The sarcoma, though it may occur as a primary growth in the gland, is usually caused by an ordinary parotid tumour under- going sarcomatous changes. A parotid tumour, which has existed, it may be, for years, undergoing a very slow and painless enlargement, sud- denly springs into activity, grows rapidly, becomes fixed to surrounding parts; the skin becomes involved, adherent to the tumour, then gives way and fungation takes place. If such a tumour is examined microscopically, it will be found to contain spindle-shaped cells and other evidence of sarco- matous change, in addition to the original elements of the tumour. The carcinomatous tumours are not so common, and are generally of the soft or encephaloid variety, though the hard scirrhus cancer has been met with in this situation. Symptoms.—Malignant tumours of the parotid, whether sarcoma or carcinoma, grow rapidly, are generally more or less ill defined in outline, and soon become firmly fixed to surrounding parts and adherent to the skin, which becomes purplish red, infiltrated with the growth, and finally gives way and fungates. The tumour is soft and apparently semi-fluctuating when it is an encephaloid carcinoma or a sarcoma, and occurs about middle life; but is hard and tuberous, and usually occurs after middle life, when it is scirrhus. The diagnosis between innocent and malignant growths may generally be made by attention to these points. The malig- nant tumour, as it grows, causes pressure on surrounding parts. It may press on the internal jugular vein, causing venous obstruction, or on the internal carotid artery, interfering with the supply of blood to the brain, or it may implicate the facial nerve, producing facial palsy. In some cases it may grow inwards and project into the pharynx and cause dysphagia. Treatment.—These cases are rarely amenable to treatment by removal, except in quite the early stage, and even in these the prognosis is not favourable, since the disease in the majority of cases speedily returns. If the attempt is made, efforts should be directed to extirpate the whole gland by free external incisions and by ligaturing the external carotid before the dissection is commenced. The facial nerve is necessarily divided and a part of it removed, and therefore permanent palsy must be a consequence of the operation. In the majority of cases, palliative treatment is all that can be adopted. Affection of the parotid duct.—The duct of the parotid gland sometimes becomes obstructed by a salivary calculus. If this is allowed to remain, it ulcerates its way through the duct; an abscess forms in the cheek, which is opened or bursts, and a salivary fistula results (see page 634). The obstruction causes pain and swelling in the gland after food has been taken ; and if this is long continued, the gland becomes