285 TRANSFUSION blood becomes so fluid that serum filters through the walls of the capillaries and collects in the perivascular spaces, producing cedema, which is especially marked in the lower extremities. The pulse is very feeble and rapid, soft from want of tone, and often dicrotic. There is great aneemia, the skin being of a yellowish white tint; the temperature is sub- normal. The patient complains of great thirst, and is liable to faint, especiallv on each return of the haemorrhage. In cases which do not terminate fatally, the early period of recovery may be marked by a certain amount of febrile reaction. The temperature is raised : the pulse beats rapidly, but is weak, small, and easily compressed: there is often vomiting, and the patient complains of feeling weak and languid. When a surgeon is confronted by a case of hsemorrhage, his first care must be to arrest the bleeding, by methods which will be mentioned in the sequel. The constitutional treatment of the patient will then have to be undertaken, and this will vary with the amount of blood lost. If this has not been excessive, and there is no fear of fatal syncope, the treatment is sufifi- ciently simple. The patient must be kept absolutely quiet, with his head low, and free from any external source of annoyance. He should be wrapped in a warm blanket, with hot-water bottles in the bed. If he can swallow and there is no nausea, a little hot beef tea should be given by the mouth, and if the pulse does not improve a little hot brandy and water; or if he cannot swallow, a small quantity of hot brandy and water should be injected into the rectum. If, on the other hand, there are symptoms which indicate danger of fatal syncope, more vigorous measures must be adopted to prevent it. The patient should be laid flat on his back, with the head as low as the body. Too many persons should not collect round him, so_ as not to interfere with the free access of air. Cloths wrung out of boiling water should be applied to the head, and sinapisms to the prsecordial region. The subcutaneous injection of ether (5ss to 5i) should be resorted to, and in doing this the needle of the syringe should be pushed deeply into the tissues, preferably the great gluteal muscle, as when injected superficially it is liable to produce great irritation and even sloughing of the tissues into which it is introduced. Enemata of hot brandy and water should be given, and in very severe cases it may be advisable to compress the abdominal aorta and subclavian arteries, so as to confine the blood as much as possible to the head and trunk. If death appears imminent recourse may be had to transfusion or the injection of a saline solution into the veins, or, what in my experience has proved equally efficacious, the injection of a couple or three pints of normal saline solution (5 j of common salt to a pint of water) at a temperature of 105° F. into the rectum. This has seemed to me to act quite as well as the injection of the solution into the veins ; it is rapidly absorbed, and can be much more quickly done than the other operation. Transfusion.—The operation of transfusion, that is to say, the transference of the blood of another person into the circulation of the patient, has now been practically abandoned, for, as Dr. William Hunter has shown, the immediate danger of loss of blood arises from a sudden fall in the blood pressure, and an ordinary saline solution answers the purpose of restoring the blood pressure equally as well as blood. It seems, therefore, scarcely necessaiy to describe the operation. Great care is required to prevent the introduction of any coagulum, and probably the apparatus introduced by Aveling is the simplest .and best for per- forming it.