938 INJURIES AND DISEASES OK SPECIAL ORGANS loss of appetite. These symptoms are followed by-epileptic convulsions and complete insensibility. The diagnosis of this condition in its later stages is sometimes difficult; it may be mistaken for epilepsy, apoplexy, or opium poisoning. From epilepsy it is to be distinguished by the history, the state of the urine, and the turgidity of the face, and by asphyxial symptoms not being so marked : from apoplexy, by the absence of paralysis ; from opium poisoning, by the state of the pupils, which are dilated in uraemia, and by the coma, which is continuous in opium poisoning, often interrupted in uraemia. There is also no stertor, and the face is pale. Stone in the kidney.—A concretion of the crystalline particles, which are usually held in solution in normal urine, may take place, and thus a stone may be formed in the kidney. In the great majority of cases, this stone, before it has acquired any large size, is carried by the stream of water down the ureter into the bladder, and may be voided during the act of micturition, or may remain in the bladder and being added to by fresh depositions from the urine may increase in size. In its passage down the ureter, a certain train of symptoms is set up, which are known under the name of renal colic. But this does not always occur; the stone may be retained in the kidney, and then several different conditions may result. (i) The stone may become encysted, and causing no pain or inconvenience may remain unde- tected and unsuspected during the rest of the patient's life. It occa- sionally happens that upon making a post-mortem examination of a patient who has died of some other disease, an encysted stone is found in one or other kidney, the presence of which was entirely un- suspected by the patient during life. Indeed, in some cases the whole of the kidney may be found packed with large calcuH, which have produced no symptoms (fig. 358). (2) In other cases the stone may be retained in the kidney and give rise to irritation and a very definite train of symptoms, \yhich may necessitate operative inter- ference for their removal. _ (3) In other cases, especially if the stone is lodged in the pelvis of the kidney, a pyelitis may be set up, and this may lead to pyo-nephrosis, when the pus secreted cannot find an exit down the ureter. This may be further compli- cated by a peri-nephritis, and an abscess may form in the loin, througn which the stone has in some rare instances been known to be discharged. Fig. 358.—Kidney full of calculi, which pro- duced no symptoms during life, and were discovered at post-mortem examination. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)