II22 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS birth the position of the foot can be rectified without any difficulty. If, how'tver, the condition is allowed to remain untreated, the tissues contract, and the foot becomes fixed in this abnormal position. Treatment.—The deformity of talipes calcaneus can usually be corrected by careful manipulation and passive movements, combined with some simple retentive apparatus. It is only in exceptional cases that any operation is required; but in some old and rigid cases it may be found necessary to divide the extensor and peronei tendons, as well as any ligaments which may be felt to be tense and which prevent the foot being brought into its proper position. Recently a new method has been proposed for treating deformities of the Umbs resulting from infantile paralysis, and as this plan of treat- ment has given the best results in talipes calcaneus, this is perhaps the best place to allude to it. It consists in reinforcing the para- lysed muscle by attaching to its tendon the tendon of a healthy muscle, and the proceeding is known as tendon grafting. In cases of talipes calcaneus the peroneus longus and brevis are grafted to the tendo Achillis, but the operation may be utilised in many other deformities. Thus in cases of varus from paralysis of the peronei, the condition may be remedied by taking a strip from the tendo Achillis, and attaching it to the peroneus longus; and in talipes valgus, due to paralysis of the tibialis anticus and posticus, a portion of the extensor proprius hallucis may be grafted into the tibialis anticus, and a portion of the flexor longus digitorum into the tibialis posticus. The operation must be done with strict antiseptic either from spastic contraction of the peronei muscles or paralysis of the tibial muscles. It then closely resembles flat foot. The foot is abducted and everted, and the patient walks on its inner border, the arch of the foot having disappeared. The navicular bone is partially displaced out- wards from the head of the astragalus, so that this process of bone appears under the skin on the inner side of the foot as a rounded prominence. The treatment consists in placing the patient under an anaesthetic and forcibly wrenching the foot into position, with or without division of the peronei tendons. The foot is then put up in a plaster of Paris splint for a time, and subsequently moulded and manipulated until the natural precautions, smce its success depends upon union by first intention. The tendons are exposed and their sheaths opened, and the tendon of the paralysed muscle divided, and its proximal end attached by suture to a portion of the tendon of the muscle with which it is intended to connect it ; this having been previously split off from the rest of the tendon. Fig. 421.—Talipes valgus. Talipes valgus (fig. 421) is rarely met with as a congenital condition, except in association with calcaneus, but is not infrequently met with as an acquired condition.