I042 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS aneurism needle armed with a double ligature is now passed around the fascia with its included veins; and the thread being held, the aneurism needle is withdrawn. By pulling on the ligature the veins are raised from their bed and must be freed from surrounding parts, by a few light touches of the knife, for the extent of about two inches. The double ligature is now divided in its middle. One portion is drawn downwards to the lower- most point of the denuded veins and securely tied ; the other passed to the uppermost point, and in the same way tied. The portion of veins between the two ligatures is now excised, leaving a sufficient amount of stump beyond the ligature to prevent its slipping. The two stumps are brought together and fixed to each other by one or two catgut sutures, passed through them below the level of the ligature. Any bleeding points are then secured, the wound well irrigated with corrosive sublimate solution, and the external wound closed with horsehair sutures. The parts are dressed in the usual way, and the dressing may be left on for a week or ten days, when the wound will be found to be healed, and the stitches may be removed. The patient should be instructed to wear a suspensory bandage for three months afterwards, until the cicatrix is quite consolidated. Tumours of the spermatic cord.—The most common tumour of the spermatic cord is the lipoma, growing from the scattered nodules of fat normally found in this structure. They grow slowly, are painless, and are only of importance because they are liable to be mistaken for hernia. They can be at once recognised by the fact that they are connected with the cord, so that if the testicle is fixed, it is impossible to push them upwards into the abdomen. Other tumours of the cord are the myxomata and the fibromata, but they are very rare. Malignant tumours may affect the cord, spreading upwards from the testicle, and it is said that primary sarcoma may occur in the cord. DISEASES OF THE VESICUL^ SEMINALES Inflammation.—The vesiculae seminales may be the seat of inflam- mation, which may be acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is generally found as a complication of acute prostatitis, the result of gonorrhoea, but may also occur from other forms of urethritis; from stricture, or from catheterism ; but appears always to be associated with inflammation of the prostate. The symptoms are much the same as those of prostatitis : deep-seated pain in the perineum, painful and frequent micturition, and pain on defsecation ; but in addition to these there is persistent priapism, and occasional emissions, the semen often being blood-stained. Upon examination by the rectum, the enlarged vesicles can be felt, and will be found to be exquisitely tender. The inflammation usually runs on to suppuration, the abscess bursting into the rectum, with immediate relief to the symptoms. The treatment consists in hot baths, fomentations to the perineum, and the administra- tion of saline aperients. As soon as suppuration has taken place, an incision should be made into the abscess, either by a bistoury, guarded by the finger, introduced into the rectum, or by a deep incision in the perineum. Chronic inflammation is the result of the same causes as the acute, most frequently occurring from gonorrhoea during its gleety stage. There is pain in the perineum, often referred to the hip, sacrum, or back,