128 GENERAL DISEASES third or fourth day, and there is no necessity to apply it to the whole surface of the sore ; a belt half an inch broad around the margin is all tliat is necessary. 5. The indolent or callous ulcer (fig. 28).—This is the form of ulcer which is seen so often in the out-patient department of our hospitals, and is characterised as a ' bad leg.' It is always chronic and almost always situated on the leg at the junction of the middle and lower third. It is most commonly associated with varicose veins, and its chronicity depends upon the conditions arising from impediment to the venous return. The tissues around are thickened and indurated, very often pigmented: the borders are sharply cut, hard, irregular, and devoid of the ring of new epidermal tissue which surrounds a healing ulcer. The surface of the sore is pale, covered with a greenish- yellow semi-transparent layer, through which peep out here and there little islands of granu- lations. The secretion is thin, often offensive, and slight in amount. They are usually in- sensitive, but sometimes intense pain is com- plained of This may be due to the expo.sure of a nerve ending on the surface of the sore ; and if so, it will be found that the pain is acutely felt at one spot. Treatment.—The treatment of the callous or indolent ulcer is often a difficult problem, since it mostly occurs in the poor, who are unable to give the time necessary for the thorough healing of the sore. When the patient can be treated in hospital, constant rest in bed, with elevation of the limb, will generally succeed in getting rid of the hard, callous • edges, and in covering the surface of the sore with granulations, which after a time will cica- trise under the application of some stimulating lotion. But as soon as the patient begins to get about again, the cicatrix will break down, and the ulcer will be as bad as ever. It is therefore necessary as soon as the sore presents a healthy appearance, and the induration Fig. 28.—An old indolent or around has disappeared, to apply skin grafts, in callous ulcer of the leg. order to obtain a covering for the sore which is not likely to give way. The absorption of the indurated tissue may be promoted by blistering around the scar or by pressure, which can be made with a Martin's bandage or by strapping. If, however, the patient cannot afford the time requisite for this treatment, then an endeavour must first be made to promote the absorp- tion of the chronic inflammatory products with which the surrounding tissues are infiltrated, for until this is done, there is no prospect of healing the sore. This can best be done by pressure, either by strapping or a Martin's bandage. The mode of applying the strapping is as follows : The limb is first thoroughly cleaned and shaved. The surface of the sore is powdered with iodoform and covered with a piece of green protective the size of the sore. Strips of soap plaister are then applied to the