MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE BLADDER where, from the growth taking on a malignant form. The tumour may be reached by the perineum, or by an incision above the symphysis pubis. The latter is the better way, for not only can a distinct view of the tumour be obtained, but there is more r.oom in which to work; and in a subject with a deep perineum or enlarged prostate it is exceedingly difficult to reach the tumour with the finger in the perineal operation. The ordinary supra-pubic cystotomy is first performed, and after the bladder has been opened, the parts are well retracted or an expanding speculum introduced, and by means of an electric lamp a light is thrown into the bladder and the tumour can be thoroughly investigated. The growth may then be torn or twisted off by forceps specially devised by Sir Henry Thompson for this purpose (fig. 365), or may be burnt away with the actual cautery. Perhaps the best way is to combine the two—to tear away as much of the growth as Fig. 365.—Thompson's forceps for removing growths from Ihe bladder. possible with the forceps, and then cauterise the surface from which it sprang. IL Malignant tumours of the bladder.—Malignant tumours of the bladder may be either primary or secondary, more commonly the , latter; spreading from the rectum or prostate in the male, or the vagina and uterus in the female. In these cases the nature of the growth is the same as that of the primary tumour; for instance, where it is the result of primary rectal cancer it is of the nature of columnar epithelioma. Primary malignant disease of the bladder is usually of the nature of squamous epithelioma, though cases of sarcoma, either round-celled or spindle-celled, and rarely lympho-sarcoma, do occur. The disease almost always attacks the posterior wall of the bladder and infiltrates its coats, and rapidly ulcerates (fig. 366), the surface of the ulceration becoming incrusted with phosphatic deposit, which greatly adds to the patient's sufferings. Occa- sionally the ulceration may perforate the resto-vesical septum and form a recto-vesical fistula; but this more often occurs in those cases where the primary disease is in the rectum. In some instances, instead of the growth infiltrating the walls of the bladder, it projects into the vesical cavity and does not invade the muscular coat till later. There seem to be some