398 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES scraped so as to remove as much as possible of the diseased tissue and it may be advisable to swab it out with chloride of zinc solution (gr xl'to ?i) An emulsion of iodoform is then injected, the remains of the sheath sutured, the wound closed, and the part confined on a splint In the fungating form of the disease, in the early stage, treatment by rest, combined with sea air and healthy hygienic surroundings, is to be employed. After caseation has taken place, thorough scraping and removal of the diseased tissue IS necessary. Ganglion.—The name of ganglion is given to certain cystic bodies which are developed in the neighbourhood of tendons; most commonly in those of the wrist or fingers, but also occurring on the dorsum of the foot and in some other situations. Their mode of origin is very doubtful They were formerly supposed to be pouch-Hke dilatations of the sheaths of the tendons, which being constricted by the tendon became narrowed at the point of protrusion and eventually shut off from the parent sheath • but the nature of the fluid they contain, the absence of an antecedent effusion into the sheath of the tendon, and the positions they sometimes occupy, render this improbable. They have been attributed to (i) cystic transformation of the cells in the synovial fringes; (2) to the dilatation of sub-synovial crypts or follicles, which Michon has described as being found in connection with sheaths of tendons ; (3) to cysts of new formation having no connection with tendon sheaths. Symptoms.—They form hard, smooth, globular bodies, varying in size trom a pea to a cherry, most commonly found on the radial side of the wrist. Though they are usually hard and simulate a solid tumour, they rnay be soft and fluctuating, and there is always in them a feeling of elasticity, especially if the fibrous structures around are relaxed as much as possible. Those occurring on the palmar aspect of the fingers, in the neighbourhood of the flexor tendons, are the hardest, and have been mistaken for chondromatous tumours. The ganglia in this situation never attain a large size. Ganglia are occasionally very painful from pressing upon some neighbouring nerve. jelly^^^ contents of a ganglion is a clear gelatinous fluid resembling thin Treatment.—Ganglia, when small, may often be got rid of by rupturing the sac. Ihis can be done by tensing the skin over them and then striking them a sharp blow. Or they may be punctured subcutaneously with a grooved needle, the contents squeezed out, the interior of the sac scarified with the point of the needle, and pressure applied. Should these measures tail, the sac may be excised. bursas.—The bursal synovial membranes found in the body are of two kinds : bursse mucosae, which are subcutaneous and are situated over promment bony points; and bursfe synovite, which are interposed between muscles or tendons as they play over bony surfaces, and which frequently communicate with the synovial cavities of joints. The diseases of these two classes of bursa will have to be considered separately. Subcutaneous bursas.—The most common cause of disease of these bursee is long-continued irritation from friction or pressure • but they may also become the seat of disease in syphilis, tuberculosis, and gout. 1 he/r^/^z/g//fl;r bursa is the one which is most commonly diseased, and when it becomes so is known under the name of housemaid's kfiee, as the condition is set up by the long-continued irritation of kneeling, to which housemaids are much subjected. Other bursre commonly enlarged