GENERAL INJURIES whole of It disappears. These cases were formerly a source of f/reat trouble to surgeons ; since after its introduction the needle has a great tendency to travel to a distance in consequence of the movements of the part, and the manipulations of the patient or his friends and the surgeon's efforts to find and remove it were in vain. Nowadays, however, a photo- graph of the part with the Rontgen rays at once indicates its position, and there is no difificulty in cutting down and removing it. Poisoned wounds Poisoned wounds are those wounds where some foreign material is introduced, which acts injuriously upon the tissues, or in other words poisons them^. This material may be infective or non-infective. I. Non-infective poisoned wounds.—By the term non-infective poison we mean a substance which poisons the tissues locally and pro- duces local effects, and has no power of multiplying in the living body: the amount of effect produced therefore by these poisons always bears a direct relation to the amount of poison introduced ; the greater the amount, the greater will be the local mischief and also the general disturbance if there is any ; just in the same way as a large dose of opium taken into the stomach produces greater effects than a small dose. Another point in which non-infective poisons differ from infective ones also arises from the fact that the former have no power of increasing in the body, whilst the latter have; and this is, that the non-infective poisons begin to show their effects at once, whilst the infective do not. There is usually a period, varying in duration according to the poison introduced, which is known as t\\Q period of incubation, during which the patient is apparently quite well and suffering no inconvenience. During this time the poison, which may have been introduced in the minutest quantity, is multiplying in the blood and tissues of the body, and it is not until it has reached a certain amount or standard that it begins to exert its effects. It will be seen, therefore, that in these cases the effect produced is in no way proportional to the dose. Under the head of non-infective wounds it will be sufiScient to describe the three following kinds : (a) some forms of dissection wounds ; {/>) stings of insects ; {c) bites of snakes. a. Dissection wounds.—Under the head of dissection wounds are included all kinds of wounds in which the poison introduced is derived from some dead animal matter, so that it includes those accidentally made on himself in post-mortem examinations by the person conducting the examination ; those made by the student in dissecting; and those inflicted on themselves by cooks, butchers, fishmongers, and such like in pursuing their various avocations. But these wounds vary very much in intensity, and like poisoned wounds in general may be divided into two classes : (i) the non-infecting, and (2) the infecting wound. The first only of these classes will be considered here; the second will be described when speak- ing of infective poisoned wounds. The non-infective dissection wounds are not nearly so dangerous as the other class. They are the result of the introduction of some poison which has been derived from the decomposition of the animal matter, and occur in those cases where the animal from whom the poison is obtained has been for some time dead. In these cases there is Httle risk of an in- fective dissection wound, for the bacteria of decomposition have destroyed and replaced any infective micro-organisms which may have been present in