INJURIES OF RAILWAY COLLISIONS 745 careful dieting ; but the rest must not be continued too long, and a good deal of discrimination is required in deciding when the patient should be encouraged to move about. The back should be massaged with stimula- ting liniments, and as soon as all pain and tenderness, especially pain on movement, has disappeared, the patient should be induced to get up and take exercise. He should have change of air and scene, and his mind should be drawn away from his condition as much as possible by cheerful society and surroundings. At this time the administration of iron and strychnia, and galvanism to the muscles of the back, is often productive of great good. 2. The second class of cases which have received the name of railway spine are happily much more uncommon. They are cases in which a condition of spinal meningitis or myelitis is set up as a result of the injury. It is of a very chronic nature, and leads to degenerative changes in the cord. This condition has been named by Erichsen indirect coticussion. In these cases there is always a distinct period after the accident, some- times weeks or months, during which the patient suffers from no definite symptoms, and during which he believes himself to have recovered from the accident. It may be that at the time of the injury there were no symptoms, or, if there were, they have passed off and left the patient presumably convalescent. But he is not quite well. There is a disinclin- ation and inability to apply himself to any work. He looks wan and haggard, and loses flesh, and does not feel capable of making any exertion. He is not the man he was. Then insidious symptoms supervene. His brain power is diminished; he loses his memory and displays great irritability of temper. Various disturbances of the nervous system, not only of the spinal marrow, but also of the brain from ascending myelitis, begin to appear. The organs of special sense are affected ; the vision is usually defective, or there may be asthenopia from want of power of accommodation, and the movements of the pupil are sluggish. The hearing may be partially lost, or, on the other hand, there may be over- sensitiveness and complaints of all sorts of noises in the ears, and any sudden noise may be peculiarly distressing. Sensation is perverted; the patient complains of pins and needles in his legs, of numbness or sonie- times of shooting pains down the limb. He will state that he feels as if he were treading on cotton wool when he puts his feet to the ground, and he will be unable to button his clothes or pick up a pin from the floor, because the sense of touch is perverted. There is loss of motor power, especially in the lower extremities, the patient walking with a tottering, unsteady gait, and requiring a stick or some article of furniture for his support. The tendon reflexes are generally exaggerated. He complains of inability to sleep; of distressing and horrifying dreams, and steadily loses weight. There is often dribbUng of urine, the bladder is unable to retain its contents, and there is impairment or loss of sexual power. On examining the spine, one or more tender spots may be discovered by percussion, and there is more or less rigidity, which accounts for his unbending attitude. The prognosis in those cases where the condition has come on gradually and is steadily progressing is not good, and the probabilities are that the patient will drift into a confirmed invalid and become permanently crippled. Yet many of these cases recover after a prolonged period of rest. Much will depend upon the general health and recuperative powers of the patient, and- upon whether the disease has been recognised and treated in the early stage.