ii6 GENERAL DISEASES fluctuation, and even a muscle when palpated, transversely conveys a sensation very like fluctuation. It must be mentioned that fluctuation merely indicates the presence of fluid contained in a cavity; the nature of the fluid is known by the presence of the signs of inflammation. Perhaps the two most typical signs of pus are the presence of oedema in the skin overlying the swelling, and the presence of a softened spot, with an abrupt margin in an inflammatory area. Should any doubt arise in the surgeon's mind as to the presence of pus, it can at once be set at rest by the use of the exploring syringe—an exhausting syringe fitted with a sharp hollow needle. The needle is thrust into the swelling and the piston withdrawn, when the pus will be sucked up into the syringe, provided the lumen of the needle is sufficiently large to admit the passage of the fluid. The little puncture does no harm, and can be sealed with a drop of collodion. Treatment.—There is only one treatment for acute abscess, and that is to open it as soon as the presence of pus has been recognised. There is no object in waiting, as the abscess will only increase in size and destroy more tissue, and the little operation is at once followed by immediate rehef to both the constitutional and^local symptoms. There are certain points even in the simple proceeding of opening an abscess which must be attended to. It must be done with those antiseptic precautions which have already been alluded to. The opening should be made at the point where fluctuation is most distinct, or at the most dependent part, and as far as possible from any of the muco-cutaneous orifices for fear of con- tamination from this source. The opening should be free ; if the abscess is of any size, free enough to admit of the introduction of a finger. Except the abscess is small and superficial, it is always desirable that the finger should be inserted into it, since in many instances abscesses are loculated or present recesses, and unless the septa between these are broken down with the finger, all the pus will not be evacuated. After the abscess has been opened and the pus discharged, the cavity should be syringed out with some antiseptic fluid until it returns quite clear. A drainage tube should now be introduced into the bottom of the cavity ; all remains of the fluid squeezed out, and the wound dressed antiseptically. The dressing should be changed dailj^, and the drainage tube shortened at each dressing, so that it can be left out altogether in about a week or ten days. Sometimes, where the abscess is in the neighbourhood of important structures, the safer plan is to open it by the method advocated by the late Mr. Hilton. An abscess in the axilla, for instance, may be opened as follows : an incision is made through the skin and fascia, and then a director, introduced through this opening, is pushed onwards, with a boring rnovement, until pus is seen in the groove of the instrument: a pair of sinus forceps is then run along the groove, and when it enters the cavity is opened and forcibly withdrawn so as to enlarge the opening. Chronic abscess differs in its pathology, symptoms, and treat- ment from acute abscess. It seems a pity, therefore, that they should be called abscesses, which they are not, if we accept the usual definition of an abscess—that is, a circumscribed collection of pus—for these chronic abscesses either do not contain pus, or if they do, it is only owing to some accidental circumstance. There is, however, a rare form of disease occasionally seen in the breast and it may be in bones, which more nearly merits the name of chronic abscess. Taking the breast for an example, we occasionally get a very hard tumour, which may be and often has been