1059 POLYPUS OF THE UTERUS greater size than a hazel nut, The organ is now free, and can be removed. The parts are then well irrigated with antiseptic solution, so as to get rid of all blood clot; the vagina is plugged with antiseptic gauze, and the external wound closed in the usual way. The vagina acts as a drain, and therefore the opening into it is not sutured. The gauze plug is removed at the end of forty- eight hours. Some surgeons recommend the removal of the whole of the uterus, with its fibroids, per vaginam, in the same manner as the cancerous uterus is removed by what is termed vaginal hysterectomy. But if the fibroid tumour is large, as it very often is, its size acts as a barrier to its safe delivery through the pelvis and genital passages; and under these circum- stances it may be necessary to cut it into pieces before it can be removed, and this seriously complicates matters, more especially as it is necessary to secure the vessels in the first instance, and this is often difficult with a large tumour. 2. Adenomata.—These tumours of the uterus are not of much im- portance. They are composed of glandular structure embedded in an abundant fibrous stroma. The type of gland structure varies with the situation of the tumour. For the most part they grow from one of the lips of the cervix uteri, but also occasionally from the mucous lining of the cavity of the uterus. They never attain any large size, and constitute one of the forms of uterine polypi. Polypi.—Polypi of the uterus are of two varieties. a. The adenoma, the tumour just alluded to, which usually grows from the cervical canal, never attains a but may cause a good deal of inconvenience from haemorrhage and leucorrhoea. They are at once to be felt on digital examination, and may be either pedunculated or sessile. In most instances they can be removed by seizing them with a pair of torsion forceps and twisting them off, but when they are more sessile they may require removal with scissors. After removal a strong solution of iodine should be applied to prevent septic mischief. b. Myoma or fibro- myoma.—This is the ordinary uterine polypus, which, growing from the walls of the cervical canal or uterus, projects at the os as a pear-shaped tumour with a distinct pedicle or stalk (fig. 401). They may attain a considerable size, as large as a man's fist, and, though not very vascular, may give rise to alarming and even dangerous haemorrhage. They can easily be felt on digital examination, with a narrow stalk attached to or projecting from the OS, and can be removed without difficulty by meaivj of the wire ecraseur, the wire being slipped over the polyp, so as to be made to embrace the pedicle, and then slowly tightened until the pedicle is cut through. It is 3 V 2 Fig. 401.—Polypus of the uterus. (From the Museum ofSt. George's Hospital.)