I048 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS and a purulent or muco-purulent discharge, which causes the labia to adhere together. The treatment consists in rest, and attention to diet, with the admini- stration of a saline purge. The local treatment consists in cleanliness ; the parts should be douched three or four times a day with warm Condy's fluid (5j to Oj), and the patient should have a hot sitz bath every night. When the active symptoms have subsided, an astringent lotion should be substituted for the Condy's fluid. _ Follicular vulvitis—A special form of vulvitis has its seat of origin in the sebaceous glands of the labia majora. It originates from the same causes as ordinary vulvitis. The labia become swollen and tender, and upon examining their internal surface they are found to be studded with a number of small papules, which suppurate and burst, and discharge a quantity of foul pus. The treatment is the same as for vulvitis, but after each douching a pledget of wool, soaked in glycerole of tannin, should be inserted between the labia so as to keep them apart, and prevent them from irritating each other. Abscess of the labia.—A^ulvitis frequently terminates in abscess of the labium. The labium becomes much swollen, red and tense, and exquisitely tender. Severe throbbing pain is complained of, and the parts around are oedematous. There is usually a considerable degree of fibrile excitement. Later on fluctuation will be detected. The abscess must be freely opened at any spot where the skin is softening, and after the matter is evacuated, the cavity should be stuffed with gauze, to ensure healing from the bottom. Noma pudendi.—This condition is the same as cancrum oris in the mouth, and has already been described (page 146). Pruritus is a name given to an intolerable itching which occasion- ally attacks the vulva, sometimes without any obvious cause; at other times, in diabetic or gouty subjects; and in some as the result of irritating discharges. It most frequently occurs in elderly women, and is especially troublesome at night. As soon as the patient gets warm in bed the most intolerable itching attacks the vulva, which entirely prevents sleep, and which induces constant scratching, until the tissues become abraded and torn. The treatment consists in removing the cause, if it can be ascertained. The local application of cocaine is the means of giving the most relief, and it will generally be found that the best way to apply it is to soak a piece of lint in a 5 per cent, solution, and insert it between the labia. Tumours.—Many different forms of tumours affect the vulva, among which are : {a) Elephantiasis, due to obstruction of the lymphatics, which leads to an overgrowth of the connective tissue of the labia and clitoris; [b) Papillomata, which result from the irritation of discharges, and which may form large and exuberant growths, extending to the anus and down the thighs; (c) Angioniata, especially in young children; {d) Lipo7nata, which, originating in the connective tissue of the labia majora, or of the mons Veneris, may attain a large size; and (e) Fibromata, which occasionally become pedunculated, and are apt to ulcerate. Among malignant growths, squamous epithelioma is the most common, though sarcojfia, especially melanotic sarcoma, is not uncommon. Epithelioma occurs in somewhat advanced life, generally com- mencing in one labium, and rapidly extending till it affects all the tissues at the vaginal outlet, forming a foul, ulcerated chasm, which may extend