GENERAL INJURIES 82 A case of hydrophobia is mentioned in the ' Lancet' for September 17, 1892, in which the incubation period was said to be five years. The patient and his brother were both bitten in August 1887 by a mad dog. They both went to Paris and were subjected to Pasteur's treatment. The elder brother died nine weeks after the bite. The younger brother apparently remained in good health till September i, 1892, when he was attacked with pain in his limbs and back ; spasms on attempting to drink &:c. He became convulsed and died after presenting all the symptoms of hydrophobia. The diagnosis of the disease was said to be confirmed by the post-mortem examination. It is not quite clear from the history of the case whether this may not have been a case of tetanus. Symptoms.—After the bite of a rabid animal, no peculiar features are observed about the wound, which usually behaves in the ordinary way and heals readily. Sometimes there is some irritation about it, with perhaps glandular enlargement, but this, in all probability, is due to the caustics or other remedial agents which have been applied. The wound has usually quite healed, and presents no visible peculiarity when the premonitory symptoms are ushered in. These are both local and general. The local premonitory symptoms are not always present, but, when they exist, usually consist in an uneasy sensation or tingling about the wound, sometimes amounting to actual pain : the cicatrix may break down and ulcerate, and the wound recommence to discharge. Occasionally, it is said, vesications appear around the wound. The general symptoms are more marked and more constant. There is a general feeling of uneasiness and discomfort. The patient complains of giddiness, of alternating feelings of chilliness and heat, and there is great depression and fear of impending evil. There is moreover often con- siderable alteration in the temperament of the individual; he is morose and sullen, secludes himself from society, and takes little or no notice of what is going on around him. If conversed with or urged to exert himself, he is irritable and shows a great aversion to talk about his illness. The pulse is often much quickened, the respirations shallow, and there is loss of appetite or aversion to taking food. It is stated, principally on the authority of Marochetti and Xanthos, that, between the sixth and twentieth day after inoculation, vesicles or pustules of a peculiar character, which are called lyssi, may be found on the under surface of the tongue, especially around the frsenum ; and it has been recommended that the patient's mouth should be examined twice a day during this period, and if lyssi are found, to lay them open and cauterise them. Marochetti states that there is a tradition in Russia and Greece that if this is done, all manifestations of hydrophobia are prevented, and furthermore that he has tried the plan with success. After these premonitory symptoms have lasted two or three days, special symptoms of the disease supervene. The most characteristic of these is a violent and repeated spasmodic contraction of the muscles, especially those of respiration and deglutition. This spasm is of a reflex character, and is induced by various slight external causes, such as a touch from a bystander, the slamming of a door, the sudden admission of a bright light, a blast of cold air, or by attempts to swallow, and after a time even by the sight of fluid or the sound of fluid poured from one vessel into another. These spasms come on gradually, and increase in severity. Generally the earliest sign is a slight spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm. This