937 UREMIA ing as to whether the obstruction is complete or not. The constitutional symptoms consist in an elevation of the temperature, especially at night, possibly a rigor, nausea and sickness, diarrhoea, with loss of appetite and gradual deterioration of strength. If the disease is chronic, symptoms of hectic supervene. If both kidneys are involved, the case generally terminates fatally, either from toxsemia, pyaemia, or urjemic poisoning. Treatment consists in the early stages of removal, if possible, of the cause of the obstruction and distension. If both kidneys are affected, no operative interference is permissible, and palliative treatment is only possible ; but if _ one kidney only is affected, it should be exposed by an incision in the loin, and if any cause of obstruction can be found, it should be removed. If not, the abscess cavity should be opened and drained. Nephrectomy may subsequently be required, but it is better to defer this operation until the parts have been efificiently drained and got into as healthy a condition as possible. e. Peri-nephritis, or inflammation of the cellular tissue and fat around the kidney, is usually the result of the extension of inflammation from a suppurating pyelo-nephritis, but may occur as a primary condition, without any disease of the kidney, from a wound, or consecutive to disease of some other organ than the kidney. It also occurs occasionally as a sequel to one of the exanthemata. The disease may be acute or chronic, and the symptoms will vary accordingly. They are those which attend the formation of deep-seated pus in other parts of the body. In the acute form there is fever, with probably rigors, deep-seated throbbing pain, with the formation of an indurated swelling, which after a time becomes soft and fluctuating, and tends to point in the loin. The skin in this situation becomes dusky red and oedematous. In the chronic form the symptoms are obscure, until a swelling forms in the neighbourhood of the kidney. There is, however, prior to this a sensation of uneasiness and weight in the lumbar region, and the patient walks lame because he is unable to completely extend the thigh on the pelvis. There is also in these cases obstinate constipation. The chronic condition is very liable to be mistaken for lumbar abscess from Pott's disease, but can be diagnosed by the absence of any signs of disease of the vertebrae. Treatment.—The treatment consists in both class of cases in making an incision along the outer border of the erector spinse and evacuating the pus. The finger should then be introduced, and an endeavour made to find out the cause of the condition, and, if possible, remove it. If this cannot be done, renal fistula is very likely to follow. Uraemia is a constitutional condition which may be set up by any of the above forms of disease of the kidney, and is caused by retention in the blood of matters usually eHminated by the kidneys. In consequence of this, decomposition products, as kreatin, leucin, and extractives are present in the tissues, and give rise to a certain train of symptoms. In addition the quantity of acid excreted is lessened, and the alkalinity of the blood is diminished. Sjrmptoms.—In the early stage the patient complains of general malaise, headache, and nausea, and sometimes vomits, especially in the morning, the vomited matter smelling of ammonia. Dimness of vision and short- ness of breath are also complained of. The pulse is slow, there is consider- able mental inactivity, and often hiccough, indigestion, and diarrhoea, with