PROGNOSIS OF SARCOMA 249 cells closely massed together, without any intervenuig antercellular substance. These tumours are probably round-celled sarcomas, which have undergone hyaline or mucoid degeneration. In confinnation ol this view it may be stated that cases have been recorded where these tumours have been removed and have recurred, and the secondary growths have presented the ordinary characters of round-celled sarcomata. 7 Sarcomatous blood cysts.-Soft sarcomatous tumours, on account of their great vascularity, sometimes become converted into blood cysts. This arises from extravasation of blood into the substance of the tumour, which expands it so as to form a cyst filled with blood, the wall of which consists of a thin layer of sarcomatous tissue, which usually can only be distinguished bv microscopic examination. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of sarcoma is often a matter ot con- siderable difficulty. The rate of growth is a point which, often serves Fig. 61. — INIelanotic sarcoma. (From a preparation in the Mustum of St. George's Hospital.) to distinguish it from innocent tumours. The unequal consistence of the tumour, which is a marked feature of these growths, is also an important point to bear in mind, and the part in which the tumour takes its origin is of assistance in coming to a right conclusion. The diagnosis from carcinoma is especially difficult, but is not a matter of much importance, as the treatment of the two is the same. Frequently the only indications to guide us are the seat of the disease and the patient's age. The absence of any implication of the lymphatic glands would point to sarcoma. The diagnosis can always be verified after removal by micro- scopic examination. , The prognosis of sarcoma varies with the nature of the growth, ana the seat of the disease. It must be borne in mind that all sarcomata, if not treated, will terminate fatally, unless the patient is earned off previously by some intercurrent disease, but the period at which death will ensue is very variable. Some forms of sarcomata, as the melanotic, or the spmd e- celled when it attacks the periosteum, or the round-celled of the testicle.