2l6 GENERAL DISEASES If'is true that after the haemorrhage has lasted some time the blood becomes thin and watery, and coagulates imperfectly, but this is only a similar condition to what is produced by any profuse haemorrhage. In connection with the pathology of this affection, it must be mentioned that it is believed by some to have an obscure relationship with rheumatism. Certain it is that in htemophilia affections of the joints are by no means uncommon which are not due to htemorrhage into the joint, but are purely inflammatory in their nature. The exact connection of the two conditions is entirely unknown. Symptoms.—Profuse and uncontrollable bleeding is the only symptom of this disease, and patients who suffer from htemophilia present no dis- tinctive constitutional appearance, and, except when suffering from the direct effects of the hsemorrhage, appear to be in a condition of perfect health. It is convenient to consider it under the two forms of the sponta- neous and the traumatic, though the two conditions may be combined in the same individual. The spontaneous haemorrhage occurs from the mucous surfaces, or into joints, or into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. As a rule it occurs with- out any warning and frequently takes place in the night, whilst the patient is in bed and asleep; sometimes the attacks are preceded by certain premonitory symptoms—a period of excitement, during which the patient is restless, and the heart's action tumultuous and very rapid. It has been stated that some patients have been sensible of an odour of blood in their nostrils for some days prior to an attack. When the bleeding occurs spontaneously from a mucous surface, it most frequently takes place from the nose in the shape of a profuse and uncontrollable epistaxis, which even plugging of the anterior and posterior nares will not stop. After this the next inost frequent place from which it occurs is the gums, and then from the alimentary canal. The respiratory and uro-genital tracts are less frequently the seat of bleeding, at all events in the male; in the female the disease sometimes takes the form of profuse menstruation. When the haemorrhage occurs into joints, it may be either spontaneous or the result of a slight strain. The joint becomes distended and painful, and very often the skin over it becomes ecchymosed, but there is no increased heat about it, as there is in inflammatory conditions. Any of the large joints may be affected, but the knee is most commonly the seat of the extravasation. Subcutaneous haemorrhages may occur on any part of the surface of the body, but are niore common on the lower extremities than elsewhere. They occur as irregular ecchymoses, sometimes attaining a large size and forming fluctuating swellings under the skin. The sense of fluctuation is the more perceptible because the blood in these cases shows litde tendency to coagulate. The traumatic variety may occur after any injury, even of the most trivial character; the scratch of a pin has been known to be followed by a severe attack of bleeding. Perhaps the most common traumatism pro- ducing bleeding is the extraction of a tooth. Cases of fatal haemorrhage after this slight operation are by no means uncommon. Vaccination does not appear to be often followed by htemorrhage. This no doubt is due to the fact that the peculiar predisposition of the child does not assert itself until the sixth or eighth month. The bleeding may not only be caused in the traumatic cases by breach of the surface, but may also be induced by pressure, or by strains or wrench(is. When