WHITLO^V 159 probably rigors. There may be a little oedema and redness of the skin in the neighbourhood, but this is by no means constant. Deep-seated tension or resistance may be felt on manual examination. The constitutional symptoms are of a very severe type. There is great prostration of the nervous system and speedy collapse, especially when the disease is due to a poisoned wound from post-mortem examinations. There is a high temperature; profuse sweating; a quick, feeble, intermit- tent pulse; a brown and dry tongue; vomiting and diarrhoea and low muttering delirium. In many cases there is absorption of septic matters, and death results from saprtemia or septictemia. Treatment.—In the treatment of cellulitis, decisive measures are of paramount importance, and the only way of saving the skin, in the sub- cutaneous forms of the disease, and preventing sloughing, is by timely and free incisions. These should be made early and carried down into the inflamed tissues so as to afford a ready exit for the effused products of inflammation. Where the cellulitis occurs in deeper parts, and more remote from the surface, incisions are also imperatively called for, and should be boldly undertaken as soon as the disease is recognised, otherwise the patient will probably succumb in a few days if the disease is very acute, or in the more chronic forms, after some time, from exhaustion or pyemia. After the incisions, warmth and moisture, preferably in the shape of boracic acid fomentations, must be applied to facilitate the separation of the sloughs. As regards the general treatment the same lines must be adopted as in cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas. Wine and brandy, combined with bark and ammonia and good nourishing fluid food, must be given. Paronychia or Whitlow.—It is convenient in this place to de- scribe Paronychia or Whitlozv, an infective inflammation of the finger, which is closely allied to erysipelas. It is the result of inoculation with septic organisms which find an entrance through some slight scratch or abrasion. It is often accompanied by very great pain, by constitutional disturbance which is out of all proportion to the amount of local mischief, and is fre- quently followed by very serious consequences. It is usually the custom to classify the varieties of the disease under four heads according to the nature of the tissue implicated, and this is a convenient arrangement, as the symptoms and consequences of these varieties are different in impor- tance and degree. I. Paronychia ungualis.—This is a form of the disease which is of comparatively little importance. It arises from the introduction of some septic matter through a slight prick or scratch, or, Avhat is more common, through an abrasion at the margin of the nail, which is popu- larly known as ' hang-nail.' It is often seen on the fingers of surgeons, dressers, nurses, and such-like, who are constantly exposed to the risk of inoculating themselves with some septic material. The disease is confined to the ungual phalanx; the pulp of which becomes swollen and slightly red, the redness being greater on that side of the nail where the inocula- tion took place. There is very considerable pain of a throbbing character, and the whole end of the finger feels hot. Very rapidly a drop of pus forms under the epidermis, at the point of injury, and this may burrow under the nail, producing increased pain. The treatment consists in evacuating the drop of pus. This may be done by shaving away the cuticle until the little bead of pus is reached, and its discharge will give ' mmediate relief. If the suppuration has extended under the nail, this