98o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS small pair of lithotomy forceps, with which the stone should be gently extracted. When it is more than an inch in diameter the amount of laceration and undue stretching has to be so great in order to extract, that permanent incontinence is likely to be set up. In stones of larger size, supra-pubic lithotomy is the best mode of extracting the stone, and is to be preferred to lithotrity. For, as Sir H. Thompson says, 'the bladder soon becomes empty, and the manipulation and removal of large, sharp and angular fragments in that condition is, I consider, a very hazardous proceeding, and one which probably involves more damage to the urethra, to say nothing of the bladder, than the removal of a good-sized stone entire.' The female urethra and bladder do not lend themselves very readily to the rapid removal of the stone by the evacuating bottle. As soon as the water is forced into the bladder from the bottle, it escapes by the urethra and does not return into the bottle. It is right, however, to state that Keegan, who has had perhaps more experience of stone in the bladder than any other living surgeon, states that the great majority of stones in the female bladder are best removed by litholapaxy ; and that ' any surgeon who at the close of the nineteenth century adopts as a routine practice the old method of rapid dilatation of the female urethra with extraction is behind the age.' DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE Acute inflammation of the prostate gland—Acute pro- statitis is very rare as an idiopathic affection, but not uncommonly occurs as the result of gonorrhoea, the septic inflammation spreading backwards to the prostatic urethra and to the prostate gland. It may also be set up by injury, especially from rough catheterism and the formation of a false passage in the prostatic urethra. As rarer causes, may be mentioned stricture, and the retention of decomposing urine ; the presence of calculi in the prostate ; and inflammation extending to the gland in a case of cystitis. The symptoms are deep-seated pain, with a sensation of heat and weight in the perineum ; frequent desire to pass water, with pain during the passage, especially towards the end of the act. Deffecation is very painful; and upon examination per rectum the prostate is felt to be enlarged, hot, and exquisitely painful. The perineum is also hot" and tender. The sitting position is particularly painful, and if the patient is requested to sit down he will be noticed to support the weight of his body on one buttock to avoid pressing on the perineum. The inflammation usually runs on to suppuration, and when it does, the pain becomes more intense and throbbmg in character, the tissues in the perineum become red and oedematous, and there is fever, with probably a rigor. Under these circumstances, retention may occur, and the passage of a catheter is attended \>y intense pam. The abscess which forms usually bursts into the urethra, and pus is discharged per urethram ; but in these cases there is often a discharge ot pus from the urethra before the abscess bursts, from inflammation of the prostatic urethra. If the exit for the pus from the abscess is free, a speedy relief quickly follows the bursting of the abscess, and the case usually does well; but in many cases only a small opening forms, and the abscess cavity does not completely empty itself, and under these circumstances t le matter is likely to burrow and burst into the rectum, or externally in ttie perineum, and this may give rise to fistula.