TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS 1117 cannot be extended beyond a right angle. This should be worn for twelve months. In very severe cases of old neglected talipes equinus this is not sufficient. If the tendon is simply divided, and the foot broucrht at once into its normal position, the severed halves of the tendon are so widely separated that the subsequent union is not firm. In these cases the tendon should be spliced. This is done by exposing some inches of the tendon by a vertical incision, made with strict antiseptic precautions. The tendon is then split down its centre for three or four inches, according to the amount of deformity which exists; one half of the tendon is now divided above and the other half below ; the foot is put in its normal position at right angles to the leg, and the two halves of the tendon where they overlap are sutured together (fig. 4^S>). The external wound is then closed, and dressed, and put up in plaster of Paris. Talipes varus as a pure condition is probably never met with, for it is almost always, if not always, associated with a certain amount of equinus, constituting the commonest of all the varieties of congenital club toot—equmo- variis. Talipes equino-varus (fig. 419) as a congenital affection most commonly arises from deficiency of the liquor amnii and undue pressure of the uterine wall; but it may also be acquired as a result of infantile paralysis of the extensor and peroneal muscles, those muscles which are supplied by the external popliteal nerve; or it may be the result of some spastic contrac- tion of the muscles supplied by the internal popliteal nerve. In these cases the heel is drawn upwards and the foot adducted, its anterior half being drawn inwards, so that the foot is, as it were, bent on itself at the mid-tarsal joint, the inner border presenting a deep sulcus or groove, corresponding to this articulation, and the outer border a prominent convex surface. When the child stands he rests on the outer border and partly on the dorsum, and a large bursa is usually developed in this situation. Where the deformity is of old standing, the bones become considerably altered in shape. The superior articular surface of the astragalus is displaced forwards from the tibio-fibular arch, and pushed towards the outer side of the dorsum. The neck of the sanie bone is elongated, and forms an angle with the body, so that the head is directed inwards and the navicular is displaced to its inner side, and is almost in contact with the internal malleolus; the cuboid is turned downwards so that its dorsal surface rests on the ground, and the metatarsal bones form a more or less vertical, instead of a horizontal, series. The muscles which are shortened are the tibialis posticus, anticus, and the muscles forming the tendo Achillis. As age advances, the maintenance of the deformity is not due alone to these shortened muscles; they may all be divided and still the deformity cannot be remedied, for the ligaments on the inner side of the foot, being relaxed, also _ become shortened, and later on the alteration in the shape of the bones interferes Fig. 418.—Diagram showing the method of splicing the tendo Achillis.