1096 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS by thg knife. It is scarcely necessary to say that this removal should be done at as early a period as possible, for it is not every case of cancer of the breast that is suited to treatment by operation, and the great majority of cases which are unsuited are those in which the disease has existed for so long a time that its entire removal is impossible. The first question which the surgeon should ask himself in considering the desirability of removing a cancer of the breast or not, is : Can the whole of the disease be entirely removed or not ? • If the answer is in the negative, under no circumstances whatever is an operation admissible, except as a palliative measure to relieve pain, or annoyance from the fcetor of the dis- charge. All cases, therefore, where there is any evidence of secondary growths elsewhere; where the skin is extensively implicated, as in cancer en cuirasse—because the lymphatic affection extends far beyond the part apparently affected; where the glands in the subclavian triangle are enlarged—because, though it is possible to remove these glands, the con- necting lymphatics between them and the axillary glands cannot be got rid of; where the tumour is adherent to the thoracic wall; where there is considerable oedema and neuralgia down the arm ; and where there is an extensively fungating tumour with marked constitutional cachexia, no operation is admissible. An operation for the removal of a cancerous breast must be as thorough and complete as possible. By this is meant that not only must the entire breast be removed, but also the skin over the affected area of the breast, and for a considerable distance around; the pectoral fascia, and perhaps even a superficial layer of the pectoralis major muscle; the lymphatic glands in the axilla, and the lymphatic tissue pass- ing from the breast to the glands in the axilla. To insure this latter object the surgeon should remove the whole in one piece, and by doing this he will find that he will gain assistance in clearing out the axilla, as the weight of the breast tends to drag down its contents. We must consider these points a little more in detail: (i) The whole of the breast must be removed. The breast is a much more extensive organ than was formerly supposed, and, in addition to the main mass, con- sists at its periphery of many outl3'ing lobules, which may extend inwards nearly to the sternum and upwards to the clavicle. All these lobules must be scrupulously removed, since by leaving them they may lead to recur- rence. Stiles of Edinburgh has introduced a method by which in a very short time it can be ascertained whether any lobules of the breast have been cut through in the removal and, therefore, parts of breast tissue left behind. The breast immediately after removal is well washed; then soaked in a 5 per cent, nitric acid solution for five to ten minutes, and again washed ; sections of acini and nodules of disease will appear as white points in the fibrous stroma, which has become translucent and gelatinous. (2) The skin over the affected area of the breast and for some distance around must be removed. This is because a system of lym- phatics passes from the plexuses around the lobules of the breast through the suspensory ligaments to the lymphatic plexuses in the skin, and if these are not all removed, portions of lymphatic vessels which have already become infected may be left behind, and may cause a recurrence of the disease. It must be well known to surgeons who watched the incomplete operations of former days that in numberless cases in which recurrence took place the disease did not recur in the scar, but as a nodule in the skin, some little distance from the scar. This was no doubt due to the fact that an infected skin lymphatic had been left behind. In removing a