Fig. 2i6.—Elevated fracture, caused by a chisel falling perpendicularly from a height of about So feet. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) FRACTURES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL 587 dealt with on its merits, according to tlie discretion of the surgeon. In cases of punctured fracture a large trephine should be used, so that the whole circle of injured bone may be removed. Before leaving this subject, it is necessary to mention a peculiar fracture of the vault of the skull, where a portion of the bone is elevated. This usually arises from a sabre cut, or a sharp instru- ment, like a chisel, falling from a height ; a portion of the skull is then prised out- wards, and resembles the lid of a box (fig. 216). 6. Fractures of the base constitute a most serious and important class of fractures of the skull, and may be produced in two different ways, (i) By direct violence, applied to the base of the skull. In this way the skull may be fractured by the direct impact of the vertebral column against the occipital condyles in falls upon the feet or buttocks ; or by blows on or violence of any sort applied to the lower jaw, which drives its condyle against the glenoid fossa, and causes fracture of this part of the base of the skull; or, thirdly, by direct thrusts through the orbit or nose, causing fracture of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull. (2) Fractures of the base of the skull may also be occasioned by indirect violence j as, for example, when a person falls from a height on to his head and sustains a fracture of the base. The mechanism of this form of fracture was formerly explained by the doctrine of contre-coup ; but, as we have already stated, there is no evidence to prove that this ever takes place, and it was superseded by what IS usually known as Aran's law—that all fractures of the base are produced by a fissure which starts from the point of injury, and radiates to the base by the shortest route. This view was almost universally adopted for many years, and there can be little doubt that most cases of fracture of the base are caused in this way; but more extended observation has indisputably proved that there are some cases of fracture of the base in which there is no fracture of the vault, and where therefore the lesion cannot have been produced in this manner. In order to explain these cases, another theory has been proposed, which is known as the compression or Imrsting theory. J he skull is an elastic sphere, and when compression is applied to it, its diameter will be reduced along the line of greatest pressure, and will therefore of necessity be increased in other directions, and may increase to such an extent that bursting may result: just in the same way that if a weight be placed on a hollow elastic ball, the ball will be compressed from above downwards and bulge laterally, and if the weight is sufficient will eventually burst in the situation in which it bulges. The skull being of unequal thickness, the tendency to bursting occurs in the weaker parts. In this way an attempt is made to explain those cases of fracture of the