717 RETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS ammonium is usually beneficial, or chloride of ammonium lozenges may be sucked. Retro-pharyngeal abscess is due to suppuration in the loose connective tissue which lies between the back of the pharynx and the bodies of the cervical vertebrce. It may be acute or chronic. 1. Acute retro-pharyngeal abscess.—There would appear to be two ways in which acute abscess may be set up : (i) from an acute inflammation in the lymphatic glands, which are situated in this region, originating in some affection of the pharynx or naso-pharynx. This is probably the most common cause, and almost invariably occurs in young children ; (2) acute retro-pharyngeal abscess maybe caused by some abra- sion of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and the admission of pyogenic organisms to the retro-pharyngeal connective tissue. Symptoms.—The symptoms come on somewhat abruptly; the patient, if a child, refuses its food, and if it attempts to swallow, the fluid regurgitates through the nose. The temperature is raised, and there is swelling and pain on palpation about the upper part of the neck, and probably some of the lymphatic glands in this situation will be felt to be enlarged. There is difficulty in breathing, with possibly stridor, and after a time the child becomes cyanosed and may die of asphyxia if not relieved. On examining through the mouth, a smooth elastic sweUing will be seen and felt bulging into the pharynx. Treatment.—Incision of the abscess is at once called for. This may sometimes be done by an opening in the neck, when the abscess can be felt bulging in this situation; but in the acute form of abscess in young children, an opening through the mouth is generally the only course which can be pursued. The child's head should be thrown well back, the mouth opened with a gag and the swelling freely incised with a sharp-pointed bistour)', properly guarded. This is usually followed by immediate relief to the symptoms. 2. Chronic retro-pharyngeal abscess is generally the result of cervical caries, though it may also arise from disease of the bones at the base of the skull. Symptoms.—The condition comes on insidiously. A child, who is suffering from tuberculous disease of the cervical vertebrse and presents the characteristic rigidity of that disease, will be noticed to swallow with difficulty; the voice will become altered, and there will be marked snoring at night. Upon examination of the pharynx, a tense, elastic swelling will be found behind the posterior phar}'ngeal wall, bulging it forwards. The abscess, if left to itself, may burst and discharge into the pharynx, when it forms a fistulous opening communicating with the diseased bone (fig. 2 74), or it may point at the side of the neck, behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, being guided to this situation by the prsevertebral fascia, behind which it is situated; or in rare instances it may travel downwards, beneath the prsevertebral fascia, into the posterior mediastinum, or pass outwards into the axilla. As in other tuberculous abscesses, there is no elevation of the temperature, nor pain. Treatment.—In these cases, for antiseptic reasons, the abscess should be opened from the neck. In some instances this is perfectly easy ; the abscess can be felt bulging in this situation and merely requires an incision ; but this is not always so, and then an incision about an inch and a half in length should be made along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and the deep cervical fascia divided. A director is now to be inserted