256 CiENERAL DISEASES tissue, Tor the cells are degenerated and obliterated by the shrinking; iiul at the periphery the characteristic structure is seen. Scirrhus occurs in two forms, the circumscribed and the infiltrating. In the former, as its name implies, it is collected into a distinct nodule, forming an irregular tuberous mass which is not separable from the tissues in which it Hes; in the latter it consists of a general induration of the tissues; when the skin is implicated in this form it becomes hard, tense, and thickened, and closely matted with the subjacent tissues. It is then said to be ' hide bound.' This form of cancer spreads slowly, gradually invading the adjoining tissues, till large surfaces of cutaneous structure's become involved. The skin becomes livid from interference with the circulation, then gives way and ulcerates, forming an irregular ulcer with everted edges and nodular surface, which may tend to heal to a certain extent in one direction, while it spreads in others. /?. The encephaloid or soft spheroidal-celled cancer (fig. 65). This form of tumour is also sometimes known by the name of medullary cancer. It occurs as a primary growth in the breast, though much less commonly than the scirrhus; in the testicle, the ovary, the bladder, kidney, and liver, and sometimes in other viscera. It is, however, as a secondar)' growth that it is most frequently met with; for example, a primary scirrhus tumour of the breast is very commonly ac- companied by secondary encephaloid tumours in the glands or viscera. This form of growth is soft, of a brain-like consistence and appearance, which fully entitles it to the name encephaloid which is often applied to it. The encephaloid cancers are often very vascular, and frequently contain large blood cysts caused by the giving way of one of the new-formed vessels in the growth. There is no essential difference in structure between the hard and soft cancers. The slight difference between the two, when examined under the microscope, is due to the smaller relative amount of the intercellular stroma and' the larger and rounder shape of the cells in the encephaloid tumour. Clinically this growth forms a rapidly growing mass, which is, as its name implies, soft, and may be so soft that it fluctuates like an abscess. It differs from the hard spheroidal-celled carcinoma in its more rapid growth, so that it runs a more rapid course and is more quickly fatal. It early affects the lymphatic glands, and if removed recurs with great rapidity. To a great extent in its clinical history and appearance it resembles the sarcoma; for instance, a sarcoma of the testicle can scarcely be distinguished before removal from a carcinoma of the same organ, except by the age of the patient in some cases ; the latter never occurs in children. In the adult the presence of some chondrified sarcoma in the growth would at once determine the diagnosis. These soft growths speedily make their way to the surface of the bod\", implicate and destroy the skin, and then begin to sprout through it, Fig. 65.—Encephaloid cancer.