MALFORMATIONS OF THE RECTUM 897 and if he attempts to do so, he complains that there is a feehng that his body was 'coming in two.' If he walks he does so with a decided limp, and'usually requires the assistance of a stick. Upon examination there is found to be apparent lengthening on the affected side, from obliquity of the pelvis. Great pain is experienced on jarring the crests of the two iliac bones together, or on palpating over the diseased joint, and there may be some 'swelling in this situation. After a time abscess forms, and usually points immediately behind the joint; but it may track upwards and point in the lumbar region; or it may pass down into the pelvis and present in the ischio-rectal region; or it may burrow through the iliac fossa and point in the groin. Treatment.—The treatment in the early stage is the same as that for tuberculous disease of other joints—absolute rest maintained for some long period. The patient should be kept strictly in bed, fiat on his back, and the pelvis should be encircled by a softly padded belt. The general health must at the same time be attended to. Under this treatment, if the disease has been recognised in its early stage and the treatment is continued for a sufficiently long time, perfect recovery may take place. If abscess forms, an operation must be at once undertaken. The matter must be evacuated by a free incision, and the whole of the diseased tissues and tuberculous material scrupulously scraped or gouged away, and the part thoroughly irrigated. After the cavity has been cleansed of all morbid material it should be filled with iodoform emulsion, and the wound closed. The operation may require repeating; but by perseverance, in many cases, excellent results have been obtained. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS Injuries of the rectum.—Foreign bodies may be occasionally thrust violently into the rectum, or a patient in falling may become impaled by an elongated foreign body, such as a stick or broom handle, passing into the rectum. Under these circumstances the foreign body may transfix the gut and enter the peritoneal cavity or wound the bladder (fig. 349), when the case will almost certainly terminate fatally. In other cases it may merely tear the.sphincter and lacerate the perineum. These cases are to be treated on general principles. Foreign bodies are occasionally introduced into the rectum by the patient himself. These are often difficult to extract after they have passed the external sphincter. In a patient under my care who had introduced a glass bottle used for pomatum into his rectum, in endeavouring to reduce a prolapsus from which he suffered, the greatest difficulty was experienced in extracting it, and it was only after the sphincter had been completely stretched that it was at last accomplished by means of a large pair of lithotomy forceps. MALFORMATIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS Occasionally at birth the rectum and anus may be found completely and properly formed, but the passage is occluded by the agglutination of the margins'of the anus. This is a matter of very little importance; the thin membranous septum may be easily broken down by the oiled finger 3 M