248 C'rENERAL DISEASES periphery of the tumour. The Fig. 60.—Melanotic sarcoma. Diagrammatic. 3. The alveolar sarcoma (fig. 59) has already been alluded to as differing from the other sarcomata in the fact that the cells are contained in definite alveoli, formed by bundles of connective tissue. In this respect they therefore resemble the carcinomata, as well as in the fact that the cells are large and resemble epithelial cells in appearance. But they may be distinguished from the carcinomata by the fact that delicate fibrilljE may be distinguished within the alveoli, between the individual cells, which can never be done in the other class of tumours, and also by the difference in origin and the fact that portions of the same tumour may be found to consist of true sarcomatous tissue. They most commonly grow from the cutis, and more especially in connection with pre-existing hairy moles, but they have been described also as growing from bone. 4. The melanotic sarcomata form an interesting group of sarcomatous tumours which possess certain important characteristics. They grow only from structures containing pigment, such as the choroid coat of the eye and the skin. They often in the latter situation originate in a mole. They arc usually found in connection with the spindle-celled variety of sarcoma (fig. 60), but may also occur in connection with the round-celled. They simply consist of one or other of these forms of sarcomatous tumour with the addition that the cells contain a large quantity of dark-coloured pigment granules, which gives to the tumour a dark brown or black colour. The pigment is present only in some of the cells of the tumour, the rest remaining colourless, and the pigmented cells usually, for the most part, occupy the cells are usually of large size, and the intercellular substance between them is scanty and contains pigment. The tumours are circumscribed, round or oval in shape, soft and pulpy, and of a dark brown or black colour (fig. 61). They differ from most other sarcomata in disseminating themselves along the lymphatic vessels, so that early in the disease the lymphatic glands become involved, and frequently litfle black nodules may be seen growing from the skin in the course of the lymphatic vessels, where secondary growths have sprung from them. These tumours are perhaps the most malignant of all malignant tumours, and very rapidly cause secondary gro\vths in the internal organs, but at the same time they are not so prone to return locally after removal as many other forms of malignant tumours. 5. The psammoma is a very rare form of sarcoma, which occurs only in connection with the vessels of the brain. The tumour consists of round cells, among which are small concentric calcareous globules, which resemble the ' brain sand' found in the pineal gland. They possess no clinical features of any interest, and rarely give rise to any symptoms. 6. The cylindroma or plexiform sarcoma is a peculiar form of tumour, the exact mode of origin of which is a matter of considerable doubt. It is met with in the brain, the orbit, the salivary glands, and other situa- tions, and is soft and gelatinous in consistence. Its great_ peculiarity consists in its minute structure. Under the microscope it is found to consist of cylinders arranged in a plexiform manner and connected together by delicate connective tissue. The cylinders are composed of polygonal