3S8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES tliat for ligature of the gluteal, but one inch and a half lower down. After the fibres of the gluteus maximus have been separated, the vessel is to be sought for at the lower border of the pyriformis; the great sciatic nerve forming the chief guide to the artery. Aneurism of the femoral artery.—An aneurism may affect any part of the femoral artery, but is much more common in that part of the artery which lies in Scarpa's triangle than in the lower part of the vessel, where it is contained in Hunter's canal, and is covered by a strong aponeurosis and supported by surrounding muscles. In the upper part of its course the aneurism may be situated either on the common femoral or the superficial femoral; or the profunda femoris may be the artery involved. The differential diagnosis, where the profunda femoris is the artery implicated, would be established by the fact that there would be no alteration in the pulse in the tibial arteries on the two sides of the body, whereas if the common or superficial femoral were involved, the pulsation in the distal vessels would be weaker and probably delayed on the affected side. Aneurisms of the common femoral artery are usually of the fusiform variety. The symptoms of femoral aneurism present nothing peculiar, the signs being merely those of external aneurism as found elsewhere. Treatment.—The treatment of femoral aneurism may be either by com- pression or ligature. The compression may be either digital, instrumental, or by Esmarch's bandage. Digital compression is peculiarly adapted to these cases, as the femoral artery can be so easily compressed against the OS pubis, as it rides over the bone, but still many cases have been recorded in which it has been tried and failed. Ligature may be applied either to the common or superficial femoral according to the part of the artery involved in the disease : the latter should always be selected when possible. Formerly there was considerable reluctance on the part of surgeons to apply a ligature to the common femoral artery, on account of the fear of secondary haemorrhage from the proximity of one or more of its branches to the ligature, but in the present day, with an aseptic ligature • applied only sufificiendy tightly to control the circulation without rupturing the internal or middle coat, this danger is obviated. In some cases where the aneurism is situated high up in the thigh it may be necessary to tie the external iliac artery. Aneurism of the popliteal artery (fig. m).—Aneurism of the popliteal artery is by far the most common of all surgical aneurisms. This is no doubt due mainly to the facts that the vessel is unsupported and surrounded merely by loose cellular tissue, and is constantly subjected to strain in the movements of the knee joint. The aneurism may be either fusiform or sacculated and is very often symmetrical, a tumour appearing in both hams simultaneously, or else the one appearing some time after the other. Symptoms.—Popliteal aneurism usually commences with pain and stiffness about the knee, with inability to completely extend the joint, so that the limb is maintained in a semi-flexed position. These symptoms are liable to be mistaken for rheumatism, especially in those cases where the disease is attended by some effusion into the joint. The symptoms \-ary somewhat in cases of sacculated aneurism as to whether the sac opens into the front or the back of the vessel. When it is situated on the front of the vessel and lies between it and the bone, it increases slowly, but is apt to cause erosion of the bone, when the disease is attended with intense pain