931 RUPTURE OF THE URETHRA are that urine mixed with blood escapes from the wound; there is frequent desire to pass water, and little passes per urethram. During the efforts of micturition the urine may be forced through the wound. In some cases no urine escapes, but it collects in the peritoneal cavity or in the cellular tissue of the pelvis, producing the same symptoms as those mentioned above in cases of ruptured bladder. The treatment consists in performing laparotomy and suturing the wound in the bladder. Rupture of the urethra.—Rupture of the urethra may result eithei- from traumatism or from over-distension of the bladder. Only the first class of cases will be considered here. Traumatic rupture of the urethra is caused by violent blows on thepermeum, crushing the urethra against the arch of the pubic bones. It may be produced therefore by a man walking across the floor of an unfinished house and falling astride one of the beams ; or by falling from a height across a pole or gate; or by a rider striking violently on the pommel of his saddle ; or by violent kicks in the perineum. The urethra may be completely or partially torn across. In other cases the urethra may be lacerated in fractures of the pelvis. Symptoms.—The symptoms are sufficiently clear and definite. The patient is admitted with the history of a blow in the perineum, and more or less shock. There are swelling and bruising in the perineum and scrotum, and blood trickles from the urethra. If the patient attempts to pass water, the urine finds its vfay out of the lacerated urethra into the cellular tissue around, and then the swelling in the perineum is considerably increased. Treatment.—The patient must be at once cautioned not to attempt to pass water. A catheter should, if possible, be introduced into the bladder; if the rupture is not a complete one, this can often be done by keeping the point of the instrument against the upper wall of the urethra. If the surgeon succeeds in passing an instrument, it should be tied in and allowed to remain there for four or five days, and after- wards a full-sized instrument should be passed claily for some time, as these injuries of the urethra are followed by a most intractable form of stricture. The patient will therefore require the occasional passage of a catheter for the rest of his life. If no instrument can be introduced, the patient must be placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision made in the median line of the perineum to expose the ruptured urethra. An attempt must then be made to find the proximal end of the torn tube ; and if the surgeon keeps strictly in the middle line, it can usually be discovered as it passes through the triangular ligament, about an inch below the symphysis pubis. When found, a broad director must be passed along it into the bladder. An ordinary full-sized catheter is introduced through the penile portion of the urethra, and, guided by the director, is carried onwards into the bladder and tied in. An effort should now be made to suture the two ends of the ruptured urethra together. If this can be done It IS a great gain to the patient, for not only is the danger of urinary infil- tration lessened, but the probabilities of the formation of an intractable stricture are also materially reduced ; but in the greater number of cases it is 'mpracticable, and to clearly expose to view the ends of the urethra at a great depth, among a mass of lacerated tissues infiltrated with blood, so as to insert the sutures, is impossible. In those cases where the proximal end ot the urethra cannot be found, so that a catheter cannot be passed, the surgeon must be content with his free incision into the perineum, through