698 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS wound has been made through the thyro-hyoid space, the epiglottis may have been divided from its attachment to the thyroid cartilage, and hanging loosely by the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, it may be sucked over the glottis by an inspiratory effort and hermetically seal the rima glottidis ; or, if the incision is still lower, a portion of one of the laryngeal cartilages may be cut off and may find an entrance into the air passages. (3) In these cases also, as well as in the more superficial wounds, diffuse cellulitis of the neck may be set up, and the matter formed may track down the neck into the chest, as far as the root of the lung. (4) Broncho-pneumonia is another very common danger in cases of cut-throat when the air passages are opened, and this may be set up in several different ways, from the direct admission of cold air to the lungs through the wound, without havmg been warmed by passing through the nasal cavities; by the inhalation of septic matter from the wound ; and by the introduction of particles of food into the air passages in consequence of the loss of the natural sensibility of the glottis, which causes a collection of mucus in the bronchi which the patient is unable to expectorate, as a true cough is impossible where the opening in the air passages has been made below the glottis. Subsequent complications which may arise after the patient has re- covered from these more immediate dangers, are (i) dysphagia, which may be present from the first, where the food passages have been opened, or may subsequently arise in consequence of inflammation and resulting con- traction interfering with the movements of the larynx during the act of swallowing. (2) The voice may be lost or modified, in consequence of inflammatory changes or from some nerve lesion. (3) The passages may become constricted during cicatrisation. (4) A fistulous opening into the air passages or gullet may remain permanently, or where the wound has been made high up, the submaxillary gland may have been injured and a salivary fistula result. Treatment.—The first point to attend to in the treatment is to arrest all hemorrhage. All bleeding points must be secured, and general oozing stopped by exposure to the air or pressure. Any portions of loose cartilage, and especially the epiglottis if it has been separated from its attachments, must be united with fine silk sutures. If the wound is lower down and the trachea is divided, the severed portions must be sutured on either side and a tracheotomy tube inserted. . Formerly it used to be the rule not to close the wound in the super- ficial structures except at the sides, but to leave the central part open, so as to prevent any accumulation of coagula or any burrowing of septi matter among the tissues of the neck; but if the wound can be rendere aseptic, the plan of uniting all the structures by successively sutumi each layer with buried sutures should be resorted to. If this rnethod 1 adopted, the best plan is first of all to perform tracheotomy, and insert Hahn's tube, if the wound is in the usual situation in the thyro-hyal space then the most careful cleansing and disinfection of the wound must ^ carried out, and the mucous membrane of the air tube must be caretuu united with fine silk sutures which do not penetrate the whole thickness o the membrane; the muscles and fascije are united by another row o sutures, and finally the skin wound closed. It is a wise Precaution in n os cases to insert a drainage tube for the first twenty-four or fo^jy-eight ouj^^ If, however, the surgeon is not confident of being able to obtain con pie e asepsis, the wiser plan is to leave the centre of the ^vound open and simp y approximate the cut edges by the position of the head of the patient, ;vmc