743 INJURIES OF RAILWAY COLLISIONS parts. Thus, if the injury is in the dorsi-kimbar region, as is most frequently the case, there will be more or less complete paraplegia, with loss of the reflexes and paralysis of the sphincters. The lower extremities feel cold and numb and sensation in them is impaired or lost. There is paralysis of the bladder, necessitating the use of a catheter. Accompany- ing these signs there is evidence of general shock; the temperature is sub- normal ; the pulse weak and rapid, and the respiration shallow. _ As the patient recovers from the shock, the symptoms pass off; he recovers his power of movement; normal sensation returns, and he is again able to void his urine, and as a rule subsequent symptoms of secondary changes in the cord do not appear. Bruising of the cord.—There is, however, a second class of cases, which in the first instance very much resemble those above alluded to, but in which the symptoms do not pass off so readily, but remain more or less persistent, and in which, though the patient may partially recover his powers of movement, he does not do so completely, but walks with a shuffling, unsteady gait, and complains of peculiar sensations, numbness, ' pins and needles,' or shooting pains in his legs. The power over his detrusor urinas is also impaired, and he is often obliged to strain for a minute or two before he can void his urine. These cases are believed to be due to some minute haemorrhages into the spinal cord or some slight extravasation into the theca, followed by secondary changes in the structure of the cord produced by this lesion. In connection with this subject it ought to be mentioned that it is doubted by some whether cases of concussion ever occur in which the tissues of the spinal marrow or its vessels are uninjured. These surgeons believe that in every case there is some minute haemorrhage into the delicate nervous substance or some extravasation of blood into the theca of the cord. If this is so, then the cases of transient paralysis, which rapidly clear up, are those in which the minute haemorrhages are rapidly absorbed, while those in which the symptoms persist are cases where this absorption does not take place so rapidly, and in which there are probably secondary changes in the cord. Treatment.—The treatment consists in keeping the patient abso- lutely at rest in the recumbent position and relieving his bladder at intervals if necessary. In the first class of cases this is all that is required. But if the symptoms do not pass off, more prolonged rest will be called for, and some surgeons recommend that the patient should be placed in the prone position, so as to prevent passive congestion. Dry cupping, the thermo-cautery, and flying blisters are often useful, and elec- tricity should be employed for the purpose of maintaining the nutrition of the paralysed muscles. Special injuries of railway collisions.—A class of cases which often follow railway accidents, but are in no wise peculiar to the effects of railway injuries, and occasionally occur after many other forms of injur}', are often spoken of as concussion of the spine. The name is an unfortunate one, as it would seem to imply that there has been some injury to the spine which has produced a transient interference with its function, much in the same way as a blow on the head may produce a concussion of the brain. That this is not so is sufficiently obvious from the symptoms. These cases, which are often popularly termed railway spine, would appear to be of two distinct kinds : one in which after a severe wrench