ODONTOMES 679 border of the jaw to the angle. In doing this the facial artery and vein will be divided, and should be seized with clip forceps and at once tied. The incision is now carried upwards along the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw to a little below the lobule of the ear (fig. 259). The flap thus formed is now raised from the bone by dividing the reflection of mucous membrane from the lip on to it, and the muscles attached to its external surface, including the masseter. The jaw is then divided by sawing the bone, through the socket of the extracted incisor tooth. By dividing the bone a little to one side of the symphysis the attachment of the genio-hyo-glossus to the upper genial tubercle is not interfered with, and thus all danger of the tongue falling back upon the larynx and choking the patient is prevented. The knife is now inserted inside the bone, and the mucous membrane reflected from the floor of the mouth on to the javv divided close to the bone, together with the fibres of the mylo-hyoid and the anterior belly of the digastric. The bone can now be seized in the left hand of the operator and everted so as to enable him to divide the fibres of attachment of the internal pterygoid. After this, by depressing the bone the coronoid process can be brought into view, and the insertion of the temporal muscle into it divided, together with the inferior dental vessels and nerve._ After the temporal muscle has been completely severed the only remaining step of the operation is the disarticulation of the condyle, and this will have to be effected with caution to avoid wounding the internal maxillary artery. By strongly depressing the bone, without any eversion or rotation, the front of the capsule of the joint can be opened mth the point of the knife, and the rest of the capsule with the lateral ligaments divided from within, keeping the knife close to the bone By means of a raspatory the external pterygoid should be separated from its attachment to the neck of the condyle, and the bone will now be free and can be removed. All haemorrhage is arrested, and the flap brought down and sutured with one or two silkworm-gut and plenty of horsehair sutures, taking care that the red line of the hp is accurately adjusted. The wound is then covered with collodion and gauze, and dressed in the ordinary way. The patient is fed for a few days by nutrient enemata, or by a tube passed through the nose into the stoniach, and the mouth frequently washed out with weak antiseptic solutions -Kemoval of a portion of the lower jaw may be required in cases ot new growths limited in character. This may be done by making a norseshoe-shaped incision, with its concavity upwards, and sawing through L "^^ T ^-7 P^''''^'' ^^^'^ ^^^^gin of the growth. The operation IS attended with considerable deformity if the whole depth of the bone has nhv?. 'T^''^?' ^J"?"? ^""""'g together of the fragments. An attempt to ODviate this should be made by adapting a wire framework to keep the ST"%''P''/^ ""^^^ consolidation has taken place. A Hammond inter- aental sphnt (see page 669) is best adapted for this purpose. Urtontomes.—In connection with the subject of tumours of the jaws must be mentioned a collection of tumours which result from some peculiar modification in the growth of a tooth, and which are known ^ oao,aomes Jhese tumours have been studied and described by ^lancl button, from whose work the following account has been extracted states that there are seven diff"erent varieties, determined according to tne part of the tooth germ from which they arise, i. Epithelial enrnn.,,?"i'?^'~^^^'^ Originate from the enamel organ and consist of encapsuled tumours, generally of the lower jaw, made up of a congeries of