378 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES result. But, as described in the preceding section, in some cases the in- flammatien in the gland is excited by the direct extension of the spreading inflammation of the lymphatic vessels to the glands. Inflammation of lymphatic glands may be acute or chronic. In the acute form, when inflammation attacks a gland it becomes swollen and infiltrated with round cells. It is softer than natural and of a red colour. Then yellow spots appear, both in the medullary and cortical portion, denoting points of suppuration. These increase and coalesce, and after a time the whole of the interior of the gland becomes converted into a bag of pus. The capsule partakes in this inflammatory condition, and the inflammation spreads from this to the connective tissue around, setting up a periade^iitis. Symptoms.—The symptoms are those of ordinary inflammation—pain, heat, swelling, and if the gland is a superficial one, redness of the skin over it. The swelling is at first circumscribed, and the enlarged gland can be distinctly isolated and defined, but very soon the inflammation in the tissues around obscures the outline of the gland and a somewhat diff'used swelling is formed. The pain is generally at first of a dull aching character, then becomes more acute, and when suppuration is taking place, of a throbbing character. All movement of the part increases the pain. When suppuration has taken place, oedema appears in the tissues over the swelling, which becomes softer, and after a time fluctuation is perceived. Accompanying these local signs there is always more or less pyrexia, and on the occurrence of suppuration there may be a rigor. In some cases the symptoms are less acute, and the disease assumes a sub-acute form. The glands become enlarged and painful, and matted together by inflam- matory exudation into the structures around. This forms an indurated, diffuse swelling, in which individual glands can scarcely be defined. Suppuration slowly ensues, and appears to take place for the most part in the tissues around the gland, so that it not infrequently happens that when one of these abscesses is opened, the gland will be found lying in a bag of pus and more or less isolated by the suppuration which has been going on around it. Treatment.—In the treatment of lymphadenitis, the cause of the trouble must first be attacked and removed. The source from which the poison is derived must be detected, cleansed, and if necessary scraped, so as to prevent any further absorption of the noxious material. If suppura- tion has not yet taken place, hot boracic fomentations should be applied, or glycerine and belladonna. This will relieve pain, and if no further poison is allowed to be absorbed, may prevent suppuration. But if matter has already formed, as indicated by softening in the centre of the gland, an incision should at once be made into its interior ; all necrosed tissue removed with a sharp spoon, the part dusted with iodoform, and a drainage tube inserted. When the disease is very subacute, perfect rest, after removal of the cause, may induce the swelling to subside without suppura- tion taking place. But the disease often runs a very long course, slowly breaking down and suppurating, and the recovery of the patient is materially hastened by excising the gland. Chronic or tuberculous lymphadenitis.—The chronic form of lymphadenitis is a tuberculous condition occurring in patients who are of a tuberculous diathesis, and principally in children. It may occur in any glands, but is most frequently met with by the surgeon in the glands of the neck. It may be and often is the sequel to a sub-acute