879 HERNIOTOMY forced into the sub-peritoneal tissue, (c) In congenital inguinal hernia there is sometimes a diverticulum or pouch coming off near the neck of the sac, and extending upwards either between the planes of muscles or between the muscles and transversalis fascia, or between the fascia and peritoneum. Into this pouch the hernia, still strangulated, may be forced by the taxis. This condition is known as reduction en bissac. (d) In some cases the reduction may not be complete. A small inguinal hernia may be forced from the scrotum into the inguinal canal and no farther, and in a fat patient this may not be detected, and it may be thought that the hernia has been completely reduced. Under all these circumstances the symptoms persist; and in case of the persistence of symptoms after the apparent reduction of a hernia by taxis, one of these conditions may be suspected if it has been noted that the reduction was effected slowly and without the characteristic slip and gurgle. Persistence of the sym- ptoms may depend upon other causes. The bowel may have been so much damaged that it does not recover itself and may remain paralysed; or peritonitis may be set up and produce symptoms which resemble strangula- tion ; or, finally, there may be some internal strangulation or a strangulated hernia in some other part of the body which may have given rise to the symptoms. In the event of the persistence of the symptoms after reduction by taxis, a careful examination must be made to ascertain, if possible, the cause. In most cases it will be found the better plan to open the abdomen in the middle line, and deal with the cause in this way; but if there seems to be fairly clear evidence that the persistence of the symptoms is due to reduction eti masse or en bissac^ it may be sufficient to make an incision over the site of the supposed strangulation, and search for the sac ; if it cannot be found, the incision may be prolonged upwards, and in this way the abdominal cavity may be explored. 2. Herniotomy.—Operative interference in strangulated hernia con- sists in performing the operation of herniotomy or kelotoiny. This is essen- tially an operation by which the sac is exposed and opened; the stricture divided from within, and the contents of the sac returned into the abdomen. Formerly there were two methods of operating : one in which .the sac was exposed but not opened, and the stricture divided from the outside; and the other where the sac was opened and the stricture divided from the inside. The former plan, which was believed to be peculiarly appli- cable to femoral hernia, where the stricture is usually Gimbernat's ligament, and is therefore outside the sac, has now been completely abandoned for several reasons : first, because the condition of the gut cannot be ascertained; secondly, because it is quite possible that the stricture may be inside the sac, and, by dividing the structures outside, the sac and its contents may be returned into the abdominal cavity, with the strangulation unreduced; and thirdly, because if the operation is performed without opening the sac, the fluid contained within it, and which, as we have seen, may contain the bacilli coli communis, is forced«back with the bowel into the abdominal cavity. The operation should be performed at as early a date as possible, after the diagnosis of strangulation has been made, and taxis, employed as indicated above, has failed to reduce the hernia. The patient having been prepared by shaving and the necessary cleansing, an incision is made over the tumour, and the various layers divided down to the sac ; no object is attained by endeavouring to recognise and name the various layers, which should be divided one after another till the sac is reached, care being