704 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS upon them from the outside ; for stenosis ; and for paralysis of the muscles of the larynx, especially bilateral paralysis of the abductors. It is also performed as a preliminary measure in some operations about the mouth or throat to prevent the entrance of blood into the air passages, or secondary septic pneumonia. Two operations are usually described: (1) the high operation, performed above the isthmus of the thyroid body, which usually crosses the third and fourth rings of the trachea; and (2) the loiv operation, in which the trachea is opened below the isthmus; but as a matter of practical experience, it would seem immaterial whether the isthmus is divided or not, and the trachea may be opened either above, below or behind it. As a general rule, however, it may be laid down that, except for the extraction of foreign bodies, the trachea should be opened as high as possible, as the higher the opening is made, the easier it is to perform and the less the risk attending the operation. ^ ,j , The high operation is performed as follows : the patient should be laid on his back in a good light, with a pillow under his shoulders, so as to throw the head back, and this should be held by an assistant in a straight line with the body. Chloroform may be administered in most cases for the preliminary incision, or the part may be rendered locally anaesthetic by cocaine or ethyl chloride. An incision of an inch and a half or two inches in length is made in the middle line of the neck, commencing at the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. After the superficial structures have been divided the interval between the sterno-hyoid muscles must be found the raphe divided, and the muscles separated and drawn asunder with blunt hooks The lower border of the cricoid cartilage must now be felt for and the upper part of the trachea exposed by using the handle of the scalpel The isthmus of the thyroid body may be seen and may be dragged down- wards or it may be disregarded. The trachea may now be steadied by a sharp hook made to transfix it, as recommended by some, but this is not really necessary; if the cricoid cartilage is simply held with the finger and thumb the tube can be easily opened by driving the pomt of the knife into it at the lower part of the wound and dividing the two or three exposed rings from below upwards. That the trachea has been opened is at once known bv the rush of air, generally followed almost immediately by a violent.tit of coughing, and often, in membranous laryngitis, _ by the expulsion of membrane. The tracheotomy tube is then to be inserted Sometimes difficulty is experienced in doing this; if, however the bivalve cannula is used, this difficulty is generally obviated-the two sides of the outer cannula are compressed between the finger and thumb, so as to form a wedge-shaped body, which can be easily made to glide through the incision; if other forms of cannulse are used, a pair of dressmg forceps introduced throug the opening can readily be made to dilate it and the tube introduced on a pilot The tube is tied in by tapes passed through the openings in the shield and secured behind the back of the neck. The second tube is the inserted within the first, and a layer or two of gauze packed between tn shield and the skin around the wound to prevent excoriation. Many forms of tracheotomy tubes are described and i-econmiended, bu the surglon will as a rule be sufficiently equipped if he Pl^^^de^^^^^^^ two or three bivalve tracheotomy tubes and the f"^e ^^^"\ber of Durham ubes in different sizes, and.to these he should add ^.'^^^ f^^V^^^^,' india-rubber tubes. The bivalve tracheotomy tube (fig. 270, b) is certaim > In my case of tracheotomy instruments I have the ends of the handles of scalpels shaped like a spear head, so as to facilitate this.