458 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES the bones in apposition are very numerous. The plan most commonly adopted, and probably the most efficient, is to put the leg up in a straight " back splint, with a foot-piece for the sole at right angles to it, and two side splints. Great care must be exercised in adjusting these splints to see that the length of the limb is preserved and no rotation of the lower frag- ments permitted. The foot should be kept at right angles with the leg, and the proper line of the limb preserved. That this is so may be known by noting that the inner border of the patella, the internal malleolus, and the inner side of the ball of the great toe are in the same line. The patient is kept in bed in these splints until all swelling and oedema have disappeared, generally for about three weeks, and the limb is then put up in plaster of Paris splint or some other immov- able apparatus, and the patient allowed to go about on crutches. Fracture of the tibia and fibula near the ankle joint.—This is a com- mon and serious lesion, and is accompanied by displacement of the articular surfaces of the ankle joint. It is produced by severe strains or twists of the foot, as when a patient falls with his foot bent under him. Tne displacement may take place either outwards or inwards, the former being much the more common of the two. In displacement outwards the fibula is broken by the astragalus being pushed violently against the external malleolus ; this tends to push this portion of bone outwards, and the strain is thrown upon the lower end of the fibula, at its weakest part, about three or four inches from the end of the bone, and it gives way in this situation (fig. 162, a). The force being continued, the strain on the internal lateral ligament causes this structure to give way, or the internal malleolus, to which it is attached, to fracture, and the tarsus is displaced outwards (fig. 162, c). This injury is_ known as PoWs fracture. If the force appUed is greater the interosseous tibio-fibular ligament may give way, or the surface of the tibia, to which it is attached, may be torn off; there is then a separation of the lower end of the fibula from the tibia, and this portion of bone with the tarsus is displaced upwards and outwards, and there is a greater degree of deformity than in Pott's fracture. This lesion is known as Dupuytrefi's fracture (fig. 162, d)._ Finally, in some rare instances, where the force of the injury is excessive, instead of the internal lateral ligament being ruptured or the internal malleolus torn off, there is a transverse fracture of the lower end of the tibia, just above the articular surface, and then the lower fragment of the tibia, the lower end of the fibula and the foot, are all displaced outwards and upwards. In these cases the lower end of the upper fragment of the tibia projects under Fig. 161.—Fracture of the bones of the leg, showing the dis- placement and the muscles by which it is caused. (From Gray's 'Anatomy.')