638 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS child is good, and that it is not suffering from any morbid condition, especially of the mouth or nose, which would interfere with union. If such conditions exist they must be cured before an operation is under- taken. Of the many operations which have been devised for hare-lip, the one which has yielded the most satisfactory results in my hands in the majority of cases is that known as Mirault's, and this is the one which I almost always perform. The operation devised by Rose gives most excellent results in cases where the edges of the cleft are the same length, but un- fortunately this is not often the case ; and Nelaton's operation is useful in cases of incomplete cleft. These are the only three operations for the description of which space can be found in this book. Mirault's operation.—The child is laid on its back on a table facing a good light, with the head and shoulders slightly raised. Chloro- form is administered by an anaesthetist standing on the left-hand side of the patient. An assistant, standing behind the head of the child, inserts the forefinger of either hand into the corners of the mouth and compresses the superior coronary artery between the finger and thumb. Or these vessels may be compressed by Smith's self-retaining clips. The surgeon, standing on the right-hand side of the table, first everts the lip, and separates it thoroughly from the alveolus by dividing the reflection of mucous membrane and the frasnum freely. If the ala of the nose is flattened, it must also be separated from its bony attachment. The extreme edge of the cleft is then to be seized with a pair of clawed dissecting forceps on that side of the cleft which is the shorter, i.e. the outer side, and an incision is made from the top of the cleft, within the nostril, obliquely downwards and outwards until it almost reaches the point of junction of the skin and mucous membrane ; it is then sloped obliquely outwards, so as to raw the free margin of the lip (see fig. 243, a). On the opposite side of the cleft, the margin having been seized and put on the stretch with the forceps, an incision is made from the same point downwards and towards the middle line until it nearly reaches the point of junction of the skin and mucous membrane. By this means a flap is formed, which is to be turned down- wards, as in fig. 243, B. A hare-lip pin is then introduced through the whole thickness of the lip on both sides of the cleft, on a level with the angle formed by the two lines of incision on the outer side of the cleft, and at the point of junction of the flap with the rawed surface on the inner side of the cleft. A twisted suture will now draw the edges of the cleft together, and the rest of the extent of the wound is to be accurately adjusted by horsehair sutures (fig. 243, c); care must be taken to suture the mucous as well as the skin surfaces. A small piece of gauze is twisted