IDIOPATHIC DILATATION OF THE COLON 855 skmoid flexure of the colon, inguinal or lumbar colotomy may be per- formed ;' but when it is situated higher up, the ascending colon must be °^^When the obstruction is due to frecal accumulation, the rectum will usually be found, upon examination, to be blocked with masses of indurated feeces. These must be removed mechanically by the surgeon, and a convenient instrument for the purpose will be found to be a large lithotomy scoop, and afterwards large oily enemata administered. At the same time, the patient should be carefully dieted, and massage and electricity to the abdomen are frequently of use. _ ; ., , In those cases where the cause of the obstruction is outside the gut and is due to inflammatory adhesions, nothing can be done in the earlier stages except attention to diet, mild laxatives and enemata, and later on, when complete obstruction occurs, the performance of colotomy. When the obstruction is in the small intestine, the treatment in the earlier stages must consist in giving a diet of the simplest possible kind: the administration of mild purgatives, of which perhaps small doses of castor oil or small quantities of calomel combined with belladonna are the best, and washing out the lower bowel with copious enemata. Later on, when operative interference is called for, a laparotomy must be performed, the gut opened above the point of obstruction, and a glass tube inserted and fixed, so that the bowel may empty itself. Aftej- the more urgent symptoms have subsided, the question of enterectomy and removal of the cause of the obstruction may be entertained. If the" patient's condition is serious, so that the administration of an ansesthetic and a protracted operation is contra-indicated, the proceeding described on page 850 may be adopted. In chronic intussusception, any attempt to reduce the invagi- nation by inflation of air or injection of fluid will probably fail. The only treatment available is to open the abdomen and reduce the intussusception, by manipulation if possible. Owing, however, to adhesions, this as a rule cannot be done, and the mass must then be excised. Idiopathic dilatation of the colon.—In connection with the subject of chronic obstruction must be mentioned a condition to which the term idiopathic dilatation of the colon has been given, in which the colon, and especially the lower part of it, becomes enormously dilated, so much so that the distension mechanically interferes with the respiratory and circulatory systems. It is accompanied by obstinate constipation, and as a result, with vomiting, hiccough, and other signs of chronic obstruction. These cases frequently occur in young children, and Mr. Treves believes that there is strong evidence to support the idea that they are due to con- genital defects in the lower end of the bowel; others, on the other hand, believe that it may occur in children as the result of extreme and persistent constipation, aggravated by injudicious treatment. The treatment must consist in the first instance in a course of massage and electric stimulation of the gut, with the administration of strychnia combined with saline aperients, and faiUng this, operative interference by the formation of an artificial anus. In one case Mr. Treves removed the whole of the bowel below the splenic flexure of the colon, together with the anus. The operation was followed by complete relief. ' These operations will be described in the next chapter.