PERITONITIS 8ii gauze. These are placed among the intestines in different directions, and the ends are brought -out through the wound in the abdominal wall. Another efficient form of drainage consists in introducing a glass tube to the most dependent part of the peritoneal cavity, and allowing the end to protrude through the external wound. At intervals any fluid which gravitates to the bottom of the abdominal cavity can be removed through this tube by an exhausting syringe, to the nozzle of which a piece of india-rubber tubing is attached. This is passed down the glass tube, and by this means the fluid can be sucked up. McCosh strongly recommends the intra-intestinal injection of a solution of sulphate of magnesia in these cases. He believes that the safety of these patients depends upon the restoration of the peristaltic action of the intestines, and by this means diminishing the emigration of the bacillus communis coli through the walls of the intestine. It is useless to give the magnesia by the mouth because it is at once vomited, and when injected mto the rectum it has not the desired efl'ect. He therefore injects it into the small intestine, as high up as possible, by means of an aspirating needle and syringe. From one to two ounces of the salt dissolved in water at the temperature of the blood is injected. The needle puncture is closed with a Lembert's suture. Acute localised peritonitis.—This condition occurs where there has been some localised lesion of the abdominal contents. Inflam- mation is set up in the peritoneum around this lesion, but does not spread to the whole peritoneal surface. At the margins of this inflamed area lymph is effused, which glues together the structures and thus acts as a barrier to the general diff'usion of any inflammatory products which may be present. These products therefore remain limited, and form a circum- scribed abscess in the peritoneal cavity, shut off from the greater part of the sac. Some cases of acute appendicitis are good examples of this: the inflammation in the appendix involves the peritoneum covering it, and spreads to the surrounding serous membrane to a limited extent; it then becomes arrested, the barrier is set up and the subsequent changes in the inflammatory exudation take place in a circumscribed cavity. The pus, if it forms—for this is not always the case—may either subsequently burst through the barrier into the general cavity, and thus set up a diffuse peritonitis ; or it may burst into one of the hollow viscera; or it may reach the surface and burst externally. Symptoms.—The symptoms usually commence with pain, which at first may not be well defined, but after a time becomes localised and referred to the affected part; it is accompanied by superficial tender- ness, and is attended by distinct symptoms of a febrile type. The temperature is raised, the skin hot, and the tongue furred, and there is vomiting and constipation. Over the tender area there is a feeling of dis- tmct resistance, but at first there is no swelling. Later on an ill-defined tumour may be detected, which is sometimes dull on percussion, sometimes tympanitic. The symptoms of fever increase and a rigor may occur. Subsequently .signs of acute diffuse peritonitis may be set up, if the pus finds its way into the peritoneal cavity ; or the swelling may disappear suddenly, and the fever subside in some rare cases when the abscess bursts mto one of the hollow viscera, and there is then a discharge of pus from the bowel, the bladder, «Src., as the case may be. Most frequently, how- ever, the abscess travels towards the surface. The skin becomes reddened, cedematous, and fluctuation can be perceived. The pus which is contained