1145 THROUGH THE HIP JOINT and subcutaneous tissues about the middle of the thigh, or a little below this point, and reflects them for about two inches, and then divides the muscles circularly down to the bone. If the amputation is being perfornied for a case of failed e.xcision, the bone is now sawn through and the limb removed ; if e.xcision has not been performed, this should not be done, as the femur will be required for leverage in disarticulating. In either case the vessels on the face of the stump are secured before the rest of the operation is proceeded with When this has been done, a vertical incision is made up the outer side of the thigh over the bone, to a point midway between the crest of the ilium and the top of the trochanter, commencing at the end of the stump. Ihis incision should go through the periosteum, and if possible this shou d be peeled off the bone, with the muscles. In cases of old hip disease in children, where inflammatory changes in the bone and periosteum have been going on, this is comparatively easy, the only difficulty being at the Imea aspera. Where the amputation is being performed for a new growth, the periosteum must be left and the muscles separated from it. In amputation after excision the remains of the bone are thus easily shelled out and the operation completed ; but where the head of the bone is still in the socket, disarticulation must be performed. The joint must be opened by cutting on the neck of the bone and dividing as much of the capsule as possible ; and the assistant who is holding the limb strongly everts and rotates it outwards, and forces the head out of the socket, when a few touches of the knife secure its liberation. If the patient is in a condition to stand it, after all vessels have been secured, any existing sinus should be laid open and scraped, and a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. xl to gj) freely applied. Drainage must be provided for, and a few sutures rapidly applied, and a large antiseptic dressing with plenty of wool ban- daged on with fii-m pressure. If the aceta- bulum is diseased, this must also be attended to. The raw surface in this operation is neces- sarily vei7 extensive, but it has the advantage of being in a good position, not likely to be contaminated by septic matter from the anus or genital organs. Those surgeons who believe that the best way of preventing haemorrhage is to secure the main vessels before dividing them, perfonn the operation in a some- what different way, by means of an anterior racquet-shaped incision (fig. 436)- The patient being brought to the edge of the table, an incision is made down the front of the thigh, over the course of the main vessels for about three inches, com- mencincr at Poupart's ligament. It is then sloped downwards and inwards round the innir side of the thigh, so that it is about five inches below the perineum ; across the back of the thigh, and then along the outer side obliquely upwards, to reach the termination of the straight incision. The femoral vessels are now exposed, ligatured in two places, and divided between the two ligatures. The muscles are separated from the outside of the thigh, the limb being rotated inwards to effect the division of the gluteus maximus muscle. The muscles on the inner side of the thigh are then separated until the capsule is reached, and this is opened by a transverse cut ; and by strongly everting and rotating the limb outwards, disarticulation is cfiected, and the limb removed by dividing the structures at the back of the joint, including the sciatic vessels and nerves. The objection to this operation is haemorrhage from the internal circumflex artery, Fig. 436.—Amputation through the hip jomt: on the right side by Furneaux Jordan's method ; on the left side by a modified form of the same operation.