295 OX-AORTA LIGATURE become organised and encyst it, and therefore even if remaining longer m the tissues it is quite innocuous. When a vessel has been tied with a catgut ligature and the wound remains aseptic, the ligature becomes surrounded by granulation tissue, the cells of which gradually invade and destroy it, and it completely disappears. If, however, the wound becomes septic, the ligature decomposes and softens rapidly, and thus it may leave the vessel unprotected before repair has sufficiently advanced to permanently The old-fashioned silk hgature, when rendered perfectly aseptic, is the best and most reliable ligature that can be used. It is strong, inelastic, pliable, the knot is firm and not likely to slip, and when aseptic it fulfils all the requirements of a good ligature, except perhaps that it is very slowly absorbed, or, it may be, is not absorbed at all; but if this is the case, it soon becomes encapsuled and remains harmlessly among the tissues. Silk is an animal substance, which from its mode of preparation for com- mercial purposes is less likely to be infective, when it falls into the hands of the surgeon, than catgut. It can be rendered perfecdy aseptic by pro- longed boiling and immersion in a i in 20 solution of carbolic acid, in which it should be kept until required for use. When applied to a vessel in an aseptic wound, it becomes encapsuled and remains inert in the tissues for a considerable time without undergoing any change. It has been found in wounds at the end of six or seven weeks absolutely unaltered, but it is eventually slowly absorbed. The round cells penetrate between the fibres of the silk and slowly destroy and replace them. Tendons, principally the tendons of the tail of the kangaroo, form an excellent ligature. They are strong and not so readily absorbed as catgut. The main objection to their use is that the knot is apt to slip unless tied very tightly. They are prepared by drying the tendons after they have been removed from the animal, and then soaking them in carboHc acid solution (i in 20) for at least two days before they are used. Ox-aorta ligature is obtained by removing the outer coat of the aorta of the ox, and then cutting the middle coat spirally into cords or bands of any required thickness. These cords are then suspended by one end, with a weight attached to the other, and allowed to dry. Before use they are soaked for some hours in strong carbolic acid solution, so as to render them aseptic. In Barwell's hands, who was the first to advocate their use, they have proved thoroughly reliable: they are strong and supple, and easily though not too rapidly absorbed. With regard to the other forms of ligature, little need be said, as they are very seldom used. The metallic ligature is not absorbable, and though it becomes encapsuled, it often causes pain by irritating neighbouring nerves. Silkworm gut is not pliable, and it is difficult to tie in a knot that will not slip. Peritoneum cut in long strips has been recommended as a ligature, but has not been largely used. It behaves very much as catgut ligature, and is easily absorbed. In applying a ligature to a cut artery, the vessel is to be seized with a pair of artery forceps, care being taken not to seize any of the surrounding tissues ; it is then gently drawn out from its sheath for a short distance, and a ligature placed around it just beyond the point where it has been taken hold of by the forceps, and tied with a reef knot (fig. 83). Care must be taken not to tie what is popularly called a ' granny ' knot, as it is apt to slip. The knot should be tied tightly, sufficiently so to rupture the internal and middle coats, though, as we shall point out presently, this is not necessary