53 UNION BY SCABBING and they become converted into fibre cells, and acquire connections with the cells on either side of the cut surfaces, so that now the wound is united by a connecting medium of young fibrous tissue in which are many b ood vessels (fig. lo) As the fibrous tissue becomes more fu ly developed it contracts and by its contraction obliterates many of these vessels, so that an'old scar becomes much whiter and less vascular than the surrounding, tissues, whereas a recent scar is redder and more vascular At the same time that these changes are going on between the cut edges of he wound, the epithelium on the surface of the skin in the neighbourhood of the wound undergoes proliferation, and the prohferated epithelium gradually spreads over the surface of the scar tissue and thus completes the union. Scar tissue is therefore not the same thing as areolar tissue. It consists merely of white fibrous tissue, with- out any yellow elastic tissue, and is a new formation of a less organised material than that which it serves to unite together. Further changes may take place in scar tissue ; for it shows, within certain limits, a ten- dency to approximate in character to the normal tissue of the part in which it is formed. This is notably the case in bone. In cases of simple fracture, the process of union, as we shall see hereafter, is identically the same as the process of union of an open wound by first intention, with this important difference, that when the fibrous (scar) tissue is formed between the broken ends of a bone, it undergoes a further change ; lime salts are deposited in it, and it becomes converted into true bone. Fig; io.—Diagram showing mode of union of wounds without suppuration. Third stage : Vessels have now permeated the connecting medium, and its cells have become converted into young fibrous tissue. Epithelium is spreading over the surface. In many tissues, however, no such tendency to approximation is apparent; in muscles and cartilage, for instance, there is no attempt on the part of the fibrous tissue to undergo further change into muscle or cartilage, as the case may be, but the scar remains fibrous throughout the life of the individual. Union by first intention can only take place where the irritant which produced the inflammation, necessary for the purposes of repair, was momentary, and where no source of irritation or condition of unrest is present in the wound. . , 3. Union by scabbing—This form of union scarcely merits the distinction of being placed in a separate division by itself, for it differs in no respect from union by first intention, except in the fact that the healing process goes on under a scab, which acts as a protective covering to the wound and prevents decomposition or putrefaction. It may be best studied in a wound where a portion of skin has been shaved off the body, and where therefore the edges of the skin cannot be brought together, i he same changes occur as in union by first intention : haemorrhage hrst cease.s, then inflammation is set up; and its attendant exudation, whidi is often in these cases very considerable, is poured out over the surface of the wound.