GENERAL INJURIES 88 favourite habitat of the bacillus. Thus we find it not uncommon in people who have fallen down and lacerated their hands against the ground. This no doubt explains the popular idea that wounds of the hand, and especially wounds of the ball of the thumb, the part most likely to be lacerated in .such an accident, are liable to be followed by lockjaw. So, again, people who are run over and sustain a lacerated wound, produced by the wheel covered with mud, are frequently the subjects of tetanus, and soldiers who have been wounded and lain on the battle-field for a considerable time before they are removed to hospital are liable to become infected from the ground on which they lie. But many cases were recorded in former days, where tetanus followed operations, and it used to be taught that certain operations were more liable to be followed by tetanus than others, and of these castration was one. There can be no doubt that in these cases, the spores of the_ bacilli, which have great vitality and resistance to disinfectants, were often iritroduced into the wound on the instrument of the surgeon. Roswell Park relates the case of a surgeon who lost ten consecutive patients after operation from tetanus, in which the infection was probably introduced on a pair of forceps. The period of incubation in tetanus is a very variable one. It is generally believed that between the fifth and fifteenth day is the most frequent period for the advent of the disease, but cases have been recorded where it has occurred within a few hours of the infliction of the wound, and others in which it has not supervened for a month. The period of incuba- tion would appear to be influenced by two circumstances—climate and the severity of the attack. In the tropics, where it is much more common than in this country, it often appears in a very few hours after the infliction of the wound, and is rarely very long delayed. Again, in acute cases of tetanus the incubation is, as a rule, short, and a certain help to prognosis may be afforded by noticing the length of time between the infliction of the wound and the onset of the disease. Formerly it used to be the custom to divide tetanus into acute and chronic, but the division is purely artificial, and all sorts of gradations may be observed between the two conditions. This much, however, may be said, that the acute cases almost invariably die, and that the chronic cases not unfrequently recover. Formerly it used to be taught that a patient who lived beyond the twenty-first day from the onset of the attack usually recovered; this was only another way of stating the same fact, that the acute cases die and the chronic cases recover. Symptoms.—Tetanus is a disease of the nervous system, which gives rise to tonic spasm of the voluntary muscles. Various groups are affected, with a certain degree of order. The muscles supplied by the spinal accessory, the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, with those supplied by the cervical plexus, especially the diaphragm, are very often the first to suffer. Then those supplied by the motor division of the fifth cranial nerve, the muscles of mastication, and those supplied by the seventh, the muscles of expression, become involved. The muscles of the trunk are then affected, those of the back, the abdomen and the thorax. Those of the limbs last of all become involved. Sometimes these latter escape, though as a rule those nearest the trunk are found to be in a state of tonic contraction as the disease progresses, while those more remote, the muscles of the hands and feet, are relaxed. The invasion of the disease is sometimes ushered in by a feeling of malaise. The patient complains of not feeling well, and will often volunteer the statement that bethinks he must have caught cold, as he has got a stiff neck. This is the