WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN 805 the liver; a bruise in this situation and increased duUness on percussion from extravasated blood. The injury is not necessarily immediately fatal, and if the patient survive, it may be followed by diffuse peritonitis, bilious vomiting and white stools. Jaundice may occur at a later period. Treatment.—If there are no signs of increasing heemorrhage, the patient should be kept absolutely quiet, and if the pulse is feeble hypodermic in- jections of strychnia should be given. No alcohol or ether should be administered, as they tend to increase htemorrhage. If there is evidence that bleeding is going on, the abdomen should be opened ; the clots turned out, and the laceration, which is generally on the convex surface near the free border, sought for. If bleeding is still going on from the rent, it may be arrested by compressing the hepatic artery and portal vein by introducing • one finger into the foramen of Winslow, and placing the thumb on the gastro-hepatic omentum and compressing the structures between the two. Any vessels which can be seen bleeding should be seized and tied, and the margins of the laceration brought into apposition and sutured by means of a curved blunt needle passed from one side of the wound to its bottom and out on the other side. All the sutures should be passed before any are tied, and this must be done with the greatest gentleness, as they are very liable to tear their way out. When the injury of the liver is extensive and it is not possible to bring the torn surfaces together, the rent should be packed with iodoform gauze, the end of which is allowed to hang out of the wound. _ Injuries to the gall bladder.—The gall bladder or one of the biliary ducts may be ruptured. Of the latter the cystic duct is the one most commonly injured. These injuries are very difficult to diagnose, and death usually occurs from peritonitis. If the symptoms should lead to the i performance of laparotomy, and a small rent is found in the gall bladder, it may be sutured, but if the injury is extensive it is safer to remove the whole organ. If the cystic duct is injured, its intestinal end must be closed and ; the gall bladder removed. In rupture of either of the other ducts all that / can be done is to provide for efficient drainage, in the hope that a biliary ! fistula may form. Wounds of the abdomen.—Wounds of the abdomen may be (i) non-penetrating or (2) penetrating. The latter may be complicated with protrusion or injury of the abdominal viscera. 1. Non-penetrating wounds may be incised, punctured, or lacerated and contused. They differ in no essential particular from wounds in any other part of the body, and the treatment is for the most part the same, except in those cases where the several planes of muscular fibre ha,ve been divided; here it is desirable to unite the muscles with buried sutures before the superficial structures are brought together, as these wounds are very liable to be followed by ventral hernia. 2. Penetrating wounds may be {a) simple, i.e. without injury or protrusion of the viscera ; {b) complicated with protrusion ; and {c) compli- t cated with injury to the viscera, with or without protrusion. \ (a) Simple penetrating wounds.—If the wound is narrow and oblique, it is not easy to say whether penetration has taken place or not. Sometimes it may be known by the escape of a little reddish serum, and the history of the injury and an account of the manner in which it was Iinflicted, with an examination of the weapon, may afford some clue ; but if there is any doubt the wound should be carefully enlarged and a thorough investigation made. A litde increase in the size of the wound will do no