THROUGH THE TARSO-METATARSAL JOIN T 1151 nnerition ou^ht never to be performed, and others speaking highly of its merits StTn a t reat measure to be explained by the fact that the results obta.ned ■ re very variable. In some cases the patient is able to use his stump almost as r^U ull foot, with very little, alteration in his gait and 'l^^-J -ible to walk at all without pain and lameness. The result m these lattei cases is due to JheLt that the heel is drawn upwards and the patient walks on the interior surface of the os calcis instead of the under surface of the heel. Two Sises ha -e beei? assigned for the drawing up of the heel. One of these is the unbalanced action of the calf muscles ; and in order to prevent this it has been recommended that the tendo Achillis should be divided at the time of the opemtion or that the tendons of the extensor muscles which have been dn ided oS the doVsum of the foot should be stitched into the tissues of the sole flap, so as to-ive them a fixed point from which to counterbalance the tendo Achillis. The o'ther cause of the tilting of the heel is said to be that the arch of the foot is divided in its centre, and the posterior half which is left, having no sup- nort sinks mechanically. Probably both causes have something to do with this'condition. Personally, I should not recommend a Chopart s amputation. The results which are obtained by a Syme's amputation properly performed are so uniformly good that I should not consider it advisable to perfomi a Chopart s operation for the sake of preserving a small portion of the foot, with the uncer- tainty as to what the result would be. Chopart's amputation is best performed by makino- a large flap from the sole, and then making a short dorsal flap and disarticulating at the astragalo-navicular and calcaneo-cuboid joints. An inci- sion is first made from just behind the tubercle of the navicular bone, along the inner side of the foot, to the head of the first metatarsal bone ; it is earned obliquely outwards and backwards across the sole of the foot to the head of the fifth metatarsal bone, and is then carried backwards along the outer border ot the foot to a point midway between the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone and the tip of the external malleolus. The flap thus formed should be an inch longer on its inner than its outer border, and should be rounded at its angles. This plantar flap is then dissected up, including all the structures down to the bones The dorsal flap is made by carrying an incision convex fonvards, across the dorsum of the foot, from the two ends of the plantar flap. This is raised by dissection, until the joint between the head of the astragalus and the navicular bone is reached. This is opened from above, and the foot being depressed by the left hand of the operator, the ligaments between the os calcis and cuboid are divided and the disarticulation completed. After all bleeding vessels have been tied, the plantar flap is turned upwards over the ends of the astragalus and os calcis and united to the dorsal flap. Tripier has somewhat modified Chopart's amputation. He recommends that, in addition to removing all the bones of the tarsus except the os calcis and astragalus, the under surface of the os calcis should be removed by cutting horizontally through it at the level of the sustentaculum tali, taking care to make the section at right angles to the leg. This is said to possess all the advantages of Chopart's amputation without its disadvantages, as it leaves a broad flat surface to stand upon, instead of the tuberosities of the os calcis and the unsupported anterior extremity of that bone. The operation is performed by a racquet-shaped incision, which starts from the outer border of the tendo Achillis and passes forwards about an inch below the tip of the external malleolus to the calcaneo-cuboid joint. From the extremity of this an oval incision is carried round the foot. The flaps are retracted, disarticulation at the mid-tarsal joint performed, and the section of the os calcis proceeded with. Amputation through the tarso-metatarsal joint.—The cases in which this operation can be performed are few : some cases of severe cnishing of the toes, and perhaps in frost-bite and perforating ulcer. When it can be performed it leaves a most useful and excellent stump. The operation by which it is done is known as Lisfranc's. The best mode of performing it is to make the dorsal flap first, then the plantar, and finally disarticulate ; but some surgeons prefer to disarticulate before making the plantar flap. An incision is first