575 EXCISION OF THE KNEE unimpaired movement of the joint. If in spite of treatment the disease progresses and there are signs of softening and abscess formation in the pulpy tissue, or if the tibia becomes displaced backwards and outwards from the femur, operative interference will generally be called for. It may be that before the actual stage of softening is arrived at,, it may be desirable to try those measures spoken of above, as the injection of iodoform emulsion or Bier's method of elastic bandaging, but when the caseous foci have developed into abscesses nothing short of operation is of any use. Three different plans of treatment by the knife are spoken of: (i) arthrotomy; (2) erasion or arthrectomy; (3) excision. Arthrotomy is not an operation which commends itself, as the removal of the granulation tissue can be only very partial, but has been followed by success in the hands of some surgeons. Erasion is especially applicable to those cases where the disease begins in the synovial membrane, and the surgeon's aim is to leave a- movable joint, and his object to remove diseased structures, and diseased structures only. The main objection to this operation is that if after its performance a movable joint is obtained, it is a very unstable one and not fit to bear the weight of the body, so that it is better, I believe, in all cases to remove the articular cartilages and aim at getting osseous union of the two bony surfaces and a firm limb capable of sup- porting the weight of the body. This is done by the operation of excision, which not only has for its object the removal of all diseased parts, but also a thin sHce of bone from the ends of the femur and tibia. Excision of the knee is most frequently required for tuberculous disease, but may also be called for in some instances of disorganisation after pyaemia, rheumatic fever, &c.; in osteo-arthritis; in old neglected infantile paralysis, where there is a flail-like distorted limb (Wright); and in cases of compound fracture, especially from gunshot wounds. There are many ways of performing the operation : (i) by a transverse incision through the patella, with or without removal of the bone ; (2) by a horseshoe-shaped incision, dividing the ligamentum patellae ; (3) by a vertical incision. The mode of operating by a transverse incision through the patella will be described here, as it is the one which I always perform, but the essential steps in the operation after the joint has been opened must be understood to be the same in every case. This operation gives a free access to the joint, and there is no difificulty in reaching the deeper parts. It is desirable, if the patella is not much diseased, to retain it, and after removal of its articular surface to suture the divided halves together ; by this means the insertion of the quadriceps is preserved, and the action of the hamstring muscles is counterbalanced. An incision is made across the limb, over the centre of the patella, from one condyle to the other (fig. 2ir). The capsule of the joint is opened on either side of the bone, and this is then sawn through. The joint is thus freely opened, and the knee being flexed to a right angle, the knife is introduced into the cul-de-sac of the synovial membrane beneath the quadriceps, and the capsule freely divided in a vertical direction on either side of the patella. By now grasping the upper sawn end of the patella and pulling it upwards, the whole of the pouch can be exposed, and with a pair of toothed forceps and a knife can be dissected cleanly away. This having been done, the surgeon proceeds systematically to dissect away the whole of the pulpy tissue first on one side of the joint and then on the other, and gradually works his way forwards to the front of the articulation. Now, by making a vertical incision through the capsule from within outwards