COLOTOMY little time. This serves to keep the canal patent. It can, of course, only be done in those cases where the disease is within reach of the_ finger, and if done with care causes little pain. In addition to this a copious enema should be given occasionally to wash away any f^cal matter which may become lodged above the stricture. The diet must be plain and nutritious, and consist of such articles of food as leave little or no solid debris, and the patient should be cautioned that he must thoroughly masticate his food. Laxatives should be given as occasion requires, so that the motions should always be fluid or semi-solid. If there is pain, the local application of cocaine, or perhaps better eucaine, as it is not poisonous, is often attended with marked relief. By these means the patient's life may be rendered fairly comfortable, and obstruction may be warded off, at all events for a time. Colotomy.—The operation of colotomy as a palliative measure is very variously estimated by different surgeons. There are some who recommend its performance as soon as the existence of the cancer is diagnosed, under the belief that it retards the rate of the growth of the cancer, because the ftecal matter no longer passing over the ulcerated surface, all irritation is removed ; and secondly, because it prevents obstruc- tion ; and lastly, because it prevents pain during defgecation. Against these theories it must be stated that there is no proof that the life of the patient is actually prolonged by the operation, and in many cases no obstruction ever occurs. There is no question that in some cases the operation of colotomy is called for in cancer of the rectum, in cases where symptoms of obstruction of the bowels are present, and in cases where there is pain during the act of defsecation, but it would seem advisable to reserve its employment for these cases and not resort to it indiscriminately in every instance of cancer of the rectum ; for it cannot be denied that the operation is often attended with great distress to the patient, and there are many who regard their condition afterwards with intense horror and disgust, and frequently state that they would rather have died than go through what they have to with an artificial anus. Colotomy may be per- formed either by the inguinal or lumbar method. Inguinal colotomy.—Inguinal colotomy has, in the present day, almost superseded the lumbar operation for the following reasons : (i) By the inguinal operation a more complete spur can be formed, and therefore no faecal matter whatever is allowed to pass into the lower segment of the bowel, but is all discharged externally. In the lumbar operation, on account of the descending colon not being entirely invested by peritoneum, it is impossible to withdraw the whole lumen of the tube, and an opening can only be made on one side, and therefore the spur consists simply of a fold of mucous membrane, which is not efficient in preventing some of the faecal matter finding its way into the lower bowel. (2) It is easier, there is more room, and the sigmoid flexure is more easily reached and identified, and no other portion of the intestinal tract is likely to be mistaken for it. More- over, especially if the patient is stout, the antesthetic is more easily administered and taken with the patient lying on his back than his side. (3) The peritoneum being opened, it is possible if thought desirable, by enlarging the opening, to introduce the hand into the pelvis and ascertain the exact extent of the disease, with a view to its removal. (4) The position of the artificial anus is more favourable as regards personal attention of the patient himself in cleansing, dressing, &c. The objections to inguinal colotomy which have been urged are: (i) That the peri- toneal cavity is necessarily opened ; but with attention to antiseptic details