631 POLYPUS Fig. 236.—Simple or gelatinous nasal polypus. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) resemble those of m)-xomatous tissue. The growth is therefore very com- monly regarded as myxomatous in nature, but by some is believed to be inflammatory in origin, and to consist of loose connective tissue infiltrated with mucin. Super- ficially the growth is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, except when it protrudes from the nostril, when the protruded part, which becomes firmer and harder than the rest of the growth, is covered by squamous epithelium. The causes of the condition are obscure. It is usually attributed to prolonged catarrh, from the irritation of a dust-laden atmosphere, or con- stant exposure to damp and cold. Symptoms.—The symptoms are those which are due to nasal obstruction. The patient is unable to breathe through the affected nostril, and if both nostrils are involved, breathes through the mouth and snores at night. This is usually accompanied by a constant mucous discharge from the nose, which is sometimes blood-stained. These symptoms are always worse in damp weather. The speech is generally affected, being thick and nasal, and in bad cases the nostrils are mechanically expanded. By means of the nasal speculum the growth can generally be seen, especially if the patient is instructed to blow down forcibly ; and a probe introduced by the side of the growth can be made to travel completely round it and thus serves to distinguish it from thickening of the mucous membrane, with which it is liable to be mistaken. Sometimes when the growth originates from the posterior part of the turbinated bone, it projects backwards, and is then likely to be overlooked unless the pharynx is explored with the finger or by rhinoscopy. The slow growth and consistence are sufficient to dis- tinguish these tumours from malignant polypi. Treatment.—The treatment of nasal polypi consists in their removal, and this may be done either by means of a snare or with forceps. The latter plan is often spoken of as being barbarous and unsurgical, and it is the fashion nowadays to condemn it and to advocate the use of the snare. But in spite of its being somewhat rough surgery, it possesses this great advantage, that if properly conducted, the cure may be effected in the course of a couple of minutes ; whereas in the treatment by the snare ' many sittings are usually required, and the case must be kept under observation for some months.' Another objection that has been raised to the treatment by avulsion is that it is extremely painful, and no doubt this is so, unless an anjesthetic is given ; but there is no reason why an anaesthetic should not be given in these cases. The operation is performed as follows : the patient is laid on a table, and chloroform or ether given until he is thoroughly anaesthetised. The head is then brought to the edge of the table and the face turned over it, so that the nostrils are dependent; the surgeon, kneeling before the patient, passes a pair of polypus forceps open into the nostril, with one blade on eitlier side of the growth, until he reaches the bone from which the growth springs, and seizing it in the forceps breaks it