527 CONCiENITAL DISLOCATION position, across his back, over one shoulder and under the opposite axilla. By raising the trunk the surgeon can now make forcible extension of the foot forwards, at the same tinie that his knee makes counter exten- sion, and his hands are free to manipulate the bone into its place. The tendo Achillis and the anterior tibial tendon may be subcutaneously divided if thought necessary. Should this measure fail, treatment must be carried out on the same lines as those indicated in dislocations of the astragalus. The other tarsal bones may be occasionally displaced from each other. One of the most common dislocations is the one at the medio-tarsal joint, where the rest of the tarsal bones are displaced from the os calcis and the astragalus ; or single bones may be dislocated : the os calcis, the navicular, or the internal cuneiform. The cuboid is said to be never displaced alone. These dislocations are often compound. The symptoms are generally obvious. The treatment consists in attempting reduction by extension combined with pressure. Should this fail, excision would be called for, especially if the dislocation was compound. Dislocations of the metatarsal bones and phalanges are occasionally met with. They present nothing of a special character either as regards their diagnosis or treatment. CONGENITAL DISLOCATION By the term congenital dislocation is meant the misplacement of the articular surfaces of a joint, dating from intra-uterine life, and would be perhaps better called congenital malposition. These cases must be distincdy differentiated from dislocations resulting from violent or unskilful treatment during the act of parturition. These latter are true acquired dislocations, and have nothing to do with the cases under consideration. Congenital dislocation other than that of the hip is very rare, though cases have been recorded where the condition has been met with in the shoulder, the wrist, and the jaw. -It will be sufficient, however, to discuss the condition as it occurs in the hip. Numerous theories have been brought forward to explain this lesion, but the one which seems to account for it best is deficient development of the acetabulum. It is well known that during embryonic life the socket of a joint, like the hip, is formed by a growth of pelvic cartilage round the head of the bone, and that, if this does not take place, no proper cavity is formed, and there is nothing to prevent the displacement of the head of the bone by mechanical action, either the weight of the body, or muscular contraction, or, as thought by some, pressure of the uterine walls from malposition of the limbs during uterine life. As to what is the cause of the arrest of growth of the margin of the acetabulum there is some doubt ; but there seems a fair amount of evidence to show that It may be due to lack of proper movement, which may arise from malposition of the limbs ; for it is well known that continual move- ments are necessary for the formation and development of joints. The most common direction of the displacement is upwards and back- wards, so that the head of the bone rests on the dorsum of the ilium above and behind the position of the acetabulum ; but displacement upwards and forwards is by no means uncommon. Where the head of the bone rests, a new articular cavity is formed from the thickened portion of the