TUMOURS OF THE LIVER 827 which moves synchronously with respiration and is connected with the liver, without fever, loss of flesh, or jaundice, suggests hydatid cyst; and if the swelling is elastic or fluctuates on palpation, the diagnosis is rendered more certain, but can only be abso- lutely established, when the tumour is deeply seated, by an exploratory incision to expose the liver, and then by the use of the aspirator. The fluid withdrawn is usually clear or slightly opalescent, of a low specific gravity, as a rule contains no albu- men, and under the microscope reveals scolices or booklets. The disease may give rise to little or no trouble, and the symptoms may subside spontaneously, from death of the parasite. The fluid then becomes absorbed, the wall con- tracts, and a shrunken cyst results, which after a time may become calcareous, and give rise to no further trouble (fig. 322). Treatment.—The only treatment suitable for these cases is incision and drainage or excision ; former plans of treatment by puncture, electro- lysis, or the application of caustics should be entirely discarded. The treatment by incision or excision may be carried out in two sittings, or be completed at one time. Probably in most cases, unless the tumour pro- jects freely below the costal margins, it is wiser to perform the operation in two sittings. _ The operation may be performed, as in opening abscesses, by the abdominal, thoracic, or lumbar route. In the majority of cases the abdominal incision may be selected. An incision is made either in the right semilunar line or linea alba, or through the rectus muscle over the most prominent part of the tumour, and when the peritoneal cavity is opened the cyst wall will generally present. If the peritoneal cavity is not obliterated, the parietal and visceral layers are connected by a few sutures, and the remainder of the operation deferred for a couple of days. Then the hepatic tissue over the cyst, if there is any, is mcised, and the adven- titious cyst wall is exposed and divided. The nozzle of a syringe is now mtroduced between the fibrous capsule and the true wall of the cyst, and water injected. If no inflammatory changes have taken place, this will be sufficient to separate the cyst from its adventitious coat, and it may be removed entire. If this cannot be done, and the cyst is of moderate size and does not extend deeply into the liver substance, an attempt may be made to dissect out the true cyst from its adventitious coat. In either of these two cases, after the rernoval of the cyst, the wound in the liver substance may be united by a series of sutures, a drainage tube having been first inserted. Where the cyst cannot be removed, the contents should be evacuated, the mternal aspect of the cavity scraped with a sharp spoon, and after irrigation packed with a long strip of antiseptic gauze. Daily after the operation the gauze should be removed, the cavity irrigated, and fresh packing applied. Tumours of the liver.—Tumours of the liver have recendybeen subjected to surgical treatment by ' resection of the liver,' by which is meant