883 INGUINAL HERNIA and as it passes along the inguinal canal, a covering from the cremasteric muscle and fascia. As it passes out of the external ring it receives another covering from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, viz. the inter- columnar fascia. So that the coverings of a complete inguinal hernia are skin, subcutaneous tissue, and superficial fascia, the intercolumnar fascia, the cre- masteric muscle and fascia, the infundibuliform fascia, the sub- serous areolar tissue, and the peritoneum. b. The other forms of oblique inguinal hernia are dependent on imperfect development. When the testicle descends, during foetal life, into the scrotum, it carries a process of peritoneum with it to form the tunica vaginalis. This at first forms a cul-de-sac at the bottom of the scrotum, in w hich Fig. 342.—An oblique inguinal hernia. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) the testicle is lodged, and com- municates with the general peri- toneal cavity by a sort of passage or tube, the fmiicular process. During development this tube should become closed and im- pervious from the internal abdo- minal ring to the top of the testicle. It may, however, re- main open throughout, or in the process of obliteration it may become occluded at one of two points, either at the internal ring or just above the epididymis, and remain pervious throughout the rest of its extent. If it remains open throughout, the hernia descends into the tunica vaginalis and comes into contact with the testicle \ this constitutes congenital hernia (fig. 343, 11). Where the pouch of peritoneum is occluded at the internal ring, and remains patent throughout the rest of its extent, two varieties of oblique inguinal hernia may be produced, which have received the names respectively of infajitile and encysted hernia. In the infantile variety (fig. 343, iii) the hernia pressing on the peritoneum in the imme- diate neighbourhood of the occlusion causes it to yield and form a sac, which descends behind the tunica vaginalis, so that there are three layers of peritoneum, the two layers of the tunica vaginalis and the sac between the bowel and the surface of the body. In the encysted form (fig. 343, iv) the hernial protrusion pressing on the occluded spot causes the occlusion itself to yield, so that the hernia descends into the funicular process, and thus we have a sac within a sac, and only two layers of peritoneum separate the contents of the sac from the surface of the body. ' When the funicular process becomes closed at its lower extremity only, the hernia descends into this process, as in the congenital form, but does 3 1. 2