VARICOSE VEINS 367 Accompanying these local signs there is fever, characterised by a high temperature, with rapid, weak pulse ; a dry tongue; and often low mutter- ing delirium. These are followed by repeated rigors, with an intermitting temperature, when pytemia is set up. Treatment.—The only treatment for this affection is to thoroughly get rid of the whole of the septic material. If this can be done early, before general infection has taken place, the results are most gratifying. Un- fortunately this cannot always be done; the disease is not seen until more than one vein has become affected or until the disease has extended so far that the condition cannot be satisfactorily dealt with. The treatment consists in at once exposing and, after ligature, laying open the vein through- out the whole length which is inflamed, turning out the whole of the in- fective clot, and swabbing out the vessel with a strong solution of corro- I sive sublimate (i in 500) or pure carbolic acid. The vein is then to be stuffed with antiseptic gauze. If the deeper veins are affected and this cannot be done, the only resource, if the disease is recognised before general infection has taken place, is to amputate well above the inflamed vein. Varicose veins.—A vein is said to be varicose when it is per- manently dilated, as the result of certain degenerative changes in its coats. Scarcely any veins are exempt from this condition, but it is infinitely more common in some situations than others. The three most common situa- tions in which it is found are the subcutaneous veins of the lower extremity, the spermatic veins, and the heemorrhoidal veins. In other situations true varix is rare, though simple dilatation from obstruction to the return of venous blood from the pressure of a tumour or aneurism &c. is not un- common. The one condition should be differentiated from the other; dilatation in true varix is permanent and is accompanied by changes in the coats of the veins, but in simple dilatation the enlargement subsides if the cause is removed. Causes.—The causes of varicose veins are anything which destroys the balance between the intravenous pressure and the resistance of the walls of the vein. Increased blood pressure in the veins may arise in several different ways : the action of gravity in prolonged standing ; habitual over exertion of a limb, by increasing the supply of blood to it ; any obstacle to the return of venous blood, as the pressure of a tumour, or the gravid uterus, or tight gartering, tends to cause an accumulation of blood in the veins of the lower extremity and so produce varix. The diminished re- sistance of the walls of the vein may be and often is an hereditary condition, but may arise also from inflammatory changes in the coats of the veins, leading to softening, or from absorption of surrounding tissues which deprives the vessel of its accustomed support. In some cases the condition appears to be due simply to an enfeebled state of the walls of the vessel occurring in debilitated individuals. Pathology.—The first effect of any of the above-named causes is to produce a dilatation of _ the vein. If the cause is speedily removed, the natural elasticity of the tissues around, which support the vein, as well as of the vein itself, causes complete recovery, and the vessel regains its natural size; but if the cause is not removed changes take place in the coats of the vein which result in its permanent dilatation, from which it never undergoes spontaneous cure. It should be mentioned that the vein not only undergoes dilatation of its calibre, but also elongation ; and as the ends of the vein are fixed points, this accounts for the very tortuous course