246 c;eneral diseases They cojisist of elongated, oat- or spindle-shaped cells, united by a scanty homogeneous or fibrillated matrix, or without any intercellular substance, the cells lying in close apposition and often arranged in trabecula;, so as to give them the appearance of a fibroma, for which they may i)e mistaken. The cells vary in size in different tumours, but are pretty constant in size in any given growth. This has led to the division of this group of sar- comata into two subdivisions, the S7nall and large spindle-celled sarcoma. In the former of these the cells may not be longer than the diameter of a leucocyte, and these tumours are usually firm and of a pinkish yellow colour. They grow by preference from fibrous structures, as the skin and fascicE. Clinically their great characteristic is their tendency to local recurrence after removal, without giving rise to dissemination in internal organs. Some years ago a patient was admitted into St. George's Hospital who had had a tumour of this kind removed from his arm twenty times, and eventually underwent amputation at the shoulder joint, but there was no evidence of any disease elsewhere, though recurrence had taken place in the stump. From this marked characteristic, Paget described these tumours as recun-ent fibroid. In the large spindle-celled sarcoma the cells are some five or six times as large as in the other variety. They are of a pinkish white colour, of soft consistence and very vascular, and are frequently the seat of extravasations. They often grow from the periosteum of the shafts of the long bones, and were formerly known as encephaloid cancer of bone. They differ in their clinical character- istics from the small spindle-celled sarco- mata, inasmuch as they are very malignant and rapidly prove fatal from secondary internal growths. After removal their tendency to recur- rence is very great, even when the parts removed have been widely distant from the seat of disease. For instance, in a case of this disease affecting the lower end of the femur, amputation was performed at the hip joint, and recurrence took place in the stump in six weeks. y. The myeloid-celled sarcoma (fig. 57).—The myeloid sarcomata grow almost exclusively from the interior of bones, and affect particularly the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia, and the bones of the jaw. As they grow they absorb the bone, but as they do so a fresh deposit of bone takes place from the periosteum, so that the bone becomes enlarged. Absorption, however, takes place more rapidly than deposition, and thus the tumour becomes inclosed at last in a thin shell of bone, which on pressure yields a peculiar sensation which is known as ' egg-shell crack- FiG. 57.—Myeloid sarcoma. Diagrammatic.