25 GENERAL SYMPTOMS It varies very much with the tissue or organ inflamed; thus m loose and lax parts, like the cellular tissue of the eyeHds or scrotum, it is very crreat: while in hard and dense parts, hke bone, it is very slight. After the fnflammation has existed some short time, the swelling towards its centre is hard and brawny, because here inflammatory exudation has taken place, with subsequent coagulation of the effused products; whilst at the margin the swelUng is soft and pits on pressure, because here the exudation is probably serous only, or at all events no coagulation has, as yet, occurred. In addition to these four cardinal signs of inflammation, there is, as we have stated above, some modificatioti in the functional activity of the part, which is decreased or perverted. This modification is always of a degenerated or perverted type. Thus the use of the part is interfered with: the inflamed eye cannot bear the hght; an inflamed joint cannot bear movement or a muscle contraction, and the bladder cannot bear the presence of urine ; or, again, the secretion of secreting glands and surfaces is modified \ it is true they may pour out an abundant secretion, but it is not healthy and normal in character, rather a vicious fluid, which denotes a perverted activity in the function of the part. 2. General symptoms.—In acute inflammation there is always more or less disturbance in the general condition, varying according to the intensity or cause of the inflammation. This constitutional disturbance assumes the form of fever, and the essential sign of it is elevation of the temperature. If the inflammation is simple in its character and has been caused by some mechanical violence, the rise in the temperature is not very great, hardly ever above 102° F., and this may be almost the only symptom of fever present, or, conjoined with it, there may be other febrile symptoms ; a general feeling of malaise and discomfort, the patient feeling alternately hot and cold and sometimes shivering; the pulse is quickened, the skin hot and dry, the tongue furred, the urine scanty and high coloured, and the bowels constipated; if they act, the motions are offensive ; the patierit is restless and complains of thirst and want of appetite, and headache is often present. The fever, however, speedily declines, the temperature becomes lower and usually normal in the course of a few days, the restless- ness and discomfort disappear, the patient regains his appetite and expresses himself as feeling more comfortable. But in other cases the fever does not decline. Before, however, we consider this, it will be desirable to consider to what the increase of temperature is due. It is clear that it cannot be due to the introduction of septic organisrns or their products into the blood, for it occurs in cases where there is no putrefaction, and where the inflammation runs a perfectly simple course and terminates in resolution or the retrogressive form of the disease. It has been shown by Edelberg, Kohler, and others that the introduction into the blood stream of ' fibrin ferment' produced symptoms varying in intensity according to the amount of the ferment injected. When introduced in small quantities it caused elevation of temperature and other symptoms resembling a mild form of septicaemia, which subsided after a brief duration, and the animal recovered : when, however, it was injected in larger quantities it caused coagulation of the blood in the right ventricle and the death of the animal. Now it has already been mentioned that in inflammation a large number of the emigrated leucocytes undergo disin- tegration and during this process set free a considerable amount of fibrin ferment. It seems, therefore, to be a fair inference that the primary traumatic fever following injuries and operations is due to the circulation