902 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS be catised by a blow or kick on the part; and (4) it may be induced by exposure to wet and cold, or even by sitting on the damp ground. It may be acute or chronic. In the acute form of the disease the patient is attacked with severe shooting or stabbing pain by the side of the rectum, which is greatly increased by deftecation or by digital examination. He is unable to bear the weight of his body in the sitting posture. There is usually a considerable amount"of fever, and the temperature is raised to 102° or 103°. When the tissues in the ischio-rectal fossa are involved, there is a hard brawny swelling by the side of the anus, which is exquisitely tender to the touch, and the skin over it is red and oedematous. The swelling soon becomes soft and fluctuating. When the abscess is in the wall of the gut, there is not so much swelling in the ischio-rectal fossa, but on introducing the finger into the rectum a soft fluctuating tumour will be felt under the mucous mem- brane. If left to itself, the abscess may burst either internally into the gut, or externally, or most commonly in both directions, and may lead to the formation of a fistula in ano. . The chronic form usually occurs in tuberculous mdividuals, and is frequently a complication of phthisis. A deposit of tubercle takes place in the submucous tissue or in the tissues outside the rectum; this caseates and slowly forms an abscess, which is generally limited to one side of the bowel, but may denude it to a very considerable extent and may track up to a very long distance from the anus. The symptoms are those of a sense of uneasiness and weight about the lower end of the rectum, followed by the formation of a fluctuating swelling in the ischio-rectal fossa. It may be mistaken for abscess in other parts which has burrowed its way down into the ischio-rectal fossa, as in disease of the sacro-iliac joint; but the treatment is the same, and very often the diagnosis cannot be made until the abscess is opened. The treatment consists in laying the abscess open at the earliest possible period, scraping away all the tuberculous material with a sharp spoon, flushing the cavity out and packing it with iodoform gauze. FISTULA IN ANO A fistula in ano is a suppurating channel or sinus by the side of the rectum, arising from one of the varieties of abscess above described. They may be of two different kinds : (i) complete fistula, and (2) incom- plete. . , • u 1 The complete fistula is a suppurating channel or sinus which nas two openings, the upper one into the bowel, the lower one on the surface of the skin. The incomplete fistula is a suppurating channel or sinus where there is only one opening, and this- opening may be either at its upper or lower end; that is to say, either opening into the bowel or on to the surface of the body. The former is termed a blind internal fistula, ana the latter a bBid external fistula. These fistula; vary according to the variety of abscess which causes them. The marginal abscess usually pro- duces a short suppurating track under the mucous membrane, general!) not more than half an inch or three-quarters of an inch in length, it merely requires division of the mucous membrane over the track, ana dressing the exposed surface, with iodoform, and it usually heals without difficulty. The intra-mural abscess rarely leads to fistula; if opened earl)