514 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES find its way on to the os pubis ; but if there is no rotation at all, merely abduction with extension, the head of the bone remains in or near its initial position, i.e. in the obturator foramen. Though it is very probable that this explanation of the mechanism of dislocation of the hip is true in the greater number of cases, there is undoubted evidence to prove that the head of the femur may be dislo- cated in cases where there is no abduction, and where on the other hand the limb is adducted. In these cases there is a primary dorsal dislocation, the head of the bone escaping through a rent in the capsule behind and above the tendon of the obturator internus. These cases are sometimes, but not always, accompanied by a fracture of the posterior margin of the acetabulum. . Dislocation on to the dorsum ilii.—This is the most common form of dislocation of the hip. The head of the bone rests on the dorsum of the ilium at a varying distance above the acetabulum. It is always situated above the obturator internus ; while the sciatic dis- location is situated below this muscle. This fact induced Bigelow to give the names of ' dislocation above and below the obturator internus muscle' to these two injuries respectively. The ligamentum teres and the capsule are necessarily torn. The rent in the capsule may be either below in those cases in which the dislocation is produced in the usual way, but may be behind when the displacement is direct; or, instead of the capsule being torn, the back part of the rim of the acetabulum may be broken off. The ilio-femoral ligament as a rule is not torn ; and when this is so, it forms an important adjunct to the reduction by manipulation. The muscles around the joint, and especially the external rotators, are frequently lacerated. . Symptoms.—There is marked deformity about the hip, which seems to be widened out and flattened. The trochanter is raised above its natural position and approximated to the anterior superior spine. The head of the bone can usually be made out in its new position. The limb is shortened, generally to the extent of two or three inches. The thigh is flexed, adducted, and rotated inwards, so that the direction of the axis of the femur is across the lower third of the sound thigh, and the ball of the great toe rests on the sound ankle, the knee being somewhat flexed. The vessels in the groin can be felt to have lost their support, so that they can be pressed backwards into a hollow behind. The only injury with which this dislocation is Uable to be mistaken is an impacted fracture with inversion; but , the displaced head of the bone on the dorsum of the ilium can almost always be made out on careful examination. Treatment.—The way in which the surgeon should endeavour to reduce this dislocation is by manipulation, and if the patient is seen shortly after the accident, he will generally succeed if he rigidly follows the directions, which were first formulated by Bigelow. The patient should be placed on a mattress on the floor and anaesthetised, so that the muscles are completely relaxed. The surgeon then grasps the limb and flexes the leg on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, until he can flex it no further • in doing this the thigh should also be somewhat adducted, so that the knee is beyond the median line. The limb is to be maintained in this position for some moments, and then, the flexion still being kept up the thigh is to be abducted to its widest extent; and this having been done it is next to be rotated outwards as far as possible and brougiit