190 GENERAL DISEASES of syphilis, and bear little resemblance to those found in tertiary syphilis. The symptoms are generally symmetrical and disappear without treatment, and the patient is still capable of impregnating his offspring, and in these points they differ from tertiary symptoms, which are non-symmetrical, have no tendency to spontaneous cures, and occur when in all probability infec- tion of the offspring is impossible. It seems to me, therefore, that the old term, late secondaries, is more appropriate to this condition, than to call it by the name of intermediate stage. The principal forms in which this condition shows itself are : (1) Psoriasis palmaris and plantaris.—It is somewhat of a misnomer to call this condition ' psoriasis,' for, like the so-called psoriasis of the skin in secondary syphilis, it is a papulo-squamous eruption. It consists of papules or nodules—a lichenoid eruption—over which the thickened epidermis desquamates and becomes detached in flakes, giving it the appearance of a scaly eruption. It may persist for a long time, indeed until after the tertiary symptoms have appeared. (2) Syphilitic sarcocele,—Another 'reminder' is a slow, painless enlargement of the testicle, with a smooth rounded outline ; generally commencing in one testicle, it after an interval involves the other. Sup- puration may take place if it be left untreated, and it may be followed by hernia testis, but under the influence of mercury the enlargement usually subsides. (3) Leucomatous patches on the tongue is another condition often found during this intermediate stage. (4) Those diseases of the eye, choroiditis and neuro-retinitis, which have already been mentioned as occurring in syphilis, are usually found during this intermediate stage. They are, however, very rare. These diseases may be diagnosed by the ophthalmoscope. (5) Mr. Hutchinson believes also that syphilitic disease of the arteries, principally affecting the cerebral vessels, and leading to disease of the brain, belongs to this intermediate group. Tertiary syphilis is essentially an inflammatory condition, attended by inflammatory changes of an unhealthy or degenerate type, which shows itself in different ways : (i) By inflammation of a_ localised character, attended by the effusion of a considerable amount of inflamma- tory products, which infiltrate a circumscribed area of tissue, and produce a localised swelling which is called gumma. (2) By a more diffused in- flammation, which produces overgrowth of the cellular tissue of the organ or part in which it is located, and leads to fibroid induration aiid hyper- plasia of those organs or parts. (3) By inflammation of the intima of the small arteries, which causes narrowing of the lumen of their tubes, and leads to changes from malnutrition in consequence of imperfect blood supply. I. A Gumma, sometimes called a syphilitic granuloma or syphiloma, is a circumscribed inflammation, attended by the infiltration of the part inflamed with small round cells, which are in part migrated leucocytes, and in part proHferated connective tissue corpuscles. Amongst these cells new vessels are formed by the growing into the tissue of loops from the surround- ing capillaries. The cells gradually destroy and replace the tissues into which they have been infiltrated, and exceeding in bulk the tissues they have replaced, they form a distinct tumour. We have therefore a vascular swelling, consisting of round cells, between which is a fibrillated, inter- cellular substance, which must be regarded as a mass of granulation tissue.