io8o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS and" though po.s.sil5ly it may arise in connection with one of the deep lobules of the breast, it is far more frequently due to other causes such as necrosis of the ribs or costal cartilages, tuberculous disease, or some such cause. In these cases the swelling is beneath the breast, which is pushed forwards and rests on the swollen tissues. If the matter points, it is usually at the periphery of the organ, generally at its most dependent part. Symptoms of intra-mammary abscess.—The patient com]jlains of a sense of weight and aching pain in the breast, especially whilst the child is being suckled, and this is accompanied by a certain feeling of malai.se and discomfort, alternations of heat and cold, or it may be the disease is ushered in with a rigor. This is speedily followed by the typical signs of acute inflammation. The breast, generally at its lower part, is swollen and indurated, acutely painful, tender on pressure, hot to the touch, and the skin over it may be more or less reddened. Conjoined with these signs is a rise in the temperature, the pulse is quick, and the tongue furred. After a time the skin over the swelling becomes oedematous and fluctuation is detected. Treatment.—The treatment consists first of all in weaning the child. Some surgeons recommend that the child should not be weaned, but excluded from the affected breast ; but it is better to wean it at once; in the first place, because abscess of the breast almost always occurs in women who are weak and anaemic, and in whom therefore the exhaus- tion produced by lactation, in conjunction with suppuration, is more than they are able to bear; and secondly, because if the child is still suckled with the sound breast a certain amount of engorgement is kept up in the affected one. If necessary the milk must be drawn off with a breast pump, and bromide of potassium may be given until the secretion has ceased. The affected breast must be smeared all over with a mixture of equal parts of extract of belladonna and glycerine, which will further arrest the secretion, and covered with a hot fomentation. It must be well supported. The best way of doing this is by passing a soft silk handkerchief, folded as a cravat, under the breast, with one end over the shoulder on the sound side ; the other under the axilla on the affected side, and tying the two ends together behind the patient's back. The arm should be supported by a sling. The bowels are kept acting ; a light nutritious diet should be ordered, and tonics—quinine, or bark and ammonia, should be given. If suppuration occurs, the abscess should be opened as soon as fluctuation is evident. This must be done, with strict antiseptic precautions, by an incision, in a line radiating from the nipple. These incisions should be made freely, so as thoroughly to open up the interstitial tissue between the lobules, and more than one may be necessary in the same case. After the suppurating tissues have been well irrigated with hot corrosive subli- mate solution, a drainage tube or tubes should be inserted, and an anti- septic dressing applied. The breast will require dressing daily, and on each occasion the drainage tube may be shortened, until it is entirely removed. By these measures chronic suppuration and the riddling of the gland with sinuses, which so often followed abscess of the breast in former days, will be averted. In cases where an intra-mammary abscess has been allowed to burst, septic sinuses very often persist and require enlargement, scrap- ing, and efficient drainage. During the process of suppuration the padeni s strength must be supported by strict attention to hygienic and dietetic measures ; by the administration of tonics and stimulants, as the case may seem to require.