F^XAI. FISTULA 835 hernia. (6) From the giving way of tlie intestine where it lias been com- pressed by the stricture in strangulated hernia, or by a band in acute mtestinal obstruction. (7) From ulceration induced by the pressure of an accumiilatjon of fteces in chronic obstruction; this last variety usually occurring in the large intestine as the result of malignant disease. In most cases the perforation is acute, and is attended by intense pain HI the abdomen and sudden collapse, followed by tympanitis and other symptoms of general peritonitis. In the typhoid ulcer the perforation usually takes place about the third week of the disease. The patient is suddenly attacked with severe pain, accompanied by a fall in the tempera- ture and evidence of shock, and this is followed by distension. There is usually only one perforation. The treatment which has been recently adopted with success in several cases is to open the abdomen, and either close the ulcer by invaginating a tuck of the bowel, and suturing the two folds by Lembert's suture, as in perforation of the stomach, or in making a temporary artificial anus by stitching the intestine around the perforation to the peritoneum at the margin of the wound. The remedy is a severe one, but death must certainly follow if this course is not adopted. In some_ cases, especially in tuberculous ulcers and in ulcers following malignant disease of the colon, the lesion is more chronic, and under these circumstances adhesions form around the site where the perforation is about to take place, and when extravasation occurs the exuded material is shut off from the general peritoneal cavity and a localised abscess is the result, which may burst externally and will then give rise to fsecal fistula. Faecal fistula.—A fsecal fistula is where there is a small communica- tion between the interior of the bowel and the surface of the body. It must not be confounded with artificial anus, where the communication is large and results from the destruction of a considerable portion of the wall of the bowel. Fsecal fistula may arise from several causes : (i) from injuries, such as gunshot wounds, stabs, and surgical operations ; (2) from any form of per- foration _ of the bowel, but especially from tuberculous ulcer or from perforation above a cancerous stricture, or after strangulated hernia; (3) from tuberculous peritonitis, where coils of intestine become matted together, and among them an abscess forms, which may open into the bowel and also externally, and subsequently contracts and forms a fistula. (4) Fgecal fistula may also result from perforation of the appendix in cases of appendicitis. These cases will be considered later on. (5) Finally, It may be congenital (page 807). In some instances the bowel may be closely adherent to the abdominal parietes, and the opening in the skin passes directly into the bowel. In other cases the orifice in the bowel may be at a considerable distance from the surface, and the two openings may communicate by a long and sinuous track. Occasionally there may be several orifices on the skin surface communicating with the one opening in the gut. In fsecal fistula there has usually been very litde destruction of the wall of the bowel, and therefore very little deflection of the gut, so that there is no impediment to the onward passage of the contents of the bowel, and only a small amount of fsecal matter escapes through the opening (fig. 327, a); but in artificial anus there has been a considerable destruction of the coats of the intestine, and therefore the bowel is sharply angled at the point of attachment to the abdominal wall; this causes the mesenteric borders of the bowel to be almost parallel with each other, and to project up to the level of the opening, forming a sort of diaphragm, 3 H 2