yo GENERAL INJURIES the end, when it beats so rapidly that it cannot be counted. This is not so much due to febrile excitement as to exhaustion from the violence of the muscular contractions; for many cases of tetanus prove fatal without any rise of temperature. It has been noticed, however, that towards the close of the case in many instances the temperature rises rapidly and to an enormous height. Instances have been recorded in which the thermometer has registered iio° F. and 112° F., and sometimes even after death it may rise one or two degrees. As the disease progresses the clonic spasms increase in frequency and severity, and appear to come on without any exciting cause. The fatal termination appears to take place sometimes from exhaustion, less frequently from suffocation during a paroxysm, and perhaps most commonly from a combination of the two causes : the patient, worn out by the severity and frequency of the tetanic spasm, dies during a convulsion. It used to be taught that death occurred in these cases from cardiac spasm, but the sudden stoppage in the heart's action which is sometimes noted is probably rather due to cardiac paralysis. Diagnosis.—Tetanus has to be distinguished from hysteria, strychnia poisoning, epilepsy, and hydrophobia. In hysterical people there is some- times a spasmodic condition of the muscles, especially of the jaw, pro- ducing trismus, and the muscles of the back, producing opisthotonos, which simulates tetanus. But it will be noted that there is complete relaxation at times, and the administration of an ansesthetic will usually at once clear up any doubt. In strychnia poisoning the spasms com- mence suddenly and culminate with great rapidity, and if the dose is not fatal they subside as rapidly. Hilton Fagge has drawn attention to the fact that the hand is clenched from spasm of its muscles, which is rarely the case in tetanus. Epilepsy is accompanied by insensibility, and between the seizures there is complete relaxation. The diagnosis from hydrophobia has already been alluded to, the spasms being clonic and not tonic. Pathology.—The post-mortem appeara7ices present nothing character- istic of the disease. The only fairly constant post-mortem change which is found is in the nerves passing from the wound. They present signs of an acute, ascending neuritis, but then the wound in most instances is obviously septic, and these changes in the nerves are not more marked than in many other forms of septic wounds, where an acute septic neuritis is set up. Formerly considerable stress was laid on this condition of the nerves, before the exact pathology of the disease had been made out. The spinal cord in some cases has been found to be congested, and Lockhart Clarke has described areas of softening, with exudation of leucocytes into the perivascular lymph spaces, and he considers that this is due to hypersemia of the cord, accompanied by exudation and disintegration. Other pathologists have believed that the changes observed have been due rather to decomposition. Treatment,—With regard to the preventive treatment of tetanus, nothing need be said except that the rigid adherence to aseptic surgery is the best means of preventing this disease. At the same time the surgeon should bear in mind the class of wound which is liable to be infected with the tetanus bacillus, namely, those into which earth has been introduced, and such wounds should receive the most rigid exploration and cleansing, especially as the bacillus, as we have already seen, shows the greatest resistance to our ordinary sterilising agents. After the disease declares itself, the wound should be opened up and thoroughly explored and