NON-INFECTIVE DISSECTION WOUNDS 77 the corpse at the time of death. From this it follows that wounds inflicted during dissecting are rarely dangerous ; whereas a wound inflicted during the pro^^ress of a post-mortem examination where the subject has been dead only a few hours may be followed by the most disastrous consequences, more especially when the individual has died from some infective condition, such as septicemia, pytemia, and septic peritonitis. The results of a wound, when a non-infecting poison is introduced, depend upon a variety of circumstances : (i) The state of the general health of the person injured. If the individual is of sound constitution and in good health the wound may heal without any inconvenience, or at most he may get a little local pustule ; but if he is viscerally unsound, or if his health has been broken down by over-work and insufficient nutrition, or by dissipation, more serious consequences may follow. (2) Secondly, on the idiosyncrasy of the individual. Some people seem to be peculiarly susceptible to the influence of the virus. They can scarcely conduct a single post-mortem examination without imbibing some of the poison, and this seems to occur in some, without the infliction of a wound ; it may be that there is some slight abrasion or scratch which has not been noticed, or it may be that the poison passes through the unbroken skin. It is believed also, on very good grounds, that an individual who is engaged in conducting a consider- able number of post-mortem examinations gains after a time an immunity from dissection wounds, for it is a well-recognised fact that those who are daily engaged in this kind of work rarely suffer from any inconvenience if they should accidentally prick or scratch their fingers, whilst another, who only occasionally makes a post-mortem examination, if he accidentally wounds himself, suff'ers some ill eff"ects from it. (3) The size of the wound. A wound of any considerable size usually bleeds, and the blood carries away the poison ; moreover, if the wound is at all large the inconvenience of it induces the individual to resort to some means of disinfection and to abandon his work for a time; whereas if the wound is a slight scratch, unattended with any pain or hsemorrhage, it is very likely to be disregarded, and the operator continues his work without any means being taken to disinfect the part, and evil consequences may ensue. Moreover, pre-existing abrasions, unknown or unnoticed, may be the means by which the poison is inoculated. If, then, the recipient of the poison is in a sound condition of health and the dose is not large, and if, above all, means are taken to get rid of the poison, no evil results may follow, and the wound may heal like any ordinary wound, or, at the worst, the poison merely exerts its influence on the tissues with which it is brought immediately in contact. A halo of inflammation is set up in the tissues around the puncture ; inflammatory exudation is poured out; all the blood-vessels and lymphatics around become sealed, and thus a barrier is formed which prevents anything but the slightest local trouble. (1) A little pustule may form at the site of inoculation, which bursts and discharges a drop or two of pus and then heals up; or a little mass of tissue may be actually destroyed ; then, when the pustule burst.s, a small core of dead cellular tissue separates in a few days and is cast off, and the little cavity left heals by granulation. (2) In other cases, where the general health is not so good, or the patient has a greater susceptibility to the virus, the fencing-in process of inflammation does not appear to be so great, the virus finds its way into the lymphatics, and is carried by them to the nearest set of lymphatic glands. In these cases the superficial, and sometimes the deep, lymphatics