PHENOMENA been previously demonstrated experimentally by other observers. 1 his nothing is required for the complete recovery of the part but a cessation of he cause which induced the retardation. If this occurs the corpuscles no bnc^e" have a tendency to adhere, and it will be noticed that hey first begin o ofcillate then to separate from each other and the wa 1 of the vjssel and, sbwly at first and then more rapidly, the blood stream ,s restored and the circulation resumes its normal character. .1 , i The retardation and stasis are thus seen to be clearly due to the tendency which the corpuscles acquire of adhering to each other and to the walls of he vessels, and it remains, therefore, now to inquire to what cause this adhesivene s is due It has been attributed respectively to (i) dilatation of the ?essX(2) changes in the corpuscles, and (3) changes in the vessels. It is quite clear that it cannot be due to the dilatation of the vessels, for when dilatation occurs from other causes no tendency in the corpuscles to adhere takes place. If, for instance, the sympathetic d;^;ided m the neck all the vessels -arteries, veins, and capillanes-become dilated, but the blood flows through them without showing the slightest tendency on the part o the corpuscles to adhere to the wall of the vessel. In like manner 1 cannot be due to changes in the corpuscles. It was formerly taught that it was, and it was believed by some pathologists that the corpuscles in an inflamed part underwent some change by which they became coated over with adhesive material, whereby they obtained this tendency to adhere together. But this undoubtedly cannot be so, for, as we have already seen, if a corpuscle passes out of the inflamed area it at once loses its adhesiveness, and flows onward in the circulation m a perfectly normal manner. Again, it is obvious that only one small portion of the blood can have been acted upon by the irritant, and that the blood in_ the area of stasis cannot be that portion which was thus acted upon, for it must have passed through the vessels of the part long before the occurrence of the stasis. And, finally, substances such as chloroform, which when applied to a part cause adhesiveness, interfere with coagulation when added to the blood. The tendency, therefore, which the corpuscles show m an inflamed area to adhere must be due to changes in the vessels. And it would appear to be due to the same cause which produced their primary dilatation- namelv, an arrest in function or temporary paralysis. In the healthy con- dition' of the vessels there is little or no tendency on the part of the cor- puscles to adhere to each other or to the wall of the vessel, but when the corpuscles, either red or white, are removed from the body they show a great tendency to adhere ; or if any foreign body is introduced into a vessel, or it the lining membrane of a vessel becomes altered by disease, the same tendency to adhesion to it of the corpuscles is at once seen. This would seem to show that there is a force at work in the vessels, the nature ot which we are ignorant of, which counteracts the natural adhesiveness ol the corpuscles, and that when inflammation is present, the walls ot the vessels being in a state of suspended function, this power is diminished or lost. . „ • . Third change.—The third change in the inflammatory process consists in the passage through the walls of the vessels of the corpuscles and liquor sanguinis, which accumulate in the tissues outside the vessels. As soon as retardation of the blood current sets in the exudation or emigration of the white corpuscles commences, followed after a time by the red. The emigration of the leucocytes is a very remarkable pheno- menon, which was first actually observed by Cohnheim, though it had