132 GENERAL DISEASES death, and putrefaction. When a part is about to become the seat of moist gangrene, it becomes swollen, of a dusky red hue, the tissues become oedematous, pain of a burning character is complained of, and there is increased pain on touching or handling the part. After actual death has taken place, the gangrenous part becomes colder than natural, the colour changes to a dark greenish purple tint and then becomes black. All sensibility in the part itself is lost, so that it may be pricked with a needle without the patient experiencing any sensation of pain, Putrefac- tion now sets in; upon pressing the finger on the gangrenous tissues a sensation of crepitation is experienced from the evolution of gases—the products of decomposition—in the cellular tissue. Bloody bullae form on the surface, and after a time the epidermis peels off (fig. 29). These symptoms are accompanied by a foul- smelling foetid odour, which is also due to the presence of gases formed during the process. The patient suffers from fever of an asthenic type, due to the absorption of the poisonous products of decomposition. Separation of dead tissue.—The dead portion of tissue, whether large or small; whether due to the dry ,or moist process of gangrene, must be got rid of, and this is accomplished by a process of ulceration in the living tissues in contact with the dead. Here inflammation is set up as the result of the irritation of the dead tissues. This is attended by diapedesis and infiltration with leucocytes of the layer of living tissue which joins the gangrenous parts. The leucocytes destroy and replace this layer of tissue, and in their turn are replaced by granulation tissue, which separates the living and the dead parts, formerly directly con- tinuous with each other. This granulation tissue then undergoes a process of degene- ration and is converted into pus, which flows away and leaves a gap or hiatus between the living and dead tissue ; or, in other words, the one is separated from the other. This process begins on the surface, in the skin, where very soon a furrow forms as the granulation tissue is converted into pus, and the furrow deepens until the whole of the tissues, including the bone, if there is any that has died, are separated. In cases where a limb or a part of a limb has perished, the deeper parts are separated at a lower level than the more superficial ones, so that the stump which is left is a conical one. The bone which forms the apex of the cone separates at a lower level than the other structures, the deeper muscles at a lower level than the more superficial ones, and the skin at the highest level of all. This surface, if the patient's reparative powers are good, may, under favourable circumstances, cicatrise in the same manner as an ordinary ulcer. Fig. 29 -Moist gangrene in the leg of a child. (From a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)