INFLAMMATION 34 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION In what has been said up to this point we have been considering inflammation as an amte process ; but there is another condition which is known under the name of Chronic inflammation which now requires to be considered. It is usually said to be a modification of the acute process, and so it is, up to a certain point, but sti 1 at the same time it differs very materially from it in some instances, and in this point in particular that chronic inflammation may occur without any emigration of leucocyte's or, at all events, without there being any evidence of this migration having taking place. Still at the same time it seems to be true that we must regard the process as a modification of acute inflammation, for though we find the two extreme conditions of acute and chronic inflammation widely diff"erent from each other in all their features, still between these two extreme conditions there is a regular series of grada- tions so that no hard and fast line can be drawn between acute inflamma- tion on the one hand and chronic inflammation on the other, but the one condition gradually merges into the other. _ _ Adopting then this view, that chronic inflammation is merely a modifi- cation of the acute, let us compare the process in the two conditions to see in what respects they differ from each other. The first phenomenon which attended the acute inflammatory condition was dilatation of the blood-vessels and increased rapidity of the blood stream • in chronic inflammation we note the same thing—there is a dilatation of the vessels of the part, but it is much more persistent, and sometimes leads to loss of tone and permanent dilatation. There is not, however, the same tendency to stasis as was noticed in the second change of acute inflammation. This no doubt is due to the fact that there has been less damage done to the vessel walls by the irritant, and therefore less alteration from their normal condition. It follows from this want ot stasis that there is less emigration of leucocytes ; in fact, as we have already said, it would appear that there is no evidence of migration at all in some cases, whilst in others we find emigration going on, and accompanied by destruction of tissue. in In consequence of the slighter degree of damage to the vessel walls, they would appear to possess to a greater amount than in acute inflamma- tions their selective influence, as to what should pass through their walls, and instead, therefore, of having a leakage of the plasma of the blood, we get merely a transudation of its serum, and hence we find serous effusions amongst the most common of the sequelas of chronic inflammation. In the chronic form of inflammation, as in the acute, we after a time get the tissues outside the vessels crowded with cells, but the origin ot these cells is not always the same ; in some instances, at all events, wliere no migration of leucocytes takes place, these cells are derived simply Irom the proliferation of the cells of the connective tissue of the part; in others, no doubt where migration does occur, the new cells are derived in part from the emigrated leucocytes. These cells may undergo various changes, which to a certain extent resemble the changes which occur in acute inHam- mation. The most important and the most common of these consists in the gradual destruction of the tissue which is inflamed, and its replacement Dy young connective tissue. This formation of newly formed fibrous tissue is one of the most characteristic of the results of chronic inflammation ; it is