DISLOCATION OF TPIE COCCYX 757 by forcible flexion or twisting of the neck, as in judicial hanging, but may occur also from violent blows. Dislocation between the atlas and axis has taken place, with tearing of the transverse ligament, by lifting a struggling child by the head. Complete dislocation.—In the complete form of dislocation there is always pressure on the cord, and the symptoms are the same as those of fracture-dislocation at the same level; dislocation affecting the first or second vertebrae being immediately fatal; while dislocation below the fourth is followed by death, usually within forty-eight hours. In incomplete dislocation the symptoms vary with the amount of displacement. In some cases the cord may escape without injury, owing to the large size of the canal in this region ; or it may be slightly bruised, when the paralysis is incomplete\ at first, but usually becomes com- plete later on from hemorrhage into the canal or inflammatory changes in the cord. There is rigidity of the neck, and pain, increased on movement; irregularity will be felt in the line of the spinous processes and of the transverse processes, if they can be made out, which is not always possible. In these cases an attempt should be made to effect reduction. The surgeon standing behind the patient, who is laid on a table or bed, seizes the head and makes steady traction, and at the same time moves the head laterally, first to one side and then the other. If reduction cannot be effected by these means, the spinal column should be exposed by an incision in the middle line at the back of the neck, and the bones levered into their place. Occasionally it may be found that the im- pediment to reduction is the interlocking of the articular processes, and the removal of a small portion of one of them may facilitate reduction. The patient should be required, after reduction, to wear some sort of support in the shape of a moulded leather collar, which will fix the head on the shoulders for some months until perfect consolidation has taken place. Unilateral dislocation.—In these cases the articular processes on one side of the body only are displaced from each other, with partial or complete tearing of the intervertebral disc. It may be produced by blows or falls on the side of the head. The head is fixed and turned to the opposite side to that on which the injury is situated; all movement is painful, and there is often radiating pain complained of in the nerve which is stretched as it passes through the intervertebral foramen. Upon examination it will be found that the spinous processes and the transverse processes, if they can be made out, are irregular. There are no signs of compression of the cord at first, though they may appear later from haemor- rhage into the canal, or from myelitis-. The treatment in these cases consists in making an attempt to reduce the displacement. The patient is anEesthetised, and by methodical move- ments the head is flexed and extended, or moved from side to side at the same time that a moderate degree of extension is kept up. The bone will sometimes be felt to slip into its place with an audible snap. If the surgeon fail to reduce the dislocation the bones become fixed in their new position, and an unsightly form of wry-neck, often accompanied by severe neuralgic pain, is set up. It is justifiable therefore in these cases to expose the parts by an incision, and endeavour in this way to correct the displacement. Dislocation of the coccyx.—In connection with injuries of the spine must be mentioned a not very uncommon accident, in which the coccyx is displaced forwards by kicks or blows upon it, or falls on some hard