6S TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS it, reintroduced on the other side and brought out some distarice from the margin of the wound on the opposite side. The loop of silk in the eye of the needle is now seized and the needle withdrawn. In this way as many sutures as are necessary are applied. We have now a series of loops on one side of the wound and a series of double ends at the other. A piece of a bougie is passed through the loops, and the ends tied tightly over a second piece of bougie (fig. 14). Superficial sutures will generally be found necessary in these cases in addition to the quilled sutures, as the pressure on the deep parts by the latter tends to force the cutaneous surfaces outwards. Tension sutures.—^If there is any diflficulty in bringing the edges of a wound together or any tension on the stitches after they have been applied, deep ' terision ' sutures should be used. A needle threaded with stout silver wire is inserted at some considerable distance from the margin of the wound, carried deeply through the tissues and brought out at a similar Fig. 15.^Tension sutures. distance on the other side of the wourid. This suture is fastened at either end to a flattened leaden button of large size, the wire being pulled as tight as possible. Several sutures may in this way be inserted, and by dragging inwards the tissues towards the wound, it allows the approxima- tion of the edges with much less tension (fig. 15). / Buried sutures.—In cases where a wound is of great depth and numerous structures have been divided, it is of advantage sometimes to unite these divided tissues by ' buried' sutures. In fact sometimes this pro- ceeding is imperatively called for, as, for instance, where nerves or tendons have been divided ; but this treatment is much more widely employed by some surgeons ; they stitch the deeper planes of the wound together, muscle to muscle, fascia to fascia, so as to avoid a cavity. Other surgeons, however, believe that the cavity can in many cases be sufficiently obliterated by suitably applied pressure. 4 The maintenance of complete rest.—Sufficient has already been said about the necessity for keeping the wound in a condition F