583 TREATMENT OF SCALP WOUNDS instances the suppuration may occur between the bone and dura mater, where it forms a localised abscess, corresponding in situation to the external wound. These cases give rise to a definite train of symptoms, which must be briefly alluded to in this place. The symptoms generally occur before the wound has healed, but in some cases the)' ma)- not appear until after this has taken place. They consist in intense pain in the head, with elevation of the temperature, delirium and vomiting, and probably a rigor. Conjoined with these general symptoms, if the wound has not healed, there is a cessation of the discharge and the wound becomes dry ; the periosteum recedes from the bone, which is white and dry, and looks as if it were dead. The soft parts around are swollen and cedematous. If the wound has healed, the swelling and oedema, conjoined with the general symptoms, are the only signs." This tender circumscribed flattened swelling is known under the name of Potfs puffy tumour. The treatment in these cases consists in trephining and letting out the matter. Pott records eight cases as having occurred under his own care in which he trephined, and in five cases with success, but these cases are generally acknowledged to be very rare in these days, for even if matter is found between the bone and dura mater in a case of trephining for head injury, it is not generally limited or circumscribed, as in Pott's cases. Treatment of scalp wounds.—In the treatment of a scalp wound the first indication is to arrest haemorrhage from any large vessel which may have been wounded. The bleeding from small vessels will probably have ceased before the case is seen ; if otherwise it can always be arrested by pressure. If a vessel has only been partially divided it should be cut across and then tied. In those cases where there is any difficulty in seizing the cut vessel in the brawny tissues of the scalp, it may be underpinned and compression made by a figure-of-8 loop. The wound and the parts around are now to be thoroughly cleaned, and as they are often deeply engrained with dirt, too much care and attention cannot be bestowed upon this. The hair for some distance around should be cut away, and the skin well scrubbed with soft soap and hot water. The edges of the wound if they are engrained with dirt should also be scrubbed. After this has been done the parts should be thoroughly soaked in a strong antiseptic fluid (carbolic acid lotion i in 20), or corrosive sublimate solution (i in 1,000). After this has been satisfactorily accomplished, the edges of the wound are to be adjusted and united by sutures; the old prejudice against using sutures in scalp wounds being now quite exploded. The best material for suture is horsehair, but if a large and heavy flap has been torn down and these sutures are not strong enough to hold it, fine silk- worm gut should be substituted. The wound is now dressed with double cyanide gauze and wool, and bandaged. The dressing may be left on for a week or ten days if there is no pain or rise of temperature, and if the cleansing process has been efficiently carried out, at the end of this time i n ^1°,""^ ^^''^l ^°^^cl to be healed, or if any of the tissues have been killed by the violence they will be found to be separating without suppura- tion, or with the smallest amount possible.