ENTERORRHAPHY 797 torn completely apart and its edges lacerated, enterectomy or excision of the involved segment of the bowel should be performed and an end- to-end anastomosis made. Formerly it was recommended that in those cases where the patient was suffering from severe shock, and it seemed probable that he would not survive a protracted operation, an artificial anus should be made in order to save time. In the present day, with our improved methods of operating, a resection and end-to-end anastomosis can be done almost as rapidly as an artificial anus can be made, and there can rarely be any necessity for resorting to such a proceeding, which either leaves the patient in a very distressing condi- tion, or necessitates the performance of another operation at some future date. The operation of enterectomy, or resection of a portion of gut, may be required in cases of gangrenous gut; intussusception ; for the removal of stricture : and in dealing with artificial anus ; in addition to those cases where it is required for injury. It is performed as follows. The abdo- men having been opened, and the amount of bowel to be removed having been determined upon, the gut must be carefully clamped at some distance on either side of this portion in order to prevent the escape of any of the contents of the bowel during the operation. Many forms of enterectomy clamps have been devised by different surgeons, but probably the simplest method of attaining the end, and as efficient as any, is to make a small opening in the mesentery, at the spot at which it is desired to compress the gut, and passing a piece of india-rubber tubing through the opening, encircle the bowel with it, with sufficient tension to arrest the passage of fluid through the canal without strangling its walls, and fixing the tube with a pair of clip forceps. This having been done, the injured portion of bowel is to be separated above and below with scissors. If the portion- removed is small, it may be simply separated from the mesentery at its attachment, and any bleeding vessels tied with catgut ; but if the portion removed is large, it will be necessary to take away a V-shaped piece of the mesentery, having first secured the main vessels in the part to be removed before the section is made. All htemorrhage having been arrested, the cut edges of the mesentery, if any has been removed, are now sutured, and the surgeon then proceeds to unite the cut ends of the bowel by the operation of end-to-end anastomosis, or enterorrhaphy as it is termed. There are numerous ways in which the divided ends of the bowel may be united, and they may be classified into two groups : (i) where the operation is performed by simple suturing, and (2) where the union is effected by some special apparatus. _ Enterorrhaphy by suturing.—The following are some of the principal methods which have been adopted. (a) The ends of the bowel may be united by the Czerny-Lembert suture above described. The operation is, however, an exceedingly tedious one, and on account of the time it takes in its performance it is rarely employed! Moreover, there is some difficulty in dealing in this way with the part of the bowel adjacent to the mesenteric attachment. If this is so, the opera- tion may be slightly modified by what is known as Wolfer's method y (fig- 307), that is to say, about a third of the calibre of the bowel in the P neighbourhood of the mesenteric attachment is sutured from within. The sutures are first passed through the muscular and then the serous coat of one piece of the gut, and through the serous and then muscular coat on the other piece, and the knot tied on the inner or mucous surface. In