GENERAL DISEASES 234 unsightl}-. AVith regard to molluscum fibrosum, care must be exercised in their removal, on account of liiOiniorrhage. The pedicle should either be divided gradually and with care, each vessel being seized with artery clips as it is wounded, or the base of the tumour should be ligatured in pieces before the growth is removed. The fibromata are innocent tumours, and do not return if removed. II. Lipoma. —The Hpomata are tumours composed of fat, and occur under two forms, the circumscribed and the diffused. The circumscribed lipoma is the commonest of the innocent tumours. It is principally situated in the subcutaneous tissue, but it may grow from the connective tissue of any part of the body; deeply seated in the inter- muscular planes ; in the cavity of the abdomen; in the spinal canal in connection with the membranes of the cord; or from the periosteum of bone. It is simply a mass of fat, differing in no respect from ordinary adipose tissue (fig. 51). It is inclosed in a capsule formed of con- densed areolar tissue, which when the tumour is subcutaneous is attached to the skin by fibrous bands, so that the integument becomes puckered or dimpled when it is tensed over the tumour. The fat cells when exa- mined microscopically often present crystals of the fatty acids. Symptoms. — Fatty tumours are soft, and give to the fingers an indistinct feeling of fluctuation, so that they are liable to be mistaken for chronic abscesses. The most common situa- tion for them to be found is over the shoulder, and they are believed Fig. 51.—A fatty tumour, showing extreme lobulation. j-q caused in this situation by the irrita- tion produced by the pressure of the braces or shoulder straps. They are distinctly circumscribed and generally lobulated. This lobulation is especially to be felt at the margin of the growth. If the tumour is pinched up between the forefinger and thumb so as to render the skin tense over it, it presents here and there little dimples where the capsule is attached to the skin. The growth is freely movable on the parts beneath. Lipomata are for the most part single, but cases are not uncommonly met with where they are multiple. The multiple lipomata are more frequently met with in the forearms than elsewhere. Sometimes the amount of fibrous tissue in lipomata is considerably in excess of what is found in normal adipose tissue. These tumours are called fibro-lipomata. They are much firmer and harder than the ordinary lipoma and often more extensively lobulated. They may also be pedunculated, and under these circumstances they show a tendency to slough from deficient supply of blood. A peculiarity about the lipomata is that they have a tendency to shift their position ; this is probably merely the result of gravity ; the tumours being loosely connected to surrounding structures have a tendency to