RHEUMATIC SYNOVITIS of the strapping, which also assists in promoting absorption; and the immobility of the joint. In cases of hydrops articuli which resist this plan of treatment, it may be advisable to aspirate, and through the aspirating needle wash out the cavity with hot sterilised water or some weak antiseptic solution, as boric lotion or a weak solution of iodine. The mere aspiration, without the subsequent washing out, is usually not of much avail, as the synovial sac generally fills again. It should be borne in mind that hydrops articuli may occur in other cases besides those of local synovitis, as in Charcot's disease, osteo- arthritis, syphilitic disease of joints, and in tuberculous disease. In these cases the treatment must be directed to the cause which gave rise to the condition. Chronic synovitis.—Chronic synovitis is essentially a tuberculous affection, and will be considered with tuberculous diseases of joints. There are, it is true, a certain number of cases, which are classed as chronic simple synovitis, which differ only in degree from the sub-acute form. As they present similar symptoms, though perhaps not so marked; arise from like causes ; and as the treatment is the same as in the sub-acute form, they require no further description. Synovitis arising from general causes.—Under this head we include those cases of S}'novitis where the inflammation is set up by some poison carried to the synovial membrane through the blood. Of these there are many, including the rheumatic, the gouty, the acute infective, the gonorrh(jeal, the tuberculous, and the syphilitic. A word or two will have to be said about the first four of these; the remaining two will be considered with tuberculous and syphilitic diseases of joints respectively. I. Rheumatic synovitis may be acute or chronic. In the acute form it constitutes the disease known as rheumatic fever, and falls under the care of the physician. Its main features are its tendency to metastasis, and to involve more joints than one. Many cases of chronic synovitis which fall under the care of the surgeon are no doubt rheumatic in their nature; that is to say, a simple synovitis is set up from a local cause, and then, owing to some rheumatic taint, resolution does not take place, but slight swelling remains, accompanied by a feeling of pain and stiffness upon putting the joint in action after a period of rest. The disease is truly rheumatic in its nature, and there is often a history of a previous attack of rheumatic fever. The pain and stiffness is not always present, but recurs at intervals, is aggravated by cold wet weather, and is worse at night. These symptoms may last for years, recurring at intervals. In some cases the disease may not be confined to the synovial membrane, but involve the other structures and go on to disorganisation of the joint. These cases must be distinguished from osteo-arthritis, with which they are apt to be confounded. The treatment consists in correcting the constitutional condition by change of residence to a dry warm climate; by courses of baths at Buxton and Bath in this country, or Aix-les-Bains and AViesbaden abroad, and by the administration of anti-rheumatic remedies, with iron and cod- liyer oil to sup[)ort the general health. The local treatment consists in friction with various stimulating liniments, or the application of anodynes, IS a mixture of chloroform, belladonna, and glycerine, and swathing the part in a flannel roller. Hot soda fomentations are sometimes very efficacious in relieving the pain and stiffness.