212 GENERAL DISEASES remaining open till the sixth year. In the spine the principal change is an exaggeration of the primary dorsal curve, the spine presenting one long curve from the lowest cervical vertebra to the coccyx. This condition is known as kyphosis. The Thorax undergoes most important changes in shape, which often seriously affect the patient in after life. These changes are due to the softness of the ribs and their diminished power of resistance to the pressure of the atmospheric air, so that when the child takes an inspiration and expands the chest wall, the balance between the pressure of the air inside and outside the chest is unequal, and in consequence of this the anterior extremities of the ribs are sucked in and produce a characteristic deformity. The sternum projects forwards, with a deep depression on either side, extending as low as about the eighth costal cartilage. The depression is usually deeper on the right side, owing to the heart being situated to the left of the median line and supporting the ribs and preventing so great a depression on this side. This condition is known by the name of pigeon- breast. In consequence of the enlargement of the liver and spleen, the lower ribs are not depressed, but, on the other hand, are pushed outwards so as to produce a transverse furrow at the extremities of the two longi- tudinal depressions. In this way very considerable deformity of the thorax is produced, which causes impairment of its vital capacity and may seriously interfere with the general health of the child. The pelvis in rickets is often much deformed, the deformity being due mainly to the weight of the spine and trunk pressing on the sacro-vertebral angle and greatly increasing it, so that the antero-posterior diameter of the pelvis is diminished (fig. 171). But in addition to this the weight of the viscera on the venter ilii causes the ilia to become expanded and the tuberosities of the ischia to be incurved. All this produces a narrow and contracted pelvis, which may, in the female, seriously interfere with parturition. The long bones in rickets become bent, generally from an exaggeration of their natural curves, partly by the superincumbent weight and partly by muscular action. This deformity, in the lower extremities, leads to a waddling, rolling gait, and in after life to bow-legs and knock-knees. Symptoms.—Under the head of symptoms, we have to consider the general symptoms, which may appear before any local changes in the bones are manifest; and secondly, the signs produced by the changes in the bones. The early general symptoms are not always well marked. The child is brought to the surgeon sometimes because, as the mother expresses it, he has been ' taken off his feet,' that is to say, having begun to walk, beseems now unable to do so; or he may be brought because he is restless or fretful; or on account of a ' weak back ' the child cannot sit upright. He is frequently fat and well nourished, and apparentl}', at a first glance, healthy looking, with a bright colour in his cheeks ; but a closer inspection will show that the fat is soft and flabby, and that the colour in his cheeks is due to dilated capillaries. The child may, on the other hand, be emaciated. A notable sign of rickets is the tendency there is to sweating about the head, especially during sleep, while the rest of the body is dry. When asleep large drops of sweat will be seen on the child's forehead, and the pillow will be found to be quite wet from the perspiration. The child is restless at night and has a great tendency to throw off the bedclothes, so that it is sometimes impossible to keep it covered. This restlessness is mainly due to great sensibility or hypersesthesia of the skin, which also causes the