96o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS sufferings of the patient (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) grounds for believing that these cases may be really papillomatous tumours, which have become malignant. Symptoms.—The symptoms of the true infiltrating cancer of the bladder differ from those of innocent tumours, in .the fact that pain and increased desire to pass water usually set in before the patient begins to pass blood. As soon, however, as the tumour begins to ulcerate, blood is passed, ' especially towards the end of the act of micturi- tion, and this is accom- panied by intense pain in the hypogastric region, in the perineum, and at the end of the penis. The urine becomes alkaline • and putrescent, and shreds of the growth may be passed by the urethra, in which, upon micro- scopic examination, the typical anatomical charac- ters of epithelioma may be recognised. Occa- sionally the growth may invade the orifice of the urethra, and obstruction may ensue. In those cases where a recto- vesical fistula forms, the are very considerably aggravated by some of the fseces finding their way through it into the bladder. The disease is rarely met with under the age of forty, and is more common in the male than in the female. It is rapid in its course, and death usually occurs from exhaustion, or from the spread of septic troubles to the kidneys. In the superficial form of the disease, alluded to above, the symptoms are identical with those of villous tumour—painless hsemorrhage coming on without assignable cause at irregular inter\-als— and it is not till later that the symptoms of the true infiltrating cancer show themselves. The diagnosis of malignant tumours of the bladder from innocent growths is to be made by the rapid progress of the disease ; the intensity of the patient's sufferings; the examination of portions of the growth passed per urethram ; by the cystoscope, and by examination with the finger per rectum. In malignant disease the infiltrated walls of the bladder can generally be felt, whereas in villous growths no tumour can be detected. Treatment.—Little or nothing can be done, from a curative point of view, in these cases. Before the disease is diagnosed, it has usually pro- gressed so far that removal is out of the question; or if an attempt is made and the growth removed, a recurrence is almost certain to take place. Palliative treatment consists in keeping the bladder at rest by means of a perineal cystotomy, and this should be done if the symptoms of cystitis are severe or the pain and htemorrhage great; otherwise it only remains to soothe the patient's sufferings by morphia. Fig. 366.—Malignant tumour of the bladder.