493 WOUNDS OF JOINTS On account of the swelling, and the pain which is produced by manipulation, a fracture or displacement may very easily be overlooked, or, in the young, a separation of the epiphysis. The greatest care should therefore be exercised, and if there is any doubt a most rigid comparison of the relation of the bony prominences to each other should be instituted j and if the diagnosis cannot be satisfactorily made out, a skiagraph of the injured part should be at once obtained. Effects.—As the inflammation which has been set up subsides, there is often pain and stiffness in using the part, which may continue for some time and may leave permanent stiffness or even ankylosis, from fibrous adhesions having formed in the sheaths of the tendons and in the joint, or from contraction of the capsular and other ligaments. In some con- stitutional conditions, as the rheumatic or tuberculous, the subsequent inflammation may assume the characteristic type of these conditions. The joints which are the most frequently sprained are the ankle, the knee, and the wrist. Treatment.—The treatment of sprains, until recently, has been of a most unsatisfactory nature, and has often resulted in impaired movement of the joint and brought discredit on the surgeon. Since, however, the introduction of the treatment by massage, it is remarkable how quickly the pain and swell- ing disappear and the patient recovers from his injury. The treatment is very simple. As soon as the patient is seen—it may be an hour or so after the injury—massage is at once commenced. The limb, resting on a pillow, is gently stroked in an upward direction, and in the course of five minutes or so the patient will begin to experience relief from his pain. If the sprain is in the ankle he should now be encouraged to move his toes ; if in the wrist his fingers, the massage still being continued. In about a quarter of an hour the pain will probably have almost, if not quite, disappeared, and the patient must be induced to try and move the injured joint. This he will probably be able to do. Twenty minutes will generally be found long enough for the first massage. The limb should now be fixed on a splint and raised, and the patient left. The same proceeding must be repeated every day, the time of the application of the massage being prolonged to half an hour; and in the course of a few days the patient should be encouraged to put his foot to the ground and walk. In about a week, in most cases, he will be able to walk without pain or weakness, and there will be no subsequent stiffness or rigidity. The old plan of treating sprains consisted in keeping the injured hmb fixed on a splint until all pain and swelhng had disappeared, and then employing passive motion and massage. Sir James Paget has drawn attention to the evils of this mode of treatment. 'Too long rest is, I believe, by far the most frequent cause of delayed recovery after injuries of the joint in nearly all persons who are not of a scrofulous constitution. In the healthy, the chronic rheumatic, and the gouty, it is alike mischievous.'' Wounds of joints.—These are always serious injuries, and under certain circumstances may be peculiarly dangerous ones, the great danger depending upon the introduction of some septic material. If a perfectly clean, aseptic cut be made into a joint, as in an operation for removal of a loose body, and the case is properly treated afterwards, the wound heals without any local trouble or constitutional disturbance ; but if the wound is made with a septic knife, or any septic material gains ' Clinical Lectures, p. 96.