I 140 AMPUTATIONS muscles. The flaps may be either anlero-posterior or lateral. I prefer the latter, as affording rather better drainage ; but either plan forms a very excellent stump. ' Amputation through the elbow joint is not often performed, many sur gcons prefernng to amputate through the lower third of the humerus ; but never theless it possesses some distmct advantages. The long stump left is very useful, and well adapted for the application of an artificial limb : the end of the bone is covered by a large fleshy pad, and no bone is sawn through or medullary ca\'ity opened up. The best mode of operating is by a lonL' anterior and short posterior flap. The forearm is supinated, and a rectilinear flap with rounded corners is made by cutting from an inch below the internal condyle down the inner side of the forearm for three inches, then across the front of the forearm and up the outer side to a point an inch and a half below the external condyle. The posterior flap is fashioned in the same way but is made only half the length of the anterior one. In dissecting up the anterior flap from the front of the joint, the skin and subcutaneous tissue are only raised for the first half-inch or so, and then the knife is carried more deeply so as to include muscular tissue. The posterior flap consists of skin and subcutaneous tissue only, and in raising it care must be taken not to score it with the knife When the flaps have been raised to the level of the elbow joint the articula- tion IS opened, preferably first on the outer side, and the disarticulation com- pleted ; the final stage of the opera- tion consisting in separating the posterior ligament and the triceps from the olecranon. Some surgeons prefer to perform the operation by skin flaps, the posterior being the larger, with a circular division of the muscles. It does not give such good results as the flap operation. Amputation of the forearm is best performed by antero-posterior skin flaps and circular through the muscles. It is essential in removing the forearm to leave as long a stump as possible, and most desirable to make the section of the bones below the insertion of the pronator radii teres to the radius ; otherwise the power of pronation and supination will be lost, and the utility of the limb very seriously impaired. In sawing the bones the limb should be held in a position of supination, so that the t^vo bones may be sawn together. Amputation through the ■wrist joint (fig. 433) is not often required, its employment Fig. 433.—Amputation of the hand at the wrist joint by the long palmar flap. being mainly confined to injui-ies of the \ hand and to cases of disease of the carpus in which excision is not thought desirable. It leaves a most excellent stump, with full powers of pronation and supination, and should always be performed when practicable. When done for injury, the flaps must be fashioned according to circumstances ; but when the soft parts are not involved, and the surgeon can perform the operation secundum arfein, the best operation is by a long anterior flap. The hand is'held in a position of supination, with the thumb abducted, and an incision made from the styloid