98 (lENERAL INJURIES Martini-Henry, composed of lead and tin. The new bullet is characterised by its small size, its lightness, its hardness, its pointed shape, and its high velocity. The result of this is that this bullet acts as a wedge, splitting and penetrating the tissues, and in doing so leaves a narrow track, with well-defined edges, in which the tissues are thoroughly dis- integrated. The old round bullet, on the other hand, in its passage through the body, contused and bruised the tissues to a much greater extent than the conoidal bullet. On this account, combined no doubt with the absence of efficient drainage and antiseptics, in former days, there was always deep-seated sloughing and suppuration; whereas the wound produced by the conoidal bullet, with good drainage and antiseptic precautions, may heal without suppuration. The round bullet quickly loses its initial velocity, and may become lodged in the tissues (fig. 19). The loss of momentum sustained by this bullet as it traversed the tissues caused the wound of exit, when there Avere two wounds, to be irregular and jagged, while the wound of entrance was round and generally rather smaller than the missile which had passed through it, on account of the elastic recoil of the tissues. With the conoidal bullet there is practically no difference between the two wounds. Again, the conoidal bullet being smaller and travelling with greater velocity is less likely to carry any foreign body, as the clothing, into the wound. In consequence of its hard covering of nickel and copper, it never breaks up in the wound as the old leaden one used to do. So long as the conoidal bullet meets with no bone in its course, the wound will be a simple straight one, as it cuts its way through the tissues and is not deflected. Should it strike bone, this is usually extensively splintered if it impinge against compact bone, as the shaft of the femur; if, how- ever, it strikes soft, cancellous bone, this is usually perforated. In spite of all this the wounds produced by bullets in modern warfare are fully as destructive as those in olden times. The number of deaths from haemorrhage is very much greater. In former days death from primary haemorrhage did not often occur ; this was because the bullet, travelling with a low rate of velocity and diminishing momentum, on striking a vessel, pushed it on one side and did not cut it through. In doing this no doubt it often bruised the coats and subsequent sloughing took place, leading to secondary htemorrhage. The conical bullet, however, of the present day cuts its way through the vessel, and if this is one of large size, fatal hemorrhage takes place. This is proved by the experience of the late Chilian war, where the Lee-Metford bullet was used. The proportion of dead to wounded was as 4 to i, clearly pointing Fic. 19.—An old leaden bullet lodged in the cancellous tissue of the lower end of the humerus. The patient from whom the pre- paration was taken was shot in the arm twenty-two years pre- viously, during the Peninsular War. (From the Museum of St. (George's Hospital.)