948 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS loin and a drainage tube inserted through it. If the wound is dry and clean no drainage is required, but the wound in the abdominal wall maybe at once sutured. ... Recently Abbe and Mayo Robson have advocated a new mcision for nenhrectomy. The incision is made from a point one inch mside the ^ anterior superior iliac spine, upwards and backwards, for four and a half inches in the direction of the fibres of the external oblique muscle. The fibres of this muscle and its aponeurosis are then split and retracted, exposing the internal oblique; the fibres of this muscle and the transversaUs are split in a line between the ninth costal cartilage and the posterior superior iliac spine (fig. 360). A diamond-shaped space is thus formed, at the bottom of which is the transversalis fascia; this is incised, and the peritoneum freely ex- posed ; it can be readily stripped from the front of the kidney. By retraction of the edges of the wound, the pedicle of the kidney can now be freely exposed, and the ureter can be separated and followed, if necessary, to the brim of the pelvis. The advantages claimed for this operation are that it gives free access to the kidney and ureter : that it can be done with the patient lying on his back, the most convenient position for the operator and his assistants, and the best for the anEesthetist : that no muscular fibres are divided, and therefore the edges of the wound fall readily together, and there is less tendency to the formation of a ventral hernia: that no vessels or nerves are divided, thus saving time and lessening shock. Lumbar nephrectomy.—The patient being turned well over to his sound side, the T-shaped incision described on page 941 is to be made and the kidney exposed. The capsule is then opened or not, according to circumstances (see pages 942 and 947), and the kidney carefully enucleateo with the finger, care being taken to keep close to the organ, so as to avoia tearing the peritoneum. When the pedicle has been reached in front ana behind, the kidney is to be hfted from its bed and drawn gently towaras the wound, care being taken not to make too much traction on the vessels. If the ureter can be isolated, it is to be treated in the same way as in tne abdominal operation. This is not, however, always possible in this opera- tion, and all the structures at the root of the kidney will have to be liga- tured en masse. An aneurism needle, armed with a double silk ligature, is passed through the centre of the pedicle, and it is tied m t^yo parts, a clamp is then applied close to the kidney, and the pedicle divided the clamp and the ligature, care being taken to leave sufficient pemcie prevent the ligature slipping off. Occasionally the pedicle is too snore w permit of this, and then the clamp will have to be dispensed ^^''^h, ana » some cases even a small amount of renal tissue will have to be leit. dividing the pedicle, sponges must be arranged so as to avoid touling Fig. 360.—Diagram showing the mode J — o of performing nephrectomy, as advo- cated by Abbe and Mayo Robson.