93 GLANDERS on the hands of those who have to do with horses. It may be communicated also by a bite from a glandered horse. It has been thought by some that there is a certain amount of evidence to show that the disease may be communicated through unbroken mucous membrane, either of the air passages or the mouth, and this probably is so. As in other forms of infective disease, after the inoculation, there is a period of incubation before the disease declares itself This period varies within certain limits, in different cases, according to the acuteness of the attack. These limits are two and fifteen days. Symptoms.—The disease shows itself in two forms, acute and chronic. Acute glanders is ushered in, somewhat insidiously, with fever, a general sense of illness and malaise, diarrhoea and vomiting, and, it may be, a rigor. There is often aching pain in the loins and joints. The wound, if one exists, becomes inflamed and painful : the lymphatic vessels become involved, and appear as red, beaded lines running upwards from the wound to the nearest lymphatic glands, which become enlarged. This is followed by a peculiar eruption, generally before the seventh day, of hard, shotty, yellowish papules, which quickly become vesicular or pustular, and these burst and leave foul, unhealthy ulcers. This eruption attacks especially the face, chest, and abdomen. Whilst this has been going on a similar eruption has attacked the nasal mucous membrane, and a discharge from the nose sets in, at first watery, but after the pustules burst, purulent, sanious, and offensive. The nose itself becomes swollen and inflamed, and enlargement of the glands in the parotid and sub-maxillary region takes place. Numerous abscesses of a pysemic character form in the subcutaneous tissue and in the viscera. Sometimes the eruption in the nose spreads to the pharynx and air passages and produces pneumonia; in others it extends to the frontal sinuses, antrum, or other cavities opening into the nasal fossse, and produces severe pain. The constitutional symptoms are of the gravest character; great prostration and exhaustion, with low muttering dehrium, vomiting and diarrhoea. As the disease progresses the symptoms resemble those of pysemia, especially in the temperature, which is fluctuating ; in the profuse sweating ; and in the rapid wasting and failure of strength. The patient generally dies in about ten days to a fortnight, but many succumb earlier from pneumonia ; or life may be prolonged into the third week. Clironic glanders presents exactly the same symptoms as the acute, the only difference being that they are developed more slowly. The incubation perio'd is longer, sometimes weeks instead of days, and the eruption and subcutaneous abscesses develop more slowly. Nasal discharge is not so common in the chronic as in the acute form of the disease. These chronic cases do not invariably die, but convalescence is very slow, and the patient is left after his recovery hopelessly crippled by long-continued suppuration and sloughing. The diagnosis of glanders ought not to be difficult after the appearance of the eruption, but in the early stage the febrile symptoms with pains in the joints may be mistaken for rheumatic fever ; as soon, however, as the eruption appears, all doubts ought to be set at rest. It has been said that the eruption of glanders in its early stages resembles that of smallpox, but there is little probability of mistaking the one disease for the other. In the diagnosis the history of contact with glandered horses is an important point, and therefore the recognition of the disease in horses is of the greatest importance. This can fortunately be done by what is known as