1019 AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS Hospital.) hard and often apparently localised mass can be felt through the skin in the situation of the corona. Finally the growth invades the skin, which gives way and the tumour fungates. If in the early stages the foreskin can be retracted or is slit up, an ulcer surrounded by hard and indu- rated everted edges and sloughy surface will be seen, which bleeds readily and discharges a foul sero-purulent fluid (fig. 389). When the disease begins as a wart the conditions can scarcely be distinguished from an ordinary papilloma until the base becomes hard and the warty growth ulcerates, when it presents very much the same character as the nodular form. The glands in the groin are usually affected early. The special point in the diagnosis of cancer of the penis is to distinguish it from syphilitic ulceration, and this can generally be done by watching the effects of treatment; a sore on the penis in an elderly man which resists specific treatment and strict cleanliness for a fortnight ought always to be regarded with the very gravest suspicion. In a doubtful case, the removal of a small portion of the growth under cocaine, and its microscopic examination, will settle the question. Treatment.—When the diagnosis of cancer is clear, the penis must be amputated well behind the point to which the disease has extended ; the amount, therefore, of penis which will require removal depends on the extent of the disease. In the majority of cases amputation just in front of the pubes is all that is required, but in some severe cases the whole of the penis, including its crura, requires removal. Amputation of the penis in front of the pubes. The parts having been shaved and properly cleansed, haemorrhage is restrained by passing a piece of elastic tube round the root of the penis and fixing it with clip forceps. The skin of the penis is then tensed by the left hand of the operator and a circular sweep is made round the organ at the point fixed upon for the amputation, dividing only the skin. In doing this care must be taken not to draw the skin of the penis forwards, otherwise it will be divided at too low a level. The corpora cavernosa are then divided from above, care being taken not to include the corpus spongiosum. These bodies are then separated from the corpus spongiosum forwards for-the extent of half an inch, and this latter structure cut through at this level. One blade of a pair of probe-pointed scissors is now introduced into the urethra, and the corpus spongiosum slit up to the level of the section of the cavernous bodies. It is then spread out, so as to form a sort of gutter, and its free margins attached to the skin below by a few sutures. After the operation the stump should be dusted with iodoform and covered with moist gauze. After each act of micturition the parts should be bathed with some weak antiseptic solution. Some surgeons prefer to operate by the flap method. A large rectangular flap is fashioned out of the dorsum of the organ, and is made to cover the front of the stump. The urethra is cut long and is dissected out and brought through a hole in the flap to which it is attached. The objection to this operation is that in order to obtain the flap the operator has to approach too closely to the diseased structures. Fig. 389.—Cancer of the penis. (From the Mu- seum of St. George's