CENERAL DISEASES at a latef period of utero-gestation than the former one ; then giving birth to a dead child, and finally to a living one which presents evidences of congenital syphilis, we have a very characteristic condition of things. This tendency to abortion is believed to be most frequently due to syphilitic disease of the placenta, but it may also be due to the action of the syphilitic virus on the infant itself. With regard to infection by the father, it is of great importance to have some data to know how long after the primary affection he remains capable of communicating the disease to his offspring. But up to the present time we are ignorant of the nature of the constitutional condition which is necessary for the transmission of the disease, and can only be guided by a rough rule formulated by experience. It is generally said that if a man has had a well-regulated and sufficient course of mercury, extending over a period of eighteen months or two years, and has had no evidence of any syphilitic affection for two years after the completion of his course, it is generally safe for him to marry. In connection with infection by the father, it should be noted that the mother, even though she has presented no syphilitic symptoms, cannot be infected by her own infant by suckling it or by being in other ways inoculated by it, whilst a wet-nurse who suckled the same child would almost certainly be infected by it. This is known as Colics' law. It may be explained by supposing that the bacillus of syphilis—if there is one, and of this there can be no reasonable doubt—produces a toxine, which is absorbed by the mother in small slowly increasing doses during the period of utero-gestation, until she becomes immune, so that she is really infected though she has never presented any syphilitic symptoms. Symptoms.—As we have already stated, a child the subject of inherited syphiHs may be born apparently healthy and fat when he has been infected late in the period of gestation, but usually syphilitic children when born are small, emaciated, wan and shrivelled, having an appearance something between an old man and a monkey. The skin of the face is loose, wrinkled, and flabby, and the complexion earthy. If the child is born fat he soon begins to waste and emaciate, and assumes this condition. The time at, which the symptoms appear varies within certain limits. They are rarely delayed beyond three months, and the most usual time for them to manifest themselves is from four to six weeks after birth. The parts in which congenital syphilis first shows itself are the skin and the mucous mem- branes ; then in the bones and the viscera. The skin.—Very often the earliest symptom is a roseolar rash, which is often very transient and escapes notice. Following this is a papular erup- tion, which occurs principally at the angles of the mouth, around the anus, on the scrotum, and in the folds of the groin where the skin is moist and where it therefore assumes the appearance of condylomata (see p. i86). In other parts it assumes the appearance of a lichenoid eruption. Occasion- ally, as in the acquired form, the epithelium over the papules desquamates so as to give them a squamous appearance like psoriasis. This is frequently seen on the soles of the feet. Another form of eruption in congenital syphilis is a diffuse erythema, and as this generally occurs about the nates it is very liable to be mistaken for erythema intertrigo caused in the same situation by the irritation of urine. Finally a bullous eruption, the so-called pemphigus, is not an uncommon eruption in cases of inherited syphilis. It is always a serious sign, as it indicates grave constitutional depression.