485 LEONTIASIS OSSEA is usually diminished and sometimes entirely lost from optic neuritis going on to atrophy of the optic disc. Amenorrhoea is a frequent accom- paniment of this disease in the female, and it is said that sometimes in the male it is attended by loss of virile power. Diagnosis.—There are several diseases for which this condition may be mistaken, (i) Myxoedema, which it somewhat resembles as regards the face, but the swelling is confined to the soft parts. (2) Ostitis deformans, but here there is deformity of the bones as well as enlargement, and the face is not as a rule affected. (3) Leontiasis ossea, a rare disease, presently to be described, affects only the facial bones and the skull, which become irregularly enlarged, but the soft parts are normal. (4) Osteo-arthritis, when it affects the hands, may be mistaken for acromegaly, but in this latter affection there is much less pain and no evidence of joint disease. Pathology.—The pathology of this disease is unknown. The most remarkable condition which has been found on post-mortem examination is enlargement of the anterior lobe of the pituitary body, but this has not been found in every case. The enlargement is apparently merely an hypertrophy of the gland tissue, and is no doubt the cause of the optic neuritis and atrophy of the disc and consequent blindness. In other cases of acromegaly enlargement of the thyroid body has been noticed, and, again in others, persistence of the thymus gland has been credited with being the cause of the disease. The patient generally dies from exhaustion, or. from some intercurrent malady. Treatment.—There is no known treatment for this condition; the case must simply be treated on general principles, with a view to supporting, the patient's strength and relieving his most urgent symptoms, especially the headache. Phenacetin or antipyrine may be administered for this. Hypertrophic pulmonary osteo-arthropathy is another condition of the bones which was first described by Marie, and to some extent resembles acromegaly, but is distinguished from it by the fact that the changes are confined to the extremities, and that there is none of the characteristic deformity of the face which is found in this latter condition. The disease consists in a chronic ostitis and enlargement of the terminal phalanges of the fingers and toe.s, due, it is supposed, to toxic absorption in chronic pulmonary disease. In some cases the bones just above the wrist and ankle joints are similarly enlarged. The ends of the fingers and toes in these cases are seen to be enlarged, clubbed, and bulbous, and the nails encurved over them. The treatment must be directed towards the pulmonary condition which gives rise to the affection. Leontiasis ossea is another form of ostitis attended by structural changes in the bones. It affects the facial and cranial bones ; the bones of the jaws being usually first affected. The disease begins in early life, and consists in the slow and gradual development of irregular bosses of bony material, which first block the antra of the upper jaw and the nose and then project e.xternally. The affection spreads to the other bones of the skull and face, encroaches upon their cavities, and produces the most hideous deformity. The masses of new bone, which partake somewhat of the nature of exostoses, are spongy and porous in character, very irregular and nodular on their surface, and often symmetrical. Nothing is known of the cause of this affection, and no treatment seems to be of any use.