io62 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS all tlmt is necessary, where the disease is seen and recognised before it has invaded the walls of the vagina or the neighbouring broad ligaments. The operation consists in removing a wedge-shaped piece of the uterus, including the cervix, through the vagina, and attaching the cut surfaces of the stum]) to the anterior and posterior vaginal walls, so as to prevent retraction. The uterus may be removed for cancer either through the abdomen, in the same manner as is done in cases of fibroid tumours, or per vaginam (vaginal hysterectomy). The latter operation is, however, the better of the two, and is attended by a much smaller death rate. Vaginal hysterectomy.—The vagina is rendered as aseptic as possible by douching for a day or two previously with solution of corrosive sublimate and plugging with iodoform wool. The rectum and bladder are emptied just before the operation. The patient having been anaesthetised is placed in the lithotomy position, with the pelvis well raised and in a good light. A large duck-bill speculum is introduced into the vagina posteriorly and held by an assistant. The cervix is then seized by a strong pair of volsellum forceps and pulled downwards and forwards so as to expose the posterior fornix of the vagina, and the mucous membrane divided by scissors as near the cervix as is possible without encroaching on diseased structures. By altering the position of the hand holding the volsellum, the sides and front of the cervix are successively brought into view, and the mucous membrane reflected from the cervix on to the vagina divided. In cutting at the sides and in front, the incision in the mucous membrane should never be more than three-quarters of an inch from the cervix, for fear of injuring the ureters. As soon as the mucous membrane has been incised all round, the cervix is again pulled forwards and the point of the scissors pushed through into Douglas's pouch. The scissors are then opened and withdrawn, making an aperture sufficiently large to admit a finger. Through this opening a finger is introduced into the peritoneal cavity, and as soon as the smooth surface of the serous mem- brane is felt, the forefinger of the other hand is introduced by the side of the first finger, and the opening dilated laterally as far as the sacro- uterine ligaments. A somewhat similar proceeding is adopted in front, but here the bladder has to be separated from the anterior wall of the uterus. This is done by gently burrowing upwards with the finger or a director for about an inch, taking care to keep close to the uterine wall, for fear of injuring the bladder, until the vesico-uterine fold of peritoneum is reached. An opening is to be made in this in the same way and the opening dilated with the two fingers. The uterus now remains attached to the wall of the pelvis by the broad ligaments only. These have to be dealt with, and in them, it must be remembered, are contained the blood- vessels supplying the uterus (see fig. 400). The forefinger of the left hand is introduced into the anterior peritoneal opening and an aneurism needle, armed with a long silk ligature, is introduced into the posterior opening, and, guided by the finger, is pushed through the broad ligament about an inch above its lower level and some little distance from the side of the uterus. The loop of the ligature is seized and held while the needle is withdrawn. One end of the ligature is now pulled through, so that we have the lowest inch of the broad ligament, in which the uterine artery lies, enclosed in a ligature. This is tightly tied so as to constrict the vessel. The same thing is done on the opposite side, and the broad ligament is then divided with scissors on either side, between the uterus and tne ligature, to the extent to which the ligature extends. The uterus can now