48o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES Symptoms.—A gummatous tumour on the surface of a subcutaneous bone first shows itsx;lf as a more or less circumscribed swelling, which is very painful at night and is tender on handling. In this it resembles the periosteal node of secondary syphilis, but after a time it will be found on examination that there is an area of softening in some part of the swelling which does not exist in the other affection. If the case is left to itsell this area of softening will increase, the skin will become undermined and eventually give way, and a wash-leather slough will be discharged, leaving exposed and diseased bone. . Treatment.—The treatment of this tertiary affection of bone is by iodide of potassium, and under its use the nodes will often entirely dis- appear. Even after softening has taken place and the skin has become thin and undermined, the administration of iodide of potassium in full doses will cause complete absorption, so that it is never right to incise these swellings, but to allow them to open of themselves. In those cases where iodide of potassium does not exert its wonted influence, it will be found that the gummatous swelling will often disappear under a course of mercury. When the gumma has given way and there is an open wound, ricrid cleanhness must be enforced, frequent cleansing with antiseptic solu- tions, the local application of iodoform, and an antiseptic dressing is necessary Any necrosed pieces of bone must be removed as soon as they are loose, and the carious surface scraped with a sharp spoon. The con- stitutional treatment by iodide of potassium must be continued, but it does not seem to have the 'same potent effect in those cases where there is an open wound. . , . , . ,-,• 2 A diffused ostitis is another way in which tertiary syphihs asserts itself" in bone, without the presence of any definite node. This consists in an infiltration of the osseous tissue going on to sclerosis It usually attacks the bones of the skull and the long bones, especially the tibia. The bones become enlarged, elongated and expanded, dense and heavy. The surface of the bone becomes nodulated and irregular, from the forma- tion of new bony material from the periosteum, but does not present limited nodes as in the secondary form of syphihtic disease. The interior of the bone becomes filled up by the formation of new hard bone, so that the medullary canal becomes entirely obliterated. _ _ The symptoms of this condition are steady and progressive increase in the size of the bone, accompanied by deep-seated aching pain, which is increased by exercise and is worse at night. This, with the history of a previous attack of syphihs, is characteristic of the disease. Ihe only complaint with which it is liable to be mistaken is ostitis deformans, where one bone only is involved, but the bone in this affection is not so heavy as in syphilitic sclerosis ; it is usually curved and distorted, and alter a time other bones become similarly affected. ., • j- • • u- ^i p Treatment.—No treatment seems to be of any avail in diminishing tne enlargement, but rehef to the aching pain may be given by the free ad- ministration of iodide of potcissium. ^^;H^n to the Bony lesions in congenital syphilis.-In addition to the condition^ of atrophy and hypertrophy alluded to in the chapter o" Syph.li (page 197) as occurring in inherited or congenital syphihs Periosteal node Se^ccasionally met with on the tibia and other long bones, but do not differ much from those of the acquired _ form of he disease. More com monlv there is set up in these cases a diffused ostitis, which almost al^^a)S 7eci die tibia and is very often symmetrical. The bone becomes enlarged