776 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS CHAPTER XII INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE CHEST Contusions of the chest wall are usually the result of direct violence. In the simplest cases there is merely superficial bruising, and they differ in no respect from contusions in other parts of the body. More severe cases may be attended with rupture of one of the thoracic vessels beneath the pectoraHs major muscle, and in these cases the effusion is often very extensive; so much so, as often to excite suspicion that the axillary artery or vein has been ruptured. Later on, the effusion may be mistaken for sub-pectoral abscess, which is apt to occur after injury of the pectoral muscle or the connective tissue beneath ; but the diagnosis may be made by the history of its sudden and rapid appearance, and by the absence of any inflammatory signs. Cases have been recorded where contusions of the chest have proved fatal, either instantaneously or after a short interval, without any fracture of the ribs or gross lesion of the thoracic contents. The treatment is that of bruises elsewhere—keeping the part perfectly at rest, and applying cold in the shape of ice or evaporating lotions. Occasionally injuries of the wall of the chest may be attended with rupture of muscles, more particularly the great pectoral muscle. This is produced by some sudden strain, as falling from a height and catching at some project- ing object with the hand ; or it may be produced by a spent cannon shot, or during efforts to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder with the heel_ in the axilla. The injury may be recognised at once by the great gap which is found in the anterior wall of the axilla, and the loss of the functions ot the muscle. The treatment is the same as for ruptured muscle elsewhere: approxi- mating the torn ends of the muscle as far as possible by position, and keeping the arm quiet. , Fracture of ribs—The ribs are very elastic and much curvea, and strengthened on their inner surface by a strong ridge; they are con- nected in front to a movable sternum by highly elastic costal cartilages, and behind to the vertebrae by strong ligaments. They are thus able to withstand great violence; but in consequence of being exposed to frequeru injury they are more commonly broken than any bones in the body, witn the exception of the clavicle, the bones of the forearm and the leg. _trac- ture of the ribs is most common in advanced life, after the costal carniages are ossified and the ribs themselves have lost some of their elasticity, infancy and childhood fracture of the ribs is uncommon, owing to uic^ extreme elasticity, and severe injury may occur to the from crushing violence, without the ribs being broken. In "''a^^'^uaib subjects of general paralysis of the insane, the ribs become atrophica