GENERAL INJURIES 86 treatment which is very usually adopted : if applied at all, it must be done very thoroughly. Probably a better application is pure carbolic acid, with which the wound should be thoroughly swabbed out. Palliative treatment.—When hydrophobia is once established, nothing hitherto tried has proved of any avail, the case always terminating in death. All, therefore, that can be done is to soothe the patient's sufferings and support his strength; this latter must be accomplished as far as possible by nutrient enemata after he has ceased to be able to swallow. Chloral, morphia given hypodermically, and inhalation of chloroform may relieve the symptoms and procure sleep. The patient should be kept free from all sources of external annoyance, in a darkened room, and surrounded by screens so as to prevent any draught of cold air reaching him. b. Tetanus is defined as ' a tonic spasm of the voluntary muscles with exacerbations.' That is to say, the muscles affected are in a constant and continuous condition of contraction; but this contraction is liable to exaggerations, which come on suddenly from time to time and are marked by violent convulsive action and great pain. After a lapse of time this convulsive contraction is followed by a period of comparati^'e rest, but very seldom by complete relaxation. The disease belongs to the class of traumatic infective diseases in which the poison acts through the nervous system. Until within quite recent years tetanus was not regarded as an infective disease ; but in the year 1884 Carle and Rattone found that, by the inoculation of the fluids expressed from the inflamed area of skin, from a patient who had died of tetanus, they could induce a similar disease in rabbits, but they also found that the blood of these rabbits who had died of tetanus when injected into other animals produced no effect. A little later in the same year Nicolaier made the discovery that earth produced tetanus when introduced subcutaneously into animals, and that this earth contained a microbe, and furthermore that pus obtained from the seat of inoculation when introduced into other animals produced a similar result. The micro- organism which Nicolaier described was a rod-shaped bacillus, nearly always seen in a state of sporulation. He found it widely distributed, especially in different forms of earth. Out of 140 different varieties of earth experimented with, he was able to set up tetanus in animals in 69 cases. The year after Nicolaier published his essay on infective tetanus, Rosenbach produced tetanus by inoculating material from the seat of infection in a case of traumatic tetanus, but could not produce the disease by inoculation of the blood of the same patient. In those cases where he succeeded in producing tetanus, he found the same rod-shaped bacillus which Nicolaier had described, both in the material injected and in the area of inoculation of the infected animals. In April 1889 the tetanus bacillus was first obtained in a pure state in Koch's laboratory by Kitasato. He obtained it by making cultivations in an atmosphere of hydrogen, and then exposing them to a high temperature, which was sufficient to destroy the other organisms with which the culture was contaminated, but was not sufficiently great to destroy the spores of the tetanus bacillus. Biologically the tetanus bacillus has two interesting characteristics. One of these is the presence of spores. It is a thin, straight bacillus, with rounded ends, in one of which a spore is developed ; this is generally spherical, but may be oval in shape, and is considerably larger than the diameter of the rod in which it grows. This gives to the bacillus the peculiar club-shaped appearance which has earned for it the name of the ' drumstick ' bacillus