SYMPTOMS OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS 99 to the number of deaths from haemorrhage. Again, in modern warfare there will be more gunshot wounds, for the conoidal bullet travels with such force and velocity that it may pass through one individual and wound a second behind him. In consequence of their greater velocity and momentum bullets will not so often lodge in the tissues, and there will be fewer cases where there is only one wound, the wound of entrance, and where the bullet, being retained in the tissues, requires removal. Symptoms.—Pain may be absent. In the excitement of battle the soldier may be unconscious that he has been wounded, or may recognise the fact only from finding blood issuing from some part of his body. On the other hand, the pain may be intense, and is especially great in those cases where the bullet is lodged under the skin, and presses upon or stretches the peripheral terminations of the sensory nerves. The pain in these cases is often greater than when a large nerve has been severed ; when this is the case there may be little or no pain, but, on the other hand, the pain may be great. So, again, the pain is often worse when a bone has been shattered or a large cavity penetrated. There is less pain from the small, conical bullet, travelling with great velocity, than from the larger round bullet, which travels more slowly. Shock varies much in intensity, and is to a certain extent an index of the gravity of the case, for it is always great when one of the large cavities of the body, the abdomen or thorax, has been perforated, or where a limb has been carried away. But the intensity of the shock is also contributed to by the previous excitement of the battle-field and the fear of impending death. Shock in gunshot wounds, as in all other injuries, is always greater where a large number of peripheral nerve endings have been implicated ; it is always therefore great where parts supplied with a large number of sensory nerves are involved, as the genital organs, the hand, and the foot, or where there has been a large area of superficial injury. The symptoms do not differ from those produced by other injuries. The fall of temperature is the most important sign as regards prognosis. Those cases where the temperature drops con- siderably below normal must always be regarded with the gravest suspicion. Syncope is often present, not only arising from loss of blood, but also in those cases where a large nerve trunk has been injured. The haemorrhage varies in amount according to the size of the vessel or vessels wounded. If a bullet traverses a limb, as the thigh, and the main vessel escapes, the bleeding is often very trifling and was less formerly than it probably will he in the future, when vessels will be more cleanly cut across. If, however, the bullet divides the main artery of the limb, there will probably be fatal haemorrhage, but not quite necessarily so. The bleeding may be temporarily arrested by the retraction of the inner coats of the artery and the clotting of the blood in the track of the bullet. Wounds of the main vessels in the cavities of the thorax and abdomen are almost immediately fatal. Instantaneous rigor mortis (cataleptic rigor mortis) is occasionally observed in those who are suddenly killed from gunshot injuries, and seems to occur most frequently where the brain or spinal cord has been lacerated. Thus a case is recorded of a soldier who was shot at the moment of mounting his horse. He was instantaneously killed and remained in the same position as he was at the moment of death, with his foot in the stirrup and his left hand grasping the horse's mane. No satisfactory explanation has been given of this peculiar state. As soon as the patient rallies the temperature begins to rise and II 2