736 INfURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS swelling is to be observed, which, when the whole gland is involved, embraces the upper part of the trachea and assumes the shape of the normal gland. It is soft, elastic to the touch, and moves upwards with the trachea during the act of swallowing. Later on, if the tumour reaches a considerable size, the voice becomes harsh and croaking, and respiration is interfered with. Sometimes there may also be difficulty in swallowing. In some cases the large vessels in the neck may be pressed upon, and cerebral symptoms may arise from interference with the circulation in the brain. The most frequent and important changes from pressure are upon the trachea, which not only becomes flattened from side to side (fig. 284), but its carti- laginous rings may become softened and atrophied; and when one lobe of the gland is markedly larger than the other, it may become displaced to the extent of an inch or more. The recurrent laryngeal nerve is liable to be implicated, and may cause spasm of the glottis or alteration in the voice, and later on, when all the fibres of the nerve are disabled, aphonia. 2. Fibrous bronchocele.—In this form of bronchocele there is an abnormal increase of the interstitial stroma of the gland, without a corre- sponding increase in the other constituents. It begins as a parenchyma- tous gpitre, but as it grows the interstitial tissues increase rapidly at the expense of'the others, and the gland becomes hard, indurated, and irregular on the surface, and to a great extent loses the characteristic form of the normal gland. It is in these cases that the pressure effects are most marked, and especially that symptoms due to pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve are present. 3. Pulsating bronchocele.—It would scarcely seeni worth while to make a separate variety of the pulsating bronchocele, for it is merely an ordinary parenchymatous sweUing in which there is an excentric and dis- tensile pulsation owing to a great dilatation of the vessels of the gland. It must not be confounded with the exophthalmic goitre, in which there is also pulsation. 4. Cystic bronchocele.—This form of bronchocele is due to the dilatation of the acini of the gland tissue, which form cysts, lined by epithelium and containing a variety of material. Sometimes, and especially if they are of large size, they contain a clear serous fluid ; at others, especi- ally when they are small and multiple, they contain a thick colloid material like glue ; and again, in other cases, where blood has been extravasated into them, they contain a dark brown grumous material, like coffee grounds. In some cases there is only a single cyst, which may attain a large size and can be easily diagnosed by the fluctuation which can be felt. These are generally, however, cases of cystic adenoma, to be alluded to directly. Usually there are numerous small cysts, and then it is not easy to diagnose them from the solid forms, and only an exploration with a syringe will settle the point. 5. Exophthalmic bronchocele {Graves's disease) is a con- dition which is characterised by an enlargement of the thyroid body, wlucn usually pulsates, and accompanying this is a prominence of the eyeballs, palpi^ tation of the heart, general nervous irritability, and marked anEcmia. in cause of this condition is still uncertain. Until recently it used to be beiieu,a that it was due to an affection of the cervical sympathetic, which causea paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves and produced a chronic •lyP^'"''^"''''^,^ ' the vessels of the gland. Recently it has been observed that symptoi very much akin to exophthalmic goitre may be produced artihcia i) O) administration of excessive doses of thyroid extract, and it has neen b