670 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) teeth. They are very tender, and mastication is painful. The disease is often the result of scurvy, or may be due to the administration of mercury. It is also caused by stomatitis and dyspepsia, and is sometimes seen in ill-fed tuberculous children, accompanied by fcetor of the breath. The treatment consists in correcting the cause, and using a strong alum gargle. Alveolar abscess is of common occurrence, and is almost always the result of decayed teeth. The simplest form is known under the name of gumboil, and is quite superficial. The deeper variety arises in the sockets of the teeth, and is due to septic changes in a decayed fang, ihe pus formed either perforates the wall of the alveolus, or finding its way over the edge forms a localised abscess under the periosteum, or else burrows beneath this membrane, forming an abscess of large size, which may eventually lead to necrosis of the jaw. If the abscess is situated in the lower jaw, it may track downwards under the periosteum, and point on the cheek at the lower margin of the bone. In the upper iaw the pus may burst into the antrum or track along the hard palate and lead to its necrosis. The symptoms consist in toothache, followed by swell- ing first of the jaw and then of the soft tissues of the cheek. I he pain is of a very severe throbbing character. The swelling is hard and firmly fixed to the jaw, and there is often considerable cedema of the face and eyelids. Accompanying these local signs there is also considerable con- stitutional disturbance ; the temperature is raised, the tongue furred and often the adjacent lymphatic glands become enlarged. Ihe treatment consists in removing the offending tooth and applymg warm fomentations. Often this is all that is necessary, and immediate relief is given, it not, the swelling beneath the periosteum should be incised through the mucous membrane from within the mouth to prevent an external opening bemg formed. In some cases where the disease has been allowed to go on without treatment the abscess will point externally, and must then be opened in this situation. Frequently in these cases a troublesome sinus will form, owing to the presence of a fragment of necrosed bone, and will not heal until this has been removed. Pyorrhoea alveolaris is an inflammatory condition of the margm of the gums, followed by a gradual removal of the alveolus and a loosening of the teeth, which fall out, and the patient becomes edentulous. It is generally beUeved that the disease is constitutional, but little is known fbout its causation. It is accompanied by the formation o ta^t^r on th^ teeth, which may be either the cause or the result of the condition. The treatment, which is unsatisfactory, consists in cleaning the teeth of the tartar and using an antiseptic mouth wash. Epulis.—The term epulis was formerly applied to any tumour grow- ing from the gums, but is now usually restricted to a fibrous growth, which springs from the periodontal mem- brane lining an alveolus, and is associated with the irritation of a decayed fang of a tooth. It consists of fibrous tissue covered externally by the mucous niembrane of the gum, and it begins as an enlargement of the little tongue-hke process of mucous Fig. 256. -Epiilis. (From a drawing in