387 TREATMENT OF DIVIDED NERVES to diminish for some time and may not disappear altogether for months after the injury. Later on the wasting of the muscles, the smooth glazed skin, the coldness and other trophic changes, indicate the nature of the lesion. TTnion of divided nerve.—If the divided ends of a nerve are placed in apposition they will readily unite and the function of the nerve will be restored. This is done in the first instance by the union of the divided ends by ordinary inflammatory exudation, which organises into scar tissue. A prolongation now takes place of the axis cylinders of the proximal end ; they grow through the scar tissue, which acts as a supporting medium to them, into the lower end of the divided nerve, and over these is subsequently developed a medullary sheath. If union is effected immediately after division, before any degenerative changes have taken place, these elon- gated axis cylinders from the nerve above become continuous with those in the distal end of the divided nerve, and its function is restored. If union does not occur until the degenerative changes described above have been brought about, regeneration has to take place, and this is effected through the nuclei of the sheath of Schwann, which do not degenerate. These multiply, and, becoming joined, constitute new axis cylinders, which subsequently ac- quire a new medullary sheath. It would appear probable that almost any living animal structure can act as the supporting medium along which the axis cylinders from the proximal end can extend them- selves. Thus, if the separated ends of a severed nerve are connected by a slip of connective tissue, the axis cylinders may grow downwards in this connective tissue, and thus the function of the nerve may be restored. The restoration of a divided nerve is generally slow, and a period of twelve months may elapse before it is complete; when it is, the parts gradually recover themselves. Sensation is first restored, then motion, and finally there is a return of the normal nutrition of the part. Treatment.—In the case of division of a nerve in an open wound, primary suture should be at once resorted to. But in cases where a nerve has been injured subcutaneously, it is better, as we have already pointed out, to wait until the surgeon is assured that actual solution of continuity has taken place. The best material for suture is fine chromicised catgut, and an ordinary round sewing needle should be used, as less hkely to injure the nerve tubules than surgical needles. Two sutures are generally sufficient, passed at right angles to each other, about one-eighth of an inch from the cut surfaces, and should only be tied sufficiently tightly to bring the surfaces into apposition. After the external wound has been closed the limb should be put on a splint in such a position as to procure as complete relaxation as possible and at the same time keep the part at rest. Secondary suture may be undertaken in those cases where c c 2 A B Fig. 122.—Mode of suturing a nerve by splitting the bulb. In A the dots show the line of incision ; in B half the bulb is turned down and sutured to the distal end.