OSTEO-ARTHRITIS 539 due to a micro-organism, and Bannatyne has described a bacillus which he has found in the joints of patients suffering from this disease. These observations require confirmation before the theory can be accepted. Pathology.—The morbid process in osteo-arthritis begins in the articular cartilage. This becomes of a dull yellow, opaque appearance, and loses its smooth polished surface, and appears velvety. If examined microscopically, this change is found to be due to a fibrous transformation of the matrix and a proliferation of the cartilage cells. On thin sections being made, the matrix will be found to consist of fibrillfe arranged verti- cally^o the surface, and the primary capsules enlarged and containing more than one cartilage cell. In consequence of these morbid processes the cartilage becomes softened and two changes occur in it. In the centre of the articular surface, where there is the greatest amount of friction, the cartilage becomes worn away and the bone exposed; at the margins of the cartilage, where there is least pressure, there is an overgrowth of this structure and the formation of an irregular nodular lipping or thickening. The nodules of which this thickening is composed un- dergo a process of ossification, and in this way the joint comes to be surrounded with a number of bony outgrowths, which are also nodular and rounded, and have been compared by Billroth to the drip- pings of a tallow candle. Where the bone has become exposed by the wearing away of the softened cartilage, it undergoes sclerosis, a form of ostitis with excessive calcification; so that it becomes hard and porcellanous (eburnated) in appearance, and, from the movements of the joint, smooth and polished on its surface (fig. 191). In spite, however, of this eburnation, which does not extend very deeply, the bony surface becomes worn away, a fresh eburnation taking place in the tissues immediately beneath.. In hinge joints this wearing away produces a very peculiar appearance, arising from the movements of the joint in one direction only. If, for instance, the ends of the bones entering into the formation of the knee joint are exa- mined in a case of advanced osteo-arthritis, they will be seen to present an undulating surface composed of alternate ridges and furrows running in an antero-posterior direction. In the early stages of the disease the synovial membrane becomes more vascular, thickened and swollen. The villi become increased in size and give off secondary processes, so that the interior of the joint may sometimes contain a large number of pendulous growths, which attain a considerable size. Occasionally chondrification and ossification take place in these pendulous bodies, and if they subsequently become de- tached they constitute one form of ' loose bodies' in a joint. In some cases, especially in the earlier stages, there is an increased amount of Fk;. 191.—Osteo-arthriiis of the hip joint. (From the Museum of St. George's Flospital.)