Tuberculous disease. Pus abundant. Blood slight or none. Irritability of bladder common. Pain not radiating. Bacilli to be found in urine. Tuberculous diathesis and history. Enlarged kidney to be felt. 944 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL 0R(;ANS and there will be no pain on pressure over the region of the bladder. The urine will be acid and contain a considerable amount of pus, but no crystals of uric acid or oxalate of lime will probably be found. By staining speci- mens of the urine, the bacillus tuberculosis may be discovered. Blood may be passed in the urine, but it is not common in tuberculous disease. If both kidneys are affected, the amount of the urinary secretion will gradually become diminished, and constant vomiting occur. Still later, when a con- dition of pyo-nephrosis is set up, the enlargement of the kidney becomes very perceptible, and this enlargement may be increased by the formation of a peri-nephritic abscess, which may burst externally, and the patient die of exhaustion. The diagnosis of tuberculous disease of the kidney from renal calculus is often a matter of extreme difficulty. The differential diagnosis between the two conditions is set forth in the following table : Calculous disease. Pus small in quantity. Blood often considerable at times. Irritability of bladder slight or absent. Pain radiating. Crystals to be found in urine. No tuberculous history. In iTiany cases no enlargement of kidney to be felt. Treatment.—The treatment of tuberculous disease of the kidney must depend very much upon whether the disease is primary or secondary to disease in other parts of the urinary tract. When it is secondary, it is probable that both kidneys are affected ; or if only one is diseased, there is a very strong probability that the other will become affected before long, and therefore any question of removal of the diseased organ is out of the question. But when the disease is primary, the age and strength of the patient are favourable, and there is no tuberculous disease elsewhere, removal of the kidney in whole or part seems to hold out a very fau- pro- spect of success, provided the other kidney is in a healthy condition, and this must be ascertained at the time of the operation. The operation of nephrectomy should in these cases always be done by the abdominal incision, so that the hand can be introduced into the peritoneal cavity, and the condition of the other kidney satistac- torily ascertained, before the removal is finally decided upon. The incision should be made in the semilunar line (Langenbuch's operation), so that the kidney may be approached from the outer side of the colon—ascending or descending, as the case may be ; the colic vessels are then not intertered with, as would be the case if the incision was made in the linea alba and the kidney reached from the inner side of the colon. When it has been definitely ascertained that the other kidney is in a sound working con- dition, the steps of the operation must depend upon how miich disease is present in the affected organ. If the disease is strictly hmited to one part, it may be sufficient to thoroughly scrape out the tuberculous cavity, purify it with a solution of chloride of zinc or pure carbolic acid, and plug the cavity with a strip of iodoform gauze, the end of which is brought out of the external wound. In other cases it may be possible to remo%2 a wedge-shaped piece of the renal tissue and suture the cut surfaces But as a rule it will be found that the whole of the kidney is practically destroyed, and that removal of the entire organ is indicated. 1 he tecn- nique of the operation will be described later on.