SUB-ACUTE SYNOVITIS 531 where the inflammation is more prolonged, the synovial membrane remains thickened and turgid from efi"used fluid for some considerable time, and it may be permanently. Symptoms.—The symptoms of acute local synovitis are pain, heat, and swelling, due to eff'usion into the synovial sac. The pain is of a disten- sile, burning character, and in acute cases is very severe. It is often worse at night and is greatly increased by moving or handling the joint. Upon placing the hand on the part and comparing it with the other side of the body, a sensation of increased heat will be experienced, and this is especially noticeable in the superficial joints. The stvelling is very cha- racteristic as it assumes the shape of the synovial membrane. Thus in the knee there is a swelling extending up the limb for some distance in front of the femur, and more pronounced on the inner than the outer side, and the patella will be felt to float on the fluid. Unless the sac is very tense, a distinct sense of fluctuation will be felt. The limb is generally maintained in a somewhat flexed position, as this causes a certain amount of relaxation of the ligaments, and is therefore the position of greatest ease. Conjoined with these local signs, there is often a considerable amount of constitutional disturbance, with elevation of temperature. Treatment.—In the treatment of these cases of acute local synovitis rest is of paramount importance. The limb should be fixed on a splint or by bandages in such a manner as to secure complete immobility to the joint, at the same time bearing in mind that a certain amount of ankylosis may result; so that while the limb is fixed in that position which as far as possible gives the greatest amount of ease to the patient, it must also be secured in that position in which the greatest amount of utility will be obtained in the event of loss of movement being the result of the inflam- mation. The application of cold by means of an icebag, Leiter's tubes, or irrigation, is often of the greatest service. Occasionally the weight of the icebag or Leiter's tubes is complained of, and under these circumstances the irrigation of the joint with ice-cold water forms an excellent substitute, if it can be applied without wetting the patient's bedding. Cold must be applied with caution, especially in elderly people. The application of half a dozen leeches over an acutely inflamed joint is often an efficient way of relieving pain and subduing the inflammation. In those cases where these means fail to check the inflammatory process, or where the amount of tension of the joint and consequent pain is very great, the most potent remedy which we have is aspiration of the joint with a carefully sterilised hollow needle. This little operation, which when performed with care is entirely devoid of danger, at once relieves the pain, and may save much time and suffering to the patient. The constitutional treatment consists in a fluid diet while the temperature is raised, and in the administration of saline purgatives, with, in very acute sthenic cases, a little antimony. Sub-acute synovitis.—Here the causes which lead to this condi- tion are the same as in the acute form of the disease ; indeed, in many cases, especially in debilitated individuals, the sub-acute inflammation may be a sequel of the acute. In some of these absorption of the fluid is very slow, and a collection of fluid remains in the joint cavity, which is known under the name of hyd?-ops articiili. In consequence of this the capsular and other ligaments become weakened from over-distension, and a condition of weakness is complained of by the patient. Again, in other cases the fluid accumulation is absorbed, but a certain amount of congestion of the M M 2