214 GENERAL DISEASES and the child is still young, say under the age of six, much may be done by carefully applied splints to correct the deformity; but still more may be done by placing the child under the influence of chloroform and straighten- ing the limbs forcibly by manual pressure and then applying splints. This proceeding will have to be repeated at short intervals until the limbs are straight. Sometimes it will happen that in performing this simple operation the bone will give way. No harm is, however, done, but rather good ; the limb should be put up in splints in as straight a position as possible, and speedy union will take place. Later in life the deformity is only to be over- come by breaking the bone or dividing it, and in severe cases of deformity one of these operations may be called for. Division of the bone is to be effected either with the saw or chisel by the operation of osteotomy, but the results obtained are not always satisfactory. Some surgeons prefer forcibly breaking the bone subcutaneously by an operation known by the name of osteoclasis. This is done by means of a powerful lever called an osteoclast. SCURVY-RICKETS Scuryy-rickets is the name now employed to designate a form of disease which usually occurs in infants under a year of age, in which scur^7 and rickets are combined, and which like both of these diseases when occurring singly is due to improper feeding. According to Barlow, 'the scurvy is an essential and the rickets is a variable, element' in the disease. Pathology.—The affection consists in the occurrence of hemorrhages, more especially under the periosteum, but also from mucous surfaces, in the muscles, and in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The haemorrhages under the periosteum seem in a large majority of cases to commence in the highly vascular growing tissue at the ends of the shafts of the long bones, and from thence to travel along the shaft of the bone separating the periosteum from it. Accordingly we find that disjunction of the epiphysis from the shaft of the bone is of common occurrence in this disease. Symptoms.—The onset is usually somewhat sudden. The child possibly has been ailing for a few days, when a swelling, evidently con- nected with the bone, starts from the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage and rapidly spreads up or down the limb. It is acutely painful to the touch, and the slightest movement elicits a cry of agony. The limb or limbs, if more than one is affected, consequently lie motionless, so as to simulate paralysis. It is white and pasty-looking, and when separation of the epiphysis has taken place, soft crepitus may be felt. The child is apparently very ill, there is rapid emaciation and great antemia. The gums may be spongy, or extravasations of blood may occur in various places, under the skin, within the orbit, producing proptosis, or in front of the globe of the eye under the conjunctiva. Hsematuria has been noted in many cases. If untreated these cases often terminate fatally. The treatment consists in the administration of some fresh raw vegetable—of which perhaps orange juice is the best—with raw meat juice, milk, and plenty of fresh air. The local treatment is perfect rest and fixa- tion of the limbs by bandages.