5° GENERAL INJURIES tissues around bruised and infiltrated with extravasated blood. They are usually caused by a blunt instrument. 3. Pimctured wounds, in which the depth much exceeds the length, as in a prick or stab, 4. Poisoned wounds, where some poison is introduced into the wound. 5. Gunshot wounds, resulting from the action of ' missiles that have been projected by force derived from explosion.'' Before we enter upon a description of these several varieties of wound, it is desirable that we should take into consideration the various ways in which wounds heal, as it will help to elucidate what will have to be said in the future. UNION OF WOUNDS In former days five different methods were described by which a wound might unite: viz. (i) by immediate union, primary adhesion, or direct growing together of the severed surface; (2) by first intention, or adhesive (retrogressive) inflammation ; (3) by scabbing ; (4) by second intention, or granulation; and (5) by secondary adhesion or growing of two granulating surfaces together. To these five modes of union recent pathologists have added another, namely 'heahng by blood clot,' to which I shall refer in the sequel. It seems to me to be much simpler and more in accordance with the true facts to describe the modes of union as two in number, namely (i) union without suppuration and (2) union with suppuration, and it will be my endeavour to show that the five classical modes of union of wounds may be arranged under these two heads ; and moreover that the difference between these two modes of union is very slight, and is one rather of degree than of kind, and that they are both the result of the same pathological process going on in the part. I. Immediate union.—When the edges of a perfectly clean cut, such as that made in the operation for hare lip, are carefully brought together and adjusted, without the intervention of any foreign body, and are kept in apposition for a sufficient length of time, free from all external sources of irritation, union may take place, without any appreciable signs of inflamma- tion, and in the course of forty-eight hours or so the wound may be so soundly united as to require no further attention. The only indication of the wound will be a slightly red linear mark, which speedily disappears and eventu- ally no trace of it is left. These cases were first described by Macartney of Dublin, as cases of union of wounds without inflammation ; that is to say, union took place without any intervening substance such as blood or lymph. This theory of Macartney's has been revived in the present day, and there are many pathologists who affirm that union of wounds is a physiological process, and takes place entirely without the occurrence of any inflammation. I cannot bring myself to believe that this is so. It would be impossible in this work to enter fully into a discussion on this question, but I may mention that it seems to me that the strongest argument against the theory is that the bond of union which unites the severed edges, however brought about, is a more lowly organised material than the original tissue which was injured, showing that there has been retrogression, or impaired vitality, which is the natural result of the inflammatory process. Of course if we adopt Burdon Sanderson's defini- tion of inflammation, the whole argument falls to the ground, as every injury must be followed by inflammation for the purposes of repair. I ' Longmore, System of Surgoy, third ed. p. 461.