i86 GENERAL DISEASES which they appear. If, for instance, the paj^ular or tubercular syphilide appears in some situation wliere the skin is habitually moist, as around the anus, or on the vulva or scrotum, or at the corners of the mouth, the papules or tubercles become converted into a flat, raised oval surface, which is smooth and covered with a whitish false membrane, and secretes a thin fluid, which is infective and is probably a fertile source of syphilitic infection. These bodies, which are termed condylomata, when situated on the vulva are probably much more frequently the source of the infecting virus than the original chancre, which, as we have seen, usually heals rapidly in the female. These condylomata sometimes appear between the toes, when they are prone to ulcerate and form deep cracks or fissures which discharge a very offensive fluid; to these the term rhagades is applied. They usually result from the want of proper cleanli- IIGSS. A similar condition to condylomata will be described as occurring on the mucous membrane of the mouth. Before leaving the subject of syphilitic diseases of the skin, we must allude to the disease as it aff'ects its appendages. The hair of the head frequently becomes thin, coming away in large quantities during combing, and in rare cases the patient may become completely bald, and at the same time the beard and the eyebrows may disappear. In other cases the baldness is in patches. The hair usually grows again after a mercurial course, and the patient may have as luxuriant a crop of hair as ever. . The nails may become aff"ected. Usually there is merely a httle roughening and longitudinal striation, but sometimes one or more nails may separate from inflammation of the matrix. In other cases, again, the nail becomes greatly thickened and its layers heaped up one on another, producing an appearance like an oyster shell. This is sometimes known as psoriasis of the nail, and may occur as a non-syphihtic aff"ection. Finally, in the latter stages of secondary syphilis, an ulceration of the matrix of the nail may take place, and the nail may be thrown off and leave an ulcerated surface behind. This condition resembles onychia maligna, but there is not the same foetid discharge. xi. 2. The mucous membrane of the mouth and throat.— The mucous membrane of the mouth and throat especially, but also the mucous surfaces in some other parts of the body, are the site of several diff'erent lesions in diff'erent stages of syphilis. The first of these, which occurs about the same time as the exanthematous rash, is slight ulceration of the tonsils. The ulcers are usually symmetrical, somewhat horse-shoe in shape, and present a greyish white surface. They are often painless, and frequently disappear in a short period of time. In other cases the tonsils and the rest of the mucous membrane of the throat are red and congested, without ulceration. A little later on mucous patches appear in the mouth especially on the mucous membrane of the cheek. These are identical with the condylomata which occur on moist skin, and present the appear- ance of a slight flattened elevation of a greyish white colour. These mucous patches may occur on other mucous surfaces besides that of the mouth, as on the vulva of women, or under the prepuce in men. Some- what later in the secondary stage, excavated ulcers may form on the tonsils ; they have sharply cut edges, with some redness of the mucous membrane around, and a grey, sloughy looking surface ; or, again, ulcerated patches or fissures may form at the commissures of the hps. The tongue is also