GENERAL INJURIES 84 which drinking occasions are terrible, and he will not risk setting them up ; but patients who have sufficient resolution can swallow a considerable quantity of fluid and endure the contact of water in washing. The other fallacy is that patients suffering from hydrophobia ' bark like a dog.' This is nothing more or less than the loud, hiccoughing noise which is made by the spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of hydrophobia is not generally difficult ; but tetanus, occurring in one who has been bitten by a dog, has been mistaken for it. The character of the spasms is, however, different ; in tetanus they are continuous, though subject to exacerbations; in hydrophobia there is complete relaxation between the convulsive attacks. Then again there are no hallucinations in tetanus, nor the same terrible anxiety: these and the absence of viscid saliva and tenacious mucus hanging about the mouth should serve to distinguish this disease from hydrophobia. There is a form of disease which sometimes occurs in those who have been bitten by dogs, and which arises from the fear of the conse- quences of the bite, which is a purely hysterical condition, and is known under the names of pseudo- or neiiro-mimetic hydrophobia, in which there is dysphagia, but no alarming spasm of the respiratory muscles. This condition may be recognised by careful attention to the history and symp- toms, and by watching the patient for a time, when it will be found that the spasmodic contractions will cease. Pathology,—Hydrophobia is an infective inflammation, chiefly affect- ing the lower part of the medulla, and implicating particularly the origins of the vagus, the hypoglossal and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. In this situation localised areas may be seen where the perivascular spaces are infiltrated with emigrated leucocytes, and sometimes extravasations of blood, from minute vessels having given way. Intense congestion is found in the parts supplied by the above-mentioned nerves—the mouth, tongue and pharynx, the larynx and lungs, the oesophagus and stomach—and sometimes this congestion is so intense that vessels have given way and extravasations of blood have taken place. The characteristic spasm of the muscles is due to this condition of the medulla and upper part of the spinal cord, in consequence of which the slightest impulse causes a wide-spread reflex action in the muscles of respiration and deglutition. Treatment.—Under this head we have to consider the prophylactic treatment; the means which should be taken to prevent the dissemination of the poison in those who have been bitten, and thus prevent the occurrence of the disease ; and the palliative treatment which is to be adopted for those in whom the disease has been set up. First, what means can be employed to prevent the dissemination of the poison ? We have already seen that, practically speaking, the disease is almost always set up by the bite of a rabid dog, and that when it occurs from the bite of any other rabid animal it is because this animal has been rendered rabid by the bite of a mad dog, and we have also seen that there is very good reason to believe that rabies never occurs ab initio even in the dog, but is always the result of previous inoculation. It is therefore quite clear that the prevention of rabies in the dog would effectually stamp out hydro- phobia in man, and that rabies in the dog may be stamped out by attention to the three following conditions : (i) To compel the muzzling of all dogs for a given period of time. (2) To destroy all dogs suspected of rabies and found wandering about unmuzzled. (3) To prevent the importation