890 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL OROANS the hernia is not of very great size, and the patient is not very fat, are the ones suited to operation. If the hernia is large and the patient fat, there is no room in the abdomen for the prolapsed structures ; and if the operation is attempted it will probably end in failure, from inability on the part of the surgeon to reduce the contents of the sac. If, however, the hernia is not very large, though the patient is corpulent, it is justifiable to attempt, by dietetic and other measures, to reduce the corpulency, and if this can be done, to then proceed to the operation. The manner of performing it has already been described (page 872). Strangulation of an umbilical hernia is always a very serious condition ; but many of the cases of so-called strangulation are really more of the nature of obstruction—a condition which is almost as serious as strangu- lation, and may lead to the death of the patient, unless relieved by operation. Herniotomy itself ni these cases is attended with a very heavy mortality, though it has been considerably reduced in recent years, since the establishment of antiseptic measures, and since it has become the prac- tice to shut off the peritoneal cavity from the external wound. The opera- tion consists in opening the sac by a vertical incision in the middle line, dividing the stricture, and reducing the intestine, after the adhesions, if any exist, have been separated. The omentum is now freed from the interior of the sac, tied in strands, and removed. The sac is then excised, the cut edges of the peritoneum sutured together with a continuous catgut suture, the opening in the abdominal wall securely closed by buried sutures, and the edges of the external wound adjusted. Howard Marsh, in order to save time in the performance of the operation, recommends that the sac and omentum should be removed together, without any attempt being made to separate them. He makes a semi- circular incision on either side of the sac, so as to include in an elliptical wound the skin over the front of the tumour, leaving only so much on either side as will allow of the closure of the wound in the middle line, without tension. He then separates the subcutaneous tissues from the outer surface of the sac on either side, down to its neck. The sac is now opened ; the stric- ture, if one exists, is divided, and the intestine is reduced. The surgeon then defines and isolates the omentum at the spot where it passes through the abdominal wall, ligatures it in segments, and divides it just beyond the ligature. By now cutting through the neck of the sac external to the ring, the omentum, the sac, and the skin covering the front of it are removed in one mass. The cut edges of the sac are now united, the ring obliterated by buried sutures, and the external wound closed. Obturator hernia (fig. 346) is where the hernia descends through the upper part of the obturator foramen. It is most common in women Fig. 346. —Obturator hernia. There is also a small inguinal hernia just appearing at the external abdominal ring. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)