TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS 1053 DISEASES OF THE UTERUS The only affection of the uterus which it is necessary to consider in a treatise on General Surgery is tumours of that organ. Abnormal condi- tions of the cervix; endometritis and cervical endometritis, acute and chronic ; and displacements of the uterus, require special treatment, and are discussed in works on Diseases of Women, to which the reader is referred. Tumours of the uterus.—The uterus may be the seat of any of the following varieties of tumour : myoma, adenoma, sarcoma, and carcinoma. I. Myoma.—The myoma (fibro-myoma), or, as it is popularly called, fibroid tumour of the uterus, is not only the most common form of uterine tumour, but is also one of the commonest tumours to which women are liable. Structurally they consist of un striped muscular tissue and fibrous tissue in varying proportions. The excess of one or other tissue causes alterations in their consistence, so that it is customary to divide them into hard and soft fibroids. The hard fibro-myoma is much the more common of the two, and constitutes the ordinary fibroid. It contains a large proportion of fibrous tissue and is very hard. The fibres of which it is composed are arranged in a concentric manner, so as to give to the cut surface of the tumour the appearance of a whorl. These tumours are distinctly circumscribed, and are surrounded in the greater part of their extent by a capsule; but this capsule is deficient at one point, where the new growth is continuous with the uterine tissue. Their rate of growth is slow. The soft fibro-myoma or true myoma is rare. It contains but little fibrous tissue, and is made up almost entirely of long fusiform cells, with rod-like nuclei. It is very vascular, is not distinctly circumscribed, and grows very rapidly. These tumours, composed of a greater or less amount of muscular tissue, are direct outgrowths from the muscular tissue of the uterus, and may originate in three different places. They may grow from the muscular tissue of the uterine wall, and are then termed intra-mural; or they may grow from the sub-serous tissue, which over the uterus consists largely of unstriped muscular fibre ; these are the sub-peritoneal form of tumour; or lastly, they may grow from the muscle cells of the mucous lining of the uterus, constituting the sub-mucous form. This last form of tumour projects into the cavity of the uterus, and may be prolonged through the cervix and os into the vagina, when it resembles polypus. These will be considered later on. It must be borne in mind that an intra-mural myoma by its growth may project into the peritoneal or uterine cavities, and that it then constitutes a variety of sub-peritoneal or sub-mucous myoma, though it does not originate in quite the same position as the tumours bearing these names usually do. When myomata project either on the serous or mucous aspect of the uterus, they have a tendency to become pedunculated. Uterine myomata usually appear between the ages of thirty-five and forty-five, and are most common in unmarried women, or in married women who have never been pregnant. They are very rarely found in- women who have borne many children. From this it has been inferred that myomata arise as a consequence of the uterus not being called upon to exercise its normal function. That is to say, that the repeated con- gestion of the organ at each menstruation expends itself in an irregular