TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS the bandage and the limb, and screwing it up tightly. ^Vith regard to the treatment of the wound on the field, the rule is laid down that no examina- tion or handling of it should be made, but that it should be simply occluded temporarily with an antiseptic dressing and the patient allowed to proceed at once to the hospital, where a systematic examination can be undertaken. And if we consider that it is the universally received opinion that the bullet is aseptic at the time of its introduction, and that unless any clothing or foreign body is carried in with it, the wound is aseptic when first inflicted, we shall understand how important this rule is ; for it is clear that if the wound subsequently becomes septic this must be due mainly to the introduction of a septic finger or instrument; and how can they be other- wise under the circumstances ? The soldier carries the first dressing with him as part of his kit. The duty of the surgeon on the field is, therefore, to rally the patient from his shock, temporarily arrest heemorrhage, and occlude the wound provisionally, and then to place the wounded soldier on a stretcher, with the injured part in a suitable position and immobilised as far as possible, and have him transported to a place of security. Here a thorough examination is to be made, and the line of treatment finally decided upon, and this must be done in as aseptic a manner as possible. If a large artery has been wounded, the first thing is to secure it above and below ; the tourniquet can then be removed. The wound should now be washed out with an antiseptic solution. Corrosive sublimate is probably the best, not only on account of its proved antiseptic properties, but because it can easily be transported in the form of tabloids, one of which dissolved in a pint of water gives a solution of the strength of i in i,ooo. The first point to determine is the presence or absence of the bullet. In a large number of cases this is at once done, the presence of two wounds indicating that the bullet has passed through. If not, the wound must be explored for this purpose, and the finger will usually be found the best means of doing this, and in very many cases it cannot be improper to enlarge the wound for this pur- pose. Numerous other means of exploration have been advocated : Nelaton's porcelain probe ; Lecompte's ' stilet-pince,' by which a portion of the foreign body may be nipped off; and Ruhmkorff's and De Wilde's electric indicators, have all been used, but none give such satis- Fig. 20.—Coxeter's factory results as the finger. In gunshot wounds, in the bullet forceps, future, the X rays will prove of efficient service in detecting the bullet. The bullet having been found must then be extracted by bullet forcep.s, of which those known as Coxeter's are usually found to be the most effective (fig. 20). By this examination with the finger the surgeon can ascertain not only the position of the bullet, but also the extent of the injury, whether any bone has been comminuted, or large joint damaged, or viscus injured, and can determine, in wounds of the extremities, whether amputation is necessary. No strict rules can be laid down for this ; each case must be settled on its own merits; but this may be said : that