21 BACTERIA blQod which has been extravasated ; some remains in the wound, and either coagulates and, exuding its serum, affords a dead material capable of under- going putrefaction, or may itself undergo putrefaction, though it is less easily decomposable than the serum, since it is composed to a large extent of living cells. The ferment of putrefaction consists of certain vegetable organisms belonging to the lowest order of fungi, and, as we have seen, they are capable of developing only in dead matter; they are therefore known as septic organisms or carrion fungi (saprophytes), in contradistinction to certain other micro-organisms which have the power of living and growing in the living tissues and which are known as infective or pathogenic micro- organisms. 3. Infective Micro-organisms.—The infective micro-organisms play an important part in the causation of inflammation. As they also play an important role in the production of many diseases which will hereafter have to be described, it will be convenient in this place to consider very briefly and generally the subject of Surgical Bacteriology, so far as it is necessary to explain what will have to be stated in the sequel. ' The term Bacteria is generally employed to designate the whole group of micro-organisms which have a definite relation to disease. The term is an unfortunate one, since its meaning is a staff or rod, and amongst these micro-organisms are a number of rounded bodies ; but it is sufficiently well understood and recognised as including the whole group. For purposes of classification it is sufficient to divide bacteria into (i) micrococci, spherical bodies; (2) bacilli, rod-shaped bodies; and (3) spirilla, spiral or screw-shaped organisms. The Micrococci are rounded or slightly oval bodies, varying from to -10 wo of an inch in diameter. They are non-motile and multiply by fission. In consequence of their different modes of division several sub-varieties are recognised. In some instances the fission is com_plete and the divided bodies become entirely separated from each other : then the micrococci occur singly, and, when collected into colonies, are termed zooglcea. Sometimes the fission is not quite complete, but the two halves remain united to each other by a slight bond of union, or the division may be complete, but the new organisms remain in contact ; then the micrococci are grouped in pairs, and form what are called diplococci. The diplococci may undergo further division, each new organism again dividing into two, and this may be repeated many times, and if the organisms still remain attached to each other, we shall have a. long chain of rounded bodies ; these are called streptococci. When the division of the original micrococcus does not take place in the same plane, but the new organisms remain attached to each other, we have irregular mulberry-shaped masses, which are termed staphylococci. The Bacilli are rod-shaped organisms, varying from the ouAtttt ^he ittV-,^^ of an inch in length, and are always more than twice their breadth in length. They are for the most part non-motile, but some are provided with flagella or cilia, formed as a secondary modification of the external membrane, and are then motile. They multiply by fission and also by spores under certain conditions. These spores appear as bright spots which grow at the expense of the protoplasm ; they are possessed of considerable vitality, and resist to a great extent the effects of heat and cold and many antiseptic substances. Sometimes the bacilli become very much lengthened, forming slender thread-like bodies; to these the term leptothrix is given.