CARCINOMA able to use it except in cases which are otherwise hopeless. 1 he principal dangers are from collapse and pyaemia; the latter is to be feared when there is a suppurating and sloughing sore, because the pyogenic organisms present in the wound are rendered more virulent by being associated with the toxines of other organisms. Coley states that this plan of treatment has proved most successful in the spindle-celled sarcomata, and that the benefit obtained in the round-celled sarcomata is not so great. Our knowledge of the results of this treatment is still in its infancy, and it is perhaps too early to express an opinion. As far as my own personal experience goes, I must confess that I am very sceptical as to its use. A considerable number of cases have been recorded in which this treatment has been adopted for supposed sarcomatous tumours, and has been followed by their disappearance ; but, as far as I am aware, in _ only one case in this country has a tumour been dispersed by Coley's fluid, which has been proved to be sarcoma, by removal of portions and microscopic examination. 1 As, however, the disease is in itself necessarily fatal, it would appear to be perfectly justifiable to resort to it, even though it entails a considerable risk to the life of the patient. The treatment should be continued until the whole of the tumour has disappeared, or until it has become so small that, in order to expedite matters, it can be removed. GROUP IV. TUMOURS COMPOSED OF CELLS OF AN EPITHELIAL TYPE There is only one class of tumours in this group, the Carcinomata or Cancers, and clinically speaking these tumours are all malignant. Carcinoma is anatomically defined as a tumour which is composed of a stroma of fibrous tissue, presenting an alveolar structure, within the alveoU of which are contained collections of cells resembling those of epithelium. These cells are derived from pre-existing epithelium, and therefore carcinomata can only take their origin primarily from those places where epithelium is naturally present, that is the cutaneous and mucous surfaces, including the involutions formed in ducts, follicles, &c., of glandular structures. The cells always re- semble the epithelium from which they are derived, and this naturally divides the car- cinomata into groups, according as the cells are spheroidal, squamous, or columnar. The cells are not embedded in a matrix, like the cells of sarcoma, but lie closely packed within the alveoli, and have no organic connection with the fibrous stroma. Unlike the cells of sarcoma, they show no tendency to undergo developmental processes and pass into a higher stage of organisation; but they have, on the other hand, a marked tendency to undergo fatty degeneration, and are often found to be crowded with fat molecules. The stroma consists of a network of fibrous tissue, in which may be seen connective tissue cells, and in which are contained the blood-vessels which supply the tumour (fig. 62). ' Mr. Battle's case, il/fifl'. Sec. Trans. 1898. P'lG. 62. — Fibrous stroma in scirrhus cancer. Diagrammatic.