305 TRAUMATIC ANEURISM (2) those m which the accompanying vein is also injured—these latter are termed arterio-venous aneurisms. The true traumatic aneurism, where the artery alone is involved, shows itself in two or three different forms according to the amount of blood which is effused. In some cases, where the artery injured is of large size, and where an immense quantity of blood is effused very rapidly, the term aneurism is inapplicable, though it is some- times applied. It is more appropriate, however, to classify these cases as subcutaneous arterial hemorrhages. They have already been alluded to under the head of Ruptured Arteries (see page 280). But there are other cases, where, on account of a smaller vessel being ruptured, or from a small opening being made in the torn vessel, or on account of the resistance of the tissues to the infiltration of blood, the amount extravasated is not so great, and it becomes imperfectly limited in a cavity around the injured vessel, the walls of which are formed of clotted blood, which becomes firm and resistant from the pressure to which it is subjected. This is termed a diffuse traumatic aneurism. Again, there are other cases where the extra- vasation of blood is still smaller and takes place more slowly, and under these circumstances a distinct sac wall is formed around the extravasated blood by condensation of the surrounding tissues by inflammatory exudation. This is known as a form of circumscribed trarnnatic aneurism. And in addition to this there is another form of circumscribed traumatic aneurism, where, as mentioned above, the cicatrix of a punctured artery yields, and the wall of the aneurism is formed by the scar tissue. Diffuse traumatic aneurism.—A diffuse traumatic aneurism is characterised by the formation of a rapidly growing swelling in the course of an artery, following an injury. The swelling is ill defined, usually tense and firm, but varying somewhat in consistence according to the amount of coagulation which has taken place. The skin over it is tense, and though natural in colour at first, soon becomes discoloured from some of the extravasated blood finding its way to the surface. In many cases an indistinct pulsation, accompanied by a distinct bruit, and sometimes a thrill, may be noticed in the earlier stages, but these soon disappear as the extravasated blood coagulates. There is coldness and lividity of the limb below the injury, with oedema, and the pulse is lost or weaker than on the opposite side of the body. Intense pain is complained of, which may frequently be temporarily relieved by compressing the artery above. Owing to the absence of any true sac wall, a diffuse traumatic aneurism tends to increase at first rapidly and then more slowly. It ends in one of three ways : (i) It may reach the surface, and then burst and cause severe and even fatal htemorrhage. (2) It may, on account of the tension, give rise to acute inflammation in the tissues around. The swelling becomes hot, the skin over it red, and the subcutaneous tissues oedematous, and throbbing pain is complained of The temperature is raised. After a time the sweUing points, like an abscess, bursts, and gives rise to a gush of broken-down blood clot, followed by profuse htemorrhage, which may at once prove fatal. (3) A diffuse traumatic aneurism may be followed by moist gangrene in the parts below. The treatment of diffuse traumatic aneurism is the same as that of a ruptured artery—the vessel must be tied above and below the injured spot. If the aneurism is in one of the extremities, so that a tourniquet can be applied and the circulation through the part entirely controlled, the operation is one of no great danger, but of considerable difficulty; but if the aneurism is in such a situation that the vessel above cannot be compressed, the operation is not only one of great X