2 lO GENERAL DISEASES the natural process of ossification going on in the ossifying tissue on either side of the epiphysial cartilage. Thus the cartilage cells in the layer of tissue which is about to ossify are greatly increased in number, and between them the vascular medullary spaces are of large size, many of them having undergone premature calcification. The enlarged vascular medullary spaces between the cells show no regular arrangement, as in normal os.sification, and often project for a considerable distance into the cartilage which has not yet com- menced to ossify. The osteo- blasts, which in normal ossification are arranged in a layer on the interior of the medullary spaces, show in these cases no definite arrangement, and are mingled with cartilage cells which have either calcified or remain unaltered. The adjacent bone, that is the bone which has last been formed, is soft and spongy and contains islets of cartilage which have escaped ossification. It is to this greatly increased proliferation of the cartilage cells and this forma- tion of loose spongy bone that the enlargement of the ends of the shafts of the long bones is due (fig. 44). The deeper layer of the periosteum (osteogenetic layer) is much thickened, soft, and vascular, and between it and the bone is a layer of spongy material, in which islands of calcification appear and which is gradually converted into a soft spongioid bone. As the bone increases in girth and the normal osseous tissue which was formed before the disease com- menced becomes absorbed in the formation of the medullary canal, it may come to pass that the whole shaft of the bone may consist of this soft spongy material. If the disease is recovered from without Fig. 44. - Costal node in rickets. The sec- tion represents the junction between a costal cartilage and a rib. A, normal costal cartilage ; B, proliferating layer ; c, imperfectly calcified bone ; D, a small spicule of periosteal bone ; E, laminated periosteum. N.B. — In the proliferating layer the matrix only, and not the cartilage cells, is repre- sented. (From Holmes's ' Principles and Practice of Surgery.') the bones undergoing any altera- tion in shape this condition dis- appears, the spongy bone becomes converted into exceedingly hard dense bone by an inflammatory process, which consists in the deposition ol inflammatory exudation in the loose cancellous tissue, and this becomes converted into scar tissue and then into osseous tissue; so that the bone.s of a child who has suffered from rickets in its infancy are usually hard, ■dense, and sclerosed. But if, on the other hand, the bones become bent,