GENERAL INJURIES I lO from the central organ of the circulation, as in the hands and feet, the ears or tip of the nose. They are most common in debilitated individuals drunkards, or those who have been depressed by the want of the necessities of life. They are also more frequent in the very aged, where the circula- tion is less active, and in young children. If cold is applied to a part, it causes contraction of the blood-vessels, especially the small arteries, and the supply of blood is first diminished' and then, if the cold be sufficiently intense, the circulation is arrested and the part becomes white and its sensibility destroyed. But the part is not yet dead ; if the cold be withdrawn, the contraction of the vessels ceases, the blood again finds its way into them, and the white colour disappears and gives place to a vivid redness due to a dilated con- dition of the blood-vessels, and a hyperaamia, that is to say, the first stage of inflammation, is set up. If the impairment of the vitality of the tissues has been very slight, the process may go no farther, and the circu- lation gradually recovers itself; but if the vitality of the tissues has been more impaired, the first stage of the inflammation may pass on to stasis and exudation, and the pressure caused by the exudation may be so great that, in conjunction with the stasis of the corpuscles in the vessels, it may cause a second arrest of the circulation, and gangrene may be the result. If, instead of the cold being withdrawn when the part becomes white, it is continued, then the vitality of the tissues will become so low that they will perish and gangrene will result. Thus it will be seen that gangrene may occur in two ways from the application of cold. First, the application of cold may be so intense and so long continued that it kills the tissues outright, without any attempt at recovery. In these cases the gangrene is of the dry variety, and this form is not very common. Secondly, the application of cold not being continued until the vitality is completely crushed out of the tissues, nature makes an effort, on its withdrawal, to restore the circulation, but owing to the damage done to the tissues the reaction runs on into inflammation, thrombosis, and gangrene. In these cases the gangrene is moist, and is especially liable to occur where the part after the withdrawal of the cold is suddenly exposed to too much warmth, as is so often done by ignorant persons in the hope of restoring the frost-bitten part. Frost bites vary in degree. In the slightest degree there is merely a slowing of the circulation and no complete arrest. There is, in fact, a local passive congestion. The circulation through the arteries is diminished owing to their contraction, the vis a tergo is lost, and therefore the capil- laries of the part become choked with blood. There is dusky redness, which, however, is obliterated by pressure of the finger, and therefore is merely due to slowing of the stream and not to stasis. There is swelling and oedema, and if the part be exposed to heat, intolerable itching. This condition, which is very commonly met with on the toes of ill-nourished children in wintry weather, is ordinarily known by the name of chil- blain. In a severer form we have more damage to the tissues, and in addition to the redness and oedema we get vesication and occasionally a small slough of the superficial layers of the corium. This leaves a little ulcer which is very slow to heal and which is popularly known as a ' broken chilblain.' Thirdly, we get the true frost bite, in which there is death of various portions of tissue arising in one of the two different ways spoken of. The amount of tissue destroyed may vary : it may be a small piece, as the