" GENERAL DISEASES unnecessary and cannot do him any good. If, after the most careful exami- nation of the patient, no positive diagnosis can be arrived at, I beheve that it is right to withhold mercury until some definite symptoms declare the true nature of the case, but that as soon as a positive diagnosis of syphihs can be made, mercury should be given. , ,, . It is occasionally recommended that an indurated sore should be excised or destroyed by the actual cautery or fuming nitric acid, but the cases in which this can do any good must be very few. Ihe induration itself denotes that the system has already been contaminated, and that the disease is too far advanced to hold out any hope of curing the disease by local measures. Cases where it is determined not to commence mercury at once should simply be treated, as indeed all cases should be treated, by local measures appUed to the sore with a view to promote its heahng. This consists m perfect cleanliness, and the avoidance of any source of irritation. Probably a piece of lint soaked in black wash is as good an application as any other, or the part may be covered with a Uttle boracic acid ointment. The best mode of administering mercury is still a matter of considerable difference of opinion. There is no question that the most convenient method is by the mouth, but it has the disadvantage of sometimes dis- turbing the digestive organs and causing purging. This can, however, usually be avoided by the addition of a little opium ; and as a matter of practice, it will be usually found that mercury is given in this way. It is convenient generally to give it in the form of a pill, which can be easily carried about in the patient's pocket, and taken without observation. Many prepara- tions of mercury have been advocated at different times, but perhaps the most useful are grey powder, blue pill, and perchloride of mercury. Of these the grey powder is the most generally used. A pill containing grey powder (gr. j) and Dover's powder (gr. j) is made with extract of gentian, and given from three to six times a day. Or blue pill may be used instead of grey powder, but it is more likely to purge the patient. Blue pill (gr. 2), quinine (gr. 2), ext. hyoscyam. (gr. h), may be made into a pill, and given three times a day. The perchloride of mercury is exceedingly useful, and appears to act more rapidly than the metallic mercury, and can be con- veniently combined with iron in anaemic subjects. Perchloride of mer- cury (gr. i), reduced iron (gr. xvi), may be rolled into a mass with sufficient extract of gentian and divided into sixteen pills, one of which may be given three times a day. The above-mentioned doses may require regulating ; some patients stand mercury better than others, and during the first few weeks of the administration the effects of the drug should be carefully watched, and variations made until the appropriate dose is deter- mined for the individual case ; after this the prescription may remain unchanged for weeks. The other modes of administering mercury are by the skin or by injection, but the inconveniences of this mode of administration are so great, that it will generally be found that it is of advantage to employ them only in those cases where the mercury cannot be taken by the mouth, on account of the irritability which it produces. The method by immdion is the one most to be advocated, and is the plan of treatment which is usually followed at Aix-la-Chapelle, a place which has gained a certain notoriety for the treatment of syphilis. Half a drachm to a drachm of the mercurial ointment (P.P.) is well rubbed into some part of the body daily, those parts of the body being selected