1097 AMPUTATION OF THE BREAST cancerous breast the surgeon's first thoughts should be to remove the skin sufficiently wide of the affected area; his second thoughts, to leaving sufficient skin to enable him to bring the cut surfaces together. If this cannot be done, an open wound must be left, which may be closed by skin grafts. The nipple must in all cases be removed, since the greater part of the lymphatics of the breast course in the first instance to this structure. (3) The pectoral fascia must be removed, not only because the deeper lobules of the breast sometimes penetrate this structure, but also because the lymphatics of the breast are largely carried to the axillary glands by lymphatics situated in the fascia; by not removing this structure it is easy to understand that infected lymphatics may be left behind. Some surgeons believe that in order to remove this fascia thoroughly, a thin layer of the great pectoral muscle should be removed with it. (4) The axillary lym- phatic glands and the fascia and fat running from the margin_ of the breast to the glands should be removed. It is now a well-recognised fact that the axillary glands may be infected before any enlargement has taken place in them, and therefore the surgeon, even though he introduces his finger into the axilla, and is unable to feel any enlargement of the lymphatic glands, cannot be sure that they are not affected, and therefore he affords his patient a better chance of non-recurrence by in every case ' clearing out' the axilla. Amputation of the breast.—The operation of removal of the breast for cancer is performed as follows : the patient having been previously prepared, and the axilla shaved, is laid on her back, with the arm on the affected side held at right angles to the trunk. The surgeon first makes an exploratory incision, cutting well into the tumour, so that he can expose the cut surface of the growth. In the event of his diagnosis having proved right, he discards the scalpel he has used, and with another makes his first incisions. These must vary somewhat, but are usually carried in a semicircular manner above and below the prominence of breast almost from the sternum to the centre of the axilla. It is usually recommended that the lower incision should be made first, so that the view of the surgeon should not be interfered with by the blood running downwards from the upper incision while he is making his lower. The matter is, however, one of very little importance. The incisions should be carried into the subcutaneous fat. The surgeon now dissects up the skin with a little fat from the underlying tissues, almost as far upwards as the clavicle: inwards as far as the sternum, and downwards well below the lower boundary of the breast. At the sternum he exposes the fibres of the pectoralis major muscle, and, gradually dissecting outwards, detaches the breast and pectoral fascia from the muscle underneath or, if he considers it necessary, removes a thin stratum of muscular fibres also. Vessels as they bleed are at once secured with forci-pressure forceps by an assistant. As the surgeon nears the free anterior border of the muscle, he must take care to keep close to the muscle and clear it thoroughly. If the tumour is adherent to the fascia, and the fascia to the muscle beneath, the whole of the sternal portion of the muscle should be removed. This should be done at once, as it facilitates the subsequent clearing of the axilla, by separating the origin of the muscle from the costal cartilages and sternum, and then turning the muscle outwards, and securing the vessels which enter its under surface, dividing its tendon of insertion close to the humerus. If the surgeon determines to preserve the pectoralis major, the clearing out of the axilla is now proceeded with. The breast is not detached, but is left