H.^IMATOCELE 1029 tained in the sac is very much the same as in a vaginal hydrocele. It is a verv rare condition. Symptoms.—The swelling is elastic, often fluctuates, and is translucent. It obscures the cord and often extends up the inguinal canal, and in this respect simulates a hernia, l^ut there is no impulse on coughing. It is quite distinct from the testicle, which can be clearly differentiated from it, and this serves to distinguish it from vaginal hydrocele. There is gene- rally the history of a hernia, and that the patient has been in the habit of wearing a truss. 1 1 j u Treatment.—It should be tapped, and if it refills the sac should be dissected out. Injections should not be used in these cases, for fear that the communication with the peritoneal cavity is not completely shut off. Another variety has been described, where a cavity is formed out of a portion of a hernial sac which has become shut- off from the rest by adhesions forming between a piece of irreducible omentum and the wall of the sac (see page 862). . Hsematocele.—By the term hcematocek is usually meant a collection of blood in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, but it is also applied to collections of blood in an encysted hydrocele or in a hydrocele of the cord, which in consequence of some blow or injury has become filled with blood. Hsematocele is also sometimes used to denote extravasations of blood into the scrotal tissues outside the tunica vaginalis ; a condition which frequently exists in connection with effusion into the sac, the result of blows or squeezes. Causes.—The most common cause of htematocele is the rupture of the weakened capillaries in the wall of the sac of a hydrocele, when it has been tapped and the support of the vessels taken away. It may also arise from puncturing the testicle in tappirtg for hydrocele ; or it may be. caused by a blow, kick, or squeeze, when it is generally associated with extravasation of blood into the loose connective tissue of the scrotum. Pathological changes.—The blood within the sac, in cases where the effusion is great, becomes partially coagulated, and fibrin is deposited on the interior of the sac, forming a shaggy layer or layers of a fibrinous character. The sac wall becomes thickened and condensed and sometimes calcified, and the tissues outside the sac matted together. The testicle is compressed, atrophied, and sometimes is scarcely to be i-ecognised. In the interior of this thickened cavity is a collection of fluid, consisting of altered blood; sometimes thick and dark and resembling treacle ; at other times a dirty brownish fluid, like fteces. Upon microscopic examination all traces of corpuscles wiU be found to have disappeared from it, and nothing will be discovered but shreds of fibrin and crystals of cholesterine. In slight cases, where the effusion is not great, absorption may take place without these changes occurring. Symptoms.—The symptoms are characterised by the rapid formation of a scrotal swelling, which is at first smooth and uniform and of a pyriform shape, resembling a hydrocele without its translucency. Soon, however, it becomes hard, firm and heavy, resembling a solid tumour. It is frequently associated with bruising of the tissues of the scrotum, the skin of which is discoloured. Inflammation going on to suppuration, as a result of auto-infection, may follow ; the swelling then becomes hot and tender. There is fever, and possibly a rigor and much throbbing pain. The diagnosis has to l)e made from hernia, hydrocele, and solid growths