949 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS but the urine in which it is contained is acid. This is an important feature, as showing that the pus in all probability comes from the kidney and not from the bladder. The pus vvhich is formed in the pelvis of the kidney may collect there, being prevented to some extent at all events from passing down the ureter, by the mouth of this tube becoming blocked, it may be by the stone or by the thickened lining of the cavity. The pelvis then becomes dilated, and • a condition of pyo-nephrosis is set up. Upon examination of the urine crystals of lithic acid or oxalate of lime may be found in it, which will give a clue to the chemical composi- tion of the stone. These are the symptoms which are produced in a case of stone in the kidney under ordinary circumstances; but it must be borne in mind, as stated above, that a stone or several stones may exist for years in a kidney without giving rise to any of the symptoms enumerated above. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of stone in the kidney is often a matter of great difficulty, especially in those cases where there is no history of renaj colic ; and even where there is a history of symptoms which may be believed to be those of renal colic, these may be due to some other condition, such as spinal caries, impacted gall stones, typhlitis, and other abdominal affections. In a certain proportion of cases where a kidney has been cut down upon under the supposition that it contained a stone, but in which no stone was discovered, it will be found that the symptonis are entirely relieved by the operation, and the operator will probably notice in these cases that the kidney is small, dense in structure, with a thickened capsule, and that it is retracted under the ribs. These are cases in which there has been interstitial inflammation, and when any sudden afflux of blood takes place pain is experienced because the tense resistant capsule will not yield. The condition is relieved by the division of the capsule made in the exploration for the stone. Among other conditions which may simulate stone are : (i) excess of lithic acid or oxalate of lime in the urine ; (2) tuberculous disease of the kidney ; (3) a movable kidney, causing kinking of the ureter; (4) a dilated and inflamed pelvis. In doubtful cases it is always desirable to employ radiography before proceeding to operate; but so far the results have not always been as good as could be desired. In thin people and children it has been found in some cases that undoubted evidence of the presence of a stone has been furnished by a skiagraph; but in the strongly built, muscular adult, or in the obese, the investigation has often given negative results. It has been proposed to throw the Rdntgen rays upon the kidney after it has been exposed at the operation, and examine the viscus with a fluoro- scope screen in order to obviate the necessity of opening the kidney. Treatment.—In the early stages, when after an attack of renal colic the stone has not descended into the bladder, or when the symptoms in- dicating stone in the kidney are present, a certain amount of time should be allowed to elapse, in the hope that the stone may succeed in passing down the ureter, and during this time certain dietetic and medicinal remedies should be resorted to. Nitrogenous food in excess should be avoided, and the diet should be plain and unstimulating. The urine should be kept alkaline by Vichy or lithia water, and alkaline purgatives admmis- tcred, and the patient should drink largely of distilled water to wash out the kidneys. If after the lapse of a certain short period of time the stone does nOt pass down the ureter into the bladder, and the symptoms of irritation stiU