^75 CHAPTER IV SYPHILIS It is customary to include under the term Venereal disease all those affections which originate primarily from sexual intercourse. Hence diseases entirely differing in their nature have been mixed up together and confounded with each other. Two of these diseases are merely local, have in most cases but a transient hold upon the system, and are followed by complete recovery as soon as the local trouble is got rid of; whilst the other constitutes one of the most obstinate affections to which the human subject is liable, reacts upon the whole constitution and attacks all the tissues of the body, and, moreover, may be transmitted from parent to offspring from one generation to another. Under the head of Venereal disease are included (i) Syphilis, (2) Local contagion, (3) Gonorrhoea. The first two only will be considered in this chapter.. Gonorrhoea will be described with the other diseases of the male urinary organs. John Hunter believed that there was only one virus or poison which produced all forms of venereal disease, and he classed them all together as syphilis ; but Ricord and other observers conclusively proved by experiment that gonorrhoea had no connection with syphilis, and that the pus of a gonorrhoea could not produce a chancre if inoculated, and, on the other hand, the discharge of a chancre if introduced into the urethra never produced a gonorrhoea. It is quite clear that the virus of a gonorrhoea and the virus which produces a chancre are not the same. The two diseases, the local contagious sore and true syphilis, were, however, for some time classed together under the term syphilis, but more recently it has been shown that the poison of the two diseases is not identical, though they may co-exist together; that the one poison produces a sore which infects the system, while the other does not. Syphilis is therefore, in the restricted sense in which it is now used, a constitutional condition due to the introduction of a specific poison either by (i) inoculation, when it first of all produces a contagious sore or chancre, which is followed by constitutional symptoms; or (2) by inheritance, when the disease is trans- mitted from the parent to the child, and in which there are the constitu- tional symptoms without the local sore. We shall consider first of all syphilis produced by inoculation, and then that which is the result of inheritance; but before doing so it is necessary to discuss the relationship of the two sores, the infecting sore (^Hunterian chancre) and the non- infecting sore (local contagious chancre), to each other, and to describe the latter. The study of this subject has been rendered most difficult by the fact that the specific virus of true syphilis is seldom inoculated in a pure state. Venereal diseases owe their origin in the majority of cases to impure