GENERAL INJURIES 72 at a lower level than the skin. The vessels usually project some distance from the face of the stump, for, being very elastic, they are pulled down and elongated before they give way. The internal and middle coats, being more brittle than the external one, are broken at a higher level; the outer coat is then dragged down and twisted over them, and there is there- fore usually little bleeding (fig. 77). The nerves are sometimes torn off high up at their origin from the cord, and are pulled out of the wound. There is a preparation in the museum of St. George's Hospital of the limb of a little child, which was torn off at the knee joint; the whole length of the sciatic nerve may be seen attached to the stump. The bone protrudes from the end of the conical stump, being separated at a lower level than the muscles ; it is often much splintered and comminuted. The symptoms are the same as in incised wounds, but they differ much in detail. (i) There is separation of the edges, but the gaping is not nearly so great as in an incised wound, firstly because the tissues around are bruised and have therefore to a great extent lost their elasticity; and secondly, on account of the lacerated nature of the wound, there are often little tags of structure stretching across from one side to the other, which have not been entirely destroyed and which serve therefore to limit the retraction which would have taken place. (2) There is haemorrhage, but the bleeding is not so great as in incised wounds, in fact the main artery of a limb may be torn across without much loss of blood; this is due, as I have already stated, to the external coat being dragged down and twisted over the others so as to completely occlude the torn end of the vessel. In the same way the smaller vessels in a wound of less degree are dragged down and twisted before they are torn through, and this together with coagula- tion of the blood in the interstices of the jagged tissue sufficiently occludes the torn ends of the vessels, so that no great effusion of blood, as a rule, takes place. (3) There is pain, but the pain is of a dull, aching character, and is not so great as the pain of an incised wound. The nerves are bruised and their vitality to a great extent impaired in the neighbourhood of the wound, so that they are not so sensible of any external sources of irritation as when they are cut clean across. In all cases of contused and lacerated wounds there is a certain amount of destruction of tissue. So much, injury has been done that some amount of tissue in the neighbourhood of the wound has had its vitality destroyed and is no longer capable of carrying on the purposes of the animal economy. It is dead tissue and must be got rid of; there- fore in this class of wounds there must be two processes going on : there must first of all be the process of separation of this dead tissue, before, secondly, the process of repair can take place. The amount of the tissue which is destroyed varies very much, depending upon the nature of the injury and the force with which it was inflicted. In some cases the amount of destruction of tissue is infinitesimal, and nothing more than can be got rid of by the emigrated leucocytes (phagocytes), and these wounds heal in the same manner as incised wounds, without suppuration. It will be seen, therefore, that no hard and fast line can be drawn between the two classes of wounds. But in mo.st cases there is a visible amount of tissue which has been killed and which must separate by a process of sloughing before any attempt can be made to repair the injury. This process of sloughing is identically the same as that by which a mortified part is separated from the living tissues, and will be explained in the chapter on