317 FUSIFORM ANEURISM right side of the body than on the left, no doubt from the fact that this side is more used, especially as regards the upper extremity in right-handed individuals. The only exciting cause of aneurism is injury, and this injury is generally applied to a diseased artery. It may be a blow, which may cause the lining membrane over an atheromatous patch to give way; or strain, which, in addition to being the cause of the atheroma which leads to aneurism, may also act as the exciting cause of the aneurism by partially lacerating the already diseased artery. There can be little question that one of the causes of the great frequency of popliteal aneurism is strain of the knee joint when the popliteal artery is diseased. Laceration or wound of an artery leads to traumatic aneurism. Varieties.—Aneurisms may be divided into three different varieties, which differ in their shape, in their nature, and in their mode of origin. These are the (i) Fusiform, (2) Sacculated, (3) Dissecting (fig. 93). The Fig. 93.—Diagram showing the different varieties of aneurism, a, Fusiform aneurism ; B, True sacculated aneurism ; c, False sacculated aneurism ; D, Dissecting aneurism. sacculated aneurism is sometimes divided into two : {a) the true, where all the coats are involved in the sac of the aneurism; and (l>) the false, where only some of the coats are involved. The division, however, is of no practical importance, it cannot be distinguished by any clinical features, and it is only true in quite the early stages of the formation of an aneurism'. It is, however, interesting to bear it in mind for a minute or two in con- sidering the way in which these different forms of aneurism originate. A fusiform aneurism is a dilatation in all directions of the entire circumference of an artery, so that the capacity of the vessel is increased, and It IS also elongated (fig. 93, a). It most frequently occurs in the arch of the aorta, and its mode of origin can best be explained when considering It as It affects this vessel. The artery first becomes the seat of chronic endarteritis, which affects principally the elastic tissue of the intima, and in consequence of this the elasticity of the vessel is impaired. When the ventricles contract, the left one pours a volume of blood into the aorta, which