68 GENERAL INJURIES sufficient to insure success, and therefore the whole treatment is better termed •' aseptic' surgery, which means that measures are taken to prevent the admission of micro-organisms, whatever those measures may be. Whereas ' antiseptic ' surgery- impHes that certain chemical substances are employed which act as germicides and destroy any germs which may have been admitted into the wound, and also by being used as dressings prevent the entrance of germs during the healing process. The aseptic treatment of wounds may be summed up in two words : pe?-fect cleanliness. Everything which is brought into contact with the wound is or ought to be absolutely pure and clean, that is to say, absolutely free from micro-organisms. The air around the patient, the fluids with which the wound is washed, the instruments, the sponges, the hands of the surgeon and his assistants, the dressings which are applied, and above all the skin of the patient himself, must be subjected to such processes as shall absolutely free them from any impurities in the shape of micro-organisms. If this could be done perfectly,-the system of aseptic surgery could hi carried out in its entirety. But it is an exceedingly difficult if not impossible thing to bring about, and therefore it seems to me that it is-fortunate that we have certain reliable chemical substances, which are known to destroy these micro-organisms ; and that by their use we give an additional security to our patients. The main objection to the ' antiseptic' treatment of wounds, in contradistinction to the ' aseptic ' treatment, is that the chemicals used in the former method are said to destroy not only the microbes, but also many of the tissue elements. And this is no doubt true within certain limits. As we have already stated, the application of a strong solution of carbolic acid to a wound irritates it, and so causes a very considerable amount of serum to exude, and thus produces a condition of unrest, which is not favourable to union. So that ideally the aseptic treatment is the best ; the difficulty arises in carrying it out. And after all, the amount of unrest is slight, and means may be taken for making provision for the escape of the effiised fluid from the wound. And moreover it is not every antiseptic which has so great an irritating property as carbolic acid. It will be convenient in this place to mention some of the principal antiseptics in use. It will be impossible to mention all, since their number is very great and is daily increasing, and only those will be mentioned which are of proved efficacy and in common use. Carbolic acid was the first agent employed by Lord Lister in his antiseptic system of treating wounds, and it still holds its place, and is largely employed in antiseptic surgery. It is not perhaps quite so powerful a germicide as some other antiseptics, but in some respects it stands alone. It is especially useful in the fact that it has no injurious effect upon steel instruments, and therefore is universally employed for the instruments, after they have been boiled, before an operation. The principal objection to its use in wounds is its irritant properties. When applied to the surface of a recent wound, even in the strength of i in 40, it increases the serous discharge for the first twenty-four hours or so, and hence renders more necessary the insertion of a drainage tube. "When applied to the skin for some time, as where lint or gauze wetted with carbolic lotion is applied as a dressing, it causes very considerable irritation and often vesication. Even a surgeon in large operating practice, who habitually uses carbolic acid lotion for his hands, frequently gets very considerable irritation from its use. When applied to a raw surface, a certain amount is absorbed, and sometimes if the surface is a large one