REMOVAL OF THE GASSERIAN GANGLION 391 infra-orbital canal is now opened up with fine cutting pliers, and the nerve, held on the stretch by the piece of silk attached to it, is brought into the posterior trephine hole and is severed close to the foramen rotundum by a pair of long curved scissors. Plugging will arrest the rather tree hfemorrhage which takes place. . ■ r ^c>r,t-ai The inferior dental nerve.-A portion of the inferior dental nerve may be removed by exposing the outer surface of the ramu.s of the jaw trephining the bone in order to open up the inferior dental canal, lifting the nerve out of the canal, and pulling away as much of the nerve as can be drawn out. Experience has, however, shown that the relief from this operation is so transitory that the removal of the whole nerve is now generally resorted to. An incision is made from the middle of the zygoma to the angle of the jaw, and then carried along the lower border of the body of the jaw as far as the anterior border of the masseter. The triangular flap thus made, consisting of skin and superficial fascia only, is reflected forwards. The masseter, which is now exposed, is divided horizontally down to the bone, immediately below Stenson's duct, and the ramus of the jaw cleaned with a raspatory. The sigmoid notch is now widened by cutting away the bone beneath it with a trephine and a quantity ot yellow fat exposed, in which the nerve will be found. By hooking up the external pterygoid the nerve can now be traced to the base of the skull, and should be divided close to the foramen ovale, and again at its entrance into the dental canal in the inferior maxillary bone. The hngual nerve can be removed by the same operation. The lingual nerve.—A portion of the lingual nerve may be removed from inside the mouth. An incision is made in the fold of mucous membrane between the jaw and the tongue, with its centre corre- sponding to the position of the fang of the last molar tooth. The nerve will then be readily felt if it is put on the stretch by pufling the tongue to the opposite side, and having been exposed may be raised by a blunt hook and at least an inch of it excised. Removal of the Gasserian ganglion—In some cases of neuralgia of the fifth pair, where all other operative measures have failed, the Gasserian ganglion has been removed in whole or in part. This has been done either by trephining the base or the side of the skull. Rose first performed this operation by trephining the skull at its base in the position of the foramen ovale. He made an incision from the outer canthus of the eye, along the zygoma to the tragus of the ear; then downwards to the angle of the jaw and along the lower border of the body as far as the facial vessels. He then divided the zygomatic arch at its anterior and posterior extremities, and turned it and the masseter down- wards : he now divided the coronoid process and turned it and the temporal muscle upwards. The external pterygoid was then scraped away from its attachment, and the greater wing of the sphenoid and the external pterygoid plate exposed, and the foramen ovale brought into view. A trephine was now applied to the bone so as to include the foramen, and the skull opened. The ganglion was then defined and as far as possible removed. A more efficient way of removing the ganglion appears to be by what is known as the Krause-Hartley method. This consists in making an omega- shaped flap with its attached border at the zygoma, of about two inches in length. The bone is exposed and removed, without injuring the dura mater or the branches of the middle meningeal artery. The temporo- sphenoidal lobe with the dura mater is then gradually lifted up from the «