359 TREATMENT OF POPLITEAL ANEURISM of an aching or gnawing character ; or it may burst into the joint. When, on the other hand, it is situated on the posterior surface of the artery, it tends to increase rapidly and is apt to become diffused, and this is Hkely to be followed by gangrene. It causes, by pressure on the popliteal vein, cedema and blueness of the limb below, and by pressure on the internal popliteal nerve pain in the foot, cramp, and finally paralysis. Treatment.—A popliteal aneurism may be treated by compression, either digital, instrumental, or by Esmarch's bandage ; or by flexion or by ligature. _ In addition to these plans of treatment, it should be mentioned that popliteal aneurisms may undergo spontaneous cure, especially if the limb is kept at perfect rest by confining the patient to bed and placing him on a suitable diet. If the aneurism is small and not increasing rapidly, trial of one of the forms of compression may be made ; but considering the fact that this plan of treatment often fails; that if it does fail, the patient is not in such a favourable condition for ligature, in consequence of the enlargement of the collateral vessels; and that the operation of ligature can now be undertaken with an infinitesimal amount of risk, I am not sure that we should not be consulting the patient's welfare by at once proceed- ing to ligature the artery in cases of popliteal aneurism which show no indications of a tendency to undergo spontaneous cure. If it is determined to resort to ligature, the question then arises, in what position on the vessel should the ligature be placed. The favourite site is undoubtedly the superficial femoral at the apex of Scarpa's triangle ; and though this is the most accessible situation and the one in which the vessel can most easily be ligatured, it is very questionable whether it is the best. It is a long distance from the site of the aneurism, and therefore either a very considerable track of vessel, namely, that between the ligature and the sac, must become obliterated, considerably interfering with the circulation in the limb; or else there will be a considerable track of pervious vessel between the ligature and the sac into which the collateral vessels will be pouring their blood in such quantities that no obliteration Avill take place in the artery at the point from which the aneurism springs, and the operation will fail to cure the aneurism. That such a result is by no mean.s uncommon in treating popliteal aneurism by ligature of the super- ficial femoral at the apex of Scarpa's triangle is well known. It has there- fore been recommended by some to tie the artery in Hunter's canal, where Hunter himself originally tied it in his first operation for popliteal aneurism; and by others, to tie the upper part of the popliteal artery, just after the vessel has emerged through the opening in the adductor magnus. i> either operation presents any great difficulty in its performance, and with modern methods of ligaturing arteries can scarcely be regarded as dangerous. ^ Fig. Ill—Aneurism of the popliteal artery ; with two fusiform aneurisms in the vessel above. (From a pre- paration in the Museum of St. George's Hos- pital.)