PERIARTERITIS becomes so thick as to convert the lumen of the tube into a mere slit or even to occlude it altogether. Vessels are formed in this new material by the extension into it of buds from the vasa vasorum. The cells then show some tendency to develop into fibrous tissue, much in the same way as ordinary granulation tissue does. The middle coat of the artery is not usually implicated in the disease, but the external coat generally becomes thickened by the formation of new fibrous tissue in it. The disease is chronic in its nature, and very frequently attacks the vessels at the base of the brain. In consequence of the narrowing of the lumen of the vessel, there is malnutrition in the parts supplied by it, and this, when occurring in the brain, may lead to softening. In some cases thrombosis may take place in the narrowed vessels, and the circulation through them be completely arrested. The arteries in a gummatous tumour undergo this same disease. A gumma in its earliest stage is abundantly vascular, but in spite of this it rapidly undergoes degenerative changes, and this is due to the fact, as pointed out by Greenfield, that the arteries of the gumma become affected with syphilitic arteritis, and the lumen of the tube being occluded by the thickening of the intima, malnutrition is induced and the consequent degeneration which is the constant fate of a gumma. 3. Tuberculous arteritis.—It has been pointed out by some that a very similar condition to syphilitic arteritis is found in the arteries of parts which are the seat of tuberculous lesions. It is supposed that the tubercle bacillus finds its way into the coats of the vessel, and then sets up changes which principally affect the intima, resulting in proliferation of its endothe- lium ; round cells are formed which infiltrate this coat of the vessel and cause it to become enormously thickened, so that it completely or almost completely obHterates the lumen of the tube. 4. Obliterative arteritis is a very rare form of disease, which consists, like the two varieties of disease of arteries we have just considered, in a proliferation of the endothelial cells of the intima, but arises quite independently of any syphilitic or tuberculous condition. Its cause is quite unknown. It occurs independently of any constitutional condition, and is not caused by injury of any kind. One of its great characteristics is its spreading nature ; beginning in the smaller arteries, it gradually extends along them until it reaches the larger vessels. It most frequently occurs in the extremities, both upper and lower. The disease begins as a proliferation of the endothelial and sub-endothelial cells of the intima, which goes on until there is complete obliteration of the lumen of the tube. In this proliferated tissue new vessels are developed by an extension of the yasa vasorum into it, and it becomes converted into fibrous tissue. The middle and external coats are also infiltrated with the same cells, but to a much less extent. Symptoms.—The parts supplied by the vessel become pale, livid, and cold, and may run on to dry gangrene. Intense pain of a gnawing character IS complained of. The diseased vessels can be felt as hard, enlarged cords, with very feeble pulsation. Treatment.—The only thing that can be done is to treat the malnutrition on general surgical principles. The parts must be kept at rest, and protected from cold by being swathed in cotton wool. Opiates may be necessary to allay pain. If the parts become gangrenous amputation may be called for, and has been done in some cases with success. Periarteritis.—Before leaving the subject of inflammation of