598 INIURIES AND DISEASES Ol- SPECIAL ORGANS (c) Extravasation into the substance of the brain or into the ventricles is, as we have already stated, very rare as the result of an injury to the'head, except in cases of severe laceration, though the con- dition is common enough when arising from idiopathic causes. This condition will therefore be considered with that of Laceration of the Brain. Contusion and laceration of the brain is of frequent occurrence in injuries of the head, and the amount of injury may vary verv considerably from slight bruising of the brain substance to extensive laceration and disintegration. We shall first of all consider those cases where the bruising and laceration occur without any external wound, and then those in which there is an external wound, and the laceration is nroduced by some foreign body introduced from without, making, in fact, the same distinction as between contusions and wounds on the surface of the ^^y-.gj^ laceration without wound.—These are nroduced by severe injuries to the head, with or without fracture of the skull In some the laceration may be produced by a simple depressed fracture • in others there may be a fissure of the skull, and m a large number there is no solution of continuity of the bones. In these latter cases, in the majority ' of instances the laceration of the brain takes place at the part opposite to the point struck ; as, for example, in the case of a man falling and striking the back of his head, the laceration of the brain is in the frontal lobes. This is caused by a wave of the soft brain substance, which starts from the site of the injury; traverses the brain substance, and impinges on ^ . , r .,11 f the bone opposite to the point Fig. 222.—Laceration of the frontal lobe of the ^-i^c uu nnses brain. (From the Museum of St. George's s ruck, and in this way causes Hospital.) the laceration in this situa- tion. Pathological anatomy.-The appearances found after death vary with the exTent of the lesion and the period of time after the accident at which death has taken place. If this occurs shortly after he accident all degrees of injury may be met with ; there may be a little superficial bruising, a few spots of" ecchymosis scattered through the grey matter at one particular point; or there may be extensive laceration and breaking down of the tissue on the surface of the brain at one part (fig. 222), ana this may or may not have been accompanied by a considerable outpouring of blood, which may be diffused far and wide in the sub-arachnoid space o rnav form a large clot in the neighbourhood of the injury. In st H sevSe case^ the laceration may have extended deeply into tl.e substance of Se white matter, and ma/ even have extended into the ventncle , which wil then be found to be full of blood. The brain substance ;:roundThe laceration, whether great or small, will be found disintegrated infiltrated with blood and reduced to a pulpy mass (fig. 223). It tne