645 CLEFT PALATE The tongue may be wounded by stabs, gunshot wounds, or by foreign bodies held in the mouth and driven into the tongue, but is most frequently injured by being caught by the teeth during an epileptic fit. These wounds often give rise to free hfemorrhage, but as a rule, being near the tip, it is an easy matter to seize the vessel and tie or twist it, and even when situated far back the bleeding point may be seized in a pair of clip forceps, which can be left on for a few hours, if the vessel cannot be tied, and this will usually arrest the hemorrhage. In many cases of wound of the tongue it is not necessary to apply sutures—a' somewhat difificult proceeding, as the tissues are so lacerable—for it readily heals; but in some cases, when a portion of tongue is almost separated, an attempt should be made to suture it by passing the sutures very deeply and using some non- absorbent material, such as a couple of pieces of horsehair, as one is scarcely strong enough to hold. Wounds of the tongue usually present a sloughy appearance for a few days, and during this time there is danger of septic pneumonia being set up, which must be combated by the free use of iodoform or Whitehead's varnish. After a day or two they become clean, and then granulate freely and heal. Occasionally the cicatricial contraction which subsequently takes place may materially interfere with the movements of the tongue, and with distinct articulation. Should a wound of the tongue not heal, the presence of a foreign body in it should be suspected and careful search made. The tonsil may be wounded in thrusts through the mouth, as in the case of a tobacco-pipe held between the lips being driven backwards, and m these cases there is always a risk that the internal carotid or ascending pharyngeal artery may be wounded. The palate may also be wounded in the same way or from gunshot wounds. Foreign bodies, such as fish-bones, may become lodged in the soft palate, and may give rise to abscess and possibly secondary hfemorrhage. In cases of large wounds of the soft palate, careful suturing must be resorted to, as they have a great tendency to gape. Scalds of the mouth are of common occurrence, especially among the children of the poor, from their atteiiipting to drink out of the spout of a ketde of boiling water. They may also arise from taking too hot food, but these are rarely serious ; or from swallowing corrosive or caustic materials, which are the most serious of all. The great danger in the first class of cases is not so much from the effects of the water on the mouth, but from the inhalation of the steam, which sets up a condition of cedema of the glottis. This will be considered later on. The interior of the mouth looks white ; the child complains of great pain, and in some cases slight superficial sloughing may ensue, which may lead to contraction and interfere with the movements of the tongue. Stings of insects.—Stings from wasps and bees are not uncommon in the mouth. They cause acute pain, often followed by rapid swelling of the tongue, which may impede respiration and threaten asphyxia, and may necessitate incision. This, however, is rarely required ; the swelling usually begins to subside in a few hours, and generally rapidly disappears. The only treatment that is necessary is to wash out the mouth constantly with a soludon ol bicarbonate of potash or soda, which neutralises the action of the poison. _ Cleft palate is a congenital deformity of the mouth due to want of union of the two palatal segments of the maxillary processes. It may be complete or partial. The complete form is where there is an entire separation of both hard and soft palate, extending forwards through the