889 UMBILICAL HERNIA able to treatment in the male than in the female. It presents a soft button- shaped swelling at the umbilicus, which becomes tense when the child cries or strains. It appears to cause absolutely no inconvenience, and has a tendency to undergo spontaneous cure as the child grows. The treatment consists in simply applying a transverse piece of strapping so as to approxi- mate the edges and prevent the protrusion. If the child is the subject of phimosis he should be circumcised, and his bowels should be regulated. 3. The umbilical hernia of adults (fig. 345).—This name is somewhat of a misnomer, as the hernia is not situated at the umbiUcus, but either just above or below it, more frequently in the former situation. It is much more common in women than in men, and occurs in women who have borne children and have large pendulous abdomens. It usually occurs in women over thirty, increases gradually, and may eventually attain a very large size. It most frequently contains the transverse colon and omentum, and to this may be superadded coils of small intestine. These _ _ structures become matted together by adhe- 345.-Umbilical hernia, sions, and are very often adherent to the sac, (From the Museum of St. so that the hernia is very frequently irreduci- George's Hospital.) ble. The coverings are thin. The peritoneum is often so thinned and attenuated that it is scarcely recognisable. The skin and subcutaneous tissues over the tumour are also thinned and stretched, so that the coils of intestine may be seen through the covering. The integumental structures are liable to ulcerate and give way. A consider- able deposit of fat often takes place in the herniated omentum, and this gives to the tumour a lobulated appearance, and is a further cause of its irreducibility. It is very liable to become obstructed, and this obstruction may, and often does, run on to strangulation. Symptoms.—There is no difficulty in recognising the condition. A tumour is to be seen in the neighbourhood of the umbilicus, which is usually irregular and lobulated. If of large size, it is pendulous and has a rounded and wide base. There is a distinct impulse on coughing, and it may or may not be reducible ; usually the latter. The patient is frequently troubled with dyspeptic symptoms, colicky pains, constipation alternating with diarrhoea, and often nausea and vomiting. Treatment In those cases where the hernia is reducible, an umbilical truss should be worn. This consists of a modified Salmon and Ody's truss, consisting of a plate over the site of the protrusion, and another over the back; the two being connected by a spring, which is attached to the front plate by a universal joint. In very fat patients there is great difficulty in keeping this in its place. If the hernia is irreducible, a concave pad fixed in an abdominal belt should be worn; or if the hernia is very large, a bag truss must be adapted. As an irreducible umbilical hernia is a con- stant source of discomfort and danger to the patient, an operation for the radical cure should always be seriously considered. Those cases where