HAMMER FINGER 1109 knuckles of the webbed fingers. The apex of the flap corresponds to the commencement of the web, and a flap must be made on both pahnar and dorsal surfaces; they must be made thick and sufficiently long to come together without tension. The web is then divided and all the tissues between the two fingers severed up to the bases of the flaps, which are then carefully united by horsehair sutures (fig. 412). Didot's operation, which consists in dissecting up two longitudinal flaps, one from the dorsal surface of one finger, and another from the palmar surface of the other, and folding them round so as to cover the raw surface of the finger to which they are attached, is not a very satis- factory operation, and the results are not always good. Moreover, in quite young children the parts are so small that the operation is difficult to perform. Giant finger.—A congenital hypertrophy of one or more fingers is occasionally met with (fig. 413); the condition, however, is more common in the toes. It consists of a true hypertrophy, the struc- tures of the finger or toe being normal, but in excess. The only treatment is removal. Among acquired de- formities of the upper ex- tremity are deformities from burns, deformities of the hand from arthritis deformans, and hammer finger. The latter only requires separate mention. Hammer finger is a condition which resembles ' hammer toe' in the foot. The finger is flexed to a right angle at the first phalangeal joint, while the first phalanx is usually in a state of slight hyper-extension at the meta- carpo-phalangeal joint. The cause of the condition is not known, but it usually occurs in young girls, and by some is said to be due to tension of the lateral ligaments. By using a little force, or by giving an anaesthetic, the flexion can be overcome, at all events, in the earlier stages ; later on the skin and fascia over the palmar surface of the joint become contracted and the deformity permanent. It most usually affects the little finger. The treatment consists in placing the patient under an an£esthetic, straightening the finger and fixing it in this position with an anterior finger splint and strapping. If the finger cannot be straightened, the tense structures in front of the joint must be divided. Fig. 413.—Giant finger. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)