NATURAL ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE 287 ARREST OF H.^iMORRHAGE Natural arrest of haemorrhage.—-If an artery below a certain size is cut across, the bleeding, after a longer or shorter time, will cease spontaneously, and the patient will not bleed to death. Even in arteries of the size of the radial at the wrist, or the facial, in many cases the vis medicatrix naturas will be sufficient to stay the hasmorrhage. This arrest of bleeding is brought about by coagulation occurring in and around the cut end of the vessel. When an artery is cut across it retracts within its sheath, in consequence of the fact that it is elastic and to a certain extent on the stretch, so that the blood after it escapes from the cut end of the vessel has to pass over the rough and uneven internal surface of the sheath from which the vessel has retracted, before it escapes through the wound in the sheath. Here it coagulates and forms a clot, which, though lying within the sheath, is external to the artery. This is known as the external coagulum. The blood being prevented from escaping from the cut vessel by this clot which has formed external to it, but within the sheath, now coagulates within the vessel up to the first collateral branch. This con- stitutes the internal coagulii?n, and by the formation of these two clots, the one inside the vessel and the other outside, all further bleeding is stayed and temporary arrest of hjemorrhage is said to have taken place (fig. 80). In the production of this tem- porary arrest, the external coagulum is un- doubtedly the most important factor, for with regard to the internal one it might happen that the division of the artery had taken place just below a large collateral branch, and then there would be no room for an internal clot to form. The internal clot is conical in form, and its base at the open end of the vessel is continuous with the external co- agulum. The causes which conduce to this coagulation are several, (i) Not only does the cut end of the artery retract by virtue of its elasticity, but it also contracts from the action of the muscular fibre cells of the middle coat, so that the orifice through which the blood escapes is materially narrowed, and this forms an impediment to the flow of blood and serves to check it. So great is this contraction that in the smaller vessels, which contain a large amount of muscular fibre, it is sufficient to completely close the orifice ; but in the larger arteries, which contain less muscular and more elastic tissue, this is not so, it merely diminishes the aperture in the artery. (2) The loss of blood after a time lessens the force of the heart's action, so that the blood is propelled with less force through the diminished orifice. We have already seen that hnsmorrhage generally ceases when the patient faints ; this is no doubt due to the weakened force of the heart's action, and syncope must be looked upon as a means by which nature arrests haemorrhage, and should not therefore be too speedily counteracted by the administration of stimulants, &c. (3) The Fig. 80. —Temporary natural arrest of hemorrhage, a, ex- ternal coagulum ; b, internal coagulum ; c, first collateral branch ; d, sheath of vessel.