96 GENERAL INJURIES of the infection, and these organisms are most infective before decom- position has set in. When this talces place, the micro-organisms of putre- faction destroy and replace the infective organisms, and render the exuda- tions inert as regards any infective properties. Symptoms.—^There are some cases where the local symptoms are very slight, but where there is set up a general condition which speedily carries off the patient. Within a few hours of the receipt of the injury the patient develops the most alarming symptoms of rapid prostration. He is seized with rigors and great nervous depression ; his countenance betokens the greatest anxiety, and he becomes restless, with muscular twitchings and delirium. There is failure of the heart's action, with a small, rapid pulse. A speedy rise in the temperature takes place, and there is diarrhoea and bloody stools often accompanied by vomiting, and the patient rapidly falls into an unconscious condition and dies within thirty-six or forty-eight hours from the advent of the symptoms. As regards the local signs, a pustule with an inflamed area around, with pain in the part, may be all that is noticed. These cases are happily very rare, and are due to an acute septic intoxi- cation due partly to the virulence of the poison and partly to the vitiated condition of health of the recipient of it. Nothing can be done in the way of treatment for these cases. The whole course of the disease is so rapid, the patient being knocked down, as it were, by an overwhelming dose of the poison, that all efforts of the surgeon are powerless to stop its course. Probably it is desirable to try the effect of the injection of anti- streptococcic serum, but at the present time we have no accurate know- ledge of its results in these cases. This subject will be again alluded to in speaking of septiccemia. In other cases, where possibly the dose of the poison may not be quite so virulent and where the patient's life is somewhat prolonged, diffuse suppuration may take place in parts of the body remote from the wound; e.g. where the wound has been inflicted on the hand, in the axilla, pectoral region and neck. When incisions are made, ill-formed pus mixed with shreddy lymph is exuded, and the patient rapidly falls into a condition of asthenia, with low muttering delirium, and usually dies in the course of a few days of exhaustion or of a low form of pneumonia. Again, there are other cases where the symptoms are still more local, and where a rapid, spreading cellulitis starts from the wound and rapidly extends up the limb, accom- panied by fever and great prostration. These to a certain extent resemble the worst form of non-infective dissection wounds, where a diffuse cellulitis is set up ; but that they are true infective wounds is evidenced from the fact that they are capable of setting up erysipelas in those who are brought in contact with them and who may be unfortunately infected by them. The constitutional symptoms also are of a grave type and are accompanied with much prostration. In these cases the part rapidly swells ; the swelling, commencing at the wound, speedily involves the whole limb and is at first hard and brawny, with much pain, redness, and tension, but speedily runs on to suppuration; in other cases it is oedematous and pale and does not rapidly suppurate: the tissues when cut into presenting a gelatinous appearance, infiltrated with serum and ill-formed pus. These latter cases are the worst type of the disease. The general symptoms are those of fever of a typhoid or asthenic type. There is a burning hot, dry skin ; a dry, furred tongue, with sordes on the gums and teeth ; a temperature rangmg from 102° to 104° F. ; a weak, quick, compressible pulse; a sensation of