988 INJURIES ANJ) DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS extinct, and at the same time the renal and general condition i.s good castration holds out the ' most benefit with the least mortality.' In the worst cases, in which ' the prostate is enormous, the cystitis excessive, the bladder dilated and atonied, the retention absolute, and catheterism difficult and occasionally impossible,' castration is the best procedure though attended with risk. Tuberculous disease of the prostate.—Tuberculous disease of the prostate may begin as a primary disease in the gland, but more commonly is part of a general tuberculosis of the genito-urinary organs, which begins in the testicle and spreads by the vas deferens to the vesicula seminalis and thence to the prostate and bladder; or else begins in the kidney and spreads down the ureter to the bladder and prostate. The disease may also begin primarily in the bladder and spread to the prostate. When the disease begins in the prostate gland, it is generally the result of a long-standing gleet in a person predisposed to tuberculosis. It usually occurs in early adult life. The pathology of the disease is the same as that of tuberculosis elsewhere. The tubercle bacillus effects an entrance, and slow inflam- matory changes take place, which cause an irregular enlargement of the gland. The effused material caseates, and the softened cheesy mass usually discharges into the prostatic urethra, leaving an irregular cavity which shows no tendency to heal. Later, it may open into the rectum or in the perineum, and urinary fistulte may form. Symptoms.—In the early stages of the disease the symptoms are very slight: there may be a sense of weight and uneasiness in the perineum, and pain during deftecation ; but the patient usually presents himself for some manifestation of tubercle elsewhere, it may be in the testicle, and the condition of the prostate is discovered in the exploration of the case. The prostate will be felt, upon examination per rectum, to be irregularly enlarged, and perhaps in one part a softened spot may be detected. The vesiculae seminales will also be felt to be enlarged. Later on, when the softened patch has burst into the urethra, there will be frequent desire to pass water, pain at the neck of the bladder, and often in the loins and at the end of the penis. The urine will contain pus or muco-pus, and upon examination the tubercle bacillus may be detected. Blood, towards the end of the act of micturition, is also frequently passed with the urine. The treatment consists in the general treatment of tuberculosis : attention to diet, plenty of fresh air and sunshine, warm clothing, and an equable temperature. Internally, tonics and especially cod-liver oil should be administered, and iodoform in grain doses three times a day may often be given with advantage, when it does not interfere with the patient's digestion. Operative interference is required in those cases where a tuberculous ulcer is present in the prostatic urethra, causing great pain and strangury; a perineal cystotomy should be performed, and the ulcer scraped with a sharp spoon, and iodoform emulsion injected. Where the tuberculous ulcer points externally in the perineum, it should be opened and scraped, and dressed from the bottom with iodoform and gauze. Fistulous tracts require laying open and scraping. Malignant disease of the prostate.—Either as a primary or secondary affection, cancer of the prostate is rare. It usually occurs in elderly men, and is for the most part of the scirrhus form. The symptoms are those of pain about the neck of the bladder and frequent desire to pass water. These are followed by obstruction to the flow of urine, and, it may be, complete retention, and after a time