I022 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS The operation of transplanting the gland into the scrotum need not be undertaken until the boy is nine or ten years of age. When the testicle is in the inguinal canal, and is complicated with hernia, a radical cure of the hernia is to be performed at the same time, or, under these circum- stances, it may be desirable to operate earlier. An incision is made over the inguinal canal, and carried down to the lower part of the scrotum ; the tunica vaginalis, which will be found open, is divided above the testicle, and its upper end closed. The testicle is now gently drawn into the scrotum as far as the cord will allow, and the aponeurosis of the external obHque, if it has been divided to expose the testicle, and the pillars of the ring, is then carefully sutured. In order to retain the testicle at the bottom of the scrotum, the little apparatus invented by Watson Cheyne should be used. This con- sists of a wire cage which fits over the scrotum ; a silk suture is attached to the testicle, the two ends are brought out of the bottom of the scrotum, and are tied over one of the bars of the frame. The external wound is then closed. The retaining suture may be removed in ten days. When the testicle is in the perineum, the most usual form of ectopia, an incision is made from the external ring by the side of the scrotum to the perineum over the testicle, and this body, including its tunica vaginalis, is then freed from surrounding parts as high as the ring. A second incision is made at the bottom of the scrotum, and a bed prepared in this situation for the testicle in the loose connective tissue. A pair of dressing forceps are pushed from this second incision through the scrotum to emerge at the top of the first incision, and by separating the blades a track is formed for the testicle, down which it is gently pushed until it reaches its bed, and it is there fixed by sutures. The testicle may be malplaced in the scrotum. It may be inverted —that is, it may be rotated so that the epididymis is in front. This is important in connection Vith hydrocele, for under these circumstances the testicle is at the front of the scrotum and the fluid behind, and the unwary surgeon in tapping might introduce his trocar into the body of the testicle instead of into the sac containing the fluid. The testicle may also be reversed—that is, the globus major of the epididymis may be at the bottom of the organ, and the vas deferens come off from the top. This is of no clinical importance. Torsion of the spermatic cord.—In 1885 Nicoladoni drew attention to a case in which the testicle had become strangulated omng to a twisting of the spermatic cord, and since then several cases have been recorded. The condition usually occurs in the young adult, who is the subject of an undescended or partially descended testicle, but it has occurred in the fully descended organ. The exciting cause is unknown. The cord is twisted upon its axis one or more times ; the vessels become gorged with blood, and the testis, or the epididymis, or both, become infiamed, and after a time may become gangrenous, or may undergo atrophy. Symptoms.—In some cases there is a definite history of a sudden muscular effort, followed by pain, and the appearance of a swelling in the groin and scrotum, often accompanied by vomiting, and closely simulating a strangulated hernia. In others, the symptoms set in without any apparent cause. There is a rise of temperature and a quick pulse. The vomiting is not so persistent as in hernia, and there is not absolute constipation. The scrotum soon becomes red and oedematous, and the tunica vaginalis dis- tended with blood.