862 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS appearance. In a few instances the sac may not be complete. In liernia of the cfEcum, for instance, in those rare cases where the viscus is not completely surrounded by peritoneum and has therefore no mesentery, this portion of intestine may find its way outside the abdomen, and under these circumstances would not be completely invested by peritoneum, and therefore necessarily the serous envelope would be incomplete. 2. The contents.—It has been said that a hernial sac may contain any of the abdominal viscera with the exception of the pancreas : the spleen, the gall bladder, and possibly a part of the liver; the kidney, the ovary frequently; and the bladder have all been found in a hernial sac. Almost any part of the intestinal canal maybe found in the sac; the most common is the ileum, then the jejunum; of the large intestine the caecum is most commonly herniated; sometimes it may be only the vermiform appendix, but the transverse colon and the sigmoid flexure are also rarely found in a hernial sac. Of all structures the onrientum and the ileum are the ones most commonly found in a hernial sac. When the omentum is found alone, the word epiplocele is applied to the hernia; when intestine alone is present, it is called enierocele; and when the two are present in the same sac, the term entero-epiplocele is employed. Loose foreign bodies are sometimes found in hernial sacs. They are believed to be appendices epiploicse which have become detached, and consist of a central core of fatty material encased in a fibrinous envelope. They are rounded, smooth, and generally single. Hydrocele of a hernial sac—A collection of fluid may some- times be found in a hernial sac, which cannot be returned into the abdomen. This may be caused in two different ways, (i) The neck of the sac may become obliterated, and all communication with the peritoneal cavity shut off; fluid then collects in the sac. This is very rare. (2) A portion of the sac may be shut off by adhesions, generally adhesions of the omentum to the wall of the sac, and thus a cavity is formed in which fluid collects. This subject will again be referred to in connection with hydrocele. 3. The coverings.—The coverings of the hernia usually tend to become thinned as the rupture increases, and the various layers which anatomically form the covering become more or less fused together, so that it is impos- sible to distinguish or differentiate them from one another. The pressure of an ill-fitting truss may, however, cause a certain amourit of inflammatory exudation, and as a consequence thickening and induration of the tissues covering the sac. Anatomical varieties of hernia.—The most common situation for a hernia is one which protrudes through the internal ring into the inguinal canal, and which may or may not protrude through the external abdominal ring. This is an inguinal hernia, and is computed to include 84 per cent, of all cases. The next most frequent form is the femoral hernia, which descends through the femoral ring. This includes about 10 per cent. The third common form is the umbilical, which protrudes at or near the umbilicus. In addition to these usual varieties, hernia may also protrude through other parts of the abdominal wall, through the obturator foramen, sciatic notch, diaphragm, or into the vagina. Ventral hernia is that form where the protrusion takes place through some spot in the abdominal wall which has been weakened by injury or disease. Etiology.—In speaking of the etiology of hernia, we must refer to tne predisposing and exciting causes. . I. Predisposing causes.-(«) Age. Hernia is exceedingly common in