I032 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS diminishing the swelling. If any fluid is present in the tunica vaginalis, this should be removed by tapping before the strapping is applied. In those cases where this does not succeed in curing the patient, and the condition is a source of annoyance and discomfort, the testicle must be removed. It is probably useless, and therefore there can be no objection to this proceeding. To strap a testicle.—In strapping a testicle care must be exer- cised to apply the strapping evenly and firmly, but at the same time not too tightly, so as to strangulate the parts. The skin should be shaved, and the testicle drawn well down to the bottom of the tunica vaginalis and isolated from its fellow. A strip of lint is wound round the scrotum, immediately above the testicle, to prevent its slipping up again. Strips of strapping, half an inch wide, are applied vertically over the testicle from the back to the front and from side to side until the whole organ is enveloped. A long strip is then wound horizontally round the testicle frorii as near the lower extremity as is possible to the level of the piece of lint which encircles the scrotum above the testicle. 2. Syphilitic sarcocele.—The testicle may be affected with syphilis both in the acquired and the congenital form of the disease. In the congenital form it is not common. It consists of a chronic inflamma- tion of the connective tissue between the tubules, similar to the interstitial variety of the disease, which will be immediately described as occurring in the acquired form of syphilis. It is not, however, attended by so much enlargement of the organ; is usually symmetrical, both glands being simultaneously attacked; very often involves the epididymis ; and fre- quently terminates in atrophy. The acquired form occurs in two of the stages of syphilis. It may be present during the early secondary stage, though this is comparatively rare ; more commonly it is found during the tertiary stage or during the intermediate period between the secondary and tertiary stage, and is then one of those conditions to which Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson has given the name of reminders (page 189). Syphilitic disease of the testicle, occur- ring during the secondary stage of syphilis, affects the epididymis. It consists in the formation of a localised nodular mass, usually in the globus major. The mass never attains a large size, grows slowly, and causes little or no pain. It is usually associated with hydrocele, which generally draws attention to the lump. It disappears under the influence of mercury. Tei-tiary syphilitic sarcocele occurs under two forms : (i) as a diffuse or interstitial orchitis ; (2) as a gummatous tumour. Both these forms affect the body of the testicle, and the epididymis undergoes but little or no change. It usually attacks one testicle in the first instance, but not infrequently the other testicle becomes subsequently affected. The interstitial variety consists in a chronic inflammation of the intertubular connective tissue, attended by a round-celled infiltration, which becomes converted into a dense fibroid material, that displaces the normal gland structure, and by its contraction produces atrophy of the organ. Upon making a section through a testicle affected with this disease, the tunica albuginea will be found to be much thickened, and from its internal surface thick white bands will be seen radiating into the substance of the organ; in some instances so numerous that no gland substance can be seen, and the whole organ appears to be a dense, opaque, fibrous mass, irregular and puckered on its surface from the contraction of these bands. Hydrocele