GENERAL DISEASES 164 introduced, and in which the symptoms come on immediately after the introduction of the poison, is named sapraBinia or septic intoxica- tion. _ , The other class of cases, where the effects produced are not propor- tional to the dose, where only some of the animals inoculated show any signs of disease, and where the signs, when they do occur, do not develop until some time after the inoculation, we term septicaemia or septic infection. It will be necessary, therefore, to consider the three conditions— saprsemia, septicaemia, and pyaemia. SAPR^MIA Saprsemia or Septic intoxication.—This condition has already been alluded to in the chapter on Inflammation, but it is necessary to describe it a little more in detail in this place. It must not be confounded with the primary fever following injuries, which, as we then saw, is probably due to the presence of fibrin ferment in the blood, whereas this condition of septic intoxication is due to the introduction into the blood of one or more chemical products generated by the decomposition or putrefaction of dead animal matter in a wound. These chemical products are called ptomaines, and are of a very complex nature. Many attempts have been made to isolate them, and with a certain amount of success. Bergmann was the first to obtain one of them, which he named sepsin, from decomposing beer yeast; this was subsequently obtained by Panum from putrid meat infusion. Subsequently, numerous workers have obtained other poisonous alkaloidal substances from putrid albuminous principles, which it is scarcely necessary to enumerate, as sepsin may be taken as a type. Sepsin was first obtained by Panum by digesting putrid fibrin in water, and filtering. Boiling alcohol was added to the solution thus obtained, and a precipitate was thrown down. This was washed, dried, and redissolved in distilled water, and a perfectly clear solution, free from morphological elements, was the result. This solution was found to possess most poisonous properties, and when injected into the blood stream of animals produced symptoms identical with those which are produced in cases of sapreemia arising from a putrefying wound. More- over, these symptoms came on immediately after the introduction of the solution into the blood, and varied in intensity according to the amount of poison introduced. If the dose was small certain definite symptoms resulted, varying in intensity with the amount of the dose, but after a time passed off, and the animal recovered. If, on the other hand, the dose was large, severe symptoms at once supervened: vomiting and diarrhoja, with the passage after a time of bloody stools; muscular twitchings, followed by loss of muscular power; very rapid, laboured breathing, and speedy death from failure of the heart's action. The post-mortem appearances were those of death from blood poison- ing. The blood was fluid or imperfectly coagulated; the lining membrane of the heart and vessels blood-stained ; minute petechite were to be seen on the serous surfaces ; the lungs were congested ; and the spleen enlarged, soft, and diffluent. It is quite clear that these symptoms could not have been due to the introduction of micro-organisms, for the solution which produced them