8^5 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER differentiate those cases where there is one abscess, or at most a couple, from multiple abscesses of the liver, as the former are only suitable for surgical treatment. The single abscess of the liver is most frequently the so-called tropical abscess; but may also arise from the suppuration of an hydatid cyst; from injury ; or from the irritation caused by the presence of a gall stone in one of the intra-hepatic ducts. Multiple abscesses of the liver are in the majority of instances pyccmic. Tropical abscess of the liver occurs in those who have lived for some time in hot climates, and is in a large percentage of cases the sequel of dysentery ; for a micro- organism, the amccba coii, which is found in the bowels in dysentery, is contained in the pus. It may, however, occur independently of dysentery in patients who are exhausted by malaria only. The symptoms are pain and a sensation of weight over the region of the liver, accompanied by a varying amount of fever. In acute cases the fever is very considerable, and is accompanied by rigors, profuse sweating, and progressive debility, and the pain is severe and extends to the right shoulder. In the sub-acute form the pyrexia is not so great, but there is usually a nightly rise in the temperature, loss of appetite, and progressive failure of strength and emaciation. There may be a slight icteric tingeing of the skin and conjunctiva, but in some cases there is no jaundice. Upon examination, enlargement of the liver can usually be made out, and there is tenderness on palpation. Frequently a dis- tinct elastic swelling may be felt, in which there is fluctuation. The abscess may find its w'ay to the surface, and may point below the margin of the ribs ; or it may track upwards, and perforating the diaphragm burst into the pleural cavity, forming an empyema, or into the lungs, when the pus will be expectorated. More rarely it bursts into the peritoneal cavity, or into one of the hollow viscera of the abdomen, such as the duodenum or the colon. It is usually recommended that the diagnosis of abscess of the liver should be confirmed by the exploring syringe, but there is a certain amount of risk in doing this, for a leakage of pus into the peritoneal or pleural cavity may take place. Where the abscess is near the surface and fluctuation can be felt, it is not necessary; and if it is deeper and the case more doubtful, it is safer to expose the liver first before introducing the exploring needle. Treatment.—The only safe treatment in these cases is to open the abscess and drain. It may be opened through an incision in the abdominal wall, in the thoracic wall, or in the lumbar region. The first of these three positions is best suited for the operation, when in consequence of the site of the abscess it is possible to employ it. The abdominal wall is incised over the swelling, and unless the peritoneum is adherent, sponges are packed all round the exposed liver surface. If the abscess projects from the surface of the liver, an incision may at once be made into it and the pus evacuated ; but if the abscess is more deeply seated, an exploring syringe is driven into the liver in its supposed situation. When the pus is found, a thermo-cautery at a dull red heat is passed down by the side of the exploring needle until it reaches the abscess. When the cavity is opened the finger is introduced, the liver hooked forwards against the abdominal wall, and the con- tents allowed to escape. The surgeon while his finger is in the cavity searches for any other collections of pus in the neighbourhood, and if these are found breaks down any intervening tissue with his finger. The sac is now washed out to remove any remains of the pus or any sloughs