GENERAL DISEASES Stomatitis causes defects in both the temporary and permanent teeth, but it is the latter with which we are more especially concerned, as it is in them that we find the condition which, when present, is so characteristic of inherited syphilis. Stomatitis causes injury to the enamel organ of the developing temporary teeth, and causes them to decay as soon almost as the)- appear through the gums. The permanent teeth, however, present the most charac- teristic appearance, and this is also due to the stomatitis, and therefore the condi- FiG. 41.-Teeth in hereditary tion shows itself chiefly in those teeth syphilis. (After Hulcliinson.) which are erupted first and are therefore nearest the surface during the stomatitis. The central incisors of the upper jaw are the ones in which the condition is best marked. These teeth are dwarfed, and their cutting edge is marked by a semilunar notch (fig. 41). In some cases the cutting edges are narrowed. The characteristic lesion of hereditary syphilis in the eye is a condition to which the name of interstitial keratitis is given. It usually shows itself between the ages of six and fifteen, but it has been known to occur as early as two and as late as eighteen. It consists in an infiltration of the substance of the cornea with cells, which give to it a hazy appearance like ground glass. It commences in the centre of the cornea and spreads to the periphery, and is accompanied by the formation of new vessels between the lamellse. Sometimes these new vessels are very numerous and give to the cornea a salmon colour, which is known as ' salmon patch.' In many cases of inherited syphiUs the nasal bones do not develop to their full extent; this gives to the individual the unsightly appearance of a depressed bridge of the nose. This condition is due to the rhinitis which, as we have seen, is one of the earliest and commonest conditions of con- genital syphilis. The inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose extends to the periosteum, which becomes so altered in structure, that it is unable to complete the formation of the nasal bones. The most common condition met with in the bones in the later stages of hereditary syphilis is a general condition of ostitis, which usually com- mences about the same time as the interstitial keratitis. The disease more frequently implicates the tibia than any other bone, but the fibula and the bones of the forearm are sometimes the seat of the disease. The whole of the bone becomes involved, and is not only increased in girth, but also in length. The disease goes on to sclerosis, and the whole of the shaft is converted into a dense, hard mass of sclerosed bone, with obliteration of the medullary canal. Occasionally nodes are formed as a late condition of inherited syphilis. There is another condition affecting the bones of the hand, to which allusion must be made, which may occur either in congenital or acquired syphilis. It is called syphilitic dactylitis, and is of interest principally from a very similar condition occurring in children as a result of the tuberculous state and known therefore as tuberculous dactylitis. The disease is a gummatous periostitis frequently ending in necrosis. The bone involved becomes enlarged, and the symptoms much resemble the tuberculous form of the disease, but the two conditions should be distinguished from each other. Among the rarer conditions of congenital syphilis may be mentioned :