RHINITIS 627 s s patient's thumb, is fastened, and is drawn up into the posterior nares by pulhng at the end of the string which hangs out of the nostril. There is no difficulty in getting the plug around the posterior nares, if the attempt is made in the following way. The plug is pushed to the back of the Fig. 235.—Bellocq's sound. mouth with the forefinger, and the patient is then told to swallow ; at the moment the act of deglutition takes place, the string is pulled and the plug IS at once drawn up into position. When the bleeding has ceased, the plug can be withdrawn by pulling at the string hanging from the mouth. DeYiation of the septum may be the result of injury (see page 622), or may be the result of a congenital malformation. It is usually a matter of minor importance, but in some cases the deviation is so great that the septum touches the outer wall of the nares and obstructs the passage of air, causing great discomfort to the patient. Under these circumstances it is necessary to take measures to remedy the deformity. This can generally be done by introducing a pair of flat-bladed forceps into the nostrils and bending the septum straight. This very often only succeeds for a time, and the deviation recurs. If it does, a square flap of the mucous membrane may be dissected up from the surface of the septum on that side to which it is deflected, and a portion of the septal cartilage cut away, care being taken not to remove too much, for fear of sinking in of the nose; the flap is then replaced, and secured with a stitch or two of horsehair. Hypertrophy of the mucous membrane; chronic rhmitis.—This disease, which is of very frequent occurrence, is credited \yith giving rise to many reflex phenomena, such as attacks of sneezing, tinnitus aunum, cough, vertigo, and even epilepsy, and is always a source ot great discomfort to the patient. It consists in an hypertrophy of all the structures entering into the formation of the mucous membrane, with myxomatous changes; the disease especially aff^ects the anterior extremity ot the inferior turbinated bone, where it produces a distinct enlargement which may be mistaken for a polypus. It IS usually believed to be due to repeated attacks of irritation from cold, the inhalation of dust, irritating vapours, or tobacco smoke, and occurs in those individuals where the nasal passages are narrow. It produces a sensation of obstruction and profuse" mucous secretion, i^atients complain of having a perpetual cold in the head; they breathe through the mouth and snore when asleep. Upon examination bv anterior rhino.scopy the nostril will appear to be more or less blocked ^\ith a mass of gelatinous, greyish material, which may be mistaken for a polypus, but it IS sessile and the probe cannot be made to encircle it as it can a polypus.