CARCINOMA OF THE OVARY opinion that they are developed from those tubes of the ocgan of Rosen- miiller which contain epithelium. They differ from ovarian cysts in being like the hyaline parovarian cyst, unilocular ; but they are sharply differen- tiated from the hyaline cysts by the fact that their walls present papillary growths or vegetations similar to those found in the proliferating papillary cysts of the ovary, and that their contents is more or less viscid, and often coloured from blood which has been extravasated from the papillary growths. Solid tumours of the ovary.—Solid tumours of the ovary are not common, and call for no special description, as they differ in no marked manner from similar growths in other parts of the body. They may be fibromata or fibro-myomata, sarcomata and carcinomata. The fibromata usually occur in young women ; their growth is very slow, and they give rise to no symptoms, unless they are accompanied by ascites. It is almost impossible to diagnose them from a sub-peritoneal uterine fibroid with a long pedicle. Sarcomata may occur in quite early life, when they grow rapidly and speedily terminate fatally. They are also occasionally met with during the latter part of child-bearing life. The symptoms are those of a rapidly growing tumour with, in the later stages, ascites and cachexia. Carcinomata.—True carcinoma of the ovary is very rare, but there is a certain class of tumour, which has been named endothelioma, which histologically is intermediate between the sarcomata and carcino- mata, and which has an alveolar arrangement. These tumours would appear to originate in degenerated dermoid or papillary cysts. Clinically these tumours are very malignant, grow very rapidly, are attended by ascites, the ascitic fluid being often blood-stained, and are accompanied by rapid emaciation and failure of the strength. Carcinoma of the ovary may be secondary to cancer in other organs, as the uterus or the breast. Etiology.-—It is during the active, child-bearing life of females that ovarian diseases most frequently occur, but they have been met with at all periods of life, from the infant to advanced age—65 to 75. It must be borne in mind, however, that though ovarian cysts—for it is with this form of ovarian tumour that we are principally concerned—do not begin, as a rule, to grow and assert themselves till after puberty, the germ of many of them has existed from foetal life, but has remained latent until the increased physiological activity of the ovary later on has called them into action. Ovarian tumours appear to be more common in the married than in the single. Little is known as to the causes which produce ovarian tumours. It has been thought that heredity may have something to do with their formation, and cases of cysts in the same family, among sisters, have been observed. Symptoms.—The early symptoms of an ovarian tumour, whether cystic or solid, are very indefinite. Often there are no symptoms at all until the tumour has attained a considerable size, and then it may be discovered by accident. In other cases certain symptoms may exist, which, however, are not attributed to the right cause. There may be scanty menstruation or amenorrhoea, or, on the other hand, there may be menor- rhagia. There may be pain in the region of the sacrum, and this may be due to the ovary being prolapsed from its increased weight into the pouch of Douglas; or there may be pain or numbness in the leg on the affected side from pressure on the sacral plexus, pain or difificulty in micturition, and constipation. As the tumour increases it not only fills the pelvis,