FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR PASSAGES 701 these are often hard, such as a piece of bone, a pebble, a button, or a cherry- or plum-stone. (i) When a large soft body, like a piece of meat, is carried towards the air passages by a sudden inhalation, it becomes wedged in the upper cavity of the larynx, and each effort at inspiration only tends to wedge it more tightly (fig. 268). When this occurs, all access of air to the lungs is cut off. There is a sudden feeUng of intense suffocation ; the patient niakes violent efforts at inspiration, becomes black in the face, falls insensible, and dies almost imme- diately, unless assistance is at once rendered. The treatment in these cases is to at once force the mouth open and attempt to dislodge the foreign body with the forefinger, and, fail- ing this, to perform laryngotomy with a penknife. This can only be done should the surgeon chance to be present at the time of the occurrence ; if not, the patient will in all probability be dead before his arrival. (2) If the foreign body is small enough to pass through the rima glottidis, it may be fixed in one of the ventricles of the larynx; or it may pass into the trachea ; or it may descend through the trachea and become lodged in either of the bronchi or their ramifications, and the after sym- ptoms will vary according to the position in which it is placed. But in all, the primary symptoms will be the same, and will be those of obstruction ; the subsequent symptoms being due to irritation and inflammation set up by the presence of the foreign body. Symptoms. — The primary symptoms are those of obstruc- tion, due to spasm of the glottis. The foreign body in passing through the highly sensitive glottis irritates it, and induces a reflex spasm of the muscles of the larvnx which effec uallyclases the chink and prevents the admission of air. pat en WthrcUsw^i'"Ti;^'"' '"'^'^ '''' anS cS mester? 1' h^becomes more or less insensible. Now innervation LSZfTni' .■'^P^'^.^^odic contraction of the muscles passes off and the fhe s tin ' ^"'"f.P"-^'^°"' ge."erally accompanied by a croupy sound and the s> niptom.s of obstruction disappear. The foreign body has now Sssed onwards, and the symptoms to which it gives rise, and whicirire novv due to irntat.on, will depend upon its situafion, si^e, andlCe Fig. 268.—a lump of meat impacted in the glottis, and producing death from suffoca- tion. (From the Museum of St. Georcre's Hospital.)