TUMOURS OF THE. BREAST away the granulation tissue by which it is lined, disinfecting it, and dressing it up from the bottom with antiseptic gauze. Tuberculosis of the breast is now believed to be much more common than was formerly supposed ; many cases, which were regarded as chronic mastitis, going on to suppuration, are now known to be tuberculous. The disease runs just the same course as tuberculous disease elsewhere. The tubercle bacillus effects a lodgment usually in the inter- acinous tissue and forms a nodule, which slowly undergoes caseation, breaks down into a curdy fluid, and comes to the surface. There may be only one deposit, but there are usually more, each forming a separate abscess; but as a rule they are limited to one section of the breast, and do not involve the whole organ. For the most part they occur in young women, and in those who present evidences of tuberculous disease else- where. The disease is characterised by the formation of one or more irregular lumps in the breast, without much pain, which gradually soften, and eventually fluctuate. After they burst they form sinuses which present the characteristic undermining of the skin and have no tendency to heal. Treatment.—The treatment of tuberculous disease of the breast must depend in a great measure on the condition of the patient and the con- dition of the breast. If there is advanced tuberculous disease elsewhere, e.g. in the lungs, no operative interference is admissible. If the patient is a young woman, during the child-bearing period of life, a very serious con- sideration comes into play. It is quite conceivable that, though by treat- ment the affection of the breast may be apparently cured, and the sinuses healed, there may still be some latent mischief at the seat of the old lesion, which might prove a source of danger to her child, should she later on have one and suckle it. It becomes a question, therefore, whether it might not be right under these circumstances to advise removal of the organ. If the disease has extensively infiltrated the breast there can be no question that this is the right course to pursue, especially as it is very doubtful whether anything short of removal of the breast will cure the disease. But if there is only a single caseating focus, probably the patient will scarcely consent to have the whole breast removed, and therefore in these cases the sinus should be enlarged, scraped, and disinfected, and the general condition attended to. In elderly women, who are past the child- bearing period of life, excision of the affected segment of the breast may be sufficient to effect a cure. Syphilis of the breast.—It has already been pointed out that the breast may be affected with primary syphilis, in the shape of chancres occurring on or about the nipple, and that some cases of chronic mastitis may owe their origin to secondary syphilitic trouble. In addition to this mucous tubercles and condylomata are not uncommon in the breast, occurring principally on the nipple or areola. And as a tertiary manifesta- tion gummata are in rare instances met with. These latter are usually well marked and require no special consideration. TUMOURS OF THE BRE.-\ST Tumours of the breast, like tumours elsewhere, may be divided into cystic and solid. In speaking of cystic tumours, one must be careful to differentiate between independent cystic tumours and cysts growing in solid tumours, which are so common in the breast. The former only of