TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF THE OESOPHAGUS 723 Treatment.—The treatment of fibrous stricture of the oesophagus, when a bougie can be passed, is best conducted by simple dilatation. By passing bougies of gradually increasing size, every day or every other day, and allowing them to remain in the stricture as long as the patient can bear to retain them, most cicatricial strictures can be gradually dilated so that the patient can swallow without difificulty. But unfortu- nately this treatnient does not cure the stricture, for if the introduction of the bougie is omitted, recontraction very speedily takes place; so that it is necessary to instruct the patient to pass a bougie for himself, and impress upon him the necessity of his continuing to do so for the rest of his life. More favourable results have been attempted to be brought about by forcibly dilating the stricture by means of expanding india-rubber bags introduced into it, or by means of division by a concealed knife (internal asophagotomy), but, as a rule, no good results have followed these attempts, and the latter of the two is far from being devoid of danger. In those cases where the stricture can be dilated, but speedily contracts, Symonds' tube should be introduced. The instrument consists of a gum-elastic tube, about six inches in length, with a funnel-shaped extremity. This is passed^ by means of a whalebone introducer, through the stricture so that the funnel-shaped dilated extremity rests on the constriction, which prevents it passing downwards into the stomach. To the free margin of the funnel two silk threads are attached and are left hanging out of the mouth, so that the tube can be easily withdrawn if required. Through this tube the patient can swallow, and the pressure of it prevents the cicatricial tissue from contracting. Symonds relates a case where such a tube was worn for eight months. In cases where no instrument can be passed through the stricture or where dilatation has failed to relieve, an attempt should be made to divide the stricture by Abbe's string saw. A small split shot is clamped on to a piece of silk, and this is swallowed by the patient and allowed to find its way into the stomach. When this is judged to have taken place, the stomach is opened and the shot sought for and pulled out of the wound. A piece of strong whip-cord is now attached to the end of the silk hanging from the mouth and pulled through the stricture and out of the stomach. By a to-and-fro sawing movement the whip-cord is made to divide the stricture, and a Symonds' tube is inserted and left in, so as to prevent recontraction. Should this fail, the stomach should be sutured to the wound in the abdominal wall, and the gastrotomy converted into a gastrostomy. In those cases where the stricture is situated at the gastric onfice, arising probably from the contraction of a cicatrised gastric ulcer gastrotomy should be performed and the stricture dilated with the finder' and in those cases where the stricture is situated quite at the upper part of the gullet, it might be possible to perform an oesophagostomv in the neck below the stricture. The treatment of malignant stricture is unsatisfactory, and means can only be taken to palliate the .symptoms and perhaps prolong life a little, since tne disease is inevitably fatal. Attempts have been made by Billroth and others to excise a cancerous deposit in the upper part of the oesophagus, but the operation is not usually regarded as justifiable. As a rule no attempt should be made to dilate the stricture with bougies, but in a certain number of cases Symonds' short tube may be passed through the stricture ana lett in with great comfort to the patient; but sooner or later this treatment becomes impcssible, and the pressure of the tube against the aisea.secl tissues and its occasional removal for cleansing purposes is liable 3 A 2