794 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Etiology.—Rupture of the abdominal viscera is especially liable to occur where there is a sudden localised blow on the abdomen, especially if the blow is given while the body is in the stooping position, and the abdominal muscles therefore relaxed and unable to contract and thus form a protection to the contained viscera. Thus rupture of one of the abdo- minal viscera is a common injury in farriers, who, stooping down to shoe a horse, receive a severe kick from the animal. They also occur from the passage of the wheel of a cart or carriage over the body, or from the abdomen being squeezed between the buffers of two railway trucks. The hollow viscera are more likely to be torn when they are full; thus the stomach is ruptured shortly after a hearty meal, or the bladder when the patient has not passed water for some time. Symptoms.—The symptoms vary very greatly, not only with regard to the viscus injured, but also as regards their general characteristics. There is usually severe shock ; yet, on the other hand, there may be cases in which shock is almost, if not quite, absent. A patient with a ruptured intestine or lacerated liver may walk into the hospital without any of those symptoms which, as a rule, lead one to suppose that such a serious injury has taken place. In the majority of cases, however, the shock is marked : coldness and pallor of the surface; a small and feeble pulse, which is sometimes scarcely perceptible; subnormal temperature, and shallow, gasping respiration. There is anxiety and distress of countenance, and great depression of the vital powers. Pain is complained of at the seat of injury, and is sometimes very intense. It is continuous, and is often spoken of as of a burning character. Vomiting—first of the contents of the stomach, and subsequently of a bilious fluid—is generally present. There is often dullness, from extravasated blood over the seat of injur}'. In those cases where there is great loss of blood, as in cases of rupture of the liver and spleen, and death is threatening from haemorrhage, the patient begins to present the characteristic signs of loss of blood. He is restless, turning from side to side; he complains of intense thirst; the extremities become cold, the lips blanched, and he gradually sinks into a state of unconsciousness and 'dies. If, on the other hand, peritonitis, is set up, as occurs most frequently in rupture of the hollow \iscera, the pain becomes still more acute, the vomiting persistent, and the abdominal wall hard and resistant, like a board. Rupture of the stomach—The stomach is not often ruptured, on account of its comparatively protected situation. When it is, the laceration may be incomplete and not involve the peritoneal coat, but is more often complete, and is attended by the leakage of its contents into the abdominal cavity, especially as the viscus is almost always full; rupture only occurring when the organ is distended after a hearty meal. There is almost always shock, accompanied by intense pain, at hrst localised to the seat of injury, but rapidly spreading over the whole abdo- men, the parietes of which become hard and rigid. Vomiting is rarely persistent, but some of the contents of the stomach are often ejected shortly after the accident, and the vomited matter will probably be mixed with blooa There is usually resonance over the area of hepatic dullness, from t presence of free gas in the peritoneal cavity, which in the first instance n. found its way there through the rent in the stomach, but later on ma> o the gases of decomposition. Cases of complete rupture of the stomac are almost uniformly fatal, unless subjected to operative interterence, . death usually takes place within forty-eight hours from peritonitis.