979 STONE IN THE FEMALE required, or of fragments being left in the bladder which may perchance be passed with the urine, lithotomy had better be performed. A word requires to be said about the choice of an operation in male children. There is no doubt that litholapaxy has much in its favour, inasmuch as it is unattended by those risks which must always follow cuttirig operations, especially when it is impossible to maintain strict asepticity, and also because there is a speedy convalescence, the child being practically well the next day; but it is an operation which should only be performed iDy those who are in the habit of performing lithotrity, and who are provided with a complete outfit of the necessary instru- ments, for unless this is so, terrible disasters, such as rupture of the bladder and tearing across of the urethra, may occur. I am of opinion that,while in the hands of the expert it is a most satisfactory and safe operation, it is wiser for the surgeon who has only very rarely to deal with a case of stone in the bladder to perform lithotomy, which after all in children is a very successful operation. Having thus discussed the conditions under which lithotomy and hthotrity are indicated, it remains now to say a word or two as to the choice between the two operations of lateral and supra-pubic lithotomy. It would seem more than probable that lateral lithotomy will in the no far distant future become an almost obsolete operation, and that the supra- pubic operation will entirely take its place. There would appear to be only two classes of cases where the supra-pubic operation is contra-indicated : (i) where there is a very small and contracted bladder which cannot be distended sufficiently to make it emerge from behind the symphysis pubis ; and (2) where there is acute septic inflammation of the bladder, with foul putrid urine which may become infiltrated into the cellular tissue outside the bladder and do irretrievable mischief. The operation is especially indicated in very large, hard stones: where the stones are multiple : where the stone is encysted : where the pelvis is deformed by rickets or osteo-malacia, so as to render extraction through the outlet of the pelvis difficult or impossible. In cases of ankylosis of the left hip, which prevents the patient being placed in the lithotomy position, the supra-pubic operation is indicated; though lateral lithotomy may be performed in these cases on the right side, as I once saw done by the late Sir Prescott Hewett. Stone in the female is of much less common occurrence than in the male. This is no doubt partly due to the higher living and the greater amount of stimulant which the male is accustomed to; but also, as pointed out above, partly due to the fact that, owing to the shortness and dilata- bility of the female urethra and the absence of the prostate gland, stones when formed are easily passed, and therefore do not come under the notice of the surgeon. The symptoms arre the same as in the male—pain, irritability, the passage of blood, and the occasional arrest of the stream. Incontinence of uririe is a not infrequent symptom. As the stone becomes large and heavy it bulges out the posterior wall of the bladder into the vagina, and becomes to a certain extent pouched. Treatment.—The stone may be removed by lithectasy, lithotomy, and lithotrity. Lithectasy, or removal of the stone through a dilated urethra, should always be resorted to when the stone is not more than an inch in diameter. The patient is placed under an anaesthetic, and the urethra dilated with a Weiss's dilator until it will allow of the introduction of a 3 R 2