762 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAE OROANS the front of the sacrum and coccyk can usually be made out by a bimanual examination through the rectum and abdomen. Sometimes they attain a large size and fill the pelvis.; and frequently they are not recognised for years until, in consequence of their size, they give rise to symptoms. They may press on the rectum and cause obstruction, or they may press on the ureters and cause dilatation of the ureters and hydro-nephrosis. l"he main indication as regards treatment is to remove them if possible ; but in attempting removal it must be borne in mind that their attachments extend much more deeply than would be supposed upon a superficial examination. , „ , , , \ r,,. Caries of the spine {Potfs disease; angular curvature).—Wm: above names are given to a disease which is tuberculous in its nature, and is popularly known under the name of disease of the spine disease like other tuberculous affections, occurs most frequently in children or young adults, but may arise at any age. It commences in the bodies of the vertebrae and gradually destroys them and the intervertebral substances, and sometimes causes a very consider- able deformity, from the subsidence of the vertebrae above the diseased area on to those below ; this is known under the name of atigular cu7-vature, in contradistinction to another deformity of the spine arising from very different causes, which is termed lateral curvature, and which will be described hereafter. Any part of the spine may be involved, but the disease is most commonly met with in the lower dorsal region. Etiology.—The cause of the disease is generally some slight injury or strain in a tuberculous individual, so slight that in a healthy subject it would be disregarded, or at the most would be recovered from in a few days ; but in an individual who has either inherited a tuberculous taint, or acquired it from unhealthy hygienic surroundings or impairment of the general health, is sufficient to produce such a deteriora- tion in the injured tissues as to render them a suitable nidus in which the tuberculous bacillus can grow ana ^"""pathology.—The disease usually commences in children \"the growing tissue of thf body of the vertebra in the neighbourhood of the epjph sid cartilages. This is the most vascular part of the ^one jhere act changes are going on, and where, therefore, diseased F^^^^^^^^^^^ ^ ent readily set up In the adult the more usual place for the ^um of the disease would appear to be in the deeper layers of the P^no- ^ covering the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the yerteb'^ (V ^J^^^ In one or other of these places, deterioration of ^'ssue ^vw place, the bacillus finds a home, and changes take place which are lu Fig. 291.—Caries of the spine. (From the Museum of St. George's Ilospital.)