401 DISEASES OF FASCL« we have, when enlarged, a tense, rounded, well-defined swelling in the lower part of the ham on extension of the leg ; but when the limb is flexed the tumour becomes smaller, softer, and may altogether disappear, mainly owincT to some of the fluid which it contains having passed back into the iointr These swellings occasionally pulsate, the pulsation being transmitted from the popliteal artery ; but the pulsation is not of a distensile character, and no change takes place in bulk when the femoral artery is compressed. Treatment.—In some of these cases a cure may be eff^ected by blister- ing, followed by pressure, especially if the cyst is not very tense, but in many cases it gives only temporary relief and fails to cure. Under these circumstances aspiration or tapping, with injection of tincture of iodine or Morton's fluid, may be tried, but the operation is not devoid of risk and may fail, and in persons who lead an active life, and in whom the presence of the bursa causes pain and a feeling of insecurity about the joint, the better plan of treatment would appear to be excision of the tumour, which entails less risk to the patient than tapping and injection, and in which the prob- abilities of cure are very much greater. The operation must be performed ^\•ith the most careful antiseptic pre- cautions. An incision is made over the swelling, and the cyst well exposed. It is at once recognised by its clear translucent appearance; before being opened, it is separated from surround- ing parts by a director as far as possible, and when this has been done, it is punctured and its contained fluid allowed to escape. When collapsed, it is to be seized with a pair of catch forceps, and pulled out of the wound, any further connections being torn through with the director. When the Avhole of the cyst has been delivered, and the neck, which will be found dipping down between the tendons, exposed, a number of fine chromic catgut sutures are to be passed through the neck of the sac (fig. 124), and when this is done the sac removed by cutting through the neck just beyond the sutures. The sutures are then rapidly tied, and the external wound closed, the sutures in the sac being left buried. Bunion is the name given to an enlarged bursa, over the head of the first metatarsal bone in cases of hallux valgus. This condition mil be described in the chapter on deformities. Diseases of fasciae.—The hand is sometimes the seat of a very inconvenient deformity which arises from a contraction of the palmar fascia and is usually known by the name of Dupuytreiis contraction. It is rarely met with before the age of forty, and occurs almost exclusively in men. It consists in a contraction of the fascia and of prolongations from it to the sheaths of the flexor tendons, the tendons themselves not D D Fig. 124. — Diagram lo show the method of removmgan enlarged bursa beneath the semi-membranosus tendon. The dotted hne A represents the site at which the bursa is lo be removed, after which the sutures are tied.