532 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES St. George's Hospital.) at all events when the joint is at rest synovial-mcmbrane remains, which leads to plastic effusion in the mem- brane and plastic exudation from it. In these cases the synovial membrane is thickened, and pendulous outgrowths take place from it, which project into the joint and often materially interfere with its functions (fig. 190). Symptoms.—In cases of sub-acute synovitis there is not much pain, ■ ■ ■ ■ ijuj paiii is experienced on moving it, and the patient complains that the joint feels weak and unstable. The amount of swelling is variable : in those cases where the effu- sion is considerable the swell- ing is great; it assumes the shape of the synovial sac and is fluctuating. In those cases where there is little or no fluid in the joint, there is still swelling, though considerably less in amount, and it is more solid and without any feeling of fluctuation. On comparing the temperature of the two limbs, there will almost always be found to be a perceptible difference in the heat of the affected joint as compared with the one on the other side, plainly perceptible to the hand placed upon it. This consti- tutes an important diagnostic sign between an inflamed and an hysterical joint, which in certain features closely simulate one another. Treatment.—Here, as in the acute form, rest is the first and most essential indication. In the early stages it may be necessary to confine the patient to bed and secure the leg on a splint when the joint affected is in the lower extremity. Under these circumstances repeated bUstering may be had recourse to, and will often prove of the greatest benefit: but it is as well not to confine the patient to bed for longer than can be helped, and he should be allowed to get up and go about with crutches, possibly with a cork sole and heel on the other leg, so as to keep the foot on the affected side clear of the ground; at the same time, means should be taken to immobilise the joint and protect it from any movement. One ot the most efficient ways of doing this is by the old-fashioned Scott s dressing (see page 38) By employing this remedy we obtain the sorbefacient ettects of the ointment, which promotes the absorption of the fluid ; the pressure FlG. 190.—Pendulous growths from the synovial membrane of the knee. (From the Museum of