213 TREATMENT OF RICKETS child to cry when it is being handled. The digestion is generally defective : the child is subject to flatulency and becomes pot-bellied. There is frequently diarrhoea with intensely offensive stools, and sometimes there is constipation. The tongue is usually white and furred, and the mucous surfaces pallid. Frequently there is vomiting. In. the later stages enlarge- ment of the liver and spleen may be detected. The teeth are cut late and in many cases are cut ' crosswise,' that is, not in their proper order of eruption. The urine contains an excess of phosphate of lime, from mal-assimilation, but is otherwise normal. The changes in the bones show themselves principally in the enlarge- ment of the ends of the long bones, which gives the appearance as if the joints were swollen. This is especially noticeable in the lower end of the radius, and in the ends of the ribs, where they join the costal cartilages ; these latter form a row of promineint rounded swellings beneath the skin, which can easily be seen if the child is not too fat, and to which the name of ' rickety rosary ' has been given. In addition to this, as the disease advances, the bones bend and form very pronounced curves, and they do not increase in length to the same extent as the normal bones do, and hence the rickety child is stunted and shorter than a healthy child of the same age. Treatment.—The treatment of rickets consists in, first of all, removing the conditions which have caused the disease, and this may readily be done by attention to proper dieting and hygienic surroundings. Up to the age of nine months the child's diet should consist entirely of milk. If the mother's health is such as to permit her to afford her infant adequate nourishment, the child should be suckled. It is, however, of considerable importance that this point should be definitely ascertained. Many cases of rickets are occasioned in the first instance by the debilitated state of the health of the mother from repeated pregnancies or prolonged suckling, and it is worse than useless in such instances to allow the mother to continue nursing her child, and it is better either to provide a wet-nurse, if one can be obtained, or bring the child up by hand, and feed it with cow's milk which has undergone the process of' humanising,' or, what answers the same purpose, boiling it and removing the skim, then diluting it with water (i in 3) and adding a little sugar. Later on in life milk should still form the principal article of diet, but to this may be added raw meat juice, pounded meat, fish, eggs, and a moderate amount of farinaceous food. The child should have plenty of fresh air. Its skin should be kept freely acting by a tepid bath, followed by a brisk rubbing, morning and evening, and it should be clothed in flannel next the skin, especially at night, so that if it kicks the clothes off it may not catch cold. With regard to medicines, cod liver oil is certainly the remedy on which most reliance should be placed, and the fatter the child is the greater the indication for the exhibition of this drug; under its influence the fat, flabby child will often become thinner but much firmer. Cheadle recommends cream as a substitute for cod liver oil. With the oil, steel wine may often be judiciously combined. When the rickety child comes under the care of the medical man before any change in the shape of the bones has taken place, every care should be bestowed to prevent the deformity occurring, by keeping the child in the supine position, especially if the back is inclined to bend, and prevent its crawling or walking. But unfortunately, as this disease occurs principally among the poor, this is what very often cannot be done. Sometimes by fastening a wooden splint to the leg, so that it projects beyond the foot, the child maybe prevented from standing. If the deformity has already occurred