TREATMENT OF LUPUS 273 cells of the growth begin to undergo a fatty degeneration, but this change does not take place to the same extent in all instances. In some cases only a portion of the cells undergo this change, and these break up and are absorbed, while the remainder become spindle-shaped and converted into fibre cells and fibrous tissue, so that the original lupoid tissue is replaced by scar tissue, and forms a permanent, slightly depressed, whitish cicatrix, which has a great tendency to contract and produce deformity. This is known as the non-ulcerative form of lupus —lupus non exedens. In other cases the fatty degeneration affects all the cells, and the whole growth caseates, softens, and breaks down, forming a foul ragged ulcer, which slowly extends. This is the ulcerative form of lupus— lupus exedens (fig. 73). The ulcer thus formed may heal under treatment, and then forms a cica- trix, which, like the cicatrix of the non-ulcerative form, has a tendency to contract and produce deformity. Symptoms.—The disease commences by the formation of one, two, or more amber-coloured, semi-transparent nodules, most frequently in the situation where the ala of the nose joins the lip. From their colour and semi-transparent appearance they have been compared to apple jelly. The colour does not entirely disappear on pressure. The nodules increase slowly and become slightly elevated, and fresh nodules appear in the immediate neighbourhood, which after a time coalesce with the first formed. They now present the appearance of a flattened mass of the same semi-transparent amber coloiir, incorporated in the skin and covered by epithelium which shows a tendency to desquamate. If the disease now takes on the non-ulcerative form, the mass begins to contract, and finally disappears, leaving a dense, white cicatrix, around which may be an ' apple-jelly' ridge of advancing disease. If, on the other hand, the tubercle is about to ulcerate, it becomes pale and soft, the epithelium over it disappears, and it eventually bursts, discharging a caseous material and leaving a sharply defined ulcer with raised edges and a foul, unhealthy surface. This sore may gradually extend both superficially and also deeply into the tissues, destroying the alje of the nose, but rarely attacking the bones. In this way it may produce the most hideous deformity and may last for years. It, however, in no way affects the general health ; the patient may be robust, florid, and in all other respects perfectly healthy. In old-standing cases it may sometimes become epitheliomatous. The only difficulty in the diagnosis is that it may be mistaken for tertiary syphilitic ulceration, but the age at which it began, the history of the case, and the absence of any other signs of syphilis, are generally sufficient to indicate the nature of the disease. Treatment.—Local measures must be principally relied upon in the treatment of simple lupus, but these are not always successful, and relapses are very apt to occur, as it is exceedingly difficult to eradicate the whole of the infiltration. Hence the great importance of recognising early and treating vigorously every patch of lupus. The modes by which the disease may be eradicated are excision, scraping, the actual cautery, and caustics. Of these excision is by far the best and most radical, but can only be applied in those cases where the disease is recognised in its early stage, and is therefore limited in extent. In most cases recourse must be had to scraping, and this should be done very thoroughly with a sharp spoon. The combination of the actual cautery with this is generally of advantage, and it is wise to touch the whole of the excavated surface with a fine-pointed cautery. Caustics are not so reliable; when weak they do T