446 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES c. Separation of the great trochanter 1ms been described as occurring without any fracture of the siiaft or neck of the bone. Probably, as most of the cases occurred in young persons, they were instances of dis- union of the epiphysis, which is an injury that has been demonstrated b\ post-mortem examination. It is the result of direct violence, and the de- tached process is drawn upwards and backwards by the external' rotators and the gluteus mediusand minimus. The trochanter can be felt as a movable boss of bone in its new position, and by pushing it down crepitus can sometimes be felt. There is no shortening and no impairment of the movements of the hip joint. Usually there is considerable bruising and swelling from the direct violence. There is great difficulty in getting the fragment into its proper position and retaining it there. Attempts have been made to do this by means of compresses and bandages, but have not been successful, the patient recovering with permanent lameness. It would seem justifiable in these cases to resort to operation, and wire or peo- the bone into position. d. Fracture through the great trochanter.—This fracture was described by Su- Astley Cooper as 'oblique fracture through the trochanter major, without implicating the neck of the bone.' The fracture usually runs from the base of the lesser trochanter upwards and outwards to the base of the great trochanter, so that this process of bone, the neck, and the head, are separated from the shaft, and the fracture is entirely extra-capsular. The displacement is confined principally to the lower fragment, which is drawn upwards and backwards by the gluteus maximus and forms a prominence which can be felt on the buttock. The symptoms resemble those of extra-capsular fracture, but it can be differentiated from this injury by the presence of the prominence on the buttock, and by the fact that ' the upper part of the trochanter does not obey the motions of the lower and of the shaft of the bone' (Sir A. Cooper). The treatment is the same as that recommended for extra-capsular fracture. e. Separation of the epiphysis of the head of the femur is said to occur in rare instances, but the lesion has never, I believe, been verified by post-mortem examination. The symptoms are the same as those of fracture of the neck of the bone, but they occur in children, and the crepitus, if any exists, is of a soft character, and differs from the bony crepitus which would be present if fracture of the neck occurred in a young person. 2. Fractures of the shaft of the femur.—The shaft of the femur may be fractured at any part of its course, but most frequently somewhere near its centre, in the middle third. Fractures in the lower third, generally the result of direct violence, are more common than fractures in the upper third, which are almost always produced by indirect force. Fractures in the middle third may be either caused by direct or indirect violence, or by muscular action. The fracture may be oblique, transverse, longitudinal, or spiral. The oblique is the most common, and is the result of indirect violence. The transverse most frequently occurs in children. The displacement which takes place depends to a great extent on the direction of the line of the fracture; but for the most part the lower fragment is displaced behind the upper and is drawn upwards by the hamstring muscles, so that there is considerable shortening. In the upper third of the bone the upper fragment is drawn forwards by the ilio-psoas and rotated outwards by the external rotators, and the lower fragment is drawn upwards by the hamstring muscles behind the upper.