877 RICHTER'S HERNIA subcutaneous tissue. If the patient survives, the skin_ becomes black, .rives way and the feeces are discharged through the openmg. In this way, m rare instances, a patient may survive a strangulated hernia. Strangulated omental hernia—An epiplocele may become stran-nilated, and may produce symptoms which cannot be distinguished from^strangulated gut, though this is denied by some, who say that you do not ^et any symptoms if a piece of omentum is tied, and therefore there is no reason to suppose that you should get them when a piece of omentum is strangled by a' band. They account for the symptoms which are undoubtedly set up in several ways ; to a small knuckle of intestine bemg strangulated as well as the omentum, or to obstruction due to dragging on the colon, or to peritonitis. The two conditions are, however, not the same When a portion of omentum is tied by a Hgature, it is tied so ti<rhtly that it is at once killed; whereas a piece of strangulated omentum in a hernia sac is only partially strangled, and the cause of the symptoms may be the irritation of the nerves of the strangulated omentum being reflected to the intestines. In most cases of strangulated omentum the general symptoms are not nearly so severe as when the gut is strangled. The constitutional depression is not so great; the vomiting is not so urgent or persistent, and the constipation may not be so complete. The local signs are also somewhat vague; there is usually a doughy swelling, which is painful on handling, but has not the same degree of tension which is present in a strangulation of the intestine. The symptoms may persist for some time, and eventually terminate in general peritonitis; or, in consequence of the dragging on the bowel, some kinking may take place, and complete obstruction ensue. Rlchter's hernia.—When a part only of the cahbre of the gut is impUcated the name of Richter's her7iia is given to the condition (fig. 341). In these cases the lumen of the bowel is not completely occluded, and owing to this circumstance the symptoms are not usually quite so marked. The most frequent variety of hernia in which this condition is found is femoral hernia, though it does occur in the inguinal variety. It is nearly always the lower part of the ileum which is the portion of the bowel iri- volved. The amount of the intestine which is strangled varies, but 'in the majority of cases it is less than one-half, and in these cases the obstruction is not usually complete; but if more than half the bowel is involved, the acute bend in the tube which it causes entirely pre- vents the passage of faeces and flatus, and there is complete obstruction. Vomiting usually sets in early in these cases, but it is not so severe nor so frequent as in the ordinary form of strangulation. It rarely becomes stercoraceous. The tumour is of small size, but is always very painful. As a rule the constriction is very tight, and therefore gangrene in these cases _ sets in early, and death frequently occurs from perforative peritonitis. On account of the tightness of the stricture there is also great difficulty in reducing the hernia by taxis, so that on these grounds the percentage of mortality in Richter's hernia is very high. Treatment.—The object in treating strangulated hernia is to endeavour Fig. 341.—Richter's hernia. Diagrammatic.