252 GENERAL DISEASES In order to study the origin of cancer, let us take a single alveolus of a gland, §uch as the breast, which consists of a membrana ])ropriu lined with a single layer of epithelium. This epithelium increases and distends the alveolus, which enlarges and forms a closely packed cylinder, or column of cells, which invades the neighbouring tissues. As it does this the process or invading column becomes surrounded by a number of small round cells which infiltrate the tissues. These are probably, at all events in the first instance, migrated leucocytes, and under their phagocytic action the original structure disappears, and in its place a new connective tissue is formed, most likely from cells formed by a proliferation of the connective tissue cells of the part, as in the formation of ordinary scar tissue (see p. 17). This new connective tissue incloses the invading columns, and forms the stroma of the neoplasm ; so that in this way we have formed the essential structure of carcinoma (fig. 62)—a fibrous stroma forming loculi or spaces in which are contained epithelial cells, formed from pre-existing epithelium and being in fact greatly enlarged alveoli or ducts of secreting structures, with the walls of the alveoli formed of new tissue, and not, as was formerly supposed, of the remains of the old connective tissue of the part. It will be seen,' therefore, that cancers are not encapsuled, but infiltrate surrounding tissues and pass beyond the structures in which they originate, and these structures around the tumour, which very often appear to the naked eye to be natural, are already infiltrated with these advancing columns of epithelium. The column of cells, after the wall of the alveolus in which they were originally contained has been destroyed by the round cells, probably advance along the 13'mphatic spaces and vessels, and this may account for the early date at which the cancer, after its formation, invades the lymphatic glands. The glands first affected are the nearest set of glands receiving the lymphatics from the affected part, and these in some forms of cancer are very early enlarged, and for a time the enlargement seems to be confined to this set of glands, but presently glands more remote become affected, or the disease appears in other parts of the body. One of the most marked characteristics of cancer is its tendency to reproduce itself in distant parts, or, in other words, to form secondar)' growths. The manner in which this is brought about has been the subject of much controversy, but it is now pretty generally believed that it is by what is known as the ' implantation theory,' This is, that some of the cell's of the cancer become detached and find their way either into the lymphatic- or blood-vessels and by them are carried to distant parts, where they form minute emboli which become lodged in some suitable situation, and acting as grafts take root, grow and multiply and produce a secondary tumour, which is identical in structure with that from which it sprang. Thus, for instance, in a secondary tumour in the shaft of a long bone, the result of a carcinoma of the breast, we should find the spheroidal cells which are the characteristic of this form of cancer ; or, again, if the tumour were the result of rectal cancer, we should find the columnar cells of this form of the disease. A marked feature of carcinomata is their great tendency to undergo degenerative changes. This in the first instance consists in a'fatty change and commences in the centre of the growth, that part which is the oldest and farthest removed from the normal blood supply. Little dots of a yellowish colour and cheesy consistence appear on the surface of a section of the tumour, which are visible to the naked eye. If a microscopic examination is made, the cells will be found to contain and be obscured by