1144 AMPUTATIONS preferio ligature the femoral vessels jDrior to cutting them through, and thev then modify Furneaux Jordan's operation in a manner which will be described in the sequel. Jordan Lloyd's method of controlling the haemorrhage is by means, of an elastic compressor. The limb is emptied of blood bv vertical elevation for a few minutes, and then a piece of elastic bandage is applied. The bandage must be very strong, so as to require the full strength of the surgeon to stretch it to double its length, and must be at least two yards long. A firm rib-roller is laid vertically over the femoral artery as it crosses the pubic bone, and then the middle of the bandage is laid on it, and one end of it is carried under the crutch, so that it lies midway between the tuber ischii and the anus, and is brought up under the buttock ; the other end is carried outwards over the anterior superior spine, and the two ends are drawn steadily upwards and outwards by an assistant to a point about the middle of the crest of the ilium, with sufficient tightness to arrest the circulation of the vessels below. The other plans of controlling the hEemorrhage can only be briefly alluded to (I) Lord Lister's tourniquet (fig. 97) is reliable, but involves a danger of bruising the intestine or mesentery, and sometimes interferes with the respiration. (2) Davy's lever is also not devoid of danger. It consists of a gum- elastic cylinder, which is introduced into the rectum until it lies across the common iliac artery of the side to be operated on. Up the cylinder is now passed an ebony rod with a handle. By raising this handle, the extremity of the cylinder is depressed and compresses the vessel, arresting the circulation of blood through it. (3) The abdominal aorta may be compressed by placing a large pad, the size and shape of an ordinary pin-cushion, over the vessel, and underneath the loins a board which projects on either side. A broad elastic bandage is then laid over the pad, and being stretched so as to force it down on to the aorta, is turned two or three times round the board so as to hold the bandage taut. The apparatus is cumbersome, and the projecting board is in the way of the surgeon and his assistants. (4) The abdominal aorta or the common femoral may be compressed by a trustworthy assistant in the following manner. An assistant stands on the left side of the patient on a high stool, so that the knee joint is about on a level with the operating table, and with his right side against the table. He then places the closed fist of his right hand on the patient's abdomen, so that the knuckle of the index finger is just above and to the left of the umbilicus, and standing on his left foot, with the right leg crossing in front of the left, he leans by means of the closed fist on the patient's abdomen, and can exert sufficient pressure to entirely arrest the flow of blood through the aorta without any great amount of fatigue, and for any length of time which may be required. This plan is strongly advocated by Macewen, but it possesses the same disadvantage as the others, that it tends to embarrass the breathing ; and if the patient happens to make any violent expiratory effort, such as vomiting or coughing, the hand is temporarily raised from the vessel. Compression of the common femoral by the fingers, aided by a padded key, is not very reliable, though it may be employed in children. (5) Wyeth, of New York, has recently introduced a 'bloodless method' of amputating at the hip. He renders the limb ex- sanguine by elevation or by Esmarch's bandage, and then encircles the thigh close to the pelvis by an elastic cord half an inch in diameter, which is made to pass round five or six times. This cord is prevented from slipping by the introduction through the tissues of stout steel needles : one inserted for three inches into the tissues immediately below the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; the other on the inner side of the thigh, through the adductor muscles, and passing from the inner side of the saphenous opening to emerge an inch below the tuber ischii. Furneaux Jordan's amputation (fig. 436).—The patient is brought to the end of the table, so that the pelvis rests on the extreme edge, and the circulation is controlled by Jordan Lloyd's plan. The surgeon, standing on the outside of the limb to be amputated, makes a circular sweep through the skin