863 CAUSES OF HERNIA yount^ male infants, and this arises from two causes ; first, because'the funi- cular" process may not be closed, and thus a congenital hernia, riiay be produced; and secondly, because a congenital phimosis may exist, and the constant straining to pass water may cause the protrusion of the gut. Except in infants, herniai do not frequently make their appearance for the first time till about the age of fourteen or sixteen, when on account of structural altera- tions attending puberty and more active exercise and employment, hernia becomes more common and continues to increase in frequency during the whole of the active period of life up to about fifty. After this, especially in women, hernia becomes less frequent. {0) Sex. Hernia is very much more common in men than in women. It has been estimated that four or five men suffer from hernia to one woman. This no doubt is to be accounted for to a certain extent by the more active employments in which men are engaged, but still more to the large size and greater patency of the inguinal canal in males, which renders inguinal hernia exceedingly common in males, whereas in females after puberty it is not common, and after the age of forty is very rare. In female children the inguinal is the common form of rupture in the groin, femoral being almost unknown. U) Heredity does not appear to be a very potent agent in the production of hernia, though, according to Mr. Macready, it ought to be recognised as one of the predisposing causes, {d) Structural defects. Considerable attention has been bestowed upon the length of the mesentery as one of the predisposing causes of hernia. It has been found that after death in a healthy adult the mesentery is not sufficiently long to allow of a piece of small intestine being dragged through the inguinal canal or the femoral ring; it has therefore been supposed that there must be some elongation of this structure Avhich acts as a predisposing cause; but at present all that can be said is that this is merely a supposition, ancl that nothing can be definitely stated on the subject. Mr. Lockwood believes that the point of attachment of the mesentery to the bodies of the vertebrse may become shifted lower down, and that this ' prolapse' of the mesentery may be a predisposing cause of hernia. Other structural defects which may predispose to hernia are deficiencies of development, such as those already alluded to as giving rise to congenital hernia; namely, a patent or partially patent funicular process of the tunica vaginalis or a patent canal of Nuck, and in addition to these a deficiency at the umbilicus, giving rise to con- genital umbilical hernia, {e) A relaxed co?idition of the abdominal muscles, occurring after severe illness, accompanied by rapid wasting, or after pregnancy, may be a predisposing cause of hernia, as also may be any injury which weakens one particular spot of the abdominal wall, such as wounds, ruptured muscle, or abscess. (/) Occupation must be ranked among the predisposing causes of hernia. All occupations involving severe muscular exertion, especially if undertaken in a stooping position, as lifting heavy weights, are likely to produce a hernia, and this is especially probable if the workman, as is so frequently the case, wears a tight belt or band round his belly, {g) Finally, it must be stated that hernia is more common on the right side of the body. This is accounted for in several ways : by the greater amount of exertion to which the right side of the body is sub- jected in right-handed people ; from the presence of the large glandular organ, the liver, on the right side, and from the inclination of the mesentery to the right iliac fossa. 2. Exciting causes.—The exciting cause of hernia is anything which compresses the abdominal contents, so as to squeeze them out of the