SEPARATION OF THE LOWER EPIPHYSIS 451 . Fractures of the lower extremity of the femur are almost always the result of direct violence, and very much resemble m then- direction the fractures described as occurring in the lower extremity ot the humerus. They may be : (a) Transverse fracture above the condyles (supra-condyloid); (i) T-shaped fracture; (c) oblique fracture through either condylelongitudinal or spiral fracture; (e) separation of the ^^P^P;^>^^-g^^j,gg fracture above the condyles -This fracture very much resembles fracture in the lower third of the shaft of the bone already described. The displacement is the same, the lower fragment being flexed on the tibia by the action of the gastrocnemius, and being dra\ni upwards by the rectus in front and the hamstrings behind. 1 here is considerable shortening, and the lower end of the upper fragment can be felt prominently in front of the thigh and the lower fragment in the popliteal space. The femoral artery, as it becomes pophteal, is in danger of being injured in this fracture, or the popliteal artery may be pressed upon by the lower fragment, and the circulation of blood through it inter- fered with. . J, ^ k The T-shaped fracture is where there is a transverse fracture above the condyles and a vertical one between them. Occasionally the fracture may be more V-shaped, two oblique fissures running from the inter-condyloid notch, the one upwards and outwards, the other upwards and inwards. The symptoms of these fractures resemble the supra-condy- loid fracture, but there is increased breadth between the condyles, and the joint will be full of fluid. The treatment of these fractures is best conducted by means ot the double inclined plane, but they may also be treated by extension with the long splint, if the tendo Achillis is first subcutaneously divided, so as to paralyse the action of the gastrocnemius. c. Oblique fracture, separating one or the other condyle. In these cases there is no shortening, but the condyle is displaced upwards and the leg deflected to the injured side. The fragment can_ be felt to be dis- placed, can be moved from side to side, and crepitus is easily felt. The joint is distended with fluid. Treatment.—When the limb is straightened, the fragment is drawn downwards into position, and the retention of the limb on a straight splint will retain it there. d. Longitudinal or spiral fissures of the lower end of the femur, running upwards from the joint, may be produced by falls on the feet or knees. There is usually little or no displacement, but there is effusion of blood into the joint, and pain is complained of. Sometimes a grating may be felt upon moving the pateUa from side to side over the fractured surface. In all these fractures, especially those which implicate the joint, there is a great probability of stiff"ness resulting ; treatment by massage and early passive motion is especially indicated. e. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the femur. This is not an uncommon accident in young people. The symptoms are much the same as those of transverse fracture of the lower end of the bone, except that the crepitus is less distinct or absent. They are to be treated in the same way as this fracture. G G 2