13 FATE OF MIGRATED LEUCOCYTES from the vessels, as well as the red corpuscles ; it then contracts and squeezes out the serum, just as an ordinary clot does when blood has been drawn from the body, and thus becomes firmer and forms 'lymph,' the material which glues together the cut surfaces of wounds, and which may be seen on the surfaces of inflamed serous membranes. _ Thus far, in describing the phenomena of inflammation, we have arrived at a stage in which the tissues of the inflamed area are infiltrated with a solid material which consists of leucocytes, with a varying propor- tion of red corpuscles, held together in the meshes of the coagulated fluid constituents of the blood. Around this area the lymph spaces are dis- tended with the serum which has been squeezed out of the clot during its contraction, and is finding its way back into the circulation. It follows, therefore, that around the inflamed area there is always a greater or less amount of oedema where the tissues are infiltrated with this fluid. Before we pass on to consider the further changes in the clot which has thus been formed, it is necessary to allude for a moment to the manner in which the coagulation takes place, as this has a bearing on the fate of some of the emigrated leucocytes. It is as follows : the fluid exudation is rich in fibrinogen, a proteid of the globulin class ; this is acted upon by a special unorganised ferment, called fibrin ferment, one of the products of the disintegration of some of the emigrated leucocytes, which have become disintegrated as a natural consequence of their having come in contact with foreign matter after they have left the vessels ; as a result of this the fibrinogen molecule is split into two parts : one part is a globulin, which remains in solution ; the other is the insoluble material fibrin, which appears as a meshwork of fine fibrils, entangling and enclosing within itself the blood corpuscles. Fate of the Migrated Leucocytes.—Physiologists now describe several varieties of leucocytes as found in the human blood, but it will be sufiicient for our purpose if we allude to the two principal varieties: one of these contains a considerable number of coarse granules, and is known as the eosinophik cell, from its staining with an acid aniline dye (eosin); the other is paler and less granular, and contains several nuclei united by fine threads ; these are the nei/trophile cells, so called from their reaction with neutral aniline dyes. It is important to bear this fact in mind, for, as we have now to explain, there are two distinct and separate functions which the emigrated leucocytes have to perform, and it would seem probable that the one duty is performed by the one variety of leucocyte, the other duty by the other. The first function after migration which the leucocytes have to perform has just been alluded to : it is by their disintegration to set free the fibrin ferment and so induce coagulation of the exudation. This ferment does not exist in healthy blood contained in healthy blood-vessels, but as soon as the leucocytes leave the vessels and are thus brought into contact with foreign matter their disintegration is the natural result, and as one of the products of this disintegration fibrin ferment is formed. But all the leucocytes which migrate from the vessels do not disintegrate, and it would appear that it is some special variety which undergoes this process. The other variety of leucocyte—that is to say, those which do not disintegrate—remain unchanged and permeate in every direction the damaged area; this they do by their amoeboid movements. But it is to be noted that they confine themselves to the damaged area, and do not stray beyond it. The explanation of this is twofold : they may confine them- selves to the damaged area because there is less resistance here than