289 HEAT IN H^:M0RRHAGE circulation through the vasa vasorum in the distal end has been interfered with by the division of the artery. In cases where an artery is partially divided, the method of repair is somewhat different. The temporary clot is formed by blood becoming extravasated into the sheath around the wound in the artery ; this blood coagulates, presses on the wound in the vessel and occludes it, and arrests the flow of blood. A small layer of clot also forms internally over the inner surface of the wound, and if this is small may act as a framework in which connective tissue is formed by proliferation of the endothelial cells, and a cicatrix is formed in the wall of the vessel without obliterating it. When this occurs, the scar, being exposed to the full force of the blood pressure whilst it is yet immature, is liable to yield, and to form an aneurism. What generally happens is that the clot which forms inside the vessel goes on increasing, until it occludes it, opposite the seat of injur}^, and when this occurs, the formation of the vascular connective tissue is precisely the same as in a divided artery, and the vessel at this point becomes converted into a fibro-cellular cord. This is not, however, the case with a partially divided vein; here there is not the same tendency to obliteration of the vessel, but the wound heals without closure of the tube. When a vein is divided completely across, the permanent healing is identically the same as occurs in an artery. Surgical means of arresting haemorrhage.—When a sur- geon is called to a case of haemorrhage, his first care must be to temporarily arrest the flow of blood. When there is an open wound, and the bleeding comes from a definite point, as when one large vessel is wounded, this can be done by pressure, with a finger on the spot. But if the bleeding does not come from a definite point, and seems to well up from the deeper parts of the wound, a soft sponge introduced and maintained in the wound by the firm pressure of the hand will momen- tarily restrain the haemorrhage until further measures can be taken. If the bleeding is at all free, it is better to apply a tourniquet, if the wound is in one of the extremities, or to get an assistant to compress the main artery on the cardiac side of the wound, while preparations are being made to apply means for permanently arresting the bleeding. These means we have now to consider. They are numerous, and may be tabulated as follows : (i) application of cold; (2) appHcation of heat; (3) styptics; (4) actual cautery; (5) pressure; (6) forcipressure ; (7) acupressure; (8) flexion ; (9) torsion ; (10) ligature. 1. Application of cold.—The application of cold is a useful means of arresting general oozing from a wound. It acts by causing contraction of the muscular coat of the blood-vessels, and therefore is of no avail in cases where they are partially divided. It may be appHed in several ways. The exposure of a wound to a draught of cold air will sometimes arrest the bleeding. P or instance, after excision of a tonsil, if the bleeding is free, placing the patient before an open window with his mouth wide open will often arrest haemorrhage, which while the mouth was shut showed no inclination to stop. A stream of cold water played over a wound will often cause all bleeding to cease; or if this does not succeed, the application of ice may prove efficient. This latter plan of treatment should not, however, be continued too long, for fear of gangrene. 2. The application of heat is a far more useful and valuable means of arresting haemorrhage than cold, as its effects are much more permanent. It acts in the same way by causing contraction of the u