io86 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the fibro-adenomatous tumour, which will next be described, so that it is only on microscopic examination that their true histological nature is ascertained. There is no reason to separate them clinically from the adeno-fibroma. b. Adeno-fibroma.—These tumours were formerly known as the chronic ma?nmary tumour^ and are now very often termed adenoid iiimours, which term would include the preceding group, from which they cannot be cHnically differentiated. The tumours form firm lobulated masses, of a greyish white colour, somewhat foliated in structure, surrounded by a capsule of fibrous tissue, which is imperfect at one spot, through which the vessels enter and by which they are connected to the rest of the gland structure. Microscopically they consist of small clusters of acini, lined by cubical epithelium, and surrounded by a considerable amount of firm con- nective tissue. The glandular spaces may retain their resemblance in shape to normal acini, but are more often flattened, slit-like cavities. In some cases the connective tissue between the acini is so considerable that the tumour appears to consist almost entirely of fibrous tissue ; but when examined microscopically it is found to contain glandular tissue. These tumours are believed by some to be true fibromata, and the acinous spaces lined with epithelium are regarded as merely the original gland structure, included in the developing fibrous tissue. The more general view is that these acinous spaces are of new formation, and that the glandular tissue plays an important part in the structure of these tumours, which are therefore regarded as adeno-fibromata. Symptoms.—These tumours generally occur in young women under the age of thirty, and are often associated with a neurotic temperament, and sometimes connected with some uterine irritation. They are often attributed to a slight blow, and this may be the exciting cause in some cases. A more probable cause appears to be that they are little isolated masses of embryonic tissue, which when the breast enlarges and undergoes more active life after puberty, are induced to take on active growth and develop into tumours. These tumours are generally single and occur only in one breast, generally superficially. They form a hard, smooth or slighdy nodulated lump, which is freely movable, but often attached to the rest of the gland tissue by a sort of pedicle. They can be pushed back into the gland tissue, and, on the other hand, when superficial, can be raised from the rest of the breast without causing any retraction of the nipple. They grow slowly, and often, after attaining a certain size, remain stationary. As a rule they are not painful, but sometimes in neurotic subjects they are the seat of intense neuralgic pain. The diagnosis from scirrhus can generally be made by noting the age of the patient, the better defined outline and greater mobility, the absence of any dimpling of the skin or retraction of the nipple, the non- implication of the axillary glands, and the slow growth of the tumour. From chronic mastitis they may be distinguished by their less intimate association with the gland tissue, and their greater mobility upon it. Treatment.—Though these tumours are innocent growths, and as a rule give rise to Httle inconvenience and annoyance, their removal _ should be advised, as their presence is always likely to prey upon the mind of the patient, from a fear of cancer, and because they may attain such a size as to produce actual deformity. They may be removed by a single incision radiating from the nipple, when they can usually be shelled out. To avoid the deformity of a scar, it has been proposed to raise the breast and make