640 INJURIES AND DISEASES OK SPECIAL ORGANS to farm a diamond-shaped wound, the edges of which are then sewn together (fig. 245). . , , , , ,. , Double hare-lip.—In cases of double hare-hp the treatment must differ as to whether the hare-Hp is simple, or whether it is complicated with clefts in the alveolus and projection forwards of the os incisivum. In the simpler cases the operation is to be conducted very much on the same principles as in single hare-lip. The outer edge of each cleft is pared, and the lateral borders" of the central portion, and the edges of the lateral portions, are attached to the central piece above and to each other below, so as to form a line of union in the shape of a Y. The lines of the incisions may be planned either on the method of Mirault, leaving a flap on either side (fig. 246), or on the method of Rose. Both plans give admirable results. ... • J- , J When there is a cleft in the alveolus, and the os incisivum is displaced, it is a debatable point whether this portion of bone should be removed or not. After having tried both the plan of retaining the bone and bending it back into position, and removing it, in a large number of cases, I have come to the conclusion that there are very few cases in which better results will not be obtained by removing it, and this for two reasons. The central portion rarely if ever becomes united to the rest of the bone, but remains as a weak, mobile fragment, in which the incisor teeth are stunted, and Fig. 246.—Operation for the cure of double hare-lip. usually displaced, so as to be useless for the purpose of biting; and secondly, because the replaced portion of bone prevents the edges of the cleft in the palate from approximating, which they would do otherwise, with the growth of the child, and so facilitate the future operation for the closure of the cleft palate. If the os incisivum is removed, as soon as the child has attained a sufficient age an artificial plate with incisor teeth can be adapted, with which he can bite, and by which the upper hp can be pushed forwards, and thus overcome the flatness which otherwise exists. In addition to this, there is a real danger, in forcing back the prominent bone, of fracturing the cribriform plate of the ethmoid by pushing up the nasal septum, to which the os incisivum is attached; so that if it is determined to retain this portion of bone, it should be replaced by cuttmg away a triangular piece of the nasal septum. Where it is determined to remove the bone, it should always be done a week or ten days before the operation for the cure of the hare-lip is undertaken. It can easily be snipped off with a pair of curved bone forceps, the superficial soft structures having first been separated from it. In doing this, an artery in the bone often bleeds freely, but usually stops with pressure, if a pledget ot lint pe held on it for a minute or two; if not, the application of a piece ot \vi_re heated to a dull red heat in a spirit lamp will at once effectually stop k. In these cases the nose is usually very much flattened, and care must uc