DISLOCATION OF THE WRIST forearm, though he can extend it. When this is done there will be seen to be a marked fulness in front of the lower end of the humerus, and the head of the radius can usually be defined in this position. On the back of the joint there is a hollow in the situation where the head of the radius ought to be. Dislocation backwards.—Here the head of the bone rests on the back of the external condyle (fig. 184). The forearm is sfightly flexed and maintained in a position of pronation. The head of the bone can be readily felt in its new position, just external to the olecranon. Dislocation outwards is a very rare form of injury. The head of the bone is displaced outwards and upwards outside the external condyle of the humerus. It can be easily detected in this situation under the skin, forming a rounded prominence which rotates on supinating and pronating the forearm. Treatment.—These various dislocations of the radius may be reduced in the same way. Counter extension is made by an assistant firmly grasp- ing the lower third of the arm. The surgeon seizes the patient's hand and makes steady ex- tension for a minute or two, and then, with his thumb on the head of the displaced bone, he suddenly flexes the forearm, at the same time pushing the head of the bone back into its place. Sub-luxation of the head of the radius.—It is necessary to allude in this place to a peculiar injury to the elbow joint which sometimes occurs in young children, and is popularly known under the name of pulled elbow. It appears almost always to originate in the same way, viz. by lifting a child from the ground by the hand or forearm. The fore- arm becomes fixed in a position of semiflexion and midway between supination and pronation, and the child cries out with pain if any attempt is made to alter this position. The condition has been described by J. Hutchinson, jun., and others, who believe that the head of the radius has been displaced downwards in the orbicular ligament, the upper border of which becomes folded over the head, between it and the capi- tellum of the humerus. The condition may be rectified by placing the child under an an- sesthetic and forcibly flexing and extending the limb' two or three times. Dislocation of the wrist is an accident of very rare occurrence. The carpus may be displaced forwards or backwards, the latter being the more common of the two (fig. 185). The deformity produced somewhat resembles Colles's fracture, but the position of the styloid processes and their relation to each other at once establishes the diagnosis (see page 439). These^dislocations can usually easily be reduced by extension. Dislocation of the radius from the ulna may occur at the inferior radio-ulnar joint from violent twists. The radius may be displaced either backwards or forwards. The lesion can be easily recognised by the deformity, and there is generally no difficulty in effecting reduction. Fig. 185. —Dislocation of ihe carpus backwards, with fracture. The scaphoid is broken transversely ; its upper half, together with the semilunar, remains in connection with the radius. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)