263 ACTINOMYCOSIS adventitious capsule without drainage, and this plan has been largely adopted by Australian suigeons in cases of nitra-abdommal hydatid tumours, with a considerable proportion of success. In cases of hydatid of the lung it would appear to be still desirable to adopt the old method of incision and drainage. ACTINOMYCOSIS Actinomycosis is a parasitic disease caused by the invasion of the tissues by a microscopic fungus, the adinomyces. The disease occurs both in man and animals, and by'some is considered to be transferred from the latter to the former, but there is no direct evidence of this. In man the commonest seat of infection is the alimentary canal and especially the mouth, but it may also occur as a primary disease in the respiratory tract. There is a considerable amount of evidence to prove that the fungus is contained in corn and barley, and that the disease arises from chewing these, and that man and animals are infected in the same way, from some shght abrasion of the mucous membrane through which the fungus effects an entrance. Symptoms.—The introduction of the fungus is followed by the forma- tion of a hard swelling, of an inflammatory nature, generally about the jaws or mouth; this enlarges and invades all the tissues in the neighbourhood. After a time it gradually softens and breaks down : the skin over it becomes dusky red, and it eventually bursts^ and gives exit to a thin slimy pus, in which yellowish particles, like grains of sand, may be distinguished. This opening forms a fistula which does not heal. The tendency of the disease is to spread and form numerous fistulous openings. The condition presents some resemblance to tuberculosis, but the diagnosis may be made by a microscopic examination of the yellow particles. When the disease attacks the jaws, it slowly creeps around them, and then infiltrates neighbouring structures, the cheek, the parotid, and submaxillary region, and prevents the patient from opening the mouth, little pain or constitutional disturbance. The disease may appear in any part of the body as the result of secondary embolic deposits. It is essen- tially chronic in its nature, but usually terminates fatally from exhaustion or lardaceous disease. The fungus, which is sometimes known as the Ray fungus, is to be found in the discharge from the sinuses; in the inflammatory tissues which constitute the swelling; in the faeces, where the alimentary canal is affected ; or in the urine, where the kidneys are involved. It consists of a yellowish body of a round or mulberry shape, which is visible to the naked eye. Examined under the microscope it presents a very characteristic appearance, resembling a rosette (fig. 7°)- I" the centre of each ray fungus is a mass of interwoven threads, contained in a hollow capsule, which is deficient at one point, and through this some of the threads pass out into the surrounding tissue. Around this central body, w-hich is called the conidiophore, radiating in all directions are a series of club-shaped processes or rods, which are named conidia, which resemble the spokes ot a Fig. 70 Section of Actinomyces granule. There is usually but