COMPLICATIONS DURING TREATMENT 4'9 that nothing but removal can be of any use ; but there are others in which the question of removal of the limb is a very doubtful one, and a most serious and anxious one for the surgeon to decide. Certam complications are often siven as indications of the necessity for amputation, such as excessive laceration of the soft parts around; extensive comminution and denudation of the bone ; injury to the main vessels or J^f ^ht limb ; and the implication of a large joint; but none of these condition alone can be properly regarded as a necessity for amputation, and ever case must be judged on its own merits, attention being given to the age and general condition of the patient; to the presence of any visceral disease, especially disease of the eliminatory organs ; and to the probable service that the limb is likely to be to the patient if it is preserved If it is determined to make an attempt to save the limb, the hrst ana most important point is to render the wound aseptic, and infinite pams should be bestowed by the surgeon in order to bring this about Ihere should be no hesitation on his part in enlarging the wound, and freely expos- ing the parts. It should then be thoroughly washed out with a strong antiseptic solution (carbolic acid i in 20, or corrosive sublimate i m 1.°°°)' and, if the tissues are engrained with dirt, well scrubbed with a nail-brush Anv loose fragments of bone should be picked out with forceps ; and all bleeding vessels should be secured. The broken ends are now to be placed in position, and if there is no comminution, and especially it the fracture is oblique, should be wired together, but if there is extensive comminution this cannot be done; the fragments which are still con- nected by periosteum should be placed in position as far as possible. Drainage must be provided for. A good-sized drainage tube should be inserted in the most dependent part of the wound, or if necessary a counter opening must be made, and the original wound closed by sutures, unless the edges are so much bruised as to render union by first intention im- possible. The wound is then dressed and put up in splints, preferably of such a nature that the wound can be redressed when required, without removing the limb from the splints. Complications during treatment.—During the treatment of fractures various complications may arise; these may be either local or general, or there may be special complications in compound fractures. 1 he principal local complications are: (i) oedema, (2) sloughing, (3) gangrene, and (4) spasm. , I. (Edema and swelling occur more or less in almost every fracture as the direct result of the injury, but soon subside if the parts are kept at rest and slightly raised, and more particularly if massage is employed. If, however, they persist, it may be from too tight bandaging, or from allowing the limb to remain in a dependent position. Occasionally the swelling is ac- companied by the formation of large bullae on the surface filled with bloody serum. In addition to this there is sometimes present a condition of solid oedema, which is most persistent, and is due to thrombosis; this, commencing in the veins in the neighbourhood of the injury, spreads from vein to vein till a considerable number of the vessels of the limb become blocked. In these cases there is some fear of a clot becoming displaced, and pulmonary embolism occurring, but happily this is very uncommon. In the treat- ment of fjedema in the early stage nothing requires to be done but keep the parts at rest and elevated. If it arises from too tight bandaging the bandages must be loosened, and evaporating lotions applied. Bloody bulte should be pricked, and the fluid allowed to drain away. In the solid oedema K V. 2