iio8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS forms of congenital deformity are supernumerary fingers or absence of one or more digits. The supernumerary fingers are usually either a second little finger or a second thumb, most commonly the former. The addi- tional organ may be simply a little tag of skin, or may be a completely developed digit. In most cases the metacarpal bone is single, and two sets of phalanges spring from the one bone. The treatment consists in removing the supernumerary finger. One or more fingers may be absent. In its extreme form only the thumb and little finger may be present, and a similar condition may be present in 'the feet. The accompanying illustration, which was taken from a patient in St. George's Hospital many years ago, when I was Surgical Registrar, is a good illustration of this variety of deformity (fig. 411). Club hand.—A similar deformity to club foot is occasionally, but rarely, found in the hand. The hand is usually rolled up into a ball in a condition of hyperflexion ; but an opposite condition may be met with : the hand and fingers are over extended, and conjoined with this there is usually a certain amount of abduction or adduction. These cases are usually complicated with an imperfect development of the radius; either its lower extremity may be undeveloped, or there may be an absence of the whole bone. Web fingers {syndactylism) is perhaps the most common congenital deformity of the hand. This consists in a union of two or more fingers by a fold or web of skin. In most cases this cutaneous fold is thick, so as to make the two fingers look like one. Sometimes it is thin and translucent, and the two fingers are clearly distinguishable from each other. Some- times the union is confined to two fingers, sometimes it affects three, and at others all four fingers are joined together in this way. It may also vary in extent : sometimes it extends the whole length of the fingers, at others it may be a half or a third of their length, and in other cases the normal fold of the skin between the fingers is only slightly exaggerated. The treatment is not always satis- factory. If the web is simply divided, reunion is certain to take place from cicatrisation spreading upwards from the angle formed by the divided surfaces. Some means must be taken to prevent ■ this. The simplest plan is to insert a thick silver wire through the web at the point where the webbing commences, and then to twist it round the finger and leave it in situ until the perforation is soundly healed ; the rest of the web can then be divided without any fear of reunion taking place. The points in this proceeding to bear in mind are to keep the parts aseptic and the ring of silver wire motionless until cicatrisa- tion of the perforation has taken place ; with these precautions success uu generally attend this plan. If it should fail, Zeller's operation ^vlll gen^raU) succeed. It consists in raising small triangular flaps from between the Fig. 412.—Zeller's operation for web fingers.