CATHETERISM lOOI and is registered on a dial fixed to the handle, but for all practical purposes the size can be gauged with sufficient accuracy by using a graduating series of instruments. Harrison recommends for the exploration of a stricture a flexible conical bougie, about twenty inches in length, commencing with a fine probe-ended extremity, which gradually expands in the opposite direction. This coils up in the bladder as it is passed, and by this means the degree of contraction can be ascertained. Occasionally it will be found that the smallest sized catheter cannot be introduced. Under these circumstances a fine catgut bougie may be tried, which will sometimes find its way through a tortuous stricture when all other instruments have failed ; but should this fail, the patient should be placed in bed for two or three days and be kept on somewhat low diet, ordered a dose of sulphate of magnesia every morning, and a hot bath each night. At the end of this time a second attempt may be made under an anaesthetic. In passing a metal instrument the surgeon should stand on the left side of the patient, who should be lying flat and perfectly straight on a bed. This leaves the left hand of the operator free to hold up the penis, to guide the point of the catheter in the perineum, or even, if necessary, to pass the forefinger into the rectum, as a guide to the passage of the instrument. The patient's abdomen should be uncovered, so as to expose the umbilicus, which is a useful guide to the surgeon in passing the instrument. The catheter should be well warmed and oiled with some antiseptic oil. Lund's oil is perhaps as good as any. It is composed of olive oil, 15 parts, castor oil 4 parts, and carbolic acid i part. The penis being directed towards the left groin, and held between the forefinger and thumb of the operator, the point of the catheter is introduced into the meatus and allowed to find its way, principally by its own weight assisted by a little pressure from the hand of the surgeon, into the perineum. . As this is being done the penis and catheter are made to describe a segment of a horizontal circle inwards, so that by the time the point of the catheter has reached the perineum, the handle is in a line with the umbilicus. Still continuing its passage onwards, the handle of the catheter is raised from the body of the patient until it is vertical, and then finally is depressed between the patient's thighs, as the point, finding its way under the arch of the pubes, enters the bladder. No force is required, and the catheter finds its way along the urethra mainly by its own weight. Occasionally in a sensitive urethra, a certain amount of spasm may be set up and the onward pro- gress of the catheter is arrested. If this takes place, it is better to wait for a minute or two and make no further efforts until the spasm has passed off". In passing a soft, flexible catheter without a stilette, it is only necessary to pass the instrument straight onwards, with a little rotatory movement, until it reaches the bladder. It will find its own way under the arch of the pubes. It is better to elongate the penis with the forefinger and thumb, so as to tense the mucous membrane, and prevent the point of the catheter hitching against any fold. In making this exploration of a stricture it must always be borne in mind that the passage of an instrument, especially for the first time, in a patient with a stricture whose kidneys are presumably not in as healthy a condition as could be wished, is always a serious matter. It should never be done in the consulting room of the surgeon, but the patient should be in bed, and should be enjoined to remain there for the rest of the day, well covered up with blankets, for fear a rise of temperature, and perhaps a