731 DISEASES OF THE PAROTID of the larynx separated from the upper ring of the trachea. A few touches here and there with the point of the knife will now effect its removal. When this operation is performed the chances of recovery are far greater than in excision of the whole larynx, and the after condition is much more satisfactory, the patient being able to swallow easily and speak distinctly though perhaps hoarsely, without artificial aid. (3) If both sides of the larynx are involved and the cartilages implicated, the only resource of the surgeon is complete extirpation of the larynx. It is a question whether this operation is ever justifiable for epithelioma, though it may be for sarcoma. It is a proceeding of great severity, entailing a large amount of shock, and is especially liable to be followed by sepsis, and the after condition of the patient is one of great misery, often necessitating his being fed by means of a tube, on account of the ability to swallow being lost, and requiring the wearing of an artificial instrument in order to enable him to make any intelligible articulate sounds. In cases where no radical operation for the removal of the disease can be performed, tracheotomy will be required sooner or later, and usually gives great ease and comfort to the patient. DISEASES OF THE PAROTID GLAND Parotitis, or Inflammation of the Parotid Gland, is met witfh in several different forms. 1. Specific parotitis {nmmps) is an infective inflammation, due to a specific cause. It occurs especially in children, is of a very contagious character, has a distinct period of incubation, is generally epidemic, and one attack usually renders the patient immune from further infection. The period of incubation is generally three weeks, though cases have been known to occur where it is only a fortnight. It usually attacks one gland, though in some cases both may be affected. It runs a definite course, and subsides in a week or ten days without suppuration. In a certain number of cases, probably about two or three per cent., a'metastasis takes place, and in males inflammation of the testicle is set up, and more rarely, in females, inflammation of the ovary or breast. When the ovaries become affected, the patient, during the subsidence of the mumps, com- plains of pain in the region of these organs, and if a vaginal examination is made, the ovary or ovaries will be felt "to be enlarged and tender. Symptoms.—The attack commences with a certain amount of febrile disturbance, accompanied by swelling of one or both parotid glands. The swelling is firm and tense, and extends from the zygoma to the angle of the jaw. The socia parotidis can generally be differentiated, swollen, hard and tender, lying on the masseter muscle. Great pain is often complained of on account of tension of the fibrous structures covering the gland, and mastication becomes difficult and extremely painful. The lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood are sometimes enlarged, and suppuration may occur in them. In those cases in which orchitis is secondarily set up, atrophy of the testicle may follow. The treatment consists in keeping the patient in a warm, equable atmosphere ; administering a brisk purge, and keeping him on slop diet. Hot fomentations applied to the part materially relieve the pain. 2. Parotitis after injury of the abdominal or pelvic Yiscera.—Inflammation of the parotid gland not infrequently follows