545 TUBERCULOUS SYNOVITIS the tissues that they form a suitable nidus for the development and growth of the tubercle bacilli, which, carried by the blood, become deposited in the membrane and there grow and multiply, and produce a series of degenerative changes which constitute the disease. These changes are the result of an inflammation set up in the synovial membrane by the presence of this particular organism. The membrane becomes thickened, pulpy, and more vascular, and on microscopic examination will be found to contain nodules consisting of a central ' giant cell' surrounded by epithelial cells, embedded in a mass of round cells, and thus constituting a true tuberculous nodule (fig. 193). As the disease advances the synovial membrane disappears, and is replaced by granulation tissue. This gradually invades the joint; it fills up its interstices and pouches, and creeps over the cartilages (fig. 194). The inflammatory changes extend to the capsule and ligaments, which in turn also become destroyed and converted into granulation tissue; so that now, if a section through the joint is made, the position of the synovial membrane will be found to be occupied by a soft Fig. 193.—Miliary tubercle of the synovial membrane, from a case of tuberculous arthritis. (From Holmes's ' Principles and Practice of Surgery.') pinkish-grey-coloured gelatinous material, sometimes an inch or more in thickness. If the processes of granulation tissue which can be seen spreading over the cartilage are examined a little more attentively, it will be found that at their distal extremity they are simply lying on the carti- lage ; a little farther back—that is to say, nearer to the point from which they sprang—they are adherent to the cartilage, and still farther back they have eaten into the cartilage and are gradually replacing it. As this process goes on, the granulation tissue eats through the whole thickness of the cartilage and perforates it. When this is accomplished, it begins to spread on its under surface between it and the bone. It thus cuts off the nutritive supply to the cartilage, and causes necrosis of the remains of the partially destroyed tissue. As the granulation tissue creeps along the under surface of the cartilage, it attacks the bones, and a condition of rarefying ostitis is set up, which may extend for a varying distance into the cancellous tissue of the ends of the bones forming the joint. In this way destruction of all the tissues entering into the formation of the joint takes place ; the parts in the neighbourhood become involved, and when N N