397 TUBERCU r.OUS TENO-SYNOVITIS Teno-synovitis aho occasionally occurs as a result of certain mfectiye conditions—scarlet.fever, gonorrluea, and in the secondary stage of sj'philis. Treatment—The inflammation usually subsides rapidly under the influence of rest. The part should be placed on a splint, and lead lotion and opium applied for a few days. Later on counter-irritation in the shape of blisters or mercurial ointment will promote absorption. If any impairment of movement in the tendon results from adhesions, passive movement must be employed. Suppurative teno-synovitis has been already mentioned under the head of Whitlow (page 159). It generally arises as a secondary infection of an infective cellulitis, but may also arise from direct septic infection of the synovial sheath, or from secondary infection in pyaemia &c. Chronic or tuberculous teno-synovitis—It is now generally believed that most, if indeed not all, of the cases of chronic teno-synovitis are tuberculous in their origin. All those cases which formerly were termed compound ganglion have been shown, mainly through the researches of Nicaise, to be of a tuberculous nature, as well as many other cases of chronic inflammation of these structures. Two forms of the disease are usually described: one in which there is thickening of the sheath, eff'usion into its interior, and the formation of melon-seed bodies; the other in which there is tuberculous infiltration of the synovial sheath, which goes on to caseation. The former of these two conditions consists in a chronic effusion into the sheath of a tendon without any manifest signs of inflammation. The sheath itself is thickened, and nodules of tubercle can be demonstrated microscopically in it. From its internal surface little smooth polished bodies, resembling in shape melon seeds, hang into the interior of the sheath in a pedunculated manner, while others are found lying loose in the sheath. Tuberculous nodules may occasionally be found also in these bodies, and it has been proved experimentally that they are capable of producing tuberculosis in the lower animals. In the other condition, which has been termed the fungating form of tuberculous teno-synovitis, the disease takes on the characters of tuberculous synovitis. The sheath becomes altered and converted into a mass of granulation tissue in which tuberculous nodules may be demonstrated. This under- goes caseation, breaks down, and forms a tuberculous abscess. Symptoms.—The first form of the disease, the so-called compound ganglion, occurs much more frequently about the sheaths of the flexor tendons at the wrist, when it is known as compound palmar ganglion. It may also occur in the sheaths of the tendons about the ankle joint. It forms a painless, indolent swelling, which may attain a considerable size. When it occurs in the flexor tendons of the forearm, it may form two swellings, one in the palm of the hand, and the other at the lower part of the front of the forearm, with a constriction at the anterior annular ligament, and the fluid can be forced from the one swelling to the other by pressure. When this is done an ill-defined crepitation will be felt, which is very characteristic and is due to the movements of the melon-seed bodies. The action of the muscles implicated is interfered with. In the fungating fo7-m there is an elongated pulpy swelling in the course of the affected sheath, which gradually softens, the skin over it become implicated and eventually gives way, and a discharge of curdy pus takes place. Treatment.—The com[)ound ganglion is to be treated by a free incision of the affected sheath, so as to evacuate the melon-seed bodies, which are lying loose in it, as well as the fluid. The interior is then to be thoroughly