964 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS exertion. They are found also in all febrile conditions which are associated with increased waste of the tissues of the body. Their habitual presence indicates disorder of the digestive or cutaneous functions. Uric acid is deposited in the form of crystals, which appear as small red o-rains in the urine, and may be likened to cayenne pepper. These crystals do not dissolve on the application of heat, but are readily soluble in weak solutions of potash or soda. Under the microscope they present several forms, the most common being smooth transparent rhombic plates and diamond-shaped acicular prisms (fig. 368). Golding Bird attributes the formation of uric acid deposits to the foUowmg causes: '(i) The waste of tissue being more rapid than the supply, as in fever, rheumatism, &c. ; (2) the supply of nitrogen in the food being greater than is required for'the reparation of the tissues, as in over-indulgence, especially in the use of animal food; (3) the process of digestion being insufficient to assimilate an ordinary and normal supply of food, as in dyspepsia; (4) obstruction to the cutaneous outlet for nitrogenous secretions, as met with in diseases Fig. 368.—Uric acid crystals. (From Erichsen's 'Surgery.') Fig. 369.—Crystals of oxalate of.lime. (From ' A System of Surgerj',' by Holmes and Hulke.) of the skin, variability of climate, cSjc.; (5) congestion of the kidneys from injury or disease.' . t • i K- Oxalate of lime is another common deposit in the urine, it is ciosei> allied to uric acid—oxalic acid being supposed to be derived from uric aciO by imperfect oxidation. Under the microscope it appears in two torras. as octohedral crystals and as dumb-bell crystals (fig. 369)- The cause ot oxalate of Hme in the urine is uncertain ; it occurs m cases where t"ere is indigestion, especially associated with the imperfect oxidation of the caroo- hydrates taken as food, or from taking too much fermented liquias. Certain articles of diet, as rhubarb, will also cause its presence in t'^e Xanthic oxide and cystic oxide, or cystine, are rarer forms ot deposu derived from the organic constituents of the urine. The latter c'^'^ny remarkable from containing a quantity of sulphur. It appears unoei microscope as six-sided prisms. The inorganic deposits are the phosphates and the carbonates, i nc phosphates are of three kinds : (i) l^he phosphate of ammonia and ">^£'^^^ (triple phosphate) is found in decomposing urine, and is not ^^^o^ '^^ ^ with any special constitutional condition. It appears in the term