1077 DISEASES OF THE NIPPLE pregnancy, without the breasts attaining such an enormous size as to become a deformity. In those cases where the breast attains such an enormous size as to become unwieldy, and to which the term hypertrophy is limited, there does not appear to be much increase in the gland tissue ; it is the connective tissue and fat which are principally hypertrophied. Many of the cases which have been described as hypertrophy have been probably cases of diffuse adeno-fibroma. The condition is characterised by a steady pro- gressive increase in the size of the breast or breasts, which, as a rule, causes no pain—merely discomfort from its weight. It usually begins in the young woman, often soon after puberty. But it may occur later in life, both in the married and the single. It can be distinguished from tumour of the breast by its uniform even feel, and by the fact that both breasts are usually affected. The treatment consists in improving the general health and in keeping up uniform pressure by strapping or bandage. When the hypertrophy is so great as to cause inconvenience and deformity, and if treatment fails to effect a cure, the removal of the breast is the only alternative. Atrophy occurs naturally at the menopause, but may also occur occasionally in young women, and may result from an attack of mastitis or from too prolonged lactation. DISEASES OF THE NIPPLE In some women the nipple is naturally retracted or depressed, so that the child is unable to grasp it in sucking. This may be the source of considerable discomfort, or even worse, as the child in its efforts to seize the nipple is very likely to excoriate it, and this may lead to abscess of the breast. If this condition is noted during pregnancy, attempts should be made to draw the nipple out by means of an exhausting pump. And if after deUvery the child is unable to grasp the nipple, the milk must be drawn off by means of a breast pump, and the child fed with it. Cracked or fissured nipple {sore nipple). This is a very common complaint, especially amongst women who are nursing their first child. It is often due to want of attention in properly drying the parts after suckling, and may also be due, as above stated, to a badly developed nipple. The nipple becomes swollen, red, and superficially excoriated, and great pain is experienced in 'giving the child the breast.' In some cases there is con- siderable constitutional disturbance. Where cracked nipples exist, it is desirable to use some form of artificial shield for the nipple, or to draw off the milk with the breast pump, for the condition is very likely to result in acute abscess of the breast or of the axillary glands. Treatment.—The treatment of ' cracked' nipples is in a great measur>2 preventive. Every mother ought to be instructed after suckling to wash the nipples with warm water, to which a little borax or other mild antiseptic has been added, and then to dry them thoroughly with a soft napkin or cambric handkerchief. AVhen fissures or cracks are once formed, the child should be withdrawn, and the nipple dressed with glycerine jelly and borax, or with a lotion containing some astringent, as zinc or lead. The old- fashioned plan of touching the fissures with a point of nitrate of silver often succeeds in curing them when other means fail. Eczema of the nipple.—Under the term eczema of the nipple are included two different diseases: ordinary eczema, which is identical with eczema in other parts ; and Paget's disease, which was described by