INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES 5°- Dislocation upwards is of extremely rare occurrence. It occurs when the violence to the acromial end is applied from above, so that this end of the clavicle is forced downwards and inwards. The dislocated end of the bone rests on the upper border of the sternum, in front of the trachea, and may press on this tube. . r. i Siffns —The end of the bone is easily felt in front of the trachea. The axis of the clavicle is directed forwards and upwards, and there is approxi- mation of the shoulder to the mesial line, .u A A u \A Treatment.—In order to effect reduction, a large and hard pad should be placed in the axilla to act as a fulcrum, and the elbow pressed well to the side At the same time, pressure on the sternal end of the bone will facilitate reduction. The greatest difficulty will be experienced in main- taining the bone in its place, and some amount of displacement is almost sure to persist. The best means of retaining the bone in position is to Dlace a pad in the back, as in the previous dislocation, with a figure-ot-8 bandage over it. A pad, formed of folded lint, is then to be placed over the sternal end of the bone, and firmly secured in position by a broad and long piece of strapping placed over the pad ; one end is earned over the shoulde? and down the back, and the other over the front of the chest of the patient, inclining to the sound side until the two ends meet over the outer side of the buttock. , . , - • i. ^u- a;. Dislocation of the acromio-clavicular joint.—i his dis location is frequently termed dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle. It is much more common than dislocation at the sterno-clavicular jomt, and almost invariably occurs in one direction, the acromion process being displaced downwards and inwards under the outer end of the clavicle, it alniost always occurs from violence applied to the back of the outer part of the scapula, driving the arch of the shoulder forwards. _ Siffns.-The dislocation is easily recognised by the projection ot the outer end of the clavicle on the top of the upper surface of the acromion process. The shoulder is depressed and approximated to the mesial line of the body, and the patient is unable to raise the arm over the head Treatment.-Reduction can usually be easily effected by drawing the points of.the shoulders backwards, but there is the greatest difficulty m main- taining the parts in apposition after reduction. The best way to do it is to place a pad over the joint, and firmly strap it in this POSl^^°'^by a broad piece of plaister carried over the pad, down the back of the arm, under the olecranoii process, the forearm being flexed, and up the front of the arm to the pad The arm is then to be bound to the side In mos cases a certain amount of displacement persists, but beyond the defomity this s of little importance and does not impair the use of the arm Should, ho^^- ever, complete displacement recur again and again, it will be necessar) to expose the ends of the bones and peg or wire them together, after refreshing the articular surfaces. Displacement of the scapula.—A peculiar deformity of the scapula, due to paralysis of the serratus magnus and ^ho"]boid muscles^ is sonietimes described as dislocation of the lowe7- angle of the scapula Une of the functions of the serratus magnus is to retain the scapula closely to the wall of the thorax, and to cause it to act as a fixed point when the ddtoid raises the arm from the side. When the serratus magnus i naralvsed the lower angle of the scapula and its vertebral border are not Tetd Sosd tV the' chlst wall, but pWct unduly, and this proj^^^^^^^^^^^^ increased if any effort is made to raise the arm (fig. 179)- The condition