M INFLAMMATION elsewhere, in consequence of its being in a state of diminished activity and this would seem to be the more probable explanation ; or, secondly their ocahsation m the mflamed area may be due to chemiotaxis-i e to the formation of some chemical products, the result of the growth of the micro-organisms which are the immediate cause of the inflammation and which attract the leucocytes. But it must be remembered that the same localisation of the leucocytes to the damaged area is to be observed in inflammation resulting from injuries, mechanical or chemical, where there are no micro-organisms. AVhen the leucocytes have infiltrated the damaged area, they consume any portion of tissue which has been actually killed by the noxious agent that caused the inflammation, and which is no longer available for the purposes of the animal economy. This they do by throwing out pseudopodia around the dead matter and enclosing it in their own subs ance, and there consuming it. Thus they get rid of all effete material and pave the way for the process of repair. This would appear to be all their duty in a simple, non-infective inflammation, such as may arise rrom some local injury, and where there is an entire absence of any infect- ing agent in the shape of micro-organisms. But, as is well known, in a large number of acute inflammations, micro-organisms are present in the inflamed tissues, and are believed to be the cause of the inflammation. According to Metchnikoff and those who follow his view, the leucocytes • under these circumstances have another and a more important office to perform, and that is to seize and destroy the infecting micro-organisms themselves, and thus act as defenders of the body from the attacks of the invading microbes. This they are supposed to do in the same manner as that by which they destroy particles of dead matter: by surrounding the microbes by pseudopodia, taking them up into their substance, and de- stroying them by a process of intracellular digestion. In this way Metchni- koff would have us believe that there is a battle going on between the attacking micro-organisms and the defending leucocytes, in which the latter, in a healthy animal, are usually victorious, unless the microbes are extraordinary in number or virulence. This process is called phagocytosis, and the cells possessing the power of taking up into themselves and destroying foreign substances, whether bacteria or dead or effete tissue, are {.^xm^d. phagocytes. Other cells have this same power, but in inflammatory conditions it is probable that the leucocyte only acts in this manner. Attractive as the theory of phagocytosis is, it must be confessed that it is not sufficiently supported by evidence, and many facts have lately come to light which debar us from giving unqualified endorsement to it. In fact, by many it is entirely discredited. If it is true, it is quite clear that chemiotaxis has an important bearing upon it, for it is only in those cases M'here the products of the growth of the micro-organism have the power of attraction (positive chemiotaxis), and thus cause an abundant migration and infiltration of leucocytes, that it is possible that the cells can come into contact with the invading organisms and then destroy them, and so cut short the inflammation and cure the disease. Until very recently the leucocytes which had emigrated from the vessels were supposed also to form new tissue. Before Cohnheim demonstrated the migration of the leucocytes it was universally taught that the cells which formed granulation tissue—& new tissue, which, as we shall see in the sequel, is a product of the inflammatory process—originated entirely from the proliferation of the connective tissue cells of the part ; but after Cohnheim's views became generally accepted it was held that the cells of