NECROSIS OF THE JAW 671 membrane between two teeth. It gradually increases and forms a hard, fleshy, slightly lobulated mass, which may be either pedunculated or sessile (fig. 256). These tumours may attain a considerable size, and cause distor- tion of the dental arch, and even protrude from the lips. Treatment.— They should be excised, with the piece of bone forming the alveolus from which they spring, by means of a pair of cutting bone forceps. When thoroughly removed they rarely return. Myeloid sarcoma {inyeloid epulis) is a form of sarcomatous tumour which grows from the gum, and is sometimes termed malignant epulis from its tendency to recur after removal. It forms a soft, purplish tumour, which grows rapidly and speedily runs on to ulceration. The only treatment consists in removing the growth and the alveolar process of the jaw widely beyond the growth. When the tumour has not attained a large size, it may be possible to do this from within the mouth, by making a vertical section of the bone on either side of the growth by means of a small saw, and uniting them below with a chisel; but when the tumour is larger, it may be necessary to remove a portion of the whole thickness of the bone through an external incision. Epithelioma of the gum is occasionally met with. It presents the ordinary characters of a squamous carcinoma, and has a tendency to spread along the periosteum and invade the bone, and in the upper jaw extend into the antrum without showing any tendency to fungate. It is therefore sometimes called creeping epithelioma. It is to be distinguished from myeloid sarcoma by this character; by the'early period at which it ulcerates ; and by the enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. The treatment consists in excising the growth and the bone to a consider- able extent around. Where the disease has invaded the antrum, it will be necessary to remove the whole of the upper jaw except its orbital plate. Necrosis of the jaw is of common occurrence, and may arise from a variety of causes, (i) It may follow injury, generally where the bone is broken and the fracture is compound, either through the cutaneous or mucous surfaces, and septic periostitis is set up. (2) It may result from alveolar abscess, under which circumstance the amount of bone which dies IS hmited and involves only a superficial layer of bone. (3) Necrosis of the upper jaw is of not infrequent occurrence in tertiary syphilis when it usually attacks the palate process. (4) Formerly necrosis of the'jaw was of common occurrence from mercurial poisoning, but these cases are rarely met with in the present day. (5) Phosphorus necrosis was also a common disease m former days among makers of lucifer matches, but since red amorphous phosphorus has been substituted in their manufacture for the ordmary_ yellow phosphorus the disease is much less common The con- dition arises from the effects of the fumes of phosphorus on the exposed bone around a carious tooth, and is characterised by an inflammation which termmates in necrosis, and the formation of an investing shell of porous bone over the necrosed fragment. The disease is very insidious, and may involve large tracts of both upper and lower jaw. The necrosed bone assumes the porous character and greyish colour of pumice stone, and is slow in separating. (6) Necrosis of the jaw is an occasional sequel to the acute exanthemata, especially scarlet fever. In these cases the whole of ttie lower jaw may become involved, and may lie loosely in a ba? of nus formed from the periosteum. If the dead bone is removed, a complete S^r^^^'f I P^'"""- Necrosis of the jaw somethiies occurs in tuberculous children.