GENERAL DISEASES 114 without the presence of these micro-organisms or their products, still these organisms may be present and no suppuration occur, and conditions exist in which they are powerless to act. Probably a weakened state of the part, the result of a previous inflammation, is one of the most important condi tions which favour their action. Suppose, then, we have some part in which an inflammation has been set up by a mechanical irritant, and in which there has been hypertemia and then stasis and migration of leucocytes, and in which, therefore, there is a degenerated vitality or weakening of the tissues. In this weakened tissue the pyogenic or- ganisms find a .suitable habitat and commence to grow and form their products. In consequence of this, the diapedesis, which under ordi- nary circumstances would have soon ceased, continues, and the part becomes crowded with round cells. This continued migration of the leucocytes is supposed to be due to positive chemiotaxis; that is to say, to the attractive influence exerted by the products of the growth of the micro-organisms on the amoeboid cells. So numerous are the cells which crowd the part that the original tissue is quite obscured. These cells absorb the original tissues and occupy their place. AVhether these tissues have first been killed by the action of the products of the organisms, and the leucocytes only remove the necrosed tissues ; or whether the leucocytes destroy and replace the living tissue, is not quite certain ; but at all events, at this stage of Fig. 24.—Diagrammatic representation of the minute changes in the formations of an abscess. A, abscess cavity ; B, zone of round cells; c, zone of connective tissue infiltrated with round cells ; D, zone of tissue in wliich the vessels are choked with corpuscles; E, normal tissue. the process, in the centre of the inflamed area, a part will be found in which all trace of tissue has disappeared and been replaced by living cells, in other words a cavity containing leucocytes (fig. 24) ; outside this is a zone of tissue, in which there is nothing to be seen but round cells, but in which some of the original tissue still remains hold- ing the cells in its meshes. And again, outside this, another zone, in which there are not quite so many cells and some trace of tissue is to be seen ; svyollen and vitreous, but with its connective tissue corpuscles unchanged. Finally, on the outer surface of this is a further zone, where the vessels \yill be seen choked with leucocytes, which are rapidly undergoing emigra- tion through the walls of the vessels and beginning to infiltrate the tissues. In the centre of this area, that is to say, in the cavity containing leucocytes, owing to want of nutrition or as a result of the action of the products of