38o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES is done, the condition of the gland must be considered. If it is hard and freely movable, it will be a question whether it is still in a condition of simple lymphadenitis, or whether it has already become the seat of tubercle. If the former, it will speedily subside upon the removal of the irritating cause. In either case constitutional treatment should be adopted : change of air to the seaside ; the administration of cod liver oil, iodide of iron, &c.; and regulation of the diet and excretions. On no account should friction with iodide of potassium liniment, or iodide of lead ointment, or painting Avith tincture of iodine, be allowed, and the friends should be cautioned against constantly handling the lump. The case should be carefully ■watched, and as soon as there is undoubted evidence of softening having taken place, the gland or glands should be excised before any periadenitis has caused fixation. If the operation is performed at this time it is not one of any great difificulty; the capsule of the gland can be exposed, and by means of a director or blunt flat needle mounted on a handle its connections may be torn through and the gland removed without opening the capsule. If the operation is delayed until the gland has contracted adhesions to surrounding parts it will have to be dissected out, and this is an operation requiring great care in the neck, as important structures, especially the in- ternal jugular vein in the anterior triangle and the spinal accessory nerve in the posterior triangle, are apt to be wounded. It sometimes happens that the surgeon is not consulted until after the skin has become implicated and the caseous gland has discharged its contents, and there are discharging sinuses in the neck. Under these circumstances the sinuses should be enlarged, and the cavity carefully and thoroughly scraped out • with a sharp spoon. In doing this it will often be found that there is a small round opening in the cavity communi- cating with a rcaseating gland under the deep fascia. This opening, or openings if there are more than one, must be enlarged and the spoon introduced and the whole of the caseating tissue removed. After this is done the cavity is to be swabbed out with a solution of chloride of zinc or pure carbolic acid, irrigated with a solution of corrosive sublimate, dried, and dusted with iodo- form. If the skin is not much implicated, the edges of the sinus should be removed, and the wound may then be sewn up, a drainage tube being inserted; but if the skin is thinned, blue, and undermined, it should be cut away with scissors and an open wound left. For this subsequent skin o-rafting may be required. The head and neck must be kept absolutely ^ quiet during the process of healing. To insure this it is sometimes desir- ' able to fix the head by a plaster of Paris ' corona.' This consists of a long strip of Bavarian flannel of double thickness, about three inches in width, which, after being soaked in a solution of the plaster, is applied by its centre to the forehead, carried round the head, one end on either side, Fig. 119.—Corona bandage of plaster of Paris.