SUPRA-VAGINAL AMPUTATION OF THE CERVIX 1061 may be, total extirpation of the uterus. In those cases where the disease has spread to adjoining tissues, and the uterus is more or less fixed, no operation aiming at the radical removal of the disease is admissible, but a vigorous scraping of the diseased structures, and a removal of the growth as far as possible, may be of service in checking the hcemorrhage and getting rid of the foetid discharge for a time, and in this way giving comfort to and prolonging the life of the patient. Columnar carcinoma of the body of the uterus is not nearly so common as of the cervix. It usually occurs in older women, after the cessation of the catamenia, and particularly in women who have never borne children. It commences in the tubular glands of the mucous membrane of the uterine cavity, and infiltrates the walls of -the uterus, but, as a rule, does not implicate the cervix till a late period of the disease, so that on vaginal examination the os and cervix feel healthy. The symptoms are hgemorrhage, offensive discharge, and pain ; and when a woman, after the menopause; complains of irregular attacks of haemorrhage, with offensive blood-stained discharge, cancer of the body of the uterus should always be suspected, especially if the uterus is felt to be somewhat enlarged. The only way, however, in which an accurate diagnosis can be made is by dilating the os and scraping the internal surface of the cavity of the uterus, and examining microscopically the debris brought away. Treatment.—The only curative treatment for this condition is removal of the whole uterus, and this should only be done in those cases where the surgeon can satisfy himself that the uterus is freely movable and that therefore there is no implication of surrounding structures. b. Squamous epithelioma.—This is a form of carcinoma which exactly resembles epithelioma in other parts of the body. It commences in the epithelial cells of the mucous covering of the vaginal surface of the cervix, and from this tends to spread downwards on tp the vaginal wall. It also spreads outwards to the tissues of the broad ligament, but rarely invades the cervix. It may spread through the vaginal wall into the bladder in front or the rectum behind and give rise to fistulous com- munications. The symptoms are very much the same as those of cancer of the cervix, haemorrhage and offensive discharge, but there is little pain in the earlier stages of the disease. To these may be superadded bladder symptoms, increased frequency of micturition, &c., when the anterior wall of the vagina becomes involved. Upon examination with a speculum a foul, ulcerated surface, with raised and everted edges, may be seen, with some- times an irregular papillomatous, cauUflower-like growth. Treatment.—When the disease is still limited to the vaginal portion of the cervix, and has not implicated the vaginal wall or spread to the broad ligaments, causing fixation of the uterus, supra-vaginal amputation of the cervix should be at once resorted to and may do much to prolong life. Supra-vaginal amputation of the cervix is an operation which of late years has fallen to a certain extent into disuse. Until recently it was always advocated in cases of cancer of the uterus com- mencing in the neck, mainly because the operation could be performed without opening the peritoneal cavity; now it is believed that total extirpation of the uterus is a better operation, as far as regards the chances of recurrence, and it seems probable that supra-vaginal amputation will in the near future be superseded by this operation in all cases except perhaps those of squamous epithelioma, where amputation of the cervix is