767 CARIES OF THE SPINE enters the sheath of the psoas muscle. Abscess arising from disease of the lumbar vertebrte may either track backwards along the posterior branches of the lumbar vessels and nerves and point in the loin, consti- tuting lumbar abscess, or it may find its way into the sheath of the psoas muscle. The most frequent place, therefore, to find an abscess in connec- tion with tuberculous caries of the spine is in the sheath of the psoas, not only because the pus derived from disease of a considerable portion of the spine has a tendency to find its way into this sheath, but also because this portion of the spine .is the part which is most frequently diseased. These abscesses are called psoas abscess. They track down the sheath, some- times lying in front of the muscular fibres, and at other times extensively destroying them, so that the nerves which pierce the psoas muscle may be seen crossing an abscess cavity, into which the sheath has been converted, entirely unsurrounded by muscular fibre. When the abscess reaches the brim of the pelvis, it spreads out under the fascia which covers the iliacus muscle, and which is continuous with the psoas fascia, and fills the ifiac fossa. It then finds its way out of the iliac fossa, beneath Poupart's ligament, just external to the common femoral artery. Here the sac of the abscess is much constricted and forms a narrow neck. It now passes behind the femoral vessels, and usually comes to the surface at about the situation of the saphenous opening. In some instances, how- ever, it may burrow down the thigh between the planes of muscles and point on the inner side, or pass backwards with the branches of the internal circumflex artery and point behind the great trochanter; or it may extend down into the leg, and, as in the classical case related by Erichsen, point by the side of the tendo Achillis. Occasionally an abscess in the iHac fossa may burrow into the true pelvis and find an exit through the sacro-sciatic foramen, or, as in a case under my care, may burst into the bladder. Implication of the cord or the spinal nerves.—As before stated, the cord is riirely implicated as the direct result of the displacement of the vertebrae, but, nevertheless, in a certain percentage of cases, symptoms of pressure do arise. This is due, in the majority of cases, to an extension backwards of the inflammatory process through the posterior common ligament to the loose connective tissue which separates the dura mater from the bony walls of the canal; here an inflammatory exudation and formation of tuberculous granulation tissue take place, either in the form of a button-shaped mass of this material, which forms between the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrte and the front of the cord covered by its dura mater, or by a more diffused infiltration of the loose connective tissue with tuberculous granulation material, which may encircle the cord outside the dura mater for the extent of an inch or an inch and a half, and by its pressure causes anemia and degenerative changes in the cord. The inner surface of the dura mater is not apparently affected, but the disease is confined entirely to the structures outside this membrane. In a small proportion of cases, paraplegic symptoms may be set up by the bursting of an abscess into the spinal canal, or by the presence of a sequestrum, which by displacement causes pressure on the cord. When the cord is affected in this way, paralysis is a more pronounced and earlier symptom than any interference with sensation. It is usually bilateral, and commences first as a weakness and loss of power in the muscles, so that the patient is unable to stand, though he can move his legs wliile lying in bed. This may be followed by starting of the limbs and rigidity when