FRACTURES OF THE LOWER JAW 667 in nearly every case the superior maxilla is fractured at the same time. In many of these cases, where the fracture is produced by extreme violence, as in a gunshot wound or a kick from a horse, the bones of the face are extensively smashed and comminuted, and the fracture is compound. These injuries are followed by great deformity and distortion of the features, which it is often impossible to avoid. In other slighter cases a portion of the alveolus may be broken and either partially or com- pletely detached. When the zygomatic arch is fractured, the displaced fragments may pierce the temporal muscle and interfere with its action. Various complications may attend these fractures : severe hemorrhage from wound of the internal maxillary artery or one of its terminal branches ; emphysema from the fracture extending into the antrum ; loss of sensation from mjury to the supra-orbital nerve. As a rule union takes place very readily, but in cases of compound fracture involving the antrum, a sinus may persist, which is slow to close, Treatment.—An attempt should be made to rectify the position of the fragments as far as possible, and this is especially the case where the frac- ture involves the zygomatic arch. The depressed bone can sometimes be elevated by manipulation from within the mouth. If not, it may be necessary to make an incision and elevate the fracture, and if this is in the zygomatic arch it would be desirable under these circumstances to wire the fragments together. When the alveolar process is involved the frag- ment may be kept in position by wiring the teeth together, or by a care- fully fitted dental plate. All movement of the jaws in mastication, speaking, ^c, should be interdicted, and the patient fed on fluid food for two or tiiree weeks. Fractures of the lower jaw are almost always the result of direct violence. They are usually compound, sometimes from an external wound but more usually from laceration of the mucous membrane of the gums from the displaced fragments. The bone may be broken at any part, but the most common situation is through the body of the bone in the rieighbourhood of the canine tooth, where it is especially weakened'by the deep socket for this tooth, and the mental foramen. A somewhat rare form pf fracture may occur at the symphysis from indirect violence tides '^"^^ applied laterally to the bone, compressing the two In fractures of the body of the bone, the larger anterior fragment is displaced downwards, by the muscles passing from the hyoid bone to the jaw. Ihe smaller fragment is drawn upwards by the muscles of mastica- tion and is displaced outwards, so that it overlaps the anterior fragment ihe symptoms which characterise the injury are loosening and irre- gularity of the teeth, increased mobility of the fragments oh each other, with crepitus, dribbling of the saliva, which is often mixed with blood from the laceration of the gums, and impairment of speech. In some nstances the bone may be broken on both sides, and under these circum- ftSn . .kT -iPu'^'^" ^'^Sged out of place by the muscles attached to the hyoid bone. There is usually considerable pain from the aceration of the sensitive gums, and probably also from injury to the rnnT ^^"^^^ ^he majority of cases the main rwZ\ , "^'p,^ ^"'^P^' '"J^'y' ^'^'^ ^'"^'^ct^-'e is a little in front of the acntal canal. Ihe fracture usually unites readily; but in consequence Snf nf- I the gums, some suppuration'may occur at the seat ot injury, and necrosis of a portion of the jaw may result.