28o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAl- TISSUES the parts supplied by the artery may result. Generally, however, the collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the vitality of the part, if the accompanying vein is uninjured. The exposed part of the external coat may subsequently give way, and a traumatic aneurism may form. The nature of the injury is generally plainly indicated. After some injury over the region of an artery, the parts below become pale and bloodless, all pulsation is absent in the vessels below the seat of injury, whilst the artery above this point can be felt to beat strongly, and the pulsation to cease abruptly at the seat of injury. There may or may not be superficial bruising. The treatment consists in endeavouring to maintain the vitality of the part by warmth, rest, with slight elevation to promote venous return, and protection from pressure or constriction. Should gangrene supervene, amputation must be performed. Complete subcutaneous laceration.—This is most commonly met with in the popliteal and axillary arteries, and is especially apt to occur in strains upon diseased vessels; as, for example, in an attempt to reduce an old dislocation of the shoulder, and in an injury to the lower extremity producing hyper-extension of the knee. When a large vessel like these is ruptured, enormous extravasation of blood takes place in most cases : swelling and discolouration of the limb result, with a cessation of pulsation in the vessels below and a rapid fall of temperature, and gangrene rapidly ensues. In some cases, probably owing to the curling inwards of the inner coats and the dragging down and twisting of the external coat, little or no blood is lost, yet gangrene is very likely to set in, though not so rapidly. Again, in other cases the artery may not be completely torn across, though a large laceration has been made in it. In these cases a certain amount of pulsation may be perceptible in the vessels below, and gangrene may be long delayed or may not occur at all. Treatment. — In Fig. 77.—Complete rupture of an artery. The internal and middle coats of the vessel have been torn at a much higher level (a) than the external coat B. Dia- grammatic. cases of subcutaneous laceration of the main artery of a limb, the treatment must vary according to the amount of extravasation of blood which has taken place. If there is little or no extravasation, efforts should be made to preserve the vitality of the limb by warmth, position, rest, &c., and if gangrene ensues amputation must be at once resorted to. If, on the other hand, extravasation has taken place, an incision must be made to turn out the clots, which would otherwise press on the smaller vessels of the limb and prevent the collateral circulation being established. After turning out the clots, the ruptured vessel should be sought for and both ends ligatured. In almost all cases, especially in the lower limb, gangrene ensues, and then amputation must be immediately resorted to. The laceration of an artery in an open wound, as when a limb is torn off by machinery, does not as a rule cause much hemorrhage ; and this is on account of the brittleness of the inner and middle coats and the toughness of the outer one. The two inner coats are rapidly torn across on the first