INJURIES AND DISEASES OI' SPI'.CIAL TISSUES the hfead of the bone is displaced downwards into ♦^he axilla, and which is termed sub-gknoid dislocation. But as a rule the head of the bone does not stop there ; but either from the force which has been applied, or from the violent spasmodic contraction of the muscles in the neighbourhood, the head of the bone is carried forwards or backwards into some new position. When it is carried forwards it may rest finally on the front of the neck of the scapula, beneath the coracoid process, when it is termed siih-coracoid; or it may be carried further and rest on the front of the chest, beneath the clavicle, when it is called siib-clavicular dislocation. When the head of the bone is carried backwards, it rests on the dorsum of the scapula, beneath the spine of this bone. This is the sub-spifious disloca- tion. Dislocations of the head of the humerus may also be caused by direct violence. A blow on the head of the bone may drive it either forwards or backwards, according as to whether the blow is given from in front or behind. The capsule is then ruptured at some other part than its weakest, and the primary displacement is in the direction in which the head of the bone is driven. Symptoms.—The signs common to all dislocations of the humerus are : (i) pain and sweUing, wjth bruising, about the part; (2) flattening of the shoulder; (3) apparent projection of the acromion process ; (4) a hollow or depression beneath this process ; (5) impaired mobility about the joint; and (6) the presence of the head of the bone in a new position. In addition to these signs which are common to all the dislocations, there is alteration in the length of the limb and in the direction of the axis of the humerus ; these differ according to the position which the head of the bone occupies, and are principally useful as indicating the variety of the displacement. Certain special signs' or indications have been laid down by different surgeons at different times, which may be found useful in cases of doubt. Callaway's test consists in taking the vertical circumference round the axilla, which is always increased in dislocation. Dugas' test consists in bringing the elbow in contact with the chest wall, and then see- ing if the hand of the injured side can be placed on the sound shoulder. This, though the one most commonly employed, is the least reliable, of these tests. Hamilton's test consists in laying a ruler along the outer side of the arm : if there is a dislocation the ruler can be made to touch both the acromion and external condyle of the humerus; this it will not do if the head is in its proper place. Varieties.—As stated above, the principal varieties of dislocation of the humerus are four : (i) sub-glenoid ; (2) sub-coracoid; (3) sub-clavicular; (4) sub-spinous ; but to these must be added a fifth— which is, however, very rare—the supra-coracoid. (i) Sub-glenoid.—In this dislocation the head of the bone is dis- placed downwards and a little forwards and inwards, so that it rests against the axillary border of the scapula, just below the glenoid cavity. It is not a very common form of dislocation, for though the head of the bone is primarily displaced into this position, it does not remain there, and therefore this dislocation is not commonly seen. The signs by which this variety of dislocation is distinguished from the others are that the head of the bone can be easily felt in the axilla; that there is considerable lowering of the anterior fold of the axilla, from the pectoralis major being drawn downwards at its attachment to the humerus ; and that the arm is lengthened, and the direction of the axis of the humerus is outwards and slightly backwards.