INFLAMMATION ' Lancet, vol. i. 1876, p. 108. 6 ,0 i0 Phenomena of Inflammation.—Our knowledge of the pheno- mena which take place in inflammation has been largely derived from expermient, by artificially producing inflammation in some transparent part of a living animal placed under the microscope. If the web of a frog's foot is examined by means of a high power, tlie blood will be seen to be pass- ing in a stream from the small arteries, through the capillaries, into the veins (fig. i). The blood will be noticed to flow in the capillaries in a continuous stream. The red corpuscles will be seen passing through the centre of the channel, in single file in the smallest vessels, with great regularity and considerable velocity. On either side of this central file and between it and the wall of the vessel, there is a layer of liquor sanguinis' which moves more slowly than the corpuscles in the centre ; this mer^ layer, as it is termed, is especially well marked in the smallest arteries and veins ; here the red corpuscles will be found occupying the middle of the stream and moving with great rapidity; outside this, colourless cor- puscles may be seen running much more slowly; and next the wall of the vessel is a transparent layer in which there is scarcely any motion ; for, if occasionally a white corpuscle is seen to get into this layer, it will be noticed to move very slowly and irregularly. If from any cause the stream of blood through the vessel is slowed down sufificiently to enable the observer to dis- tinguish individual corpuscles, it will be found that they show no tendency to adhere to each other or to the wall of the vessel, whereas if they are removed from the vessel they show a remarkable adhesiveness, sticking to each other or to any foreign body with which they may be brought in contact. Supposing that an irritant is now applied to the part, changes will be seen to occur which constitute the phenomena of inflammation. First change.—The arterioles are seen to dilate, and the blood rushes through them with increased rapidity. The dilatation continues progres- sively, and is followed by a dilatation of the capillaries and veins, so that in a very short space of time the whole of the vessels of the part will be seen to be far above their normal size and the blood rushing through them with increased velocity. This is the condition of 'determination' or ' active congestion ' above spoken of, and which, as was then shown, may be the first stage of inflammation. And, as Burdon Sanderson has pointed out, ' the employment of the term determination should be strictly limited to the primary acceleration of the blood stream in and about an injured part, and should not be so extended as to comprise the subsequent inflam- matory congestion.'' It must be mentioned, however, that in some cases this dilatation is preceded by a momentary contraction of the arteries ; that is to say, under the influence of certain irritants, but not of others, there will be noticed to be a momentary contraction or shrinking of the arteries before the dilatation takes place. This, as far as is known, appears to be a phenomenon of no great pathological significance, and depends Fig. i.^—Normal circulation in a capillaiy from the web of a frog's foot: coloured corpuscles in centre of stream, leucocytes in inert layer.