PROLAPSUS ANI 913 is considerable, the serous lining accompanies the tumour. This is most often on the anterior aspect of the tumour, as the peritoneum descends lower on this surface of the rectum than elsewhere; but in some cases a pouch of peritoneum may be formed all round, and into this a coil of small intestine may descend and even become strangulated. The diagnosis of this disease is easy. The only condition with which it is likely to be confounded is intussusception where the intussusceptum protrudes from the anus; but the diagnosis ought not to be difficult, for the mucous membrane covering the intussusceptum is not con- tinuous with the skin at the anal margin, and the finger can be introduced by the side of it into the rectum. Treatment.—The first point to consider in the treatment of prolapsus is its reduction. This can generally be done by seizing the tumour and dmimishmg its Dullc Dy steady pressure, and then gradually pushing it back, the central parts first. To prevent its return, the two nates should be strapped together by a broad strip of plaister. Any cause which has produced the condition must be removed : when there is a stone in the bladder it must be extracted; when there is phimosis, circumcision must be performed; when there are piles or a polypus, they must be removed; when there are thread worms in the rectum, they must be got rid of. After the cause has been removed, if the patient is a child, it should be taught to pass its motions lying on its back into a slipper or bed pan. The act of defsecation should never be performed in the ordinary sitting posture. If this is strictly attended to, no further treatment will probably be necessary. If the prolapse is never allowed to come down, and it will not come down m the earlier stages if the child deftecates in this position, the parts will recover their tone and a cure will be effected. Sometimes astringent injections are recommended: decoction of oak bark, solution of sulphate of iron (gr. iij to ^i), or solution of alum. In the adult generally, and in some cases of long-standing prolapse in children, operative measures may be necessary. The simplest and best plan is to cauterise the mucous membrane in a longitudinal direction. The prolapse is reduced; a speculum with a gap extending its whole length is introduced, so that the gap exposes a longitudinal strip of mucous membrane, at least three inches in length. A cautery iron, with a point at right angles to the rest of the shank, heated to a dull red heat, is now introduced into the speculum and the point carried along the exposed mucous surface for the whole length of the gap to the point where the true skin joins the mucous membrane. The speculum is now made to revolve a quarter of a circle and the process repeated, and so on until four of these 3 N Fig. 354.—Complete prolapsus ani.