GENERAL INJURIES 40 children suffer severely from shock; as do also patients of a neurotic or excitable temperament. Previous loss of blood by depleting the nerve centres acts as a predisposing cause; but on the other hand an antecedent illness, which has simply confined the patient to bed, without causing any organic change in the viscera, is a prophylactic against shock. A patient who has been confined to bed for a long time, let us say, with chronic joint disease will stand a severe operation without shock, always providing that there is no lardaceous change in his viscera, under which circum- stance extreme shock is to be anticipated. Symptoms.—Shock generally comes on immediately after the receipt of the injury ; but in some cases, especially those in which there is great mental excitement at the time, it may be delayed for an hour or two. Accordingly we find that on the battlefield and after railway injuries, where the patient is in a state of extreme mental excitement, no signs of shock may present themselves at first. The patient is often able to move about, unconscious that he has received any injury, and the symptoms may be delayed for an hour or two and then come on insidiously, the patient gradually passing into a condition of shock. When present the patient lies in a state of semi-consciousness, able to answer questions when spoken to, but lying, with half-closed eyes, apparently taking no notice of what is going on around him. The surface of the body is pale and cold, with beads of perspiration about the head ; the pupils are usually dilated ; the respirations are feeble, shallow and irregular ; the pulse is small and feeble, sometimes scarcely to be felt in the radial artery, and is generally slowed at first below the normal rate, but after a time becomes accelerated : this is usually regarded as an indication of reaction. The temperature is subnormal, the thermometer usually registering from one to two degrees below the normal temperature of the body. There is complete muscular relaxation and apparently incoherence of thought and speech. Where the shock is about to terminate in death, the patient gradually becomes more and more unconscious, until at length he arrives at a state of stupor from which he cannot be roused, and dies. In cases of recovery, reaction takes place in from two to twenty-four hours. The skin becomes sensibly warmer, the patient becomes more conscious, begins to look about him and answers questions with more readiness. Movements, at first irregular and feeble, take place and the respirations become fuller and the pulse stronger and its rate of beating quicker. The temperature rises to slightly above normal, but speedily falls again. Cases of ' shock with excitement' have been described, in the first mstance by Travers, in which the patient is restless, talking volubly and incoherently. Apparently insensible to pain, he tosses himself about and attempts to get out of bed ; the skin is hot, the respirations hurried, and the pulse quick. After a time symptoms of depression come on and the patient lapses into a state of stupor and almost invariably dies. These cases were regarded by Travers as instances of premature and excessive reaction. They are, in the present day, exceedingly uncommon. Treatment.—In the treatment of shock, very much must depend on its severity. In slight cases very often the less done the better. The patient should be kept in a state of perfect quietude and rest, relieved from all sources of annoyance, such as noise, a strong light, &c. He should be kept warm by being wrapped up in blankets, and by hot-water bottles placed in his bed. The popular practice of giving stimulants in these cases cannot be too strongly condemned ; a cup of hot beef tea will do as much good in