iio6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS .XV^..W.— -J whereas in torticollis they are in which the shortened muscle producing puckered cicatrices, and paralysis of the muscle on the opposite side. True wry neck must not be mistaken for the deformity produced by the contraction of the cicatrices of burns of the neck ; nor for that produced by cervical caries ; nor must it be confounded with spasmodic wry neck, which is a totally different condition, and is not attended by any shortening of the muscle, but by its spasmodic contraction, and is pro- bably due to some central nerve lesion. Symptoms and diagnosis.—The peculiar position of the head, inclined to the shoulder of the affected side, with the face turned in the opposite direction, is very marked (fig. 409), but is closely simulated by the condition which is often seen in cervical caries. In this latter disease, however, the movements of the head are restricted in every direction, ' — only restricted in one, viz. in that is put on the stretch. When this is done the tendons of origin of the muscle from the sternum and clavicle will be felt to stand out as rigid, tense bands. In cases of wry neck there is usually a want of symmetry in the two sides of the face (fig. 410), that side which corresponds with the shortened muscles being smaller and less developed than the other. This has induced some surgeons to be- lieve that the disease must be due to some condition of the central nervous system which has produced this condition of deficient develop- ment. But there is no reason to think this ; it may be readily ac- counted for by the circulation through the carotid vessels being interfered with from the position in which the head and neck are placed, leading to impaired nutrition. Treatment.—In the simplest and mildest forms of torticollis it may be possible to correct the deformity by manipulation, massage, and some form of elastic apparatus. But personally, as there is shortening of the muscle in these cases, I prefer to divide the muscle, or rather its tendons of origin. There are two ways in which this may be done, either by sub- cutaneous tenotomy or by the open method. The latter is to be preferred as being the more effectual and the less dangerous, if only proper antiseptic precautions are taken. The tendons of origin are freely exposed by a hori- zontal incision across the root of the neck and carefully divided. After their division, tense bands of fascia can generally be felt, and these should also be thoroughly divided until the head can be placed straight, or even pulieo a little over to the opposite side. The wound is now sutured and dressea, and the -head fixed in a corona plaster of Pans bandage (fig. ^P)'"/J perfectly straight position for a fortnight. At the end of this time ne wound is dressed, the stitches removed, and massage and ':na'"''P^'f", applied daily, the corona being reapplied between each sitting. At Fig. 410.—Asymmetry of the face, the result of torticollis. (From a photo- graph by G. H. Drake-Brockman.)