1030 INJURIES AND DISEASES OK SPECIAL ORCiANS of the testicle. From hernia the diagnosis is made l)y the possibility of isolating the cord above, by the absence of impulse, by its non-resonance and irreducibility. From hydrocele, by its being heavier and feeling more solid; by its non-translucency, and by the suddenness of its onset. From solid growths there is often the greatest difificulty in forming an opinion, and in maiiy it is only by an exploratory puncture or incision that an accurate diagnosis can be arrived at. The history of the case and the rate of increase of the growth, the sudden appearance of the hsematocele, and then the stationary condition of the growth as contrasted with the steady and uniform increase of a mahgnant tumour, are points to be weighed in making a diagnosis. In malignant disease the cord is also generally implicated; whereas in hfematocele, if it is isolated above the tumour it will be found to be normal. Treatment.—When the patient is seen immediately after the injury, he should be placed in bed on his back; the testicles well supported in a sling, and evaporating lotions applied. If in the course of a day or two there is no diminution of the swelling, aseptic tapping should be resorted to. The withdrawal of even a small quantity of the fluid wU sometimes start the process of absorption, and the rest of the swelling will disappear. Assistance may be occasionally rendered by making pressure by means of strapping. In old cases where the hsematocele is of some standing, a free aseptic incision should be made into the sac, its contents cleared out, and the walls well rubbed with carbolic solution and the cavity packed with gauze. Inflammation of the testicle may be divided into an acute and chronic form. Inflammation may primarily affect the body of the testicle, when it is termed orchitis, or it may primarily commence in the epididymis, when it is known as epididymitis, and these two conditions arise from different causes, and the inflammation may remain limited to the one or the other, though in the majority of cases the part which is not primarily involved becomes secondarily affected. Acute orchitis, or inflammation of the body of the testicle, may result from injury, or it may occur as a sequel to certain infective con- ditions, of which mumps is the most common ; but typhoid fever, influenza, and smallpox may also be mentioned as examples ; or it may occur as a primary condition in gouty, and less frequently rheumatic, individuals. Acute epididymitis is almost always caused by some aff"ection of the membranous or prostatic portion of the urethra, and is due to a direct extension of the inflammation from the urethra along the_ vas deferens to the epididymis, though other theories, such as metastasis, sympathy, and reflex congestion, have been at various times brought forward to explain this condition. The most common affection of the urethra which gives rise to epididymitis is gonorrhoea, but the lodgment of a calculus in the urethra, catheterism, gouty urethritis, stricture of the urethra, and inflammatory conditions of the prostate may all give rise to it. Symptoms.—In very acute cases the disease may be ushered in by a rigor, accompanied by intense sickening pain in the testicle, extending to the loins. In less acute cases there is an uncomfortable aching pain at first in the testicle, culminating in the course of a few hours in severe sickening pain. The testicle becomes swollen. In epididymitis the swelling first appears in the globus minor, and then extends to the body and globus major; so that the epididymis can be felt as a crescentic swelling on the outer and back part of the testicle. It is acutely tender