ADENO-CYSTOMA the incision at its lower margin, where the future scar would not be seen. The breast is pulled forwards and the tumour removed from behind. c. .Adeno-sarcoma.—The so-called adeno-sarcoma are also fre- quently named soft adeno-Jil>roma, and probably this is a better appellation, since the introduction of the word sarcotfia is likely to mislead as regards their clinical characteristics. They differ mainly from the ordinary adeno- iibroma in their softer consistence and in their more rapid growth, and indeed may be, and are, frequently developed from the adeno-fibroma, which, after remaining fairly quiescent, increasing only slowly in growth for a certain time, may suddenly take on active growth, increase rapidl}', and become softer in consistence. They are then said to be adeno-sarcomata. Microscopically the difference in structure between the two classes of tumours is in the interstitial tissue which connects the acini together. In the adeno-sarcoma it is abundant and embryonic in character, consisting of a mixture of round and spindle cells, with imperfectly developed fibrous tissue. In other cases there are seen to be stellate cells with long processes, forming an open network, which gives to the growth a myxomatous character. These tumours are generally met with in rather older women than the adeno-fibroma, generally between thirty-five and forty. They grow with considerable rapidity, but remain strictly encapsuled and perfectly movable. They do not infiltrate the gland tissue, but cause its atrophy from pressure. They are painless and do not implicate the lymphatic glands. The tumour itself is nodulated, soft, and semi-elastic ; the skin over it, as it reaches the surface, becomes thinned, but remains otherwise healthy, and can be moved over the growth. Upon making a section of the tumour after removal, it presents a soft, jelly-like, succulent appearance, which has been compared to sago jelly. It is often studded with cysts, and presents" patches of mucoid softening. Treatment.—These tumours should at once be removed. Being dis- tinctly encapsuled, there is no difficulty in dissecting them out, and they show no disposition to recur. Between the two types of adeno-fibroma and adeno-sarcoma a large series of gradations are met with, all consisting of glandular elements and some form of connective tissue in varying proportions. d. Adeno-cystoma.—These tumours, which were originally de- scribed by Brodie as sero-cystic tumours of the breast, are another form of adenomata, which is characterised by the formation of intra-cystic growths within cysts, formed by the dilatation of the acini of an adenomatous tumour. The cysts vary in size, from a pin's head to very considerable dimen- sions, one or two cysts generally preponderating over the rest. Within the cysts are lobulated, fibro-papillomatous intra-cystic growths, which spring from the walls of the cyst and vary much in size, sometimes attaining such a magnitude that they completely fill the parent cyst and give it the appear- ance of a solid tumour. These papillary growths are caused by a proli- feration of the intra-acinous tissue, which grows into the cavity, pushing the epithelial lining of the dilated acinus or duct before it; they are therefore covered with cuboidal or columnar epithelium. They present a knobbed tuberous appearance, not unlike a cauliflower, and are exceed- ingly vascular (fig. 405). They occasionally bleed, and the fluid in the cysts, which was originally clear, then becomes variously coloured from the presence of blood pigments. They are usually encapsuled, and as they grow cause atrophy of the structures around tliem. As they reach