2 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Symptoms.—Necrosis of the jaw generally begins with acute inflam- matory symptoms. The afl'ected part of the face becomes swollen, red and shiny and severe pain is complained of. This may be at first mistaken for toothache, but sooner or later an abscess forms, either in the mouth or on the face, or the pus may burrow down into the neck. The breath is very offensive and there is considerable constitutional disturbance, especially in the phosphorus necrosis, in which, in exceptional cases, pyjemia and abscess of the brain may supervene. After the abscesses have been opened or burst, sinuses form which discharge fcetid pus and on probing dead bone will be felt. , , ^, , . , . Treatment—Incisions should be made as soon as matter forms, and free drainage provided for. The abscess cavities should be kept as aseptic as possible by repeated syringing with antiseptic solutions, and the necrosed bone removed as soon as it is loose, if possible through the mouth. DISEASES OF THE UPPER JAW Suppuration in the antrum in the great majority of cases is due to inflammation around the fang of a carious tooth, especially the second bicuspid, or one of the first two molars, but may occasionally arise from iniury or extension from adjoining parts. It may be acute or chronic. In the acute cases it is attended with deep-seated pain, rapid swellmg, redness and oedema of the cheek and lower eyelid, and very often epiphora and is accompanied by considerable constitutional disturbance. In the chronic form there is a dull aching pain about the antrum, and the gums and mucous membrane of the nasal fossa are red, swollen and tender There is usually an intermittent discharge of pus from the nose, which is often very ofl"ensive, and may be mistaken for ozsena, but accord- ing to Heath the foetor is only apparent to the patient and not to others. The pus trickles from the nostril when the patient's head is bent forwards, and into the pharynx when he is in the recumbent position. In some cases the opening of the antrum becomes occluded, and the pus then distends the cavity and causes the bony walls to expand. In this way a swelling may be formed on the cheek beneath the malar emmence ; or the floor of the orbit may be bulged upwards, producing exophthalmos; or the palate may be depressed; or the nasal wall maybe bulged inwards, causing obstruction to the breathing. In some cases, which are known as 'latent empyema of the antrum, pus may form in the cavity and give rise to scarcely any symptoms. The diagnosis of these cases is not readily made, and it has been recommended under these circumstances to illuminate the _ cavity. _ A small electric lamp is introduced into the mouth while the patient is in a dark room, and if the antra are normal, the cheeks and lips will be o a rosv red in many individuals, but not in all. But if the cavities are_ filled with an opaque fluid such as pus, or by a solid growth this illumination ^ not apparent. As the test does not answer in every individual, all that can be said for it is that the presence of the illumination negatives any forei^ matter in the antrum, but its absence by no means indicates any abnormal Sndition. Perhaps the most characteristic symptoms « empyema o the antrum is the periodic discharge of pus from the nose. \\ hf" a pat^^nt applies to the surgeon with the history that he gets periodical attacks ot rcharge o pus from the nose, which may or may not have been preceded