878 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS to relieve the strangulation, and there are two measures which may be employed to bring this about : (i) taxis ; (2) operation. I. Taxis is the name given to the manipulations by which it is attempted to forcibly reduce the contents of the sac into the abdominal cavity. It is applied in the following way. The patient is placed on his back with the shoulders raised, and the thigh on the affected side slightly flexed so as to relax the abdominal wall. The tumour is then grasped by the fingers of the right hand and is first pulled downwards in order to extend the neck of the hernia, and is then compressed so as to, as far as possible, empty the distended vessels. The fingers of the left hand now grasp the neck of the sac in such a manner as to steady it and form a sort of canal or funnel along which the hernia shall travel backwards into the abdomen. The right hand, which has until now been merely compressing the hernia, is employed in endeavouring to push it back into the abdornen. The direction in which this is to be done must differ with the variety of the hernia. In inguinal hernia the pressure is to be made upwards, outwards, and backwards ; in femoral hernia it is to be first made downwards and backwards to force it through the saphenous opening, and when this is done backwards and upwards ; in an umbilical hernia the pressure should be directly backwards. Taxis must be applied with the greatest amount of caution, and never for a longer period than ten minutes at the utmost. It must be remembered that the object on which it is applied is a knuckle of intestine, the walls of which are gorged with blood, oedematous and more or less softened, so that these are very likely to be irretrievably injured if any great force is appUed. There is no question that the great mortality which followed herniotomy in former days was in a large measure due to the violent and prolonged taxis to which the patients were subjected before operation was resorted to. Taxis should never be applied in any case {a) where the superficial parts show any evidence of inflammation; {b) where the hernia has been long strangulated; {c) where the symptoms are very acute; and {d) where the hernia was previously of the irreducible variety. The rule with regard to taxis is somewhat as follows : If a hernia is seen shortly after strangulation, taxis should be applied for five minutes if the symptoms are fairly acute, and this time may be prolonged to ten minutes if the symptoms are not urgent. Beyond this it is probably not wise nor expedient for the surgeon to persevere; and if he fail in reducing the hernia in this time, he should desist from any further attempt, and at once prepare his patient for operation. After the patient is completely under the anaesthetic, before the operation is commenced, a second short attempt may be made to reduce the hernia by taxis, and failing this the operation should at once be proceeded with. Formerly attempts were made to effect reduction by placing the patient in a hot bath to induce relaxation of the muscles ; or by applying ice to the part to contract the vessels of the contents of the sac, and thus by diminish- ing the bulk facilitate reduction ; but these measures are scarcely to be recommended, as they waste valuable time, and delay proceedings which should be undertaken as soon as possible. ^ Accidents incidental to taxis.-During the employment o\ taxis, various accidents may occur, {a) The entire sac, together witn us contents, may be pushed into the abdomen, and if the stricture is in tne neck of the sac, the strangulation will be unrelieved. This is ^"0\ui reduction en masse or en bloc, {b) In consequence of the manipulation the neck of the sac may become torn, and the strangled loop ma> uc