961 INCONTINENCE OF URINE FUNCTIONAL DERANGEMENTS OF THE BLADDER Irritability of the bladder.—By this term is meant a frequent desire to pass water, not depending upon an increase in the quantity secreted. It varies much in degree : in some persons there is naturally a disposition to pass water more frequently than in others ; and in some the habit has gradually grown to such a degree that the patient is constantly micturating. Irrespective pf these cases there is a condition of irritability which is set up by disease in the urinary organs or elsewhere. The causes which may give rise to irritability of the bladder are very numerous : such as (i) the excess of lithic acid or lithates in the urine; it is therefore very common in the gouty subject ; (2) disease of the kidney, and more especially tuberculous disease, and, to a less extent, stone in the kidney; (3) cystitis and stone in the bladder, or the presence of a tumour or foreign body; (4) inflammation or tuberculous disease of the prostate; (5) diseases of the rectum or anus, such as fissure, piles, or the presence of ascardies in the rectum. Treatment.—In treating these cases the cause must be sought for, and removed if possible ; and when this is done the symptom of irritabiHty will probably subside of itself. There are, however, some cases in which no cause can be found for the condition, and in which the patient's life is rendered miserable by the constant and almost uncontrollable desire to pass water. Under these circumstances, relief may sometimes be given by per- forming a perineal cystotomy and giving physiological rest to the bladder for a short time. Incontinence of urine.—By this term is meant that condition where the urine escapes involuntarily, and its retention is not under the control of the will. The escape may be either continuous, the urine con- stantly dribbling away as fast as it enters the bladder; or it may be intermittent, the escape taking place only occasionally, most frequently at night.^ It may be of two kinds, either Active or Passive. Active incontinence is particularly common in young children, especially in boys, and is not constant, occurring only at night. It arises m many cases from an irritable condition of the urinary organs, engendered by the presence of ascarides in the rectum ; a rectal polypus; a tight fore- skin ; or by the presence of excess of lithic acid in the urine. It may also be caused by insufficient power in the sphincter vesiCcE, so that the patient loses control over it during sleep. The treatment consists in removing any source of irritation which may exist; in improving the patient's general health by the administration of tonics, especially strychnia and iron, fresh air and carefully regulated diet. Belladonna also may be given internally, and appears to exert some mfluence in checking the incontinence. Finally, the child should be awakened at stated hours during the night, and should be made to get up and pass water, which will often do much to break him of the habit. In some cases, however, no treatment seems to be of any avail, and the habit may remain until adult life is reached. Passive incontinence is that condition where there is entire loss of control over the bladder, so that the water dribbles away as fast as it finds an entrance into the bladder. This condition is usually due to paralysis of the sphincter, from loss of nerve influence owing to some lesion of the nerve centres; but in the female may be due to over-dilatation of 3 Q