TREATMENT OF ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 849 the passage be restored, at all events for a time ; but with this exception acute intestinal obstruction almost invariably terminates fatally, sometimes as early as the second day, but almost always within a week or ten days. It must be borne in mind that death in these cases does not really result from the obstruction per se, but the patient dies poisoned by the septic matter derived from the decomposition of the intestinal contents, which is retained in the bowels. This, as will be seen, has an important bearing on the treatment of these cases. Treatment.—From a practical point of view, the treatment of acute intestinal obstruction maybe sunimed up in the one word —' operation.' There can be no question that if the life of a patient who is suffering from genuine acute intestinal obstruction is to be saved it can only be done by removing the cause of the obstruction; but in many cases this is not sufficient—the patient is dying from a poison which is generated in the accumulation of material in the gut above the obstruction, and if this is not got rid of, the removal of the cause of the obstruction will not be sufficient to effect a cure. The exact procedure to be followed in these cases must vary according to the condition of the patient, but in all the first and fundamental rule is to deal with the case at once. As soon as the diagnosis of intestinal obstruction has been made, operative interference should be proceeded with; such palliative measures as the administration of opium, the exhibi- tion of enemata, ike, can only do harm by wasting time and diminishing the patient's chance of recovery. When the patient is in a fairly good condition, and there is no great distension of the abdomen; when the vomit is not stercoraceous, showing that decomposition of the intestinal contents has not taken place; and when there is no general indication of poisoning from septic absorption, a laparotomy should be performed in the middle line of the abdomen, and the obstruc- tion sought for and removed. In many cases the cause of the obstruction is at once apparent upon opening the abdomen, but in others this is not so. A systematic examination should then be instituted; the hand must be introduced into the abdomen and carried down to the right iliac fossa, and the condition of the csecum ascertained. If this is flaccid and empty, the obstruction is in the small intestine; if, on the other hand, it is distended, the obstruction is in the large. In the former case the ileum just above the ileo-csecal valve should be found, and the small intestine traced backwards by drawing the ileum up to the surface of the wound and then passing it through the two hands until the obstruction is reached, each coil being passed back into the abdominal cavity before the next is withdrawn. If the ctecum is distended, the obstruction is very pro- bably in the sigmoid flexure or upper part of the rectum, and the hand should be introduced into the left iliac fossa, and this portion of gut examined. If it should prove to be collapsed and empty, the colon must be traced backwards until the obstruction is reached. The obstruction having been discovered, the next step is to deal with it according to its nature. If it is a band of adhesion, the band must be ligatured in two places and divided between the ligatures; if the constriction is due to a Meckel's diverticulum, it is advisable to remove it. This may be done by clamping the gut on either side, cutting off the diverticulum, and suturing the opening thus made in the bowel with a Czerny-Lembert suture. When the obstruction is due to a knuckle of intestine slipping through a hole in the mesentery or omentum, the constricting edge may require incision 3 I