14 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS most common situation is in tlie middle line of the submaxillary region under the tongue (see page 653). Cysts may also form in the thyro-glossal duct, which remains unobliterated in part, and a collection of fluid takes place in this patent portion. The dermoid cysts are lined by stratified epithelium, and contain a mucoid or glairy fluid, in which is fatty matter and epithelium. They rarely contain hairs. ^. Bursal cysts are usually situated in the middle hne in connec- tion with the larynx. One over the pomum Adami may be sometimes enlarged and it is said by some that another exists between the back of the hyoid bone and the top of the thyroid cartilage, which may become enlarged. Occasionally bursal cysts develop by the side of the larynx. They°may be excised if they give rise to any inconvenience. 6 Hydatid cysts do not often occur in this region. 7'. Malignant cysts are sometimes found in the neck. They may be primary, when they are supposed to originate in the epithelium of a portion of included epiblast; or secondary, in consequence of a cystic degeneration of an epitheliomatous gland. They are of rapid growth, and usually appear in advanced life. They attain a large size and speedily destroy life. Their removal is not practicable: Congenital branchial fistulae.—These fistulee arise from the imperfect closure of the branchial clefts. They are often hereditary, and frequently several members of the same family may possess them. As a rule they cause little inconvenience. A small opening is visible, most frequently along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, which is often concealed by a little reduplication of the skm containing a nodule of cartilage. This opening admits a fine probe, which can be passed upwards for a considerable distance in the direction of the pharynx and sometimes can be passed into this cavity. A litrie viscid discharge occasionally oozes from the orifice. They are more often situated on the right side of the neck, though in some individuals both sides are affected. Attempts to cure them have not been followed by any great measure ot success and as they cause little inconvenience they are better left alone. The thyro-glossal duct may in like manner remain pervious, constituting a median cervical fistula. The fistulous track may extend upwards bebveen the genio-hyo-glossi muscles to the foramen CcECum of the tongue, ihese fistuL are better left alone, as any attempt to excise them or incise them and destroy their epithelial lining is generally unsuccessful. DISEASES OF THE PHARYNX Pouching of the pharynx. -The name/Z^anv/^-^- cele has been given to a peculiar pouch-like dilatation of the lower part of the pharynx, which is occasionally met with. The pouch consists ot a hernial protrusion of the walls of the pharynx just above its termination in the cesophagus. Its walls, when the sac has attained any size, consis only 0 the mucous and fibrous coats, but when small the muscular coat also maj be found to form part of its walls. The sac projects downwards bet een the^sophagus and the vertebral column, and i.s a ways more prominei 0 the Sft side (fig. 273). The cause of this condition is not known, but it s beUevTd tU -21 congenital, owing to some defective fevelopm-^^ at first being small it produces no definite symptoms, and t is no untU it has acquired some size that any inconvenience arises from it, for it