CYSTIC TUMOURS those we have just been considering. They may be conveniently discussed under three different groups: (a) Simple or serous cysts j (Zi) Blood cysts ; (c) True cystic tumours ; that is, tumours where the existence of the cyst is an essential of their growth and not an accidental coincidence. a. Simple or serous cysts.—The simple or serous cyst may occur in any part of the body. It consists of a single cavity formed of a thin-walled membrane lined by a layer of flattened epithelium, and containing a slightly viscid, serous fluid. These cysts are believed to originate in the expansion and fusion together of some of the spaces of ordinary areolar tissue by an accumulation of fluid in them. Around this fluid the connective tissue becomes condensed and forms a sac wall, and thus a cystic tumour is produced. False bursse, formed where there is pressure or friction, as in a bunion, constitute cystic tumours of this class. /f. Blood cysts.—Blood cystic tumours are of two different kinds. One is where condensation takes place around an extravasation of blood, [)robably as the result of some slight degree of inflammation. The products of this inflammation become organised and converted into a fibrous membrane, which incloses the extravasated blood. The blood then undergoes change, which results in the formation of a clear serous fluid, and thus a cystic tumour is formed. Cysts in the sub-dural space of the brain are occasionally formed in this way from extravasations of blood after injury to the head (fig. 221). The other form of blood cyst is not common. It principally occurs in the neck, when it is known under the name of hcematocele of the neck. It consists of a thin-walled cyst, some- times single, sometimes multilocular, containing pure blood. The mode of origin is uncertain, but it is supposed by some to originate in a nsevus. The chief peculiarity about these cysts is that if they are tapped they at once fill again; and if incised they bleed furiously, although no connection can be traced with a vessel of any size. The blood appears to come from an exceedingly vascular sac wall; for its removal is at once followed by a cessation of the haemorrhage. The treatment consists, therefore, in removal of the cyst, or sometimes tapping and the injection of liquid perchloride of iron will suffice. c. True cystic tumours.—These are tumours in which the presence of the cyst or cysts is an essential part of the growth. Generally many cysts are developed in close proximity to each other, and these becoming more or less fused together constitute compound, i.e. multi- locular^ cystic tumours. They are especially common in the ovary, testicle, and breast. In many of them secondary growths spring from the lining membrane of the cysts, which may partially or completely fill them. The tumours are then spoken of as p7-oliferous cystic growths. These cystic tumours consist of an external envelope of connective tissue, lined by epi- thelium which usually resembles that of the part from which the cyst is formed, and the secondary growths, when they exist, spring from a layer of vascular embryonic tissue, situated beneath the epithelium ; between it and the external wall of the cyst. These secondary growths may spring from one or many parts of the wall of the parent cyst, and when first appearing look like so pany papillary groAvths. They project into the cyst, and are coated with its lining epithelium. As they grow, they coalesce and form a solid mass which may eventually completely fill the parent cyst, and making their way through its walls may burst through the skin and eventually form a fungating mass. In other cases these papillary intra-cystic growths may themselves become cystic, and in this way we get daughter cysts formed Q 2