561 DISEASE OF THE HIP in dissecting it out to keep quite close to the bone, for fear of wounding the radial artery. The ends of the radius and uhia can now easily l^e protruded from the wound and the articular surfaces sawn off: in doing this the styloid process of the ulna should be left if possible, as it prevents displacement of the hand to the ulnar side, which is otherwise liable to take place. The metacarpal bones are now protruded through the wound— the fourth and fifth through the ulnar wound, and the second and third through the radial—and a thin slice taken off their bases. The base of the first metacarpal bone is removed with cutting forceps, as is also the articular surface of the pisiform, if the whole bone does not require removal. The radial incision is entirely closed, and a drainage tube inserted into the middle of the ulnar incision, the rest of it being closed. The great object in the after treat- ment is to get a firm wrist and movable fingers. The arm and hand are to be put upon a straight splint to which a piece of thick cork has been attached, so that the wrist shall be slightly extended and the hand semiflexed. A second lateral projection of cork is fixed to the splint, on which the thumb rests. The fingers must be thoroughly flexed and extended at both phalangeal and metacarpo- phalangeal joints every day, com- mencing the second day after the operation ; while the wrist must be kept immovably fixed on the splint for a long period of time, as there is danger of a flail-like joint on account of the amount of bone removed; and even after the splint has been removed some support to the wrist will be required for months. The hip joint—Simple acute synovitis is not of so common occurrence as a similar condition in many other articula- tions, on account of the depth of the joint and the protection which is afforded to it by surrounding muscles. When it does occur, it is attended by the ordinary symptoms, the swellmg being due to effusion into the synovial membrane. The swelling IS not very great, and is principally situated at the front and back of the jomt. That m front shows itself as a little fulness in the upper part of Scarpa's triangle, so that the fold of the groin is not so marked as on the other side of the body, and the femoral artery can be felt to be beating superficially, being raised by the effusion beneath. The superficial inguinal glands may also be noticed to stand out prominently under the skin as little almond-shaped bodies, especially if they are at all enlarged. The swelling behind is merely a little fulness in the gluteal region, which is not easy to detect by digital examination. I'he most characteristic symptom o o Fig. 199.—Diagram of excision of the wrist, after Lister, a, radial artery; b, tendon of the extensor longus pollicis; c, ext. indicis ; D, ext. com. digitorum ; E, ext. mm. dig. ; F, ext. brev. poI. ; g, ext. oss. met. pol. ; H, ext. carp. rad. long. ; I, ext. carp. rad. brev. ; k, ext. carp. uln. ; L, L, line of incision. (From ' A System of Surgery,' by Holmes and Hulke.)