REDUCTION OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER 507 Extension.—Many ways have been devised for overcoming the tension of the muscles and ligaments and reducing dislocations of the shoulder by extension. By far the best and simplest is by extension with the foot in the axilla. The patient is placed flat on a couch, and the surgeon, seated on the edge and facing the patient, places his unbooted foot in the axilla, so that the heel rests against the head of the bone. He now grasps the arm with both hands, and makes steady and forcible traction downwards and outwards. This generally succeeds in reducing the dislocation ; should it not do so, while the extension is still kept up the arm is carried inwards; the heel then acts as the fulcrum of a lever of the first kind, and forces the head of the bone into the socket. Another plan is to place the knee in the axilla, instead of the heel, the patient being seated in a chair ; but it is by no means so good. The knee is too large; the surgeon has not the same amount of extending force, and the position of the patient is an undesirable one for an anfesthetic. White of Manchester advocated verti- FiG. 181.—Dislocation of the elbow joint, with racture of the coronoid process. The head of the radius is also split. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) cal extension upwards. The patient is placed on a flat couch ; the scapula is fixed by a jack-towel placed over the shoulder girdle, and held by an assistant standing at the foot of the bed, and the surgeon, standing behind the patient, pulls the arm vertically upwards. This plan has been modified by Lowe, who seats his patient on the floor, with his back to a couch or chair. The surgeon, standing on this, places his foot on the top of the shoulder girdle and pulls the arm directly upwards. The advantage of this plan is that it does away with the necessity of an assistant. But both methods are dangerous, as they expose the artery and vein to unnecessary risk. Sir Astley Cooper recommends placing the foot against the cheSt wall and making extension directly outwards. After reduction the plan of treatment indicated above by massage and passive movement must be sedulously carried out, or else permanent impairment of the movements of the articulation will very probably result.