654 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS In consequence of this the lyaiphatic vessels and spaces become dilated and distended with lymph, and secondarily there is a diffuse overgrowth of the connective tissue with atrophy of the muscular fibres. The disease is usually congenital, though it may not be sufficiently pronounced to be observed at birth, but during the first year of life the tongue becomes so enlarged and prolapsed from the mouth that the child cannot close the jaws, and there is constant dribbling of the saliva. The exposed tongue becomes purplish, dry on the surface and often superficially ulcerated, but there is very little pain. The pressure of the tongue causes displacement of the teeth, and very often deformity of the jaw, pushing the alveolar process forwards. Treatment.—When the tongue is so far enlarged as to protrude from the mouth, no treatment short of operation is likely to be of any avail. The operation consists in the removal of a V-shaped piece, with the apex • directed backwards, and uniting the side flaps by sutures in the middle line. The results of the operation are usually very satisfactory. The bleeding is not excessive, and the risk is therefore small. The only point in connection with the operation is that it should not be delayed until the teeth have become displaced, as this condition cannot be remedied. Enlargement of the tongue may occur in the adult as the result of inflamma- tion, and also in tertiary syphilis from the diff"usion through it of numerous small gummata, but neither of these conditions is a true hypertrophy. Atrophy of the tongue may result from nerve lesion; this condition is usually unilateral. Acute glossitis.—Acute parenchymatous inflammation of the tongue may arise from several causes : from the introduction of some septic matter, from the bite of an insect, or from injury; from burns or scalds; during the course of some of the specific fevers, as an acconipani- ment of general stomatitis ; or from the immoderate administration of mercury. The advent of the disease is sudden, and is attended by rapid swelling, so that the tongue is protruded from the mouth. The swelling is so great that the base of the tongue fills the pharynx, and may threaten suffocation and render speech and the taking of food impossible. The protruded tongue is red, acutely painful, and often presents on its surface superficial excoriations. The salivary glands are often involved, being swollen and painful, and there is profuse salivation. The constitutional symptoms are those of fever of an asthenic type, with a high temperature. As a rule the disease subsides under treatment, but occasionally it may run on to diff"use suppuration and death from septicaemia or septic pneumonia, or a circumscribed abscess may form. • • , Treatment.—The treatment consists in making a free longitudinal incision into the substance of the tongue on either side of the middle line. This is followed by immediate relief, though a certain amount of swelling may persist for a time. If asphyxia is threatened, it may become necessary to perform laryngotomy. In less severe cases, especially those arising from mercurial poisoning, incisions may not be needed; by stopping the drug and administering a saline purge, and washing out the mouth con- stantly with a chlorate of potash gargle, the swelling will usually subside. Abscess of tongue.—Acute inflammation of the tongue may terminate in abscess; but in addition to this chronic abscess is occasion- ally met with. It forms a smooth, round, circumscribed swelling in the substance of the tongue, which has been mistaken for gumma and cancer. It is probably due to the introduction of some septic matter, through a