970 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS tissues. The forefinger of the left hand is now wormed along the convexity of the' staff into the bladder and the stone sought for ; when this is felt, the assistant is instructed to withdraw the staff, and the opening in the prostatic urethra and the neck of the bladder is _ dilated with the forefinger. If the stone is of large size, a blunt-pointed straight bistoury should be introduced along the finger into the bladder, and the ri<^ht lobe of the prostate notched. This is a better plan than bruising and tearing the parts by endeavouring to extract too large a stone through too small an opening. After the opening has been dilated as far as is judged necessary, Uthotomy forceps are to be introduced along the dorsum of the finger into the bladder, and when the blades have en- tered that viscus the forefinger may be withdrawn from the wound. As the finger is withdrawn, the fluid which is still retained in the bladder Fig. 373.—Anatomy, in section, of parts concerned in lithotomy. Position of hands in last incision. (From 'A System of Surgery,' by Holmes and Hulke.) , i escapes with a rush, and will often carry the stone into the blades of the | forceps if they are opened to receive it. If this does not happen, the stone, must be felt for : the forceps are opened and the lowermost blade must be swept along the floor of the bladder by a turn of the wrist until the stone j is felt, when it is at once grasped. When the stone has been caught, " it [ is of any size, the finger should be again introduced into the bladder by tne [ side of the forceps to see if it is held in its shorter axis; if not, an endeavoui 1 must be made to alter its position as it lies in the grasp of the forceps, this cannot be done, it should be let go and again seized. When gi"^^P2^ I in the right position, it must be extracted by steadily pulling and backwards in the line of the axis of the pelvis. This with care and gentleness so as not to bruise and tear the neck 0 ^ bladder. The extraction will be facilitated by a rocking, side-to-side nio^|^-1 ment of the hand. Where the stone is small and difficult to seize witn