GENU RECURVATUM 1113 the external condyle, and half an inch in front of the adductor tubercle. Other surgeons prefer to divide the bone with a saw, and to attack the bone from the outer side. To facilitate the performance of this operation, Davy has invented a special grooved knife and saw, which is very convenient and which I always use. I introduce the knife on the outer side of the thigh, about a finger's breadth above the level of the adductor tubercle, and carry it straight down to and in front of the bone, until the cutting edge rests on the anterior surface of the shaft of the femur. The knife is held in this position with the left hand, while the saw is shpped down the groove in the knife, until its cutting edge also rests on the anterior surface of the femur. The sawing is then commenced, the knife being retained in position until a groove has been made in the bone ; it is then withdrawn, and about two-thirds of the thickness of the bone sawn through; the solution of continuity is completed by forcibly breaking the remainder. The limb is then straightened, and the wound dressed, no suture as a rule being required, and at once put up in plaster of Paris. The wound requires no dressing for ten days, when the plaster is taken off, the dressings removed, and the limb is again put up in the plaster casing for three months. Osteoclasia consists in forcibly breaking the bone either by the hands or by an osteoclast. By the former method the surgeon firmly grasps the thigh a little distance above the patella, using his thumb as a fulcrum, and then seizing the leg with the other hand, straightens the limb until the bone yields. By means of the osteoclast the bone is broken much in the same way by the special instrument which has been devised for this purpose. I have never employed these methods, which seem to me to be barbarous, and a confession on the part of the surgeon that he is afraid of his powers of keeping the wound aseptic; but many surgeons of repute speak highly of this method, and constantly employ it. Genu varum {bow-knee) is the opposite condition to genu valgum. It usually occurs in those cases of rickets where there is a general curve of both femur and tibia in an outward direction. The condition is met with in heavy, rickety children, in whom the bones yield from being soft and unable to bear the weight of the child. The disease is not attended with the same alteration in shape of the femoral condyles, as in the rachitic form of genu valgum, and differs from the static form in the fact that it is the bones which first give and not the ligaments. The two conditions of genu valgum and genu varum may exist in the same individual, one knee being bowed outwards, the other inwards. The treatment consists in the ordinary general treatment for rickets : in massage and manipulation to the limbs, and in the application of a light wooden splint on the inner side, to which the limb is bandaged, and which should project some inches below the level of the feet, so as to keep the child completely off its legs. If not cured in early life, osteotomy of the femur and tibia may be required later on. Genu recurvatum is a rare and usually a congenital malformation, in which the legs are hyper-extended on the thighs, so as to form an angle with them. The congenital form is due to malposition in the uterus ; the legs, instead of being flexed on the thighs, as in the normal position, being hyper-extended along the ventral surface of the body. In these cases the articular .surface of the tibia lies in front of the condyles of the femur, and the patella above the intercondyloid notch. The crucial liga- ments and posterior part of the capsule are tense and stretched, and there is