iii6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS IS very rare as a congenital condition, and usually arises from infantile paralysis affecting the extensor muscles, or else from injury to the anterior tibial nerve, producing paralysis of these same muscles, the unbalanced action of the calf muscles raising the heel. When the disease arises from infantile paralysis, the elevation of the heel may not be very great and the patient walks on the balls of his toes, with a limp. But in the severer forms the calcaneum is drawn into an almost vertical position ; the tarsus is curved forwards, so as to approximate the metatarso-phalangeal joints to the heel, and the muscles and fascia in the sole of the foot are much contracted (fig. 417). Under these cir- cumstances the patient walks on the heads of the metatarsal bones, with the toes hyper-extended. The changes in the shape of the bones of the tarsus are not very great in this variety, but there is a partial displacement of the astra- galus in the tibio-fibular mortise, only the posterior part of its articular surface resting against the lower end of the tibia. Treatment consists in elongating the contracted muscles. In slight cases this may sometimes be done by con- stantly repeated manipulations, and by applying elastic extension in such a way as to cause traction on the contracted muscles. This may be effected by attaching to the front of the sole of the boot an elastic cord, which is connected above to the front of a metal collar fixed round the leg just below the knee, and always kept in a condition of tension. Generally, however, division of the tendo Achillis will be found to be the simplest and easiest way of treating this de- formity. The tendon is divided sub- cutaneously by turning the patient into the prone position, and introducing the tenotome by the side of the tendon a short distance above the level of the os calcis, where the tendon is thinnest, and pushing it under and as close as possible to the tendon. When this has been done the cutting edge of the tenotome is turned towards the tendon, and by a sawing movement it is cut through, an a§sistant holding the foot in as flexed a position as possible, in order to tighten the tendon. As soon as it is divided, it will give way with an audible snap, and care must be observed that the knife does not slip and transfix the skin over the tendon. The wound is at once closed with gauze and collodion, and the foot having been brought into its normal position, is put up in plaster of Paris. The foot must be kept in the plaster for three months, until the union is thoroughly consolidated, and the patient should then wear steel supports, with a lock in the joint at the ankle, so that the foot Fig. 417.—Dissection of an old case of talipes equinus. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)