195 INHERITED SYPHILIS sclerosis, which when it affects the posterior columns is believed to be a frequent cause of locomotor ataxy ; or it may occur as a chronic meningitis or as a gumma in the membranes. In these latter cases there may be paralysis of a limb, or part of a limb, or complete paraplegia. In the nerves, tertiary syphilitic affections are not common, but minute gummata may occasionally be found in their sheaths. Treatment of tertiary syphilis.—In the treatment of tertiary syphilis our main reliance must be placed on iodide of potassium. Under its influence tertiary ulcerations will heal and gummatous tumours disappear, often with amazing rapidity. But there are cases constantly met with in which the iodide does not appear to exert its usual influence, and these are, I believe, generally cases in which the patient has not been subjected to any or, if any, to an insufficient course of mercury during the second stage, and these are the cases which in my opinion require mercury in combination with the iodide of potassium during the tertiary stage. There is a good deal of difference of opinion as to value of mercury in the tertiary stage. Some recommend its habitual administration ; others recommend that it should be given alternately with the iodide, and others discard its use altogether. I believe that it is indicated in those cases, and for the most part in those cases only, in which an insufficient course has been given during the secondary stage. The iodide of potassium should be given in increasing doses; beginning with a 5-grain dose, it should be gradually increased until the effects produced by it are marked. It is very depressing, and should therefore always be given in combination with ammonia and some tonic, decoction of bark or iron—the ammonia-citrate or potassio-tartrate. Occasionally it produces certain toxic effects from the iodine it contains, coryza, lachrymation, a pustular eruption and marked depression. Some- times this may be overcome by giving the dose in a largely diluted form, and sometimes, strangely enough, an increase in the dose will cause a diminution in these symptoms. In addition to the treatment by iodide of potassium, the general health of the patient must be carefully attended to. Individuals suffering from tertiary syphilis are always more or less debili- tated and very often anaemic, so that attention must be paid to their hygienic and dietetic surroundings. Plenty of fresh air, and above all sea air, is indicated, but at the same time they must avoid all risk of catching cold. Their diet should be carefully regulated, and they should be temperate in all things, but especially with regard to stimulants, and if the mucous membrane of the mouth is affected, with regard to smoking. INHERITED SYPHILIS Syphilis may be inherited through the father at the time of conception, or through the mother, or both. The infection through the mother may take place up to a late period of utero-gestation, so that a child may be born apparently healthy and may develop secondaries a month or two afterwards. In addition to this a child may be infected during parturition by a sore on the vulva of the mother, but these are not true cases of mherited .syphilis and must be regarded as examples of the acquired form of the disease. If the mother is syphilitic there is a great tendency to abortion or premature delivery, and many consecutive miscarriages may occur, but the condition gradually dies out. When there is a history of a woman after marriage having two, three, or four miscarriages, each occurring o 2