OBSTRUCTED HERNIA 873 lency and colic, dragging pain in the part, constipation, and symptoms of dvsDeDsia If untreated, irreducible hernite have a tendency to increase in size they are apt to become obstructed where the gut is involved, or inflamed and even strangulated. They are also much exposed to injury and a blow on the part may at any time place the patient s life in imminent ^^Xeatmeni—There are three plans of treating irreducible hernia. (a) By confining the patient to bed, on a low diet, so as to reduce his fat; by raisins the foot of the bed, and maintaining pressure over the hernia by a pad and bandage or a bag of shot. This, with the occasional application of taxis, may succeed in reducing the hernia when it is a recent one for it must be remembered that irreducibility is very often a transitory condition. il>) By means of some artificial support or truss, which must vary according to the nature and size of the hernia. In comJ>/e/e mgmna/ hernia, the best form of instrument is the /linged truss cup. This consists of an ordinary inguinal truss, to the pad of which a hollow cup is fixed by a transverse hino-e This cup is made of soft metal, lined with wash-leather, and is accurately moulded to the scrotal swelling. To its free border perineal straps are attached, and by tightening these the cup makes firm pressure on the scrotum, without communicating any pressure to the pad, as this is prevented by the hinge. In the incomplete ingumal hernia and in the femoral hernia, if small, a hollow pad attached to the ordinary spring is applied. The hollow pad should accurately fit the hernia, and in order that this may be accomplished, a plaster cast should be taken and the pad moulded on this. In umbilical hernia, in the same way the hernia should be supported by a hollow metal cup moulded to it, and this is to be kept in position by an elastic abdominal belt. It is stated that in a certain percentage of cases reduction of the hernia may be effected after a con- siderable time by wearing one of these appHances. {c) By operation. In the majority of cases of irreducible hernia, the best plan of treatment is to open the sac, remove any omentum which may be present, reduce the intestine, and perform a radical cure. There are several reasons why this course is the' best: the hernia probably produces distress from pain and dyspepsia; it is liable at any time to become obstructed, inflamed, or strangulated, and it is always exposed to injury. In those cases where the intestine is so intimately adherent to the sac that it cannot be separated, the adherent portion may be cut ofi' from the rest of the sac and reduced with the intestine. Where the hernia is of very large size and has been irreducible for many years, no operation should be performed. If such is attempted, it will usually be found that it will be impossible to reduce the gut, and serious results have followed the endeavour. In these cases the only treatment is to support the hernia by an elastic bag or a hinged truss cup. 3. Obstructed or incarcerated hernia.—An obstructed or incarcerated hernia is where the bowel has become obstructed by ftecal matter or undigested food, and in which therefore the passage of the contents of the intestine down the tube is arrested. It is almost always met with in hernia of the large intestine, which are irreducible, and most commonly occurs in umbilical hernise, though large scrotal hernice also sometimes become obstructed. The symptoms are those of intestinal obstruction, and usually come on gradually and run a chronic or subacute course. The tumour is noticed to be larger than natural, and to be painful and tender to the touch. It