INFLAMMATION 20 physioaL Local injuries such as produce contusions, wounds, fractures, or dislocations ; a condition of unrest, from tension, friction, the presence of foreign bodies, or even, in some cases, excessive use of a part, may all be regarded as mechanical irritants productive of inflammation. Then, again, the application of strong acids or alkalies, and certain salts, as chloride of zinc; or some animal and vegetable products, as cantharides, croton oil and mustard, will cause inflammation, and may be regarded as chemical irritants. Finally, excessive heat or cold, and electrical stimu- lation, when it gives rise to decomposition of the tissues, are physical irritants that may give rise to inflammation, without the presence of micro-organisms, though it must be admitted that these injuries are much more likely to be followed by inflammation ; and that this inflammation is of a much more serious character when micro-organisms are present in the part. 2. The Chemical Products of Putrefaction.—The chemical products of putrefaction appear to play an important part in the production of in- flammation, especially in the spreading infective inflammation which sometimes attacks wounds. Putrefaction is a fermentative process, and consists in the rapid and intense decomposition of nitrogenous, and especially albuminoid, sub- stances under the influence of certain bacteria. During the process, as a product of the growth of these bacteria, a chemical substance is formed, called ptomaine, which soaks into the tissues, and, acting as an irritant, excites inflammation, and not only causes the inflammation, but by its continuance in the part causes a prolongation of the inflam- matory process, so that it assumes one of the severer forms, such as suppuration, to which we have alluded. The bacteria which excite ordi- nary putrefaction appear to be capable of acting only^on dead matter. When introduced into the blood stream of a living animal, they dis- appear without producing any ill effect, unless they are injected in such quantities that they cannot rapidly be absorbed. The essentials, there- fore, of putrefaction are dead animal matter and the presence of a ferment, and to these must be added the presence of oxygen and water, and the . maintenance of a certain temperature ; but of course these conditions are always present in the living body. The dead animal matter which usually undergoes this putrefactive change, and which, therefore, is the primary cause of the inflammation, is the serum of the blood; the serum which is squeezed out of the clot after its coagulation, and during its subsequent contraction. Take, for example, an ordinary wound, after its infliction, the first thing that happens is the arrest of the htemorrhage ; if the wound is only of a certain size, and no considerable vessel has been injured, this arrest takes place as a perfectly natural process. It is brought about by the formation of clots in the mouths of the cut vessels, for reasons which will be mentioned in speaking about injuries to blood- vessels. These clots then contract, and as they do so they squeeze out from themselves the serum contained within them: if this seruni escapes from the wound no evil results ; but if, on the other hand, it is retained, and there chance to be present in the wound, as very probably there may be, some of the bacteria of putrefaction, the fermentative process is set up, ptomaines are formed, and a severe form of inflammation is the result. For the serum which has been expressed from the clot is dead animal matter. So also in many wounds, such as compound fractures and wounds opening the cavities of the body, it is impossible always to get rid of all the