277 ONYCHIA Perforating Ulcer—By the generic term perforating ulcer is meant a peculiar, burrowing ulceration, which attacks the foot, most com- monly of patients who are the subjects of locomotor ataxy, but also not unfrequently occurring in diabetic individuals, and in those who are the subjects of neuritis arising from any cause. Patients who have a spma bifida occulta are also sometimes the victims of this condition. The disease commences as a small round sore, presenting the appear- ance of an ordinary pressure ulcer, usually on the sole, and more particu- larly under the heads of the metatarsal bones. As tho di-ease extends, the ulcer burrows upwards through the soft parts, unt:l it reaches the meta- tarsal bones, which then become implicated and the seat of a rarefying ostitis. The metatarso-phalangeal joint often becomes involved, and a suppurative arthritis set up. The ulcer now presents the appearance of a funnel-shaped sinus, surrounded by unhealthy-looking granulations and discharging a foul-smelling pus. Upon introducing a probe, rough bare bone will be felt, and grating upon moving the joint surfaces on each other will be detected. There is usually little pain, and the skin around, in many cases, entirely loses its sensibility and becomes anaesthetic. There is often profuse sweating of the foot. Combined with this will be the evidence of the condition which has given rise to the disease; the symptoms of locomotor ataxy in the tabetic patient; the presence of sugar in the urine in the diabetic patient; and the presence of the tuft of hair in the lumbo-sacral region, so character- istic of spina bifida occulta. Treatment.—A perforating- ulcer can generally be healed by enforcing strict rest and preventing the patient putting his foot to the ground, com- bined with strict cleanliness, and where the bone is carious, cleaning the diseased tissue away with a sharp spoon. But unfortunately, though the perforating ulcer can be cured in this way, it is very liable to recur as soon as the patient begins to get about again. In treating these cases it is right in the first place to endeavour to heal the ulcer by the measures indicated, and then to try and prevent its recurrence by inserting a thick felt sole into the boot, with a hole in it corresponding to the site of the ulcer, with a view to relieving pressure. Should the ulceration recur, the only remedy is amputation. DISEASES OF THE NAILS Onychia is a disease of the nails dependent on inflammation of the matrix. It is usually described as occurring under two forms, onychia simplex and onychia maligna; but it seems simpler to describe them as one, and regard the two conditions as different varieties of the same disease. The inflammation is of an unhealthy character, and goes on to ulceration; the nail becomes shrivelled and thrown off, leaving a foul ulcerated surface, which discharges foetid, sanious pus. The disease usually occurs in tuberculous children, originating in a crush of the end of the finger or toe ; or it may occur in syphilitic individuals, and is said by some to be also due to the inoculation of the parasite of ringworm under the nail, from the child affected with this disorder scratching his head. In the simple form there is redness, heat, and swelling generally on one side of the nail, which becomes black, loosened, and thrown off, leaving an ulcerated surface, over which a deformed and thickened nail gradually forms. In onychia