272 INJURIES AND DISEASES 01- SPECIAL TISSUES consist in the centre of large oval, vitreous-looking bodies, which are known tis the molluscum bodies, which are by some considered to be parasitic in their nature. I'hese are surrounded by peripheral cells, which are closely associated with the Malpighian layer of the skin and are'closely packed together. They produce no constitutional symptoms, and are of little importance beyond their unsightliness. The treatment consists in making a slight puncture into them and squeezing out their contents. They show little tendency to recur. Lupus.—Lupus is a disease of the skin, characterised by an infiltration of the corium with small round cells. It may attack any part of the body but is most frequently found on the skin of the face. Under the term lupus are described two forms of disease, which, though they have much in common, present great points of difference and require to be examined separately. These are: (i) lupus vulgaris and (2) lupus erythematosus. I. Lupus vulgaris is the more common form of the disease. It usually commences in childhood or early adult life. It has a much surrounded by large epithelioid cells and inclosed in the round cells of the granulation tissue. The presence of these tuberculous nodules, when they were first discovered, led pathologists to the opinion that lupus vulgaris was a tuberculous disease of the skin, and this was further confirmed when the tubercle bacillus was found in the giant cells. The bacilli are few in number, never perhaps more than one in each giant cell, and they are difficult to find. Further confirmation of this opinion was derived from experimental research, when it was found by Schuster and others that inoculation of lupous material into animals sometimes produced general tuberculosis. After full development of the lupoid tubercle has taken place, and the individual tubercles have coalesced to form a mass of considerable size, the greater tendency to ulcerate and destroy the tissues more deeply than the other form. It may also attack the mucous surfaces, sometimes primarily, but more frequently by ex- tension from the cutaneous surfaces. Fig. 73.—Lupus vulgaris of the face. ' (From a ■ drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) The disease begins as an accumulation of round cells, which forms a distinct spheri- cal nodule in the deeper layers of the corium. This increases in size and destroys the whole thickness of the true skin, so that we get a nodule of tissue similar to granulation tissue contained in an excavation of the true skin and covered by the epidermis; in this granula- tion-like material are found non-vascular areas resembling in structure miliary tubercles, consisting of a giant cell.