SECTION IV INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES AND ORGANS CHAPTER I SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES Warts (Yerrucae).—A wart is a true papillomatous tumour, and in structure differs in no respect from an ordinary papilloma, except in those slight differences which are due to the structure from which it grows. Warts occur principally in children about the hands and face, and in adults about the genital organs. They may also occur on mucous surfaces, as the conjunctiva, or in the mouth. Etiology.—No cause is certainly known for warts, but in all probability in most cases some form of local irritation is the primary cause of the disease. This is certainly the case in warts on the genital organs of the adult, where they arise from the irritation produced by some retained secretion, or from the discharge of gonorrhoea. In the common warts on the hands of children they may possibly be due to the irritation produced by dirt, for they generally disappear spontaneously as the child grows older, and when probably more attention is paid to personal clean- liness. Warts sometimes depend on secondary syphilis for their origin. Warts are generally pedunculated, but occasionally sessile, especially when they occur on the face of old people. Not infrequently a crop of small warts collects into a mass on some part of the body, and under these circumstances is often pigmented. They have received the generic term of verrucce. confluentes. The colour of a wart varies ; sometimes it is grey, sometimes red, and sometimes brown or black from the presence of pigment. It is very vascular, and often bleeds considerably after a slight injury, which ruptures the vessel it contains. Treatment.—Almost any caustic will cure a wart; perhaps the most .satisfactory is the glacial acetic acid; this applied to the wart, with strict cleanliness, is generally all that is necessary. Warts on the genitals must be treated by scrupulous cleanliness, the application of the liquor plumbi diacetatis, or a powder consisting of equal parts of iodoform and tannin. If this fails to effect a cure, snipping them off with a pair of scissors and touching the pedicle with the actual cautery is required. If there is any gonorrhoea present, it must be treated; and if there is any suspicion as to their specific nature, the constitutional disease must be treated. Epsom