DYSPHAGIA DISEASES OF THE fESOPHAGUS Malformations of the oesophagus are not common. They may consist either in a congenital communication between the oesophagus and trachea, or in a complete closure of the upper part of the gullet, the lower part communicating with the trachea. As these conditions are incorn- patible with life, it is scarcely necessary to enter further into their description. Diverticula of the oesophagus.—In addition to the pouches which have been already described (page 714), and which are usually rather in the lower part of the pharynx than the oesophagus, though they are sometimes described as springing from this part of the alimentary canal, small pouches are occasionally found, on post-mortem examination, in* the oesophagus, generally about the level of the bifurcation of the trachea. They are supposed to arise from inflammatory conditions in the tissues outside the tube, which by the subsequent contraction of the cicatrix resulting from the inflammatory process, drag out the wall of the oesophagus and cause a Httle funnel-shaped pouch. They are matters of little impor- tance, except that a foreign body might become lodged in them, and being retained set up inflammation. Inflammation of the oesophagus, accompanied or not by ulceration, is usually caused by the swallowing of caustic fluids, or in a localised form by the impaction of a foreign body, but it may also occur in an acute form as an extension of the inflammation from pharyngitis above or gastritis below. It is accompanied by intense pain on making any attempt to swallow, so much so that the patient avoids even swallowing his own saliva and refuses food. This is accompanied by great tenderness along the course of the oesophagus in the neck and brawny swelling of the tissues outside. There is constant hawking up of glairy mucus and sometimes pus. A chronic form of inflammation of the oesophagus is sometimes found in spirit drinkers, accompanied by enlargement of the mucous glands and hypertrophy of the mucous coat. This may sometimes lead to stricture. The symptoms are pain and difficulty in swallowing, with a dull aching sensation along the course of the oesophagus. The treatment consists in giving complete rest to the part by rectal feeding and administering morphia by hypodermic injection. Stricture of the oesophagus.—There are three varieties of stricture of the oesophagus: i. spasmodic stricture; 2. fibrous stricture; 3. malignant stricture. They all give rise, as their most prominent symptom, to dysphagia, but it must not be forgotten that this sign may arise from many other causes besides stricture, and in investigating a case these con- ditions should never be lost sight of. It will therefore be convenient before speaking of the different kinds of stricture to say a word or two on the other causes which may give rise to difficulty in swallowing, since the diagnosis of stricture of the oesophagus has often to be made by a process of exclusion of the other forms of dysphagia. Dysphagia.—The causes of this condition may be divided into those situated within the food passages and those outside. Among the former are certain conditions of the pharynx, as (i) tumours, especially naso-pharyngeal polypi, which may hang down into the pharynx and obstruct deglutition (page 632); (2) abscess, especially retro-pharyngeal