8oo INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS In cases where it is necessary to unite two unequally sized pieces of intestine, as, for example, the large intestine to the small, the opening in the larger gut is first reduced in size by suturing a portion of it with a Czerny-Lembert suture, until it corresponds to that of the smaller. The operation is then proceeded with as before, by invaginating the smaller gut through an opening made in the larger. (d) Cheatle's method—Another plan of performmg end-to-end anastomosis has been recently introduced by Cheatle, which appears to me to possess the advantage of great simplicity, though I have no personal experience of it myself. After the resection of the injured or diseased portion of the bowel, a longitudinal incision is made in each end of the divided intestine, opposite the mesenteric attachment. The length of this incision should be equal to the diameter of the tube at the point of re- section, and it should go through all the coats of the bowel (fig. 310, a). A Fig. 310.—Cheatle's suture. The divided ends of the intestine can now be spread out iri the form of a fan, and while they are in this position they are placed back to back, so that the two serous coats are in apposition (fig. 310, b). An assistant holds them in this position, with the edges of the two segments of the gut exactly level, and they are rapidly sutured together, care being taken to pick up all the coats bf the bowel with each stitch, which should be inserted about a quarter of an inch from the free margin. Cheatle recommends that the first suture should be inserted at the point of the mesenteric attachment, and the next two at the respective extremities of the edge of the fan-shapea expansion, so as to accurately adapt the borders to each other. 1 He joineci gut is now to be straightened out, and the longitudinal incision sutured D) Lembert's method. The large intestine can be joined to the small in ne same way. After the junction of the two portions has been effected, there ^^1H be left a .superfluous flap of the large gut on either side l^^se arc 0 oe cut away by a V-shaped incision, so that the apex of the V is exacdy in