•io84 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS these-two classes will be considered under the head of cystic tumours; the latter, cysts in tumours, will be described with the several solid growths in which they are formed. I. Cystic tumours.—The independent cystic tumours are (a) reten- tion cysts, {d) simple serous cysts, {c) parasitic cysts. a. Retention cysts are of several different varieties. Some may occur in connection with lactation, and the fluid which is retained is milk, or some substance derived from milk. In the great majority of cases the retention takes place in one of the larger ducts, which becomes obstructed, but in some few cases it would appear to arise from some injury which causes rupture of a duct, or ducts, and effusion of milk, which becomes caseated in the connective tissue. The ordinary galactocele is, however, a dilated duct, generally situated near the nipple, the orifice of which has become obstructed owing to some inflammatory changes from cracked nipple, or from some injury, as incision of an abscess near the nipple ; or it may be from malformation, or the lodgment of a concretion in the duct. Symptoms.—They form oblong tumours, radiating from the nipple, which are painless and fluctuate. The veins over them are often a little enlarged. The swelling becomes firmer and tenser during the act of suckling. Their contents vary, sometimes containing an opalescent serous fluid, at others pure milk, but most frequently a semi-solid, cheesy material. These cysts sometimes disappear at the cessation of lactation, and recur at each suc- ceeding pregnancy. Treatment.—The treatment consists in either laying open the cavity, turning out the contents, and dressing it from the bottom, or in dissecting out the cyst. The latter plan of treatment will probably prove the better, and ought certainly to be followed if the walls of the cyst are much thickened. It is desirable to wait until lactation is over before proceeding to operate. Retention cysts may also be formed in the breast, as a result of chronic interstitial mastitis, arising from the contracting fibrous tissue pressing upon and obstructing the ducts of the glands. These cysts have already been alluded to (page io8j). They vary in size, but usually most of them remain quite small, while one or two continue to grow, and attain considerable dimensions. The patient usually consults the surgeon for a distinct tumour, which does not cause much pain or inconvenience, and which may have been discovered accidentally. The tumour is well defined, movable, elastic, and fluctuation may be detected. On examining the rest of the breast other smaller tumours may be detected, or, at all events, the part of the breast in which the lump is situated will present the hard, knobby characteristics of chronic mastitis. Treatment.—The treatment in these cases consists in either tapping the cyst, and possibly injecting iodine, or by removing it, together with the lobule of the gland to which it is connected. Another form of retention cyst is the involution cyst, which occurs in the breasts of women after the cessation of active child-bearing life. They are closely allied to the preceding, and would appear to originate much m the same way, by the constriction of the gland tissue by the overgrowth of fibrous tissue around it. They are of no great practical importance, rarely attain any great size, and give rise to little or no inconvenience. b. Simple serous cysts are small cysts which arise, not m the glandular structure as the result of retention, but in the connective tissue between the acini. They may be uni- or multi-locular spaces, and are