Fig. 253.—Four-tailed bandage for fracture of the jaw. 66«' INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS In fractures through the angle or lower part of the ramu.s, there is usually little displacement, as the masseter on the outer side and the internal pterygoid on the inner side maintain the fragments in position. When the fracture passes through the neck of the jaw, the condyle is drawn forwards and inwards by the external pterygoid, while the body of the bone is drawn over to the opposite side, thus simulating dislocation. There is great pain in attempting to open the mouth, and in doing so crepitus is generally produced. Fracture of the coronoid process is a rare injury. The broken process is said to be drawn upwards and inwards by the temporal muscle, and union by bone to be impossible, but it is probable that in most cases no great displacement takes place, in consequence of the prolonged insertion of the tendon of the muscle as far as the last molar tooth, and there seems no reason to doubt that bony union usually takes place. Treatment—The treatment consists in replacing the fragments in position by manipulation, and maintaining them there for three or four weeks, during which time mastication must be forbidden. In the simpler cases this is by no means difficult; all that is required is to put up the parts in a four-tailed bandage. This consists of a piece of calico about three feet long and four inches broad, which is slit up at each end into two, leaving about eight inches in the centre undivided. A hole is cut in the middle to receive the chin, the two lower tails are then tied over the head, and the upper pair behind the occiput, and the four ends knotted together to prevent slipping (fig. 253). In cases where there is any difficulty in keeping the fragments in position, a gutta-percha or paste-board splint may be moulded to fit the chin, as shown in fig. 254, and this is applied under the four-tailed bandage. By these means the lower jaw is fixed against the upper, and the fragments maintained in position. _ It is clear, therefore, that no attempt at mastication should be made, but the patient must he fed on fluid or semi-fluid nourishment, which he can suck in between the teeth. In a period of from three to four weeks a little movement of the jaw may be allowed, and in five weeks the union may generally be expected to be fairly firm. In complicated cases, however, this treatment will not be found to be suffi- cient, and many different forms of apparatus have been invented for maintaining the frag- ments in position. Where there is only a single fracture, perhaps the best means is to wire the. broken pieces by drilling a hole on each side of the injury, and fixing the fragments by means of thick silver wire. Ihis plan should always be adopted in those cases where there is an external wound ; bu where there is not, it is by no means easy to drill the fragments._ In order Fig. 254.—Gutta-percha splint for the treatment of fracture of the lower jaw. to do mere is noi, u ib uy nu uicano ^cvojr v^..- ---o . , , this, H. O. Thomas of Liverpool has devised a special tubui