TREATMENT OF CHRONIC ABSCESS 117 mistaken for a scirrhous tumour, and which when removed is found to be a sac containinc; pus with exceedingly hard, dense walls Ihis is supposed o have arisen from an acute abscess, which has undergone an abortive process from the death of the micro-organisms. The suppurative process has therefore been arrested, and consolidation of the surrounding connec- tive tissue has taken place, causing the pus, which had formed before the death of the micro-organisms, to become inclosed in a wall of dense fibrous tissue. But the chronic abscess as we ordinarily see and under- stand it is a mass of tuberculous material with a softened centre, and the fluid it contains is caseated tubercle. In one point these chronic abscesses resemble the acute, and this is that the essential cause is a pathogenic organism, but in these cases the organism is the tubercle bacillus. This bacillus when it effects a lodgment in any tissue sets up an inflammation of a low and usually chronic type, which is marked by the production of a material called ' tubercle.' This tubercle when formed has a tendency to undergo fatty degeneration and become converted into a cheesy mass, which breaks down and leads to the formation of a curdy fluid, which is the so-called pus of one of these chronic abscesses. The wall of the cavity in which it is contained is composed internally of tuberculous material, which is undergoing the same caseating process, and outside this of a layer of newly formed fibroid material formed by inflammatory processes Roing on in the tissues around and set up by the irritation produced by !he presence of the foreign body. The so-called pus (curdy pus) consists microscopically of fat granules and withered cells : sometimes a few rue pus cefls may be found ; these have probably wandered in from suppuration of the inflamed tissues outside the tuberculous deposit. There are no micro-organisms in this fluid, not even the tubercle bacillus, which has been destroyed, and its spores only remain. _ . , • u Symptoms of chronic abscess.—The only indication of a chronic abscess is the appearance of a fluctuating swelling, generally unattended by any heat, pain, or redness, in a case where there is some tuberculous aff^ection, which is known to be often associated with the formation of chronic abscess. There are no evident signs of local inflammation or of con- stitutional disturbance as long as it remains unopened. A chronic abscess is liable to be mistaken for several other affections, and the diagnosis is not always easy to make. For instance, it may be mistaken for a sott tumour, such as a lipoma or a sarcoma; or it may be mistaken for some kinds of cysts, as an hydatid or a blood cyst. The diagnosis in many ot these cases can hardly be arrived at without the aid of the exploring syringe, but this is almost always sufficient to clear up the point. The treatment of chronic abscess is a matter of great importance. Formerly the opening of these abscesses was fraught with the gravest dangers, so much so that surgeons were very reluctant to interfere with them, and if they did so, resorted to all sorts of expedients to prevent the untoward results which so frequently followed : such as opening by a valvular incision ; by means of an issue or seton; by tapping with a trocar and cannula; or by tapping under water. But in spite of these precautions the most serious results often followed. In some cases death occurred in a few days from profound septic intoxication from the rapid decomposition of the contents of the abscess and the absorption of ptomaines. In other cases violent suppuration was set up from the admission of septic germs, sometimes terminating in pyemia, in others subsiding after a time as regards the acuteness of the symptoms, but leaving suppurating tracks,