ioi6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL GROANS the-prepuce may be reduced to the size of a pin point; when this is the case, the urine escapes from the urethra and distends the cavity of the prepuce, the adhesions between this covering and the glans penis being broken down. The end of the penis becomes swollen up like a balloon at each act of micturition, and gradually subsides as the urine escapes through the small opening. Sometimes the prepuce is unnaturally long, without the orifice being unduly contracted; this is more a condition of local inconvenience and annoyance than anything else, and requires careful attention to cleanliness and to the removal of the sebaceous secretion from the Tysonian glands. Acquired phimosis.—Men in whom the prepuce is naturally tight or in whom it is preternaturally long are very liable to get phimosis from repeated attacks of balanitis, which may be set up by gonorrhoea, chancre, or in gouty or diabetic subjects. It may also occur from super- ficial ulcerations, which are not uncommon in elderly men or from repeated attacks of herpes. These inflammatory conditions cause thickening and subsequently contraction of the prepuce, and the patient finds at last that he is unable to retract it over the glans. Treatment.—Congenital phimosis should always be treated by circum- cision, and most cases of acquired phimosis are best treated in the same way, though some few may possibly be relieved by dilatation. Circumcision.—The operation of circumcision is easily performed, but requires a certain amount of care and judgment to remove sufficient, and not too much, of the foreskin. If too little is removed, the line of incision will contract, and the patient be in as bad a condition as before ; if, on the other hand, too much is removed, the penis may become tmsted or bent by the subsequent contraction of the cicatrix. The operation is performed as follows : the prepuce is drawn forwards and grasped by a clanip or pair of polypus forceps placed just in front of the glans. The portion of prepuce in front of the clamp is now removed by inclining the knife downwards and forwards, so as to avoid cutting the fraenum. When the clamp is removed, it will be seen that a belt of skin has been taken off and that the mucous surface of the prepuce still covers the glans. One blade of a pair of scissors is now introduced into the preputial orifice and pushed down to the corona, and the mucous surface of the prepuce divided on • the dorsum of the glans down to the point of its attachment to the body of the penis. If any adhesions exist between the prepuce and glans, they are to be separated, and smegma, if present, removed. The whole of the mucous surface is to be cut away, except about half an inch at its attachment at the base of the glans penis. All bleeding points are to be twisted or tied, and the edges of the skin and mucous membrane are to be accurately adjusted and sutured with fine catgut sutures. Some surgeons do not use any sutures, others only use one or two to keep the parts in apposition; but if the two cut surfaces are accurately sutured, primary union may be confidently expected in a few days. When catgut sutures are used, they become absorbed, and there is no necessity to remove them, a proceeding which it is as well to avoid if possible. The best dressing is to encircle the line of union with a narrow strip of gauze, and then paint it over with Whitehead's varnish.' This dries in a few minutes and forms a firm dry dressing, under which the wound heals rapidly. Care must be taken not to occlude the urethral orifice, so that the child can ' Whitehead's varnish consists of the ordinary ingredients of friar's balsam, with the substitution of a saturated sokition of iodoform in ether for the rectified spirit.