591 CONCUSSION bleeding from the mouth, or blood which has trickled down the pharynx may be vomited in large quantities. Later on, deep-seated ecchymosis may appear among the muscles at the back of the neck, or in the neighbourhood of the mastoid process. . The cranial nerves are rarely affected in these cases. Treatment—The main danger in fractures of the base of the skull is septic meningitis, and therefore the treatment should aim at preventing this as Jar as possible. Unforti^nately not very much can be done, since .it is impossible to apply antiseptic dressings to the naso-pharynx ; but it; would appear that the most frequent source of contamination is through the external auditory meatus, for since antiseptic surgery has been brought to bear on this part, the mortality from fracture of the base has very much decreased. The external meatus should be thoroughly syringed out with a strong antiseptic solution, plugged with antiseptic gauze, and a large pad of the same material applied over the side of the head. At the same time the nares and throat should be sprayed with antiseptic lotions. Beyond this, treatment must be directed to the cerebral condition ; perfect quietness, a darkened room, low diet, and a brisk mercurial purge; INJURIES OF THE CONTENTS OF THE SKULL Concussion.—The word concussion is used in a clinical sense to indicate those cases where, as the result of an injury, the functions of the brain are temporarily suspended, so that the patient is stunned and rendered more or less insensible. The term was first used because there was believed to be in these cases a shaking up, or molecular disturbance of the brain substance, without any visible lesion, or any laceration of its substance or Its vessels. But there is no evidence to prove that this is so, but such evidence as there is tends to prove exactly the opposite, for in'nearly all cases in which death has occurred after concussion of the brain, more or less bruising of the. substance has been found. At the same time it must be conceded that there is good reason for believing that this bruisin^^ is not the cause of the insensibility ; for, as Sir William Savory points out, die insensibihty passes away, while the bruising is still present; and further the amount of bruising is often not sufficient to cause the symptoms, and IS often found in other cases where there has been no insensibility A more probable theory of the cause of the insensibility in concussion is'that It IS due to a disturbance in the circulation, producing a condition of antemia But the way in which this anemia is produced is not very clear. The latest theory on this subject is Daret's, who believes that as the result of the injury to the elastic skull there is a temporary depression ot its walls, and this has a tendency to drive the cerebro-spinal fluid from the lateral and third ventricles into the fourth, so that it becomes distended and this distension stimulates the bulb and produces a reflex anaemia of the brain. Whatever may be the correct explanation of its causation, the word co7icussion includes a well-marked group of cases in which there is insensibility of a temporary character, unaccompanied by paralysis—in contradistinction to another group of cases in which there is insensibility Ot a more permanent character, accompanied by paralysis. These latter are cases of compression. The amount of insensibility may vary very