436 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES been treated by splints, passive motion cannot be undertaken until there is a fair amount of union, and M-ill have to be persevered with for a verv considerable period. ■' tf-. The coronoid.—Fracture of the coronoid process undoubtedly occurs sometimes as a complication of dislocation of the forearm back wards but is by no means a necessary accompaniment of this lesion Whether it ever occurs as an uncomplicated injury is exceedingly doubt- ful. Should It occur as a complication of dislocation, its presence would be manifested by the reduction being easier than is usually the case and by being accompanied by crepitus. There is also a great tendency to recurrence of the displacement after reduction. In those cases where this injury ls suspected the forearm should be put up in the flexed condition - but as the future mobihty of the elbow joint is of much more importance than accurate bony union, passive motion should be commenced early c. The shaft of the ulna.—Fracture of the shaft of the ulna may occur at any part but usually takes place at about the middle of the bone or a little below, and is the result of direct violence The displacement is usually very slight, or there may be none at all • the upper fragment may be drawn forwards by the brachialis anticus, and the lower approximated to the radius by the pronator quadratus. If this dis- placement has taken place the diagnosis is easy, for on running the finger down the posterior subcutaneous border of the bone an irregularity is at once detected. When there is no displacement, fixed pain in the part, bruising, increased mobility and crepitus elicited by making pressure alternately on either side of the painful spot, will indicate the nature of the lesion. The treatment consists in applying two short splints to the forearm, with the hand in a position midway between pronation and supination. ^ d. The styloid process may be broken off by direct violence, or as a complication of Colles' fracture. It is usually much displaced, and can be felt as a movable fragment some distance from its normal position It must be manipulated into place and fixed there with strapping. FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS Fracture of the radius may take place through the head, the neck, the shaft, or the lower extremity, the latter being the most common. a. Fracture through the head is usually the accompaniment of some other injury to the bones in the neighbourhood of the elbow joint, but in rare instances it may be split longitudinally or broken up into fragments If the orbicular ligament remains intact there is little dis- placement, and the injury is diagnosed by the loss of movement, and by crepitus being produced upon pronating and supinating the forearm. The treatment consists in keeping the part at rest on an angular splint and employing early passive motion. " ^ ^. Fracture through the neck is a rare injury. When it occurs the lower fragment is drawn upwards and forwards by the biceps and forms a projection at the front of the elbow; all power of pronation and supina- tion is lost, and crepitus is felt on passively rotating the bone, and the head cannot be felt to revolve in the lesser sigmoid cavity. The treatment consists in fixing the arm in a flexed position to relax the biceps If this does not prove sufficient to reduce the displacement of the lower fragment