368 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES which these dilated veins assume. Pouches also not infrequently form in these dilated veins, and though usually small, may attain the size of an egg (fig. 114). The change in the coats of the vein principally takes place in the middle coat, and is due to the development in it of a dense fibroid tissue, and in addition to this the muscular tissue is increased in quantity. The internal coat undergoes little thickening, but presents a striated appear- ance and occasionally calcareous patches. The external coat is also thickened, but not to the same extent as the middle. The valves, which consist of a reduplication of the inner coat, are not thickened, and in fact in some instances disappear altogether or remain only as flattened bands resting against the wall of the vein : from this it follows that when dilatation has taken place, the intravenous tension is increased, because the column of blood is unbroken by the incompetent valves. In the pouch-like dilatations the middle coat becomes atrophied, and its walls are reduced to a condition of ex- treme thinness. Elfects of varicose veins.—In consequence of the dilated condition of the veins the current of blood through them is slowed and retarded, and its due return interfered with ; as a result of this there is a passive congestion set up in the parts from which the tributaries of the vein are derived. This causes oedema, from the transudation of the watery parts of the blood from the loaded vessels; induration, from the coagulation of the effused fluid; pigmentation, where some coloured corpuscles have escaped from the vessels, and becoming broken up have left their pigments behind; and malnutrition from the defective circulation. In consequence of the imperfect nutrition, ulceration frequently takes place, and varicose veins are one of the most prolific causes of ulcer of the leg (fig. 115). In consequence of the congestion of the skin, eczema is a frequent effect of varicose veins. Another complication which may occur as the result of varicose veins is rupture. This is partly due to a thinning of the walls of the vein from pressure within, partly to thinning of the skin and subcutaneous tissues from pressure of the varicose vein upon them ; conjoined with this there is often a process of ulceration going on, which gradually extends and implicates the thinned wall of the vein, and it eventually gives way, and hemorrhage results. Another effect of varicose veins is that thrombosis may occur; this probably takes place as the result of an inflammation being set up in the coats of the vein, a condition to which they are very prone. Symptoms.—Varicose veins are easily to be recognised when they are subcutaneous. Tlie deep veins, which are less frequently varicose, give rise to no symptoms by which they can be diagnosed. The superficial varicose veins may present two different conditions. In one a single main trunk, e.g. the internal saphenous vein, may be enlarged (fig. 116). It then stands out as a thick, bluish, tortuous cord under the skin ; it feels thick under the finger, and if the patient is in the erect position, stands out in bold relief ; if, on the other hand, he is in the recumbent position, and the limb is raised, it partially or almost completely disappears. In Fig. 114.—Pouch-like dilata- tion of the internal saphe- nous vein. (From a pre- paration in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)