393 CHAPTER IV INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND BURS^ INJURIES Contusion of muscles is very common as the result of direct violence, and may vary much in extent, from a slight extravasation of blood into the substance of the muscle to a complete pulpmg of its structure, ihe si^ns of this injury are pain and tenderness at the site of the injury, the pain being greatly increased by any attempt of the patient to move the part; but passive motion does not excite the same amount of pain. Later on bruising appears on the surface of the skin. Sprains without rupture are of very common occurrence, and are characterised by a sense of inability to use the injured muscle, and great pain upon attempting to do so. The injury is not one of great importance, as the condition is generally soon recovered from with a few days rest unless it occurs in a rheumatic subject, when it is liable to be followed by painful rigidity and stiffness, which may continue for some time. Atrophy of the muscle occasionally follows this injury, but under these circumstances it is probable that the nerves have been involved in the Strains.—Muscles are liable to be strained when suddenly brought into very active use ; this produces sUght swelling, tenderness, and pain on putting the muscle into action. A familiar example of this is seen in the ' lawn tennis elbow,' which arises from strain of the pronator radu teres. Treatment.—The treatment of these conditions consists in keeping the parts at rest, with relaxation of the injured muscle, and the application of cold, or lead and opium lotion. Later on, massage may be indicated to restore the function of the muscle. In the rheumatic sprains, douchmg, friction, and passive motion are the best means of improving the condition, combined with proper constitutional treatment. Ironing the part with a flat iron, as hot as the patient can bear it, is often very efficacious in relieving the pain and diminishing the stiffness. Dislocation of a tendon.—By this is meant the displacement of a tendon from its normal groove or channel, without fracture or other injury. The two tendons most commonly displaced are the long tendon of the biceps from the bicipital groove, and the peroneus longus from the groove on the outer surface of the calcaneum. But cases of dis- location of other tendons have been recorded, the tibialis anticus tendon at the front of the ankle joint, the tendons running in the grooves at the back of the lower end of the radius, and the tendons of the small muscles of the back of the neck. The injury is produced by a sudden contraction of the muscle, when the limb is in a position which alters the ordinary line