861 HERNIA A hernia consists of tlirce essential parts: (i) sac; (2) contents; and (2) coverini^s. i. The sac is composed of peritoneum, and may not in all cases be quite perfect. It is of two kinds : («) congenital, and (/^) acquired (a) The congenital form arises from some defect in the process ot development, where a diverticulum of the peritoneum, which exists naturally in the foetal state, and which should be closed at birth, remains open, and into this the hernia descends. Such conditions are seen where the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis does not become closed, and the hernia descends into the sac of the testis; or in the female, where the canal of Nuck remains patent and the hernia descends into it. I he hernia which is formed under these conditions is known as a congenital hernia, but it must be distinctly understood that the sac may exist without any hernia, and that when a hernia does occur it.may be years after birth, even in adult life, but still it is a congenital hernia, (b) The acquired form is where the sac is developed out of the normal peritoneum. It arises from some weakness in the abdominal wall, especially in those situations where the abdominal wall is more or less deficient in order to allow structures to pass through; as in the inguinal region, where the inguinal canal exists for the passage of the spermatic cord, or in the femoral region, where the femoral ring exists for the passage of the femoral vessels. The pressure of the viscera gradually forces the peritoneum covering this weak spot through it as the viscus itself protrudes, so that sac and contents are protruded together. When it has emerged from the cavity of the abdomen, it swells out into a pyriform tumour and consists of a dilated sac, which is called the fundus or body, and a constricted part, the neck, by which it com- municates with the general peritoneal cavity. At first there is nothing perceptible but a little fullness, with an abnormal impulse on coughing when the patient is in the erect position; this immediately disappears when he lies down. Thus, taking an inguinal hernia as an illustration, a little bulging appears at the position of the internal abdominal ring. _ This is accompanied by pain and a sensation of weakness. After a time a distinct somewhat sausage-shaped swelling appears in the inguinal region, which, however, at once disappears upon the patient assuming the re- cumbent position. Still later the swelling, gradually increasing, finds its way through the external abdominal ring and then speedily reaches the bottom of the scrotum. In the congenital form this gradual process of development is not observed; as soon as the hernia protrudes through the internal ring, it finds its way to the bottom of the scrotum. In the majority of cases the sac wall does not become much altered; it increases partly by dragging down fresh material, mainly from the peritoneum covering the iliac fossa, which is loosely connected to subjacent structures, but princi- pally after its first formation by extension of its own walls. _ The interior of the sac is smooth and glistening, and resembles normal peritoneum ; the outer surface is rough and marked by arborescent vessels. When first formed the sac can be easily pushed back into the peritoneal cavity, but it early tends to form adhesions to the structures outside the abdomen, with which it has come in contact, and then its reduction is impossible. When under these circumstances we ' reduce a hernia,' we push back the contents of the sac, but leave the sac behind. When this adherent sac is exposed to pressure, from an ill-fitting truss for example, inflammation may be set up in it, and it may become much thickened and form a dense, fibroid membrane. The neck of the sac is usually more or less rounded, and the peritoneum is here often thrown into folds, so as to present a plicated