646 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Fig. 248.—Cleft palate. (From a cast in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) alveolar process, and complicated with single or double hare-lip (fig_. 248). When it extends through the alveolar process, it generally lies* in the . fissure which runs between the central and lateral incisors, that is between the endo- and meso-gnathion, and the cleft may exist on one or both sides. More rarely it runs through the intermaxillary suture, between the lateral incisor and canine tooth, from failure of union of the maxillary and fronto-nasal processes. Rare cases have been recorded where it has been in the middle line, between the two central inci- sors. In the partial or inco7nplete form of cleft palate various degrees may be met with. The uvula alone may be bifid; or the cleft may extend through the soft palate ; or the posterior part or the whole of the hard palate may be involved. Occa- sionally there may be a hole in the middle line of the posterior part of the hard palate, the anterior part of the hard and the soft palate being perfect. Symptoms.—These deformities give rise to great inconvenience in deglutition and articulation. The first thing that is noticed is, that the infant is unable to take the breast, as it cannot form a vacuum in the mouth. Unless fed artificially, it must of course therefore perish from inanition. Later on, when the child begins to swallow, it will be noticed that there is a great tendency for the food, especially fluids, to return through the nose. The child may, however, after a time, learn to overcome this difficulty. The edges of the cleft become approximated during deglutition, and if the act of swallowing is performed slowly and carefully, the regurgitation of fluid may be prevented. As soon as the child begins to speak, the voice exhibits the characteristic intonation of these cases ; it is nasal, indistinct, and very unpleasant. • Treatment.—The treatment of cleft palate consists in attemptmg to close the cleft, and this may be done by operation or by means of an artificial obturator. Before considering these two plans, it is necessary to say a word or two about the immediate treatment of the infant after buth, for, being unable to suck, it has to be fed artificially. The best food is the mother's milk, which may be drawn off periodically and given to the child. The mode of administering it is a matter of some importance. If the cleft is only partial, i.e. confined to the posterior part of the palate, the child may be enabled to suck by using an ordinary bottle with a large teat, or a teat with a leaflet of indiarubber attached to its upper surface, which fills up the cleft. If this cannot be done, there are two plans ot feeding it, either by one of the old boat-shaped bottles, by which the milk is poured down the child's throat without suction, or by means of a tea- spoon. Of the two I decidedly give preference to the latter, if only a nurse can be obtained who will devote sufficient time and patience to feeding the child in this manner. If the milk is given with the bottle, it is given too quickly, and rapidly distends the stomach, and is liable to be rejected ; whereas, if it be given with a teaspoon, it must be given slowly, and more exactly imitates the natural process of sucking.