1081 CHRONIC MASTITIS Chronic mastitis (chronic lobular interstitial mastitis).—This con clition usually occurs in women about the time of the menopause, but may occur also in much younger women. The causes of the condition are very obscure. It is often associated with some uterine or ovarian irrita- tion, especially in single women, or in married women who have never borne children. It has been attributed to injuries and to the pressure of ill-fitting corsets. Syphilis also is believed to play a part in the causation of this malady. Pathology.—The disease consists in a chronic inflammation of the connective tissue of the affected lobule, which becomes the seat of an inflammatory exudation, crowded with round cells. These cells undergo development into fibroid or scar tissue, which, like scar tissue elsewhere, contracts, and by its contraction presses upon and partially obliterates the acini and ducts of the gland tissue. In consequence of the constriction of the ducts, the secretion in the acini is retained and they become dilated, and thus a number of retention cysts are formed, which as a rule do not attain a large size. The disease is usually limited to a single lobule, but occasionally may be more widely spread, and the whole gland becomes involved. Under these circumstances the breast becomes shrivelled, hard, and nodulated, and as the newly formed tissue contracts it drags upon and causes retraction of the nipple, and thus the condition to a great extent simulates scirrhus, more especially as the axillary glands are sometimes enlarged. It is generally believed and taught that chronic mastitis is often the precursor of cancer, and that a lobule of the breast affected with this con- dition is very likely to be the seat of a carcinoma; but there are others who believe that in those cases where a supposed chronic mastitis has terminated in carcinoma the disease was cancerous from the beginning, and that no previous inflammation existed. It must be stated that it is extremely difficult to distinguish microscopically between early carcinoma and chronic mastitis, since in this latter condition the epithelium of the acini and tubes is often in a state of marked proliferation. Symptoms.—The patient's attention is usually attracted to the disease b)- pain, and she will then discover a lump, which is nodulated and indurated, and tender to the touch. The induration lacks the stony hardness of cancer, and though a distinct tumour can be felt, it will gene- rally be found that the rest of the gland tissue is not healthy, but that the wTiole organ feels more or less lumpy, knotty, and hard. Upon picking up the gland between the finger and thumb, the tumour is apparently definite and circumscribed, but on pressing the gland against the wall of the chest with the palm of the hand no tumour can be felt; this forms an important means of diagnosis between chronic inflammation and tumours of the breast, whether they be scirrhus, adeno-fibroma, cysts, or chronic abscess. The pain is sometimes very severe and is of a neuralgic character, radiat- ing down the arms, and over the chest to the neck and axilla. The nipple is often retracted, but the skin is rarely puckered, or adherent to the swelling. There may be a little serous discharge from the nipple. The disease usually occurs in women who are pale and anf^mic. Only one, or both breasts may be affected. The resemblance of this disease to cancer of the breast is very considerable, and it may not always be possible to diagnose between the two conditions. Diagnosis.—The chief points to'be attended to in coming to a correct conclusion are that the swelling of chronic mastitis is less circumscribed,