SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF JOINTS 543 Charcot's disease, symptoms of tabes dorsalis are always present to a certain extent, though in some cases they may not be well marked. Treatment.—The treatment of this disease must be directed to the general condition which gives rise to it, and this necessarily falls under the care of the physician. Locally relief may be given by careful elastic bandag- ing, which promotes absorption of the effused fluid. Aspiration is useful to relieve the distended joint, but the fluid rapidly accumulates. The combi- nation of aspiration with elastic pressure is the best means of treatment: the joint is first emptied and a Martin's elastic bandage at once applied ; this will in a great measure prevent the reaccumulation of the fluid. Later on, when the joint has become flail-like, some suitable splint must be devised in order to give it support. In connection with this subject it must be mentioned that in some other forms of degenerative changes in the spinal cord, and also in some cases of peripheral neuritis, a very similar condition of joints to tabetic arthropathy is set up. But, in these cases, accompanying the effusion there is also con- siderable pain and other indications of an inflammatory condition which serve to distinguish them from Charcot's disease. SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF JOINTS Syphilitic disease of joints is not common considering the great prevalence of syphilis ; nevertheless there is a distinct and well-defined disease of joints occurring in tertiary syphilis and due to a gummatous infiltration of the synovial membrane ; and, in addition to this, there is a con- dition of sub-acute synovitis due to the same disease, which is occasionally met with in the secondary stage of the disorder. Sub-acute synovitis in secondary syphilis.—This condition occurs early in the secondary stage of syphilis, and is due most probably to the irritation of the syphilitic poison. It appears generally before the erup- tions make their appearance, and is characterised by pain, more especially at night, and some slight efl'usion into the joint. It most commonly attacks the knee. It usually subsides after a time, but sometimes is very intract- able. Tertiary syphilitic disease of joints usually begins in the synovial membrane as a diffused small-celled infiltration. Occasionally the infiltration may be localised and the cells collected into a mass, and then there is a true gummatous formation; but as a rule the infiltration is diffused evenly through the tissues. This may undergo various changes. Under treatment it may undergo resolution, and the part return to its natural condition; or before resolution takes place it may have undergone a fibroid organisation, under which circumstance a more or less permanent thickening of the tissues will remain. On the other hand, degenerative changes may ensue: the infiltrated material may undergo fatty degenera- tion and become caseated, and this may subsequently dry up and cretify; or it may undergo liquefaction and form masses of pulpy broken-down material, which may ulcerate through the skin and discharge, or open into the joint and lead to its ultimate disorganisation. Symptoms.—The disease is very insidious in its earlier stages. There is merely a little feeling of weakness, scarcely amounting to pain, so that the patient continues to use his joint for some time after the disease has fairly commenced. There is some swelling of an elastic nature, and very