6o6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS one of tl)e special senses and paralysis, may follow injuries of the head, after the patient has apparently recovered from the direct effects of the injury. In addition to these grosser lesions, the symptoms of which are well marked, the patient may for a long time after an injury show a peculiar condition of brain which evidences itself by alterations in temper, violent paroxysms of passion, and often apparently uncontrollable actions, especially after any mental exertion or after taking alcohol even in limited ciujintities. At other times he is unable to fix his attention on any subject or to pursue a continuous train of thought. These patients often die suddenly, it may be some years after the original injury. Epilepsy is the only one of these conditions which requires special mention, as it is the one which the surgeon is most often called upon to treat. The epilepsy in these cases is of a somewhat different kind to ordinary idio- pathic epilepsy and is known as ' Jacksonian epilepsy.' The attack begins by a peculiar sensation in some part of the body, followed by a twitching of the muscles of the part; from this starting point the sensation and the twitchings gradually advance to other parts in a definite order, until the attack may culminate in a general convulsion. There is often no loss of consciousness. This condition, according to Dr. Hughlings Jackson, can only occur where there is some lesion of the convolutions in the neighbour- hood of the fissure of Rolando. It may arise from several different causes: (i) from scars or lesions in the cerebral cortex; (2) from thickening of the membranes or the presence of a cyst caused by extravasated blood beneath the dura mater; (3) from sclerosis of the bones of the skull after injury; (4) from a def)ressed spicula of bone pressing on the brain; or (5) from a neuralgic cicatrix on the scalp, causing reflex convulsions. Treatment.—If the disease is apparently due to a painful cicatrix, it should be freely excised. In other cases trephining should be resorted to, the position for the application of the trephine being indicated by the history of the accident, by perhaps the presence of a scar or a piece of depressed bone which can be felt, and by a careful observation of the attacks, noticmg the position where the convulsive movements commence, as they always begin in the part in connection with the affected centre. The results of the operation are not always so satisfactory as might have been expected, ■ even in those cases where the cause of the epilepsy has been removed. In the majority of cases it would appear that the operation fails to cure the epilepsy; the treatment, therefore, of this condition must be regarded as mainly preventive, and is an additional argument, as Professor Agnew has pointed out, in favour of always elevating a depressed fracture. Cerebral topography.—As will be seen from the foregomg pages, trephining is required for a number of different conditions, such as depressed fracture or lodgment of foreign bodies; cases of localised pressure from extravasated blood ; cases of intra-cranial suppuration where the symptoms indicate that the pressure is localised ; and for epilepsy and other later results of a cranial injury. But nothing has been said upon cerebral localisation in reference to these conditions. Of course, in some cases there is no difficulty in determining the position in which to apply the trephine, as, for instance, in a case of depressed fracture where the depression can be felt; but in others we have to be guided by the symptoms which the patient presents. Until recently we had no means by which we could exactly define the part of the brain which was injured in very many cases, but recent physiological and pathological researches have rendered it almost certain that the surface of the brain may be mapped