479 SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF BONE SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF BONE Syphilis may affect bone both in the secondary and tertiary stages. Secondary syphilitic disease of bone.—This always occurs as a periostitis. In quite the early stages of secondary syphilis patients will sometimes complain of aching pains in their superficial bones, such as their tibife, the bones of the skull, the sternum, ribs and clavicles, and upon examining these bones slight irregularities or swellings may be discovered which are very tender to the touch. These, however, are not of much importance, and speedily disappear as the treatment of the general condition by mercury is persevered with. It is well, however, to combine with this some iodide of potassium, which generally relieves the pain at once. In the later stages of secondary syphilis a more pronounced con- dition may appear. This consists in the formation of a single periosteal node on one of the subcutaneous bones and more particularly the tibia. It consists in a thickening and infiltration of the periosteum, which gene- rally goes on to the formation of bone, and is accompanied by a chronic ostitis of the bone in the neighbourhood. The condition is at once recognised by the presence of a hard firm swelling connected with a bone in a syphihtic subject. It is accompanied by aching pain, which is always worse when the patient is warm in bed. The treatment consists in the administration of iodide of potassium, which if given in the early stage may cause the entire removal of the swelling, but later on only gives temporary relief to the pain, and a permanent swelling remains, which, whenever the patient gets run down or out of health, becomes the seat of renewed pain. Tertiary syphilitic disease of bone may show itself (i) as a gumma either in the deeper layers of the periosteum or in the medullary canal; or (2) as an overgrowth and infiltration of the connective tissue of bone, going on to sclerosis. I. Gummata of bone.—When this occurs in the periosteum it con- sists in the formation of a gummatous deposit in the deeper layers of this membrane and between it a,nd the bone. The disease especially affects the calvarium, and may lead to extensive destruction. The gummatous deposit very commonly undergoes degenerative changes and breaks down, destroying the superficial structures over it and forming extensive ulcers, at the bottom of which bare bone may be felt. An extension of the ulcerative action to the bones accompanies this condition and disintegrates the bone beneath, constituting caries. This is often accompanied by necrosis, when portions of the implicated bone die en masse, because its vitality has been so much interfered with, partly by the blood supply from the periosteum being cut off, and partly because a more or less diffused osteo- sclerosis takes place in the bone around, and thus materially interferes with the circulation in the affected area. Thus the two processes of caries and necrosis are going on at the same time, and we often get a plate of dead bone, surrounded by an extensive worm-eaten area where the process of caries is going on. When the gummatous deposit takes place in the medullary structure of bone or in the diploe of the bones of the skull, expansion of the compact tissue first takes place; then the gumma breaks down, the bone becomes necrosed and separates, and the broken-down products are set free.