FISSURE OF THE ANUS if the operation is performed, probably the wound will not heal, and the patient's condition will be aggravated. In old people with fistula, when the condition causes little inconvenience, it is better also to abstain from operating. Operation.—The usual mode of operatmg m these cases is to divide the tissues between the fistula and the bowel, and to dress the wound from the bottom. The patient, his rectum having been previously emptied by an enema, is placed in the lithotomy position, and the parts having been shaved and washed, a director is passed up the sinus until the point emerges in the rectum : along this a curved blunt-pointed bistoury is inserted until it meets the tip of the forefinger introduced into the bo^yel. The forefinger, steadying the blunt point of the bistoury, is then with- drawn together with the bistoury, and thus all the intervening tissues, including the sphincter, are divided. A careful search is now made for any secondary branching sinus; and such, if found, must be laid open and scraped. If the walls of the main sinus are much thickened, as is usually the case, they should be dissected away with scissors or a knife, and a clean raw surface left. If this is thoroughly done, the surfaces of the wound may now be brought together by sutures, and the convalescence materially hastened; but in most cases it is better to dust the wound with iodoform, and then pack it with gauze soaked in iodoform emulsion. The wound should be irrigated and repacked with fresh gauze every day, and the bowels kept confined for three or four days. Other plans of operating are by means of the elastic ligature, the galvano-cautery, and the ecraseur. They are much inferior to the cutting operation. In operating on an incomplete fistula, the first step of the operation is to convert it into a complete fistula. If the case is one of incomplete external fistula, the director is to be introduced as far as it will go, and it is then pushed through the intervening tissues into the rectum until it meets the finger introduced through the anus ; the operation is then completed in the usual way. When the fistula is an incomplete internal one, a probe is bent into the form of an abrupt hook, and having been introduced into the rectum, the point is guided, either by the help of a speculum or by the finger introduced by its side, into the internal opening. It is then dragged down until the point can be felt presenting at the bottom of the fistula, under the skin by the side of the anus. The point is cut down upon with a scalpel, and a director passed through the wound thus formed into the bowel ; and a bistoury carried along the director is made to cut its way out and complete the operation. FISSURE The so-called fissure of the anus is in reality a small ulcer, never much larger than a threepenny piece, which is usually situated between the folds of mucous membrane at the upper part of the anus, just above the ring of the external sphincter, and most commonly at the posterior part of the gut. Though pathologically a matter of insignificance, it is neverthe- less of considerable practical importance, because it produces the greatest misery to the patient, and is often the means of seriously undermining his health. Causes.—These ulcers are usually believed to be formed by some slight abrasion, possibly caused by the passage of a large and costive