GENERAL IJISEASES 204 individuals, whose tissues form a suitable soil for the development of the micro-organism ; if such an one admits into his body the bacillus, it will develop and multiply, and tuberculosis will be the result. This condition of tissue may be inherited or may be acquired. The tuberculous parent begets children who have tissues in which the tubercle loacillus can flourish— in other words, who have a predisposition to tuberculosis—but the tuber- culosis will not declare itself unless the microbe is admitted into the body. Again, a child may be born of perfectly healthy parents, or at all events of parents free from any tuberculous taint, but he may be exposed to unhealthy hygienic surroundings, bad food, insufificient air, and so on, and he may acquire a predisposition to the disease, that is, a condition of tissue favour- able to the growth of the micro-organism, and if now the bacillus is admitted, tuberculosis is the result. In speaking of the predisposing causes of tuberculosis, it is necessary to allude to the local predisposing causes, which at all events are of import- ance in locating the disease. An individual with a constitutional predis- position to tuberculosis may not develop any signs of the disease, even supposing that the tubercle bacillus gains an entrance into his body, if these bacilli are not admitted in any great number and the resisting powers of his tissues are not very greatly deteriorated; but if this individual gets any slight injury or inflammation which locally deteriorates some tissue or tissues, we get a condition of things at this particular part which still further favours the growth of the bacillus, and a local tuber- culous affection is set up. It is a matter of every-day experience to find that a tuberculous synovitis is attributed to a strain; or a case of caries of the spine to a blow or injury of the back; or a tuberculous gland in the neck to a slight inflammatory condition set up by a carious tooth, or a patch of eczema on the scalp or to some such slight irritation. The injuries are usually trivial, and in the perfectly healthy individual would lead to no evil result, but in the constitution predisposed to tuberculosis they set up serious mischief if any tubercle bacilli are admitted to the locally deteriorated tissues. Pathology.—The tuberculous process is inflammatory in its nature, but is unattended by many of the signs which we are wont to recognise as th6 signs of inflammation ; it is essentially chronic, of a slow and insidious character, and of a low type. It is attended by an exudation of a material which, unlike the exudation of an acute traumatic inflammation—granula- tion tissue—is ill formed and unstable, and shows no tendency either to develop into scar tissue or degenerate into pus. It slowly undergoes a process of caseation, which must be looked upon as the most characteristic feature in the tuberculous process. Having undergone this process it becomes a mass of dead tissue, which must be got rid of : this it does in the manner described above ; it undergoes liquefaction, which is a purely physical and chemical change; suppuration may take place in the living tissues around, with the object of getting rid of the necrosed material, and the curdy debris of the cheesy mass together with the pus is discharged from the surface of the body and is thus got rid of. Then comes on the process of repair of the cavity which is left, and this is always slow and uncertain, and the scar tissue which is formed is feeble, unhealthy, and liable to give way and break down. Take, for example, as an illustration of the process, a tuberculous gland in the neck. A child, from some trifling cause, such as the irritation about a decaying tooth or some local trouble about the throat or tonsil, gets an