* II20 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP S-PECIAL ORGANS ' the posterior tibial tendon will be felt to yield, and it will be found that the position of varus can be entirely corrected. The subsequent treatment is the same as after division of the tendons alone. Phelp's operation consists in making a vertical incision across the mner border of the foot over the astragalo-navicular joint. The position of this joint IS always indicated by the crease of the skin spoken of above as being present in cases of equino-varus. -The incision is to be carried down to the joint, dividing the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, and freely opening the articulation. The anterior jjart of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, the two tibial tendons, and the inner part of the plantar fascia are also divided, and the tendo Achillis is divided sub- cutaneously. It will now be found that the foot can be placed in a slightly everted position, leaving a large gaping wound, which is to be care- fully packed with antiseptic gauze, and the foot done up in a plaster of Paris splint. The wound should be dressed at the end of a week or ten days and the gauze removed. The subsequent granulation may be hastened by skin-grafting. Some surgeons think very highly of this operation and advocate its performance in very severe cases of old-standing, neglected talipes. I have seen some very good results when performed in earlier cases, before deformity in the bones has taken place, but I should advise Its restriction to this class of case. It is alwaj-s open to the objection that contraction of the large scar is liable to take place, with a recurrence of the deformity. In very bad inveterate cases of talipes equino-varus in children over the age of seven or eight, when the bones are deformed and altered in shape, severer measures than those above described are necessary. And for these cases one of two operations may be performed—either excision of the astragalus or tarsectomy. Excision of the astragalus is often a most satisfactory operation in these cases, and I have had some most admirable results following its performance. It is done in the manner described on page 579, and after the removal of the bone the foot can be got into good position, and the amount of subsequent deformity which is left is very slight. Ta,rsectomy, or removal of a wedge-shaped piece of bone from the outer side of the tarsus, is also followed by very good results in many cases. The operation is performed by making a T-shaped incision on the outer side of the foot, after surgical cleansing of the limb. Some surgeons prefer to perform the operation by the ' bloodless' method, by applying Esmarch's bandage; my own feeling is against this, on account of the troublesome oozing which sometimes takes place after its use. The hori- zontal limb of the T-shaped incision is carried along the outer border of the foot over the calcaneum and cuboid bones ; the vertical limb is carried across the dorsum of the foot as far inwards as the scaphoid, about midway between the external malleolus and the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. _ The flaps of skin thus formed are turned up. If the skin over the convexity of the outer border of the foot is indurated and callous, a portion of it may be removed. The tendons and vessels are then separated from the dorsal surface of the tarsus with a periosteum elevator and held out of the way with retractors. A narrow-bladed saw is now applied at the pos- terior extremity of the incision and an oblique cut made forwards through the OS calcis and carried as far inwards as the scaphoid. The saw is then intro- duced at the anterior extremity of the wound and an oblique cut made backwards through the cuboid to meet the first one. A wedge-shaped