307 ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURISM circumscribed, it may be possible to cure an aneurism of this kind by well- directed pressure, but in most cases operative interference is necessary. The mode of operation which holds out the greatest prospect of cure is, after comnianding the circulation in the artery above, to lay open the sac, turn out its contents, and tie the artery above and below the aneurism. This should be done with all antiseptic precautions, and the wound will probably heal by first intention. In some few cases, where the sac is deeply placed or difficult to get at, it may be advisable to tie the vessel on the cardiac side of the sac. Arterio-venous aneurisms.—An arterio-venous aneurism may be defined as an abnormal communication between an artery and a vein. The communication is almost always the result of injury, and in former days commonly occurred from the puncture of the brachial artery through the median basilic vein in the operation of venesection, the superficial wound in the vein healing, but the deeper wound in this vessel and the wound in the artery remaining patent and communicating with each other. Arterio-venous aneurism was also caused in former days from gunshot wounds, in which the old leaden bullet passed between an artery and vein, bruising the coats of both, without dividing them ; subsequent sloughing established a communication between the two vessels. Cases of arterio-venous aneurism have, however, been recorded which were not due to traumatism, but resulted from ulceration taking place between an arter)' and vein, where they were in contact, and thus forming a communi- cation. And one case has been recorded where an arterio-venous aneurism was beUeved to be the result of a congenital communication between the common iliac artery and vein where they cross each other. Arterio-venous aneurisms are of two kinds, which are quite distinct from each other, and differ in their symptoms, their progress, and their treatment. They are named aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism. Aneurismal varix.—The aneurismal varix is the more common of the two conditions, and is a direct communication between an artery and a vein (fig. 90, a). The margins of the wound in the one vessel adhere Fig. 90.-Arterio-venous aneurisms, a, Aneurismal varix ; b, Varicose aneurism. to the margins of the wound in the other, so that the blood in the arterv finds Its way directly into the vein. The result of this is that there are two opposing currents in the vein, the one, the venous current, flowing towards the heart; and the other, the arterial current, which has passed through the artificial opening, and flows in the opposite direction. In consequence of X 2