SECTION III GENERAL DISEASES CHAPTER I SUPPURATION—ULCERATION—MORTIFICATION Suppuration may be regarded as being due to the continuance of the process of inflammation. In our examination of the phenomena of inflammation we found that if it was slight apd non-persistent the amount of inflammatory exudation which took place was also slight, and resolu- tion or retrogression was the result; but if it was more severe and persistent, a fluid was produced which we term pus. If the inflammation is on the surface of the body, so that the resulting fluid—pus—can at once escape and be got rid of, we have the condition known as ulceratioti, which will be considered immediately. If, on the other hand, it occurs in the substance of the tissues, and the pus cannot be got rid of, we get one of two condi- tions ; either the pus is contained in a closed cavity, which we call an abscess, or it is diffused through the tissues, distending them, without in any way being circumscribed, and this we know as diffuse suppuration. Characters of pus.—Pus is an opaque, creamy fluid. It is yellowish-white in colour, and feels greasy, owing to the fatty matter which It contams. It has, when fresh, a faint sickly odour, due to the presence of ammonia, which is one of the products of the pyogenic micro-organisms It IS alkahne in reaction, and is of the sp. gr. of about 1030". It contains about 88 per cent, of water; albumen, fatty matter, and cholesterin : sodium chloride and other alkaline salts, and a small amount of earthv phosphates and iron This is what is termed laudable pus, and it is the result of acute suppuration in a healthy subject; but many other varieties are spoken of • thus when It IS thin and watery it is termed sero-pus or ichorous pus ; when It IS tinged with blood, sanm^s pus. Pus sometimes presents peculiarities m colour: it maybe of a blue colour, due to the presence of a specia micro-organism , when It comes from an abscess in the loin it is of a reddish ye low colour. The so-called pus which is found in [ube cubus abscess is known as curdvpus. LuuL.ieuiou.s Pus consists of corpuscles floating in a clear fluid, the liouor puris. I he corpuscles resemble in size and character the white corpuscles of the blood, and are indeed for the most part at all events, the Ecy e 1 cl have emigrated from the vessels and have then died. Thes are^ounded o shghtly irregular in their outline, about of an inch i?i ~er^^^^^^^^