394 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES of action of the tendon. It is characterised by a sudden severe pain at one spot, and a feeUng on the part of the patient that something has given way._ This is followed by swelling and bruising, and inability to use the particular muscle involved, and therefore to execute certain movements Treatment.—By relaxing the muscle affected, the tendon can generally be thumbed backwards into its proper position, but there is the greatest difficulty in keeping it there, because the sheath which holds it in position is torn. It has therefore been suggested in these cases that the best plan of treatment is to cut down on the part, replace the tendon, and suture the sheath over it with fine buried sutures ; but as the parts after a time seem to accommodate themselves to their new position and the pain disappears it would scarcely seem desirable to cut down among a quantity of extravasated blood and endeavour to suture the torn edges of the sheath an operation of considerable difficulty and doubtful efficacy ' Rupture of a muscle.—The muscles and tendons may be sub- cutaneously torn across from a sudden violent contraction. The accident generally occurs in middle-aged persons, who still retain the activity of youth, though their muscles have undergone to a 'certain extent degenerative changes. The muscle most frequently ruptured is the gastrocnemius. Generally only a few fibres give way, but the whole muscle maybe torn across, or the tendo Achilhs may be snapped. Other muscles are the biceps in the arm from lifting heavy weights; the rectus femoris, which is some- times torn in the games of cricket or football, when the accident is known as ' cricket thigh;' or the quadriceps extensor cruris may be torn away from its insertion into the patella; the adductor longus is sometimes ruptured in riders, from gripping the saddle. Muscles are also torn during their spasmodic contraction in tetanus ; the rectus abdominis is the muscle which most frequently suffers in this way. The symptoms are a sudden pain in the' part, as if the patient had been struck a violent blow, and this is followed by inability to put ^ , ^ , . the muscle into action, and in a few days by a patch of ecchymosis. If the muscle has been torn completely across, Its ends retract and a hollow will be left, which can readily be felt, with a WfiT ^'lu^'.''']^ produced by the contracted fibres. Extravasated blood fills up the hollow left, so that the gap is not so obvious in the absorbe?^ becomes later when the extravasated blood has been Union of the ruptured muscle takes place by fibrous tissue, and the mode of union is very similar to healing of wounds by blood clot, already described (see page 56). The blood which has been extravasated between the ruptured ends acts as a pabulum and framework. Lymph is poured out from the injured surfaces, and leucocytes penetrate into the clot and proceed to destroy it. Subsequently there is an emigration into the clot ot large plasma cells derived from the connective tissue cells of the part. Ihese in their turn destroy the leucocytes and develop into fibrous tissue. It IS stated by some that striped muscular fibre is to be found in the Fig. 123.—Mode of treating rupture of the tendo Achillis.