POST-PERITONEAL HERNIA 893 symptoms, and in many cases is found accidentally at post-mortem examma- tions of patients who have died of other diseases. When strangulated, in addition to the symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction, it gives rise to a characteristic appearance of the abdomen: a tumour in the central part, surrounded by an area of depression, which corresponds to the position ot the colon. The tumour can be marked out distinctly by palpation, and is resonant on percussion ; in it, on auscultation, distinct gurgling sounds may be heard. Owing to compression of the inferior mesenteric vein m lett duodenal hernia, the hsemorrhoidal veins and the veins on the anterior abdominal wall may be enlarged. . . Peri-csecal hernia.—There are four folds of peritoneum in the neighbourhood of the csecum, formed mainly by branches of the ileo- colic artery, and into the fossae or pouches formed by these folds a portion of gut may find its way, constituting a peri-csecal hernia. The two fossse which are most frequently the site of this condition are the ileo-appendicular or ileo-ccecal fossa, which is situated between the ileo-appendicular fold and the mesentery of the appendix; and the retro-cohc fossa, a fossa situated behind the colon, and sometimes reaching as high as the kidney. But hernicE into some of the other fossje have been described. Intersigmoid hernia.—Hernia into the intersigmoid fossa has been recorded in a few instances. This fossa is a pouch of peritoneum in the sigmoid meso-colon, caused by a reflection of the membrane round the sigmoid artery. The opening into the pouch may be seen by drawing the sigmoid flexure upwards. Into the fossa a portion of gut may find its way, and if it becomes strangulated gives rise to symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction. . Hernia into the foramen of Winslow.—This form of post peritoneal hernia only occurs in those cases where there is sope abnor- mality about the foramen, and is very uncommon. A hernia in this situation, Hke other forms of post-peritoneal hernia, rarely gives rise to symptoms unless strangulated, when, in addition to the symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction, there is a painful swelling in the epigastric region, which is resonant on deep percussion.