915 STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM during defecation, and is nipped by the sphincter. The principal symptom is hremorrhage ; indeed, repeated haemorrhage at stool in a young child is in the majority of cases due to the presence of a polypus. In some cases it may give rise to a certain amount of tenesmus and discharge of mucus. The diagnosis is verified by digital examination, but an enema should always be given before the examination is made, so as to bring the polypus down ; otherwise it may escape detection. They are to be treated by dilating the sphincter, seizing the polypus and drawing it down, tying the pedicle and cutting it off. 2. Fibroma.—Tumours of connec- Fig. 355.—-Adenoma of the rectum, tive tissue are sometimes found in the (FromtheMusemiiof St. George's rectum. They are believed by Ball to take Hospital.) their origin from internal piles, which undergo fibroid changes and become pedunculated. They are to be treated by ligature and removal. 3. Papilloma, or villous growth of the rectum.—This rare form of tumour of the rectum resembles villous growth of the bladder, and consists of a number of somewhat club-shaped processes springing from a common base, and composed of a loop of blood-vessel in a matrix of connec- tive tissue, covered by columnar epithelium. It is of slow growth, gives rise to considerable loss of blood, and often causes pain from its protrusion while at stool. The treatment consists in ligaturing the base, which is sometimes pedunculated, and cutting away the growth. STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM Stricture of the rectum is due to a contraction of the calibre of the bowel from structural changes in its walls or in the tissues surrounding it. It must be distinguished from those cases where the lumen of the tube is obstructed by some new growth. Stricture of the rectum may be fibrous; may be due to syphilitic disease ; or may be malignant. Fibrous stricture of the rectum consists in a thickening and blending together of the coats of the bowel at the site of the stricture, as the result of the formation of a new fibroid or scar tissue, the result of inflammation. The stricture may be annular or tubular, according to the amount of bowel involved, but there is no arbitrary division between the two. They may be situated at any part of the tube ; at the junction of the anus and rectum ; very commonly two or three inches from the anus, or at the upper part of the rectum at its junction with the sigmoid flexure. Causes.—Any destruction of tissue, the result of injury or ulceration, may give rise to fibrous stricture. Thus it may result from the removal of an excessive amount of skin or mucous membrane in the operations for piles or prolapsus ; or it may follow the healing of ulcers, whether simple or dysenteric, syphilitic" or tuberculous. It may also occur from infiltration of the coats of the rectum with inflammatory products, when there has been no ulceration, as in proctitis, especially the gonorrhceal form ; or,