PARKER'S OPERATION tii9 cured, if only the treatment is begun at once If, however, the child has arrived at the aee of two or three months before it is brought under the sur-eon's observation, or if these means do not suffice, some operative measure will usually be required. This in young children up to the age of three or four consists in division of the tendons of the shortened muscles, the tendo Achillis, and the two tibial tendons. _ This will usually suffice at this age to effect a cure. I am strongly of opinion that in hese cases the two tibial tendons should first be divided and the foot unfolded, before the tendo Achillis is interfered with. If this is not done there i-s no fixed point from which to unfold the foot and overcome the varus, and the attempt to do so is only followed by a further extension of the tendo Achillis. , ... , Operations for cure of equino-varus. Tenotomy.—i he tibial tendons are divided as follows : First, the posterior tibial tendon is cut by placing the child's leg on its outer side and introduting a sharp tenotome just behind the posterior border of the tibia, about an mch and a half above the malleolus. The knife should pass between the tendon and the bone, and the evideix:e to the surgeon that it has done so will be in the fact that the knife will be felt to be gripped between the tendon and the bone when the foot is everted. When the surgeon has satisfied himself that this is the case, he withdraws his sharp tenotome and replaces it by a blunt-pointed one, and then turning its cutting edge towards the tendon, by a gentle sawing movement, at the same time that the assistant everts the foot, he divides the tendon, the division being evidenced by a sudden yielding and an audible snap. The wound is at once sealed with a pad of gauze and collodion, the child turned on to its back, and division of the anterior tibial proceeded with. The surgeon stands at the end of the table facing the child, and, seizing the anterior part of the foot in his left hand, by extending and everting it defines the anterior tibial tendon; he intro- duces his tenotome close to the tendon, pushes it beneath it, and then, by cutting outwards, keeping the foot in the extended and everted position, he divides it. As soon as the yielding of the tendon shows him that it is divided, he withdraws the knife, seals the wound with a gauze pad and collodion, and at once proceeds to correct the varus, bringing the foot into a straight position, so that the inner tuberosity of the tibia, the internal malleolus, and the ball of the great toe are in the same straight line, and puts it up in this position in plaster of Paris. At the end of six weeks he proceeds to deal with the equinus by dividing the tendo Achilhs in the manner above described. If the child has attained the age of three or four, and has been neglected, probably division of the tendons alone will not suffice. It will then be necessary to perform the operation which Mr. Parker has termed syndesmo- tomy, or else the one which goes by the name of Phelfs operation, for by this time the ligaments will probably be also contracted. Parker's operation consists in dividing the ligaments about the astragalo-navicular joint, as well as the two tibial tendons, by one incision. A narrow straight tenotome is introduced a little below and in front of the tip of the internal malleolus, and is carried inwards under the skin on to the dorsum, just to the outer side of the anterior tibial tendon, which must previously have been defined. The knife is then withdrawn and a sickle- shaped knife inserted flat-wise along the track thus formed ; it is then turned with its cutting edge downwards, and made to divide all the struc- tures down to the bones. The anterior tibial tendon, the ligaments, and