INTRA-CRANIAL SUPPURA'JION 60 becomes stertorous ; the respirations become irregular, and death takes place by a cessation of respiration. Diagnosis.—These cases must not be mistaken for spreading oedema of the brain (page 599). In cases of injury to the head, with concussion, the patient may become comatose on the second or third day and may die. These are sometimes regarded as cases of acute encephalitis, but are probably spreading oedema. The distinction between the two conditions is not easy to make, but in the spreading cedema there is not the same fever, with rise of temperature, heat of scalp, and full bounding pulse. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition is mainly preventive, by maintaining strict asepticity, for it is probable that when the disease is thoroughly established recovery is almost hopeless. The head should be shaved, and ice constantly applied. If the patient is young and strong, it is advisable to perform venesection, or apply leeches to the head. The patient should be kept absolutely quiet in a darkened room, and allowed nothing but a little milk occasionally. Calomel should be given in grain doses every two hours, until the gums are affected. When coma comes on, the question of trephining and draining the sub-arachnoid space has to be considered. By relieving pressure, the patient is perhaps put in a better position to combat the septic condition, but the operation must be regarded as an almost hopeless one. Sub-acute meningo-encephalitis.—Many cases of the sub acute form of the disease are really conditions in which the septic matter has found its way to the membranes by an indirect route, and where therefore the advent of the disease has been delayed, and for this reason they have been regarded as a sub-acute form, but they are in fact acute enough in their course when once established. But in addition to these, there are cases where the patient after an injury to the head does not appear to recover completely; he is constantly ailing, complains of persistent headache, of impairment of sight and hearing. There is often irritability of temper and loss of mental power. The onset of more acute symptoms may be gradual or sudden, and is sometimes ushered in by an epileptic fit. 'The pain in the head now becomes more severe, there is heat of the scalp, intolerance of light ■ the patient is restless, tossing himself about, moaning or screaming. There is often convulsive twitching of the limbs and face, with symptomatic fever. Gradually symptoms of compression come on, and the patient becomes comatose and dies. After death the whole of the surface of the brain may be found to be obscured by a thick layer of greenish yellow lymph, the substance of the brain softened and the ven- tricles full of turbid fluid. _ Treatment.—The treatment consists in absolute rest and quiet; counter irritation to the nape of the neck; mercury in small, frequently repeated doses, and the bromides of potassium and ammonium to soothe the patient and procure sleep. ^'J^^^-cranial suppuration.—Abscesses within the cranium are probably caused by the introduction of micro-organisms, even in those cases where the abscess forms in the brain substance opposite the point struck. I'here has probably been a bruise of the brain in this situation irom coritre-coup, and the injured part has become infected with organisms circulating in the blood. In most cases the organisms effect a direct entrance through a wound, most commonly a punctured wound, but occasionally abscess occurs at the site of the injury, where there is no