614 INIURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS distinct pulsation, synchronous with the.action of the heart, can sometimes be felf, more especially in the encephalocele. The tumour becomes harder and tenser on any expiratory effort, as crying or coughing, and can be more or less diminished in size by pressure; the reduction, however, is often accompanied by brain symptoms, such as headache, vomiting, convul- sions and even stupor. In many of these cases the patient dies before reaching adult life, sometimes from giving way of the skin over the swelling and the opening up of the sub-arachnoid or intra-ventricular spaces; or in others from some intercurrent disease. But the malformation is not incompatible with healthy life. It is stated that sometimes in cases of meningocele the cyst may become shut off from the cranial cavity; but there is no actual proof that this really occurs, and at all events such a spontaneous cure is very rare. Fig. 230.—Meningocele in occipital region. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) The treatment in these cases is to simply protect the tumour from injury, and at the same time make slight pressure on it by a carefully moulded shield. No operative interference is as a rule admissible unless the swelling is steadily increasing in size, when an antiseptic puncture, to evacuate the fluid, and subsequent pressure may be employed. In cases of meningocele the injection of Morton's fluid has been tried, but the proceed- ing is of an exceedingly dangerous nature. Atrophic changes, such as cranio-tabes, and many hyper- trophic changes, as those occurring in ostitis deformans, acromegaly, and leontiasis ossea, as well as changes due to rickets and congenital syphilis, may take place in the skull. All these have been described in the foregoing pages. Of inflammatory affections of the bones of the skull, infective osteo- myelitis has already been alluded to as occurring after scalp wounds, expos- ing and bruising the bone, or after compound fractures (page 582). In