240 GENERAL DISEASES tissue, tbe leioinyomata ; and (2) those of striped muscular tissue, the rhabdo- myomata. The leiomyomata, or tumours consisting of pure unstriped muscular tissue, have been recorded as occurring in connection with the muscular coat of the alimentary canal and the urinary passages; while rhabdomyomata, or tumours consisting of striped muscular tissue, have been described as growing in the neighbourhood of the kidney, as a congenital condition. The fibro-myomata are a large and important class of tumours, and occur especially in connection with the uterus and prostate. When occurring in the uterus they comprise that common group of tumours known as ' fibroids' of the uterus, and consist of smooth muscular fibre, intermingled with fibrous tissue. When occurring in the prostate they constitute the disease known as 'enlarged prostate,' and here the tumour or enlargement consists of an intermingling of plain muscular fibre, fibrous tissue, and glandular tissue, and is, properly speaking, a. fibro-adeno- myoma. It will be described with diseases of the urinary organs. With regard to the true myomata nothing can be said as regards their diagnosis, since they grow in connection with the internal organs, and, indeed, they can only be distinguished from the fibromata, after removal from the body, by microscopic examination. IV. Neuroma.—Neuroma is a term applied to any tumour connected with or growing from a nerve trunk ; but many of these tumours do not contain any nerve elements, and are simply other forms of tumour, such as fibromata, myxomata, or sarcomata, connected with a nerve. It is therefore desirable to divide the neuromata into two classes :_(i) the false neuromata, to which class belong those tumours which, grooving from a nerve, are nevertheless fibrous, mucous, or sarcomatous in their nature ; and (2) the t7-ue neuromata, in which there is an actual growth of true nerve tissue. True neuromata are almost always composed of meduUated or white nerve fibre, though some few instances of neuromata composed of grey or non-medullated nerve-fibre have been recorded. They consist of bundles of meduUated fibres rolled up and interlacing with each other in an intricate fashion so as to form a mass, which is held together by con- nective tissue, and in which ganglion cells are sometimes fourid. This' mass is situated on a nerve, and is inseparably connected with it, though the fibres in the nerve are not- as a rule directly continuous with the fibres coiled up in the mass. They may occur at any part of a nerve, are frequently multiple, and appear in many instances without any known injury to the nerve. The true neuromata are generally found in the extremities. They are round or oval in form, and vary in size from a pin's head to an egg. The pain varies very considerably : in some there is no pain, though there is generally tenderness ; in others the pain is very acute. In some it is dull and aching ; in others, and more frequently, sharp and lancinating. It often radiates, gives rise to tinglings, ' pins and needles,' and formication in the parts to which the nerve is distributed, and is accompanied some- times by muscular twitchings or epileptiform convulsions from irritation of motor fibres. In the diagnosis, attention must bd paid to the fact that tumours con- nected with nerves can readily be moved in a lateral direction, but scarcely, if at all, in the long axis of the nerve to which they are attached. • -j j Frequently tumours appear on the stump of a divided nerve,