FRACTURES OF THE SKULL 5S5 2. Comminuted fractures are those fractures where the skull is broken up into several pieces at the point struck. These fractures are very often depressed; that is to say, the broken pieces of bone are depressed from their proper level and driven inwards, causing pressure on the brain and its membranes. They may assume several varieties; there may be several lines of fracture radiating from a central point, the part struck ; or a circular or oblong piece of bone may be broken off by a circumferen- tial fissure, and the portion of bone detached may be variously comminuted and depressed. When the portion broken is more or less circular the term pond fracture is given ; when it is oblong the term gutter fracture is applied (fig. 213). 3. Punctured fractures are always of an important and dangerous nature. They are produced by a blow with a pointed weapon, as a dagger, a pick, or a pitchfork, and are of importance mainl)- because, though the external table may be only per- forated by a small hole, the internal table will in all probability be greatly comminuted and splintered, and fragments of bone may be driven into the brain. In addition to this it may happen that the instrument which caused the injury may be embedded in the brain. Thrusts th rough the roof of the orbit and through the nose, with an umbrella, stick, or such like object, belong to Fig. 213.-Diagrammatic representation this class of punctured wound. In of the guncr and pond depressed these cases there is often an absence fractures, of syrnptoms at first, but later on symptoms of inflammation of the brain set in, and the case may prove fatal. Immediate trephining is called for in these cases, to remove the comminuted fragments of the inner table. 4. Depressed fractures are those cases of fracture where the broken portion of bone is depressed below its proper level and driven inwards. They owe their importance to the injury to the brain or its membranes which they may cause. The symptoms which they produce are partly dependent upon the injury to the bone, and partly upon the laceration or compression of the brain, and these latter symptoms may or may not be present. When the fracture is a simple one, that is to say, without a wound of the soft parts over it, the existence of the depression is not always easy to ascertain ; it may be felt, but, on the other hand, it may not be possible to feel it on account of the bruised condition of the scalp. If there are no symptoms of brain mischief, this is a matter of little moment : but if there are signs of compression of the brain, and there are any doubts on the matter, an incision should always be made in order to set the matter at rest. Of course, in those cases where the fracture is compound, the depression can always be felt with the finger or a probe. Cases of depression of the skull without any symptoms of compression of the brain are much more common in children than in adults. Large portions of