382 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES His appetite becomes capricious and fails. Later on diarrhoea sets in, he becomes iinasarcous, and generally dies from exhaustion within about two years from the onset of the disease. On section the tumours are greyi.sh white in appearance and vary in consistence according to the amount of fibrous stroma which exists. They often present stainings from haemor- rhage, and yield on squeezing a milky juice. Upon microscopic examina tion they present the same appearance as was seen in lymphoma, ordinary lymphoid tissue, with an excess of lymph cells, which resemble the white corpuscles of the blood, ^i'he excess of cells sometimes obscures the fibrous stroma of the gland tissue, and sometimes the stroma disappears, and under these circumstances the tumour presents a soft and brain-like consistence. Treatment.—The treatment of this affection is most unsatisfactory. Operative measures appear to be of no avail. Considering the fatal nature of this disease, it may possibly be worth while to remove the enlarged glands, when the disease is seen in quite its early stage, and is absolutely confined to a single group of glands, but the results of operation are by no means encouraging. Arsenic administered in large doses and for a con- siderable time appears to have the greatest influence over the disease, but unfortunately this influence is only a transitory one. Under the adminis- tration of arsenic lymphadenomatous glands will often be found to diminish rapidly, and this diminution may go on until the glands have almost regained their normal size ; but sooner or later the process of shrinking will cease, the arsenic will no longer produce any result, and the glands will again begin to increase and the patient will finally succumb. Combined with the administration of the arsenic, it is desirable to send the patient to the seaside and improve his general health by tonics &c. as far as possible. Recently in two patients I have found that the administration of thyroid extract produced a very considerable diminution in the size of the glands. The cases are too recent at present to enable one to say whether this improvement will be permanent. Lympho-sarcoma has already been alluded to in the chapter on tumours. When it occurs in the lymphatic glands, it is really a primary sarcoma of these structures. It is of a malignant character, and must not be mistaken for simple enlargement of the glands or for Hodgkin's disease. It is to be distinguished from them by its rapid growth, and by its tendency to invade neighbouring parts and to become fixed. Later on it bursts through the skin and fungates. If recognised early an attempt should be made to excise the glands, but the case is generally hopeless from the first. elephantiasis Arabum.—This disease is endemic in tropical climates, and is characterised by a remarkable enlargement and indura- tion of the skin and subcutaneous tissues. It principally affects the lower extremity, when it is known under the name of Barbadoes leg ; the scrotum, when it is known as lymph scrotum ; or the labia in the female. It may, however, occur rarely in other parts of the body, as the face, the breast, or the upper extremity. Patholog'y.—The disease results from obstruction to the return of lymph from the affected area, and the generally received opinion is that this obstruction is due to the presence in the lymphatic vessels of a small nematode worm, the filaria sanguinis hominis, which, as we have already seen, makes its habitat in the lympl>atic system (page 267). This parasite, as we have pointed out, may be the cause of chyluria