888 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the inner side of the femoral vessels, and outside the pubic spine. It may be mistaken for some other affections. An enlarged gland situated in the crural canal may closely simulate a small hernial tumour, and indeed, in fat persons, a diagnosis can sometimes hardly be made without an exjjlora- tory incision. In some not uncommon cases a small hernia may be found underneath an enlarged gland, which makes the diagnosis still more uncertain. As a rule, a gland is defined and separable from neigh- bouring parts; it is movable, and has no impulse on coughing. A femoral hernia may be mistaken for a psoas abscess: in both there is a reducible tumour, with an impulse on coughing; but in the psoas abscess the swelling is outside the femoral artery, and there is distinct fullness in the iliac fossa, and fluctuation can usually be obtained by alternating pressure above and below Poupart's ligament. Varix of the saphena vein is said to simulate femoral hernia; but if the swelling is reduced and pressure is made over the femoral ring, and the patient stands up, the swelling of varix will reappear ; that of hernia will not. Treatment.—Femoral hernise, as a rule, cause far less inconvenience and pain than inguinal hernige, and many of these cases may very well be treated by making the patient wear a truss. A radical cure is not so often cq^lled for as in the inguinal variety. If they become strangulated, the treatment must be conducted on the principles enunciated above (page 877). In dividing the stricture the incision should be made upwards and inwards, and, after the gut has been reduced, one of the methods enumerated for effecting a radical cure should be adopted (page 871). Umbilical hernia.—There are three different varieties of umbilical hernia: i. congenital; 2. infantile; 3. umbilical hernia of adults. 1. Congenital, or exomphalos.—The congenital umbilical hernia is due to an arrest in the process of development, from imperfect closure of the ventral plates. It may vary very much in degree : the abdominal wall may be unclosed from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis, and the whole, or almost the whole, of the abdominal viscera may be extruded. This condition is incompatible with life, and is only rarely met with. More commonly the ventral plates have met together above and below, and the deficiency is only at the neighbourhood of the umbilicus. The intestine, generally the csecum and adjoining portion of the ileum, then protrudes and becomes enclosed in the tissues of the cord, which is generally to be seen issuing from the summit of the swelhng. The coverings are very thin, and the coils of intestine can usually be seen through them. If left untreated, the cord separates, the abdominal cavity is opened, and the child dies of peritonitis. In addition to these cases, which are the most common, there may be a minute opening in the abdominal wall, through which a very small portion of intestine, or m some cases a Meckel's diverticulum, may be protruded, and may_ be over- looked at the time of birth. Cases have been recorded where, in such a case, the gut has been included in ligaturing the cord. The only treatment is to at once open the sac, reduce the intestine, and close the gap by sutures. 2. infantile.—This is the umbilical hernia of infants, and is an exceedingly common affection. It is not a congenital condition, but appears some weeks after birth, and is caused by the yielding of the umbilicus. It is predisposed to by phimosis or constipation, the strain- ing in attempting to pass water or defaecate causing the soft cicatricial tissues to give way. It is common to both sexes, but is much more amen-