DISEASE OF THE KNEE 573 dressing will be required for ten days, when the wound will probably be (bund to be healed. The stitches are removed and the part re-covered with wool and a bandage, so as to continue the elastic pressure. If the patient is a child, he can be carried into the open air on his splint, which should be \yorn for three months, the object being to procure as firm a joint as possible. At the end of three months the splint may be discarded and the patient allowed to go about on crutches, with the foot of the sound limb raised on a patten. He should not attempt to bear his weight on the excised joint for six months. If there is any tendency to flexion, the splint should still be worn at night. In those cases of old-standing hip disease where there is extensive caries and numerous sinuses discharging foul pus, excision is of no use; all that can be done is by long-continued rest and cleanliness, with drainage, and supporting the general health, to endeavour to tide the patient over a protracted illness. Should he present symptoms of running downhill, or develop signs of commencing lardaceous disease, amputation at the hip joint may be adopted as a last resource. The knee joint.—Simple acute synovitis is of common occurrence, on account of the exposed position of the joint and its liability to injury! When effusion takes place, the knee presents a rounded outline, with all the natural hollows filled up. There is also considerable swelling on the front of the lower part of the thigh, more marked on the inner than on the outer side. The most marked sign of effusion into the knee is floating of the patella ; this bone is raised from the condyles of the femur by 1;he fluid, and on pressing it smartly backwards, can be felt to tap against the intercondyloid notch. In cases of suppurative synovitis, early incision and washing out of the joint must be practised. This is usually done by two incisions towards the posterior part of the lateral pouches of the synovial mem- brane. Some surgeons prefer a horseshoe-shaped incision, dividing the ligamentum patellfe, which is afterwards sutured, as giving freer access to the joint. But this is an unnecessarily severe proceeding, as careful flushing through two lateral incisions will cleanse the joint, and, if the operation is undertaken early enough, will in a certain number of cases be followed by perfect recovery and a complete restoration of the functions of the joint. Ankylosis of the knee may be either fibrous or bony. When fibrous ankylosis is recent and is not too firm, much may be done by passive motion and massage to restore the movements of the joint; but in cases of old strong fibrous ankylosis in an extended position, it is well not to make any attempt to break down the adhesions under chloroform in order to attempt to obtain a movable joint. There is a great probability of the adhesions re-forming, and it may be that they will do so with the hmb in a less advantageous position. If the ankylosis which has taken place IS faulty, then the position must be corrected. In cases of not very firm fibrous union, this may be done by breaking down the adhe- sions under an anjesthetic. In doing this, care must be taken to break them down by a movement of flexion rather than extension, as cases have occurred where the popliteal artery has been ruptured by breakin<^ down adhesions of old standing in the knee joint by a movement ol" extension. Where the union is very firm, fibrous, or bony, the position must be corrected by removing a wedge-shaped piece of bone, including the remains of the old joint. A transverse incision is made across the