62 GENERAL INJURIES 2. The cleansing of the wound and the removal of foreign bodies.—All foreign bodies, such as dirt, small fragments of stone glass, or metal, and blood clots must be carefully removed, and this must be done thoroughly, as a single fragment left behind may become a source of irritation; and with great gentleness, so as not to unnecessarily bruise the tissues, whose vitality has already been lowered by the injury. Large pieces must be picked out with forceps; smaller pieces and dirt washed away with a stream of antiseptic fluid. If the wound is deep and irregular careful syringing must be employed, though there is some risk, if the external wound is small, of forcing the antiseptic fluid into the interstices of the tissues beyond the wound and exciting irritation ; it must be done therefore with the greatest gentleness. It is better to avoid, as far as possible, the use of sponges or other material to rub the surface of the wound, as they tend to displace the clots which have formed in the cut vessels and cause a renewal of the hemorrhage. Sponges may also prove a source of contamination to the wound unless great ca°re is taken " 3. Adjustment of the edges of the wound. -A wound must be adjusted so as to bring the whole of the surfaces into apposition as far as possible, and leave no cavity in the deeper parts in which serum or blood may collect. This is sometimes a matter of considerable difficulty in large wounds left after the removal of tumours, or an organ like the breast; but the application of a carefully adjusted bandage will generally be sufficient to maintain the surfaces in apposition. Sometimes, especially in deep wounds where muscles have been cut across, buried sutures, to which allusion will be made directly, will have to be employed. The edges of the wound must be carefully placed in apposition and maintained" there. This is almost always done by sutures ; but other means, such as adhesive strapping and bandages, are occasionally employed. The principal use of these agents is, however, to support the tissues around the wound and so maintain rest, or to keep the edges of the wound in apposition after failure of union'by first intention has taken place. Sutures.—The different varieties of suture, as regards the structure of which they are composed, are numerous. They may consist of horsehair, silkworm gut, silk, silver wire or catgut, and all possess certain advantages and disadvantages, and are differently employed in different cases. In my opinion horsehair is the best material for suture, where it can be used ; it does not absorb any moisture, and may be retained any length of time ; it is pliant and slightly yielding, so that it is not so likely to cut its way through the tissues, and it is easy to manipulate; the great objection to its use is that it is brittle, but this difficulty may be obviated to a great extent by using it double and by carefully selecting the material, as some horse- hair is much stronger than others. Silkworm gut is also an admirable material for sutures ; it is non-absorbent and non-absorbable and possesses more strength than horsehair, but it is not pliant, is difficult to manipulate, and the knot is liable to slip. Silk is in my opinion not so good a material for suture, though probably it is the most universally employed of all; it is easy to manipulate and strong, and if sterilised, which can be easily done by boiling and then immersing in carbolic acid solution, it is not irritating; but it is very absorbable, and if suppuration occurs, it rapidly becomes saturated with the discharge and becomes a source of irritation ; it is also yielding, and unless tied too tightly is apt to give too rnuch. Silver wire, formerly much employed, is now onlv used very occasionally. It does not imbibe moisture and is non-irritating, but it is