891 VENTRAL HERNIA who are advanced in life, and usually consists of uitestuie, omentum bemg rarely found in these cases. It is not often diagnosed, except it becomes strangulated, and then, in addition to the ordmary signs of intes inal obstruction, there is to be found a tumour, or at all events a perceptible fullness just below the spine of the os pubis, to the mner side of the femoral vessels. In very nearly half the recorded cases, pain was complained of about the inner side of the knee, owing to pressure on the obturator nerve. This symptom and pain over the site of the rupture, mcreased by moving the thigh and especially by tensing the obturator externus, may give some clue to the nature of the case. An examination by the vagina or rectum may assist the surgeon in arriving at a diagnosis. The treatment is usually confined to those cases where strangulation has occurred. An incision should be made along the border of the adductor longus, and this muscle exposed and separated from the pectineus, when the tumour will come into view. After the sac has been opened, the stric- ture should be divided in an upward direction, as the obturator vessels are, as a rule, at the outer and posterior part of the sac. Ventral hernia—By the term ventral hernia is meant a protrusion through some part of the abdominal wall, other than those weak spots, which are the common site of hernia, the internal abdominal ring, the femoral ring, and the umbilicus. They may be of two or three different varieties, (a) The most common form of ventral hernia is the traumatic ventral hernia, where a wound or opening has been made in the abdominal wall, or where an abscess has formed in this situation, and the cicatricial tissue which closes the gap has yielded under the pressure of the contained viscera. This form may also occur after rupture ot the abdominal muscles (fig. 347)- The hernia presents an ill-defined bulgmg, Fu;. 347.—Ventral hernia following rupture of the rectus muscle. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) apparent when the patient is in the erect position, and is often attended by a feeling of weakness in the part, and by colicky and dyspeptic symptoms. {b) Occasionally a ventral hernia may be produced by a separation ot the two recti in the middle line, and a thinning of the linea alba, generally in women who have borne children. The hernia then takes the form of an elongated swelling, which appears in the median line of the abdomen upon making any muscular effort. It is not usually attended by any serious