696 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS CHAPTER X INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE NECK INJURIES OF THE NECK Contusions of the neck require no special comment. They are usually of minor importance, unless complicated with some grave mjury, such as fracture of the hyoid bone or laryngeal cartilages. They are to be treated by perfect rest, and all attempts to speak must be avoided. Cold in the shape of evaporating lotions or ice should be applied, and if there is any difficulty in swallowing, the patient should be fed by a tube passed into the stomach. . i,- u Wounds of the neck, with the exception of one class, which are nopularly known under the name of cut-throat, also require no special description. They as a rule heal readily, and the only pomt in the treat- ment which requires particular comment is the necessity and difficulty that there is in keeping the parts in a condition of absolute rest This is best done by the plaster of Paris corona, which has already been described in connection with the operation of removal of glands from the neck (nage ^80). The only special danger in connection with wounds ot the neck, when they are inflicted in the lower part and a vein is wounded is that air may be sucked in. This condition has already been described ^^"^ Cut-throat.—Wounds in the front of the neck, popularly termed cut-throat, may be either homicidal or suicidal. There is no means ot distinguishing between the two, but it will generally be found that in the latter, if the suicide is a right-handed man, the wound will extend farther on the left side than the right, that it will present jagged edges and will be directed obliquely downwards as it passes across the neck, i ms is due to the fact that when a man attempts to cut his throat with his rigM hand he begins well to the left, and as he draws the knife across the neck- the hand becomes of necessity somewhat depressed, and so produces an. oblique cut on the left side ; by the time he reaches the middle hne ot the. neck his determination fails him, and no doubt also, if the air passages are opened, the chest collapses and the muscles which pass from the chest to the upper extremity partially lose their support, and therefore the arm 1 unable to continue the effort, and the cut rarely extends far beyond h middle line. The wound is generally jagged, because the skm, not being tensed rucks up under the knife. ■ Cut-throat wounds may vary much in depth ; they may be q^^te s^p^/' flcial-mere scratches, in fact-when they are of little i^P^'-f^'^^^^^.^ may be deep, penetrating the air or food passages or even ex end "g do^n to the spine aiid notching the bone, or partially dividing an "t'^rvjf^ f^' disc. Suicidal wounds are rarely carried so deeply as to open