778 INJURIES' AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS snap at the time the bone was broken. No doubt in every fracture there is this audible snap at the moment the bone breaks, but patients as a rule are not conscious of it, except in fractured ribs, and perhaps some- times in spontaneous fractures. The patient complains of a sharp fixed pain, which is increased by taking a deep inspiration, or on any violent expiratory effort, such as coughing or sneezing. If he is stripped and examined it will be noticed that the movement of the chest wall during respiration is not so great on the injured side as on the sound side. Where a single bone is broken from indirect violence, there is rarely any obvious displacement; but where several ribs are fractured, or sometimes in fractures from direct violence, the deformity is very marked. In these latter cases, on the front of the chest there may be a distinct depression correspond- ing to the seat of the injury. Where a rib is broken in two places, as sometimes happens, the loose portion may be felt to move independently of the rest of the bone. On pressing the rib which has been injured, at some little distance from the site of the fracture, so as to move the broken ends on each other, crepitus may be elicited, and the proceeding is attended with an increase of the pain. Crepitus may also sometimes be felt, by placing the hand flat over the injured spot and causing the patient to take a deep inspiration; or it may be heard by placing a stethoscope over the site of the fracture, when the broken ends may be heard grating against each other during the movement of the thorax in respiration. Mode of repair.—The mode of union of a fractured rib affords one of the best examples of union by provisional callus. Owing to the impos- sibility that there is of keeping the ends of the bone in a condition of absolute immobiUty, a large amount of provisional callus is thrown out, which rapidly ossifies and completely solders the fractured ends together in three or four weeks. The process of union by definitive callus goes on more slowly, and when it is completed the provisional callus is absorbed, and the site of the fracture in process of time becomes scarcely distin- guishable. Non-union of a fractured rib is very uncommon, but has been recorded. Treatment.—The best mode of treating a fractured rib is by strapping. This is far superior to the old-fashioned plan of swathing the chest m a rib roller, which compresses the sound side of the chest as well as the injured side, and interferes with respiration. The affected side is firmly strapped with strips of adhesive plaister, about a couple of inches wide, which should be laid on from below, in such a manner that each strip covers about half the width of the one below, and so that each strip pro- jects beyond the middle line both in front and behind. As each piece is applied the patient should be instructed to empty his chest as much as possible; for if the plaister is appUed during inspiration the strapping becomes loose as soon as the patient empties his chest. This application usually gives great ease and comfort to the patient and relieves his pain, but in some cases, where the broken fragments are driven inwards, it causes them to press upon the pleura or lung, and increases the pain ; or, if in the lower part of the chest, to irritate the diaphragm and P^^?^^^ hiccough, and under these circumstances cannot be borne. In P^^'^" with advanced pulmonary emphysema, or chronic bronchitis, fixation ot chest adds to the difficulty in respiration, and sometimes causes la engorgement. Strapping should not therefore be employed m ui*|^^ cases, but the patient placed in bed in a bed chair, or propped up pillows,.and the fracture allowed to take care of itself.