978 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS inch and a half in diameter, and some surgeons still adhere to the same rule. But it is undoubtedly a fact that much larger stones than this can be crushed by the more modern operation of litholapaxy. Notably in ' a case recorded by Milton, where he had to employ a lithotnte in which the blades of the instrument had to be separated for five inches Nevertheless, it must be admitted that the size of the stone has an important influence in determining whether lithotrity or lithotomy shall be performed. Of perhaps more importance than the size of the stone is its composition. An oxalate of lime stone is exceedingly hard and difficult to crush, and many a surgeon would hesitate much more about attempting to crush a stone of considerable size when .it consists of oxalate of lime, than he would when it is composed of lithic acid, which is much more easily broken up. Phosphatic stones are soft and friable, and a stone of large size consisting of this material may be attacked with confidence But it must always be borne in mind that a stone which is annarently phosphatic may merely consist of a coating of this material with a laree nucleus of lithic acid or oxalate of lime; and it may be found necessary, after breaking down the phosphatic casing, to proceed to lithotomy to remove a nucleus consisting of some hard material Ihe multiphcity of stones is no bar to lithotrity; the only objection is that the amount of stone to come away from the urethra, and the prolonged operation required for their removal, may cause a dangerous amount of irritation, and therefore when the stones are very numerous, lithotomy rather than lithotrity is indicated. . t ... With regard to the condition of the urinary organs if there are evidences of extensive renal disease, my own feeling would be in lavour of lithotomy, as less likely to interfere with the functions of the organs than a prolonged operation like lithotrity, in which cystitis, which may spread to the kidneys, is liable to be set up. But this opinion is not universal. Many surgeons bdieve that there is less danger from a carefully conducted litholapaxy. A good deal must depend upon the size of the stone and the ability of the surgeon to complete he operation in one sitting With regard to the bladder, great hypertrophy and sacculation is a decfded bar to lithotrity, on account of the difficulty of getting rid of the fragments which becom/lodged in ^^e pouches and form the n^^^^^^^ fresh stones. Again, severe cystitis, with great irritability of the bladder, is a ct S-indication to lithotrity, especially if the stone - l-g^ ; though a moderate degree of cystitis is no reason why this operation shou d not be perfoi^ed^ When Ihe stone is lodged in a pouch behind an enlarged pro.s\ate, lithotomy is probably the better operation, ^^o^ on y on account of the difficulty in seizing the stone, but also on account of the ditficul j in evacuating the fragments which sink to the bottom of the pouch, where the" v"cuat&g tube cannot be introduced and where therefore they may remain undisturbed by the eddy o fluid around the end of t e tube With regard to a smaU contracted bladder it is better to Pejfonu tho tomv if the organ is incapable of holding less than six ounces. FinaU) widi recrard to The urethra Strictures of this canal need be no barrier to S 'otr tfiFa^e stricture can be dilated to admit an evacuating tubejqua^ to about No. X4 or i6 EngHsh catheter; but >f the stricture i^^ o^^ standing and cannot be dilated to this size, it is bet er to P«-rfonB tomy. In cases of irritable urethra, there is °^Jf,*^ °' ^^^^ the operation can be performed at one sitting ; but if theic an> ao about tlus, and there is a probability of more than one sitting being