415 SPLINTS apposition are bandages and strapping, splints, and some forms of special apparatus. •, 1 1 r Bandages and strapping are sometimes the best means available tor retaining fractures in position after the deformity is reduced. Thus in fractures of the ribs, of the clavicle, and of the pelvi.s, this is the usual means employed. Care must be taken in applying them that they press evenly on every part, and that they are applied with sufficient tightness to support the part and restrain its movements, but not so tightly as to interfere with the circulation. Splints.~-\l2i\vj materials are employed for the manufacture of splints. Probably the best material for the majority of fractures is some light wood, such as deal, though metal splints are sometimes employed, but they are cumbersome andlieavy, and as a rule possess no advantages over the wooden splint. In the aiDplication of splints there are certain first principles which should always be borne in mind, (i) They should always be well padded, especially where they press upon subcutaneous portions of bone. (2) As far as possible they should be sufficiently long to include the joint above and below the seat of fracture, so as to fix the whole of the bone. (3) They should be sufficiently broad to encase the whole limb. (4) They should be so applied as not to impede the return of venous blood from the limb or arrest the supply of blood to it. (5) No bandage as a rule should be applied beneath them. (6) They should be so arranged that the seat of fracture is exposed to view, or, at all events, that neither the splint nor the bandage presses upon the fractured part. (7) The extremity of the limb should be left uncovered, so that it can be examined periodi- cally, and any coldness or congestion, from obstruction to the circulation, at once detected. Another form of splint which is constantly in use is one made of some material which can be moulded to the Umb, such as millboard, felt, poro- plastic, leather, or gutta-percha. Bandages saturated with some material such as plaster of Paris, gum, silicate of soda, or starch, are also used. Some surgeons advocate the employment of these immovable splints from the beginning of the case, others adopt the plan of applying wooden splints for a time until all swelling has subsided, and then putting the limb up in one of these kinds of fixed apparatus. The advantage claimed for the former plan of treatment is that there is more complete fixation of the fragments, and that therefore prolonged confinement to bed is unnecessary, and the patient is able to get up and go about on crutches. The objection to it is that it entirely prevents our seeing what is going on at the seat of fracture, where serious mischief may be progressing without the surgeon being aware of it. And in addition to this, if there is any swelling at the time the limb is put up, this may subside in the course of a few days and the casing become loose and faulty, and imperfect union may be the result. If, therefore, an apparatus of this sort is used, it should be fashioned in such a way that it can be removed occasionally and the limb inspected. The apparatus which best fulfils these requirements of a ' movable-immovable ' splint is the plaster of Paris splint advocated by Croft. In order to describe its mode of application, we may take a fracture of the leg as an illustration. Four pieces of Bavarian flannel (a form of common house flannel) are cut into the shape of ordinary side splints, of appro- priate size. Two of these are well soaked in a mixture of plaster of Paris and water of the consistence of thick cream ; the other two are laid on a table and rubbed over, on one surface only, with the same