910 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS overcome and in every case the bowels must be carefully regulated, so that the piles 'shall not be excoriated by any hard motion; sulphur, cascara, sulphate of magnesia, or one of the natural aperient waters should be given in sufficient quantities to ensure a soft motion every day, without purg- ing The patient should be instructed after each action of the bowels to lie down for half an hour, with the pelvis raised so as to relieve congestion from gravitation. A most excellent plan, from which I have found the greatest benefit, is to get the patient to endeavour to educate his bowels to act last thing at night, before he retires to rest. As soon as thev have acted, he assumes the horizontal position, and may in this way entirely rid himself of all his distressing symptoms. The diet must be carefully regulated, and the food consist of easily digestible articles, and all excess of wine or spirits avoided. Daily exercise in the open air should be enjoined. As regards the local treatment, the parts should be well sponged night and morning, and after each action of the bowels, mth cold water. Various astringents and anodynes may be used, oi which perhaps there is none so useful as Ball's ointment: Morph. acetat • • if' ^ Tannin., ext. bellad ^^5^5 Vaselin., lanolin S^s Others which may be used are the compound gall and opiuni ointment; extract of hamamdis ; or an injection of a drachm of hazdine m an ounce of water may be thrown in the rectum after the bowels have acted. Curative treatment.-When the palliative treatment above indicated is not suffident, and especially in cases where there is much haemorrhage or ereat tendency to prolapse during defaecation, operative interference is genSy required, unless \he patient's state of health contra-indicates it or there is cirrhosis of the liver, under which circumstance no operation would be advisable. Many different plans have been advocated and adopted for the operative treatment of internal piles such as _(i) their destruction by nitric acid or other caustics ; (2) dectrolysis ; (3) injection of carboHc acid, perchloride of iron, or other coagulants ; (4) crushmg; °5) re actual cautery ; (6) ligature ; and (7) excision of the pile-bearing area of mucous membrane. ^ n Of these various operations, probably the best and the ones most usually employed are the appUcation of nitric add or dectrolysis in cases of small vSculL piles ; ligatoe, where there are large isolated piles; and excision of fhe pile-bearing area where there is a diseased condition of the entire p eius o veins at Ae lower end of the rectum. These three operations wUl therefore be described, and only a brid allusion made to other p ans The treatment by electrolysis is for some reasons to be prefeired to the application of nitric acid, and especially because it does not necessitate an anLthetic, nor confinement to bed afterwards. It is performed by fntrX n' hree, four, or more needles connected with the negative pde of a coSuo^ battery into the pile, and then applying a sponge connected with the positive pole to the skin in the neighbourhood of the anus Too strong a current is not desirable ; from ten to fifteen cells of a Lee anch?s battery are sufficient. Bubbles of hydrogen will be seen to escape by the sides of the needles, and in the course of a few minutes die n le will become white. The needles are then withdrawn, and a little lodo- t J^l sprSS^^^^^ In a few days ..the piles shrivd up and disappear.