1132 AMPUTATIONS GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS Amputation may be required for injury or disease. When performed for injury, it may be either/rmrtry, when the operation is performed immediately after the receipt of the injury, before any febrile disturbance is set up ; or secondary, when it is undertaken at a time more or less remote from the date of the injury, and at least twenty-four hours after its infliction. Formerly it used to be the custom to divide this latter class of cases into ititerniediate those which were undertaken during the high febrile state which accompanied septic absorption before granulations had formed; and secondary, those which were performed after the fever had subsided ; but this subdivision has fallen into disuse. Asepticity—The greatest care must be observed not only to render the part to be operated upon as aseptic as possible, but also to maintain the strictest asepticity during the performance of the operation, as the dangers of septic absorption are very great, inasmuch as muscular and cellular planes are freely opened up and the medullary canal of the bone exposed. This is not always an easy matter in a primary amputation ; but the washing and scrubbing, in order to get rid of all dirt and superfluous epidermic accretions, should be as thorough as possible, and a little extra time is well spent in doing this. Haemorrhage.—In amputations it is essential that the surgeon should avoid all unnecessary loss of blood. In order to do this he must take some means to render the limb ex-sanguine during the performance of the amputa- tion, until he can secure the cut vessels by ligature or otherwise. This is generally most easily done by elevating the limb for a few minutes, and then applying an elastic cord around it above the point where it is proposed to remove it. It is desirable to fold a few thicknesses of gauze around the limb under the elastic cord to prevent chafing, and the cord must be soaked in a solution of carbolic acid before use. It is obvious that in some amputations, such as those at the hip and shoulder joint, this plan cannot be adopted. In hip amputations, the abdominal tourniquet of Lord Lister, the rectal lever of Davy, or the elastic compressor of Jordan Lloyd may be employed ; and in disarticulation at the shoulder the best plan of restraining haemorrhage is digital compression of the subclavian artery against the first rib. Other plans have been devised for diminishing the loss of blood, and at the same time getting rid of the blood which otherwise constantly oozes from the wound, even when a tourniquet has been applied. The principal one of these is Esmarch's bloodless method. This consists in applying an elastic bandage spirally around the limb from the distal extremity upwards, to the point at which the elastic tourniquet is intended to be apphed. This drives all the blood out of the limb ; and when an elastic cord is applied over the last turn of the bandage, and the latter removed, the limb will be found to be absolutely bloodless, and not a di-op of blood will flow in the course of the operation. After the limb is removed, all cut vessels can be easily seen and tied, and the elastic cord is then removed. Unfortunately, the condition of anaemia which has been induced is followed by a condition of hypera?mia, and all the arterioles and capillaries which are too small to ligature become dilated and ooze freely, and very often as much blood is lost as if no Esmarch's method had been used. This may be obviated, it is true, to a very great extent by tying all vessels that can be seen, and then, after the introduction of a drainage tube and suturing the wound, applying a large dressing of gauze and wool, and carefully bandaging the stump and maintaining it in an ele- vated position. But under these circumstances the bag of the stump becomes filled with blood, which may interfere with primary union. Then, again, Esmarch's method is not applicable to all cases ; as, for example, cases of gangrene, or where there is any purulent infiltration. And, moreover, certain