992 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS male'and the vagina and cervix uteri of the female, sometimes travelling up to the Fallopij.n tubes and causing salpingitis. The gonococci appear in pairs—diplococci —the adjacent borders being sometimes concave. They are found with or without other pyogenic organisms in the discharge, but may be distinguished from them and from another variety of diplococcus, which is present in the healthy urethra, by the fact that they are not stained by Gram's method, and are found in the pus and epitheHal cells of the discharge as well as outside them. They may be readily demonstrated by placing a drop of the discharge on a cover glass and drying, and then staining with gentian violet or methylene blue. When applied to a mucous surface, they speedily invade the epithelial cells, and after a period of incubation set up an acute infective inflammation, which has a tendency to spread and quickly runs on to suppuration. Symptoms.—After a period of incubation, which is usually three or four days, but may be as long as a fortnight, a sensation of itching or burning is experienced at the end of the urethra and the lips of the meatus, which will be noticed to be tumid and to have a tendency to stick together. This is quickly followed by a scalding pain during micturition,' and the appearance of a thick yellow discharge from the urethra. The lips of the urethra now become puffy and red, and the glans penis and the prepuce swollen. The inflammation travels backwards, and the urethra along the under surface of the penis becomes painful and feels like a hard cord, and, when the inflammation reaches the bulbous portion of the urethra, pain and tension in the perineum are complained of. Sometimes the discharge may be stained with blood, and in somewhat rare cases the swelling of the mucous membrane of the urethra may be so great as to prevent the passage of urine, and retention may result. The inflammation in the urethra may extend to the surrounding corpus spongiosum, and this body becomes infiltrated with plastic exudation. Should erection occur under these circumstances the penis is bent downwards and a painful condition is set up, which is known by the name of cho7-dee. During this stage there is a considerable amount of constitutional disturbance, a rise in the temperature, loss of appetite, constipation, and a general feeling of malaise. In-favourable cases, at the end oT ten days to a fortnight a subsidence of the acute symptoms takes place, the discharge becomes thinner, the scalding on micturition becomes less, and the swelling disappears. This is the sub-acute stage, and under appropriate treatment this may gradually subside and a cure be effected in a fortnight or three weeks ; but if neglected or improperly treated it may degenerate into a gleet, which may persist indefinitely. By the term gleet is understood any mucous or muco-purulent dis- charge from the urethra, which persists and is not attended by any other definite symptoms. It is usually the result of a chronically inflamed patch of mucous membrane, which becomes dark, red, and granular in appearance : but it may arise from chronic prostatitis, set up by the gonorrhcea. Under these latter circumstances the condition may be diagnosed by the presence in the urine of fine thread-like casts of the ducts of the prostate. In those cases where there is a granular patch in the urethra it will be found that there is a locaHsed tenderness on passing a bougie, but the condition can only be accurately diagnosed by the endoscope. The patches are usually situated in the bulbous portion of the urethra, and are a frequent