572 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES excision the patient is soon in a position to move about and get into the fresh air, and will probably be able to bear the weight of his body on the limb in from six to twelve months. The line of treatment which I adopt in those cases where disease of the hip has gone on to the formation of matter, is to open the abscess freely by an incision which will expose the joint; and, if there is destruction of the joint surfaces, to remove the head of the bone and thoroughly scrape away all the diseased structures. The removal of the head of the femur is a necessity, even in those cases where the disease has commenced in the synovial membrane, because otherwise the diseased synovial tissue at the back of the joint cannot be completely removed. Excision of the hip is rarely required for conditions other than tuberculous disease. It may be excised by an anterior, external, or posterior incision. Of these three methods, the one by the anterior incision is to be preferred, since it can be performed without wounding any important structures, and interferes very little with the capsule. The objection which has been raised to it, that it does not provide efficient drainage, is of Httle importance, since no drainage is usually required. An incision is made from half an inch below and external to the anterior superior spine downwards and in- wards, along the outer border of the sartorius muscle (fig. 209); this is deepened, carrying the knife between the sartorius and the tensor vaginje femoris ; then between the gluteus minimus and the rectus, and the abscess is opened. This is generally done before the capsule is incised. The abscess is to be scraped, and flushed with Barker's flushing gouge (fig. 25), with sterilised water at a temperature of 105° F., and all broken-down matter washed away. The cap- sule is now opened, and the joint explored with the finger. An Adams's saw (fig. 201) is applied to the neck of the bone, and it is sawn through and the head removed with sequestrum forceps. If the head of the bone is lying loose in the cavity, as is not uncommonly the case, a fresh section of the neck, beyond the point of separation, should be made with the saw so as to obtain a clean surface. The whole of the interior of the joint is to be well scraped with the flushing gouge, all flakes of cartilage and carious bone being removed from the acetabulum, and all granulation tissue got rid of. If the acetabulum is perforated, the opening should be enlarged, so that the gouge can be introduced through it, and the intra-pelvic part of the abscess scraped and flushed. After the whole of the cavity has been cleaned, a sponge is to be introduced to arrest oozing, and the sutures inserted but not tied. The limb is now abducted and the sponge removed ; the joint is filled with iodoform emulsion, and the sutures tied. No drainage tube is necessary, but some surgeons prefer to use one for a couple of days. The wound is dressed, with plenty of wool and a spica bandage so as to make elastic pressure, and the limb, abducted slightly, put up on a double Thomas's splint. In the majority of cases, no Fig. 209.—Diagram show- ing the Hne of incision in excision of the hip.