CHRONIC SUPERFICIAL GLOSSITIS 655 puncture, from a fish-bone for example. The treatment consists in laying the abscess freely open, when it will heal up in a few days. Chronic superficial glossitis.—Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tongue is a disease of common occurrence, which has attracted considerable attention of late years. Its etiology is still involved in a certain amount of obscurity, but it would appear that there are several causes which may give rise to this condition. Formerly it was believed that syphilis was the only cause, but, more recently, excessive smoking and the habit of drinking spirits, especially undiluted, have been regarded as potent causes of this condition. There can be little doubt that one of these factors alone may excite the disease, but what is more probable in most cases is that more than one of them is concerned in its production; such as excessive smoking in a syphilitic subject, or excessive smoking and the drmkmg of raw spirits combined. Four distinct conditions are in- cluded under the term chronic superficial glossitis: (i) The initial con- dition, the red glazed tongue ; (2) leucoplakia; (3) psoriasis ; (4) ichthyosis • but It seems probable that they are only different phases of the same condition, for several of them may be present in different parts of the same tongue, (i) The red glazed tongue is the initial condition and consists in a hyperremia of the mucous membrane and sub-mucous tissue In consequence of this the tongue is somewhat swollen and its mucous membrane becomes stretched, so that the tongue is red, smooth and glazed. The condition is a very chronic one, and gives rise to no symptoms beyond a slight smarting on taking any hot liquid or hot condiments. It may last for years without undergoing any alteration or it may pass on to the second condition, leucoplakia. This is most frequently the direct sequel of the red glazed tongue; but there is good reason to believe that it may sometimes be developed without beine preceded by it. It does not affect the whole area of the dorsum of the tongue, but occurs in patches, as thickened epithelium. This is due to the inflammation of the mucous membrane causing an overgrowth of the epithelium, which becomes heaped up and forms plaques or patches which become rough, dry, and horny. (3) Psoriasis lingua;. After the patches have formed and acquired a considerable thickness they become cracked or fissured, and present an appearance very similar to psoriasis palmaris and hence the name. (4) Ichthyosis. A further stage is where the patches coalesce and the dorsum of the tongue becomes covered with thick warty masses of epithelium, and is hard and stiff, and often presents numerous cracks. ^ Symptoms.—In the early stages of the disease there is only a little discomfort on taking hot food. Later on this becomes increased, and speech may be interfered with. Occasionally some superficial ulceration of the patches may take place, and then the pain is considerably increased The disease is exceedmgly chronic and may go on for years, and at the same time it IS exceedmgly intractable and difficult to cure. It derives its chief dimcal importance from the fact that it frequently terminates in epithelioma Cases should therefore be carefully watched, and active measures adopted at once if this disease is set up. Treatment.—The treatment is unsatisfactory as far as the cure is^ concerned, though much may be done to prevent the condition getting worse. Smoking must be rigidly prohibited. Stimulants should be interdicted, and all hot condiments and .spices. The diet should be plain and nutritious. The mouth should be washed out after every meal with a