TREATMENT OF UTERINE FIBROIDS 1055 on the ureters, leading to dilated kidneys, or on the urethra, leading to retention, cystitis and pyelo-nephritis. Complications.—Fibroid tumour of the uterus may be complicated by (1) pregnancy, when abortion frequently takes place, and, owing to the con- dition of the uterus, contraction does not easily follow ; hence, retention of clots or membranes is likely to occur and consequent septic poisoning. If the patient goes the full time, the tumour may form an insurmountable obstacle to delivery, requiring Ctesarean section. (2) Impaction is another complication which may arise. The tumour becomes firmly wedged in the pelvis, from which it cannot rise, or, indeed, from which it cannot be dislodged. (3) Finally, gangrene may occur in cases of large submucous fibroids, which protrude into the vagina, and this may cause death from septicaemia or septic peritonitis. Treatment.—In a large majority of cases uterine fibroids give rise to no serious symptoms, and in these cases no operative interference is required because the disease is not fatal, and in all probability at the menopause the tumour will cease to grow and may possibly shrink and perhaps disappear Fig. 398.—Calcareous degeneration of a large fibroid tumour of the uterus. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) altogether, or undergo calcareous degeneration (fig. 398). But there are other cases in which on account of severe, persistent, and uncon- trollable haemorrhage, or from the rapid growth of the tumour, or from the pain and pressure effects which it produces, operative interference becomes necessary. The treatment must vary according to the situa- tion and variety of the tumour. In cases of sub-peritoneal fibroids which are pedunculated the procedure is a comparatively simple one. The abdomen is opened in the middle line, and the tumour delivered through the opening. The pedicle is then transfixed with a blunt needle and tied in two halves, one of the ligatures being afterwards made to encircle the whole pedicle and again tied. The tumour is now separated by division of the pedicle on the distal side of the ligature and the cut edges of the peritoneum are sutured together with a fine silk or catgut suture over the face of the stump. The external wound is then closed. This operation is •only of service when there is a single fibroid. In cases of single sub- peritoneal tumours which are sessile and partially embedded in the uterine wall, it has been proposed to cut away the tumour and a wedge-shaped