' GENERAL DISEASES (d) Ganffrene after acute fevers.—(iangrene sometimes occurs during convalescence from some of the acute fevers, scarlet fever typhoid, and typhus, and is due to endarteritis and embohsm. It is of the dry variety and affects those parts of the body which are most distant from the central oriran of the circulation, namely, the toes and the fingers. Before we proceed to speak of the specific forms of gangrene, that is to sav those fornis of gangrene which arise from a specific cause, it will be advisable to say a word or two upon the treatment of gangrene in general, in order to supplement what has been already said upon the special treat- ment of the various kinds of gangrene which we have been considering. Treatment of gangrene.—The treatment of gangrene may be summed up as follows: remove the cause if possible; if this cannot be done endeavour to prevent the occurrence of gangrene by maintaining the vital warmth of the part and assisting the circulation. After actual gangrene has set in, prevent the occurrence of sepsis ; support the powers of the system, and endeavour to allay nervous irritability. In cases of impending gangrene it is not often that the surgeon can remove any local cause and so prevent its occurrence ; but in some few cases it can be done. When, for instance, an impending gangrene is due to strangulation, the symptoms are at once relieved by the removal of he cause of the strangulation, as in the familiar example of a strangulated hernia So aeain the relief of local tension may do much to avert impending aansrene in those cases where it is threatening from inflammatory causes. In cases of diffuse cellulitis, gangrene may be averted by timely incisions. With regard to gangrene arising from constitutional causes, much may be dm e o prevent\he occurrence of gangrene. A good illustration of this is afforded in the diabetic form of the disease. If a patient who is the subject of diabetes will only rigidly conform to the dietetic rules which are imposed upon him, he will run little risk of getting diabetic gangrene. Or agaui, it an individual who is eating rye bread, as soon as he gets the Femo^^to^y diarrhoea, with cold extremities and cramp, will at. once abandon the bread he is eating and obtain it from another source, he will in all prob- nhilitv arrest the impending attack. Another indication in averting an impending attack of gangrene is, as far as possible, to maintain the vital zvarmth of the part. The. hmb or part affected should be wrapped in a thick l^ye-f-tton wooW^^^^^ maybe placed a flannel bandage, loosely applied or the limb may be Svathed in a small blanket. Hot-water bottles should be placed m the bed but not actually in contact with the limb. . Means must be^ taken to assist the circulation, and by this is mean especially the return of the blood to the heart through the veins, where it J ahvays liable to stagnate, even where the cause of the gangrene is some efeJt in the arterial circulation, from loss of the propelling power of the vis Ttergo. This may be done to a certain extent by raismg the limb on In inclined plane, which will facilitate the venous return by gravity. Care r^iust be taken, however, if the gangrene is in the lower extremity, as t so often is, not o raise the limb too high, otherwise it will produce a bend in the common femoral artery, opposite the hip joint, which may interfere with the free flow of blood through the vessel. In another way hi emulation through the veins may be assisted in cases o impend^ gangrene, and this is by gentle massage in the course of the venous circula Ion. If in a case, for example, of ligature of the femoral ^^^^^^^y'^^^^ ^^^^ becomes cold, swollen, and dusky, and gangrene threatens, the systematic