i8 INFLAMMATION the instance cited above where the inflammation was in bone, earthy salts become deposited in the new fibrous tissue, and it gradually undergoes a transformation into true bony tissue. A further change must be noted as occurring in scar tissue after its formation, and that is its contraction. This is especially noticeable in the scar tissue which remains fibrous. This undergoes, for a considerable time after its formation, a progressive con- traction, in consequence of whicli the vessels contained in it become atrophied and obliterated, and as a consequence the scar tissue becomes less vascular and paler than surrounding parts ; it also becomes hard and dense, often feeling to the touch like a mass of cartilage. During its con- traction it draws towards itself surrounding parts with which it is in con- tact, and thus often produces great deformity. This is well exemplified in burns, where sometimes the most distressing and hideous deformities are produced as the result of the contraction of scar tissue. 2. The degenerative change in granulation tissue occurs where the inflammation is persistent, owing to the presence in the inflamed area of pyogenic organisms, without which this change will not occur. This degenerative change, when it takes place in the substance of tissues which surround the inflammatory products on all sides, so that they are enclosed and cannot escape, is known as suppuration ; when, on the other hand, it occurs on a free surface, so that the products of the change can at once escape, it is known as ulceration ; the two conditions being pathologically identical. The process consists essentially in the death of the cells of the granulation tissue and its liquefaction. The process begins in the centre of the mass at the point furthest removed from nutrition : liquefaction takes place, and a cavity is formed containing a fluid in which are in- numerable corpuscles, and this fluid is called pus. It may be, and probably is, the fact that this degenerative process takes place in the inflammatory exudation before true granulation tissue is formed—that is to say, before the emigrated leucocytes have been destroyed and removed by the proliferated fixed connective tissue cells of the part, but after the leucocytes have destroyed and removed the damaged tissues ; so that it is these leucocytes and not the connective tissue cells, which degenerate and die, and which form the pus cells. This process, commencing in the centre of the mass of granulation tissue or inflammatory exudation gradually extends until the whole mass is liquefied and converted into pus ; but as it does so active inflammatory processes proceed in the adjacent structures, and a fresh layer of granulation tissue is formed around the liquefying centre, whether it be in the depth of the tissues or on a free surface, which in its turn liquefies and is converted into pus, and so the abscess or ulcer extends and increases, and thus a progressive destruction of tissue takes place. These processes of suppuration and ulceration will be considered more in detail hereafter. Finally, as a result of inflammation, must be mentioned gangre?ie, or death of the part en masse in consequence of the violence of the inflamma- tion and the occurrence of stasis over a very wide area, so that a portion of that area cannot recover itself, and death of the part is the natural conse- quence. When, however, we come to speak of gangrene, we shall find that only a very few cases are caused in this way, and that there are many other causes which produce it. Between, however, this condition of gangrene and suppuration we shall find that no sharp line of demarcation can be drawn, but that the one condition merges into the other, in accordance with the severity of the irritant and the power of the tissues to resist its