TUBERCLE BACILLUS 20I of small round cells, between which is a fine reticulum, probably derived from the branching processes of the giant cell (fig. 42). The giant cells are granular masses, often containing vacuoles, in which there are many nuclei, which have a somewhat characteristic arrangement. They are usually to be found arranged in a horse-shoe shape at one or more parts of the border of the giant cell. Their nuclei are large, clearly defined, and of an oval form. The giant cell is not essential to a tubercle, for many are found in which it is not present, and their exact origin is uncertain. By some they are believed to be merely coagu- lated lymph inclosing cells; by others they are believed to be masses formed by the coalescence of epithelioid cells ; and again, others believe that they are caused by the fusion of leucocytes around a bacillus. The epithelioid cell is the most characteristic element of the tubercle. It consists of granular protoplasm, with a single clearly defined oval nucleus, exactly the same as the nuclei of the giant cells, which is a reason for believ- ing that the giant cell is produced by a coalescence of the epithelioid cells. The cells are derived from the connective tissue cells of the part, which undergo proliferation. The round cells forming the outer zone of the tubercle are merely emigrated leucocytes. The tubercle is formed in the following way: when a tubercle bacillus is lodged in a part, it sets up an irritation which causes a proliferation of the connective tissue cells of the part, especially the endothelium of the small blood-vessels and lymphatics, and in this way the epithelioid cells of the tubercle are formed. At the same time the leucocytes migrate from the adjacent vessels and collect around the epitheUoid cells, forming the outer zone of round cells of the tubercle. Subsequently the giant cell is formed, probably either by lymph coagulating and inclosing some of the epithelioid cells in its meshes, or by a fusion of the epithelioid cells into one large mass. Within the tubercle no blood-vessels are to be seen, but around it is often a zone of vascular congestion. The bacilius is principally found in the giant cells, but also to a certain extent in and around the epithelioid cells (fig .43). It is a rod-shaped organism, about one-third to two-thirds the diameter of a red blood corpuscle in length, and five times as long as it is broad. It has usually a beaded appearance, but is sometimes homogeneous. It is non-motile, but may be transmitted from one part to another by being taken up by wandering cells, which enter the lymph stream. Tubercle may also be disseminated by the entrance into the blood stream of softened tuberculous matter, which gives rise to tuberculous formations in other parts of the body. But in all probability the bacilli do not infect the blood and multiply in it. The bacilli may effect an entrance into the body in several different ways. They may find an entrance through the respiratory mucous membrane, being inhaled with the air, or through the gastro-intestinal mucous mem- brane, being swallowed with the food, as in the milk of tuberculous cows ; or they may be introduced through any wound or breach of surface of the body.