EPITHELIOMA OF SCARS scar tissue, since the ulceration usually commences in the centre of the scar at the point farthest removed from the normal circulation. These ulcers are very sluggish and slow to heal, and when healed apt to_ break down again and recur. These facts should always be borne in mind by the surgeon, and whenever he has a case where there has been con- siderable destruction of the skin, and a large granulating sore exists, he should resort to skin grafting, which not only hastens the healing of the wound, but also promotes a sounder scar, which is less liable to undergo degenerative changes. 2. Keloid is a disease of cicatrices, which consists in an overgrowth of the scar tissue, and must also be regarded as a disease of degeneration, for though there is an excess of growth, this growth consists of a lowly organised fibroid material intermingled with cells, which are arrested in their progress of development and degenerate in their incomplete forms. In these cases hard projections grow from the margin of the scar ; they are smooth, red, and glistening, and as they grow they send forward claw - shaped processes, which grow into the adjacent skin (fig. 2i). They may extend over a consider- able area and produce great deformity. They are painless, but liable to ulcerate and bleed. They appear to be de- pendent on some consti- tutional condition, and seem to be especially associated with the tuberculous diathesis ; at all events they are especially liable to occur in the cicatrices of tuber- culous ulcers. The treatment of this condition is not very satisfactory. Their removal may be, and often is, followed by a recurrence of the growth in the scar of the operation, and, if sutures are used, in the punctures made by the needle. Pressure is followed by the best results, and is supposed to act by starving the growth, but unfortunately this plan of treatment is often followed by ulceration if the pressure is at all severe, and the ulcers are slow to heal. Flexile collodion appears to be the best application, as when it dries it contracts, and so constricts the vessels. I have found in one or two instances marked benefit from the internal administration of arsenic, and cod liver oil has been recommended by some under the supposition that the disease is connected with the tuberculous state. In .some instances, keloid tends to disappear spontaneously. 3. Epithelioma is apt to attack scars, especially if they are subjected to any external source of irritation. This condition was first accurately described by Mr. Ctesar Hawkins as ' warty tumours of cicatrices,' but it Fig. 21.—Keloid of the breasl. (From a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)