TREATMENT OK (GONORRHOEA 993 cause of stricture. A plastic exudation takes place in the sub-epithelial tissues, and this undergoes organisation into fibrous tissue, which sub- sequently contracts, like scar tissue elsewhere, and leads to a narrowing of the lumen of the tube. Treatment.—The treatment during the acute stage should consist in keeping the patient as far as possible at rest, on a light unstimulating diet. He should take plenty of barley water, soda and milk, &c., to dilute the urine ; the bowels should be kept freely open by saline purges, and the strictest cleanhness observed. If the pain during micturition is very severe and there is irritability of the bladder, it may be relieved by hot sitz baths. If chordee is troublesome, fifteen grains of the bromides of ammonium and potassium may be given at bedtime, and if retention sets in and is not relieved by a hot bath, a soft red-rubber catheter must be passed. This will probably cause some hemorrhage, which will relieve the congestion of the mucous membrane. As soon as the discharge becomes thinner and less copious, and the scalding disappears, specific treatment may be com- menced. This may be of two kinds, either local or constitutional, and considerable difference of opinion exists as to the respective merits of these .two methods. In the majority of cases it will be found that a judicious combination of the two is advisable, but the local treatment is the one on which most reliance must be placed. The constitutional treatment con- sists in the administration of certain drugs, which passing through the blood are excreted by the kidneys, and have a decided effect upon the mucous membrane of the urethra. They are three in number : oil of sandal wood, balsam of copaiba, and cubebs. Of these the oil of sandal wood possesses these advantages, that it is less liable to upset the digestion, and is not apt to produce an erythematous eruption, as copaiba and cubebs do. It is best*^iven in the form of a mixture, in a dose of ten to fifteen minims with a few drops of liquor potassas. The balsam of copaiba is usually administered in the form of capsules, as it is less likely to cause eructation, and the nauseous taste of the drug is thereby disguised. Each capsule contains ten minims of the balsam, and six to eight of these should be given daily. Cubebs was originally recommended by Sir Astley Cooper for ca.ses of men who had had frequent attacks of gonorrhoea. It is more irritating than copaiba. It is given in hg,lf to one drachm doses in cachets. The local treatment of gonorrhoea consists in the use of antiseptic and astringent injections. Very many different drugs have been used at dif- ferent times in the form of injections in gonorrhoea. Of those which have proved most useful in the author's hands are a solution of perchloride of mercury (i in 5,000); permanganate of zinc gr. to an ounce) ; sulpho- carbolate of zinc (gr. ij to an ounce), and an injection made as follows : zinci sulph. 3j.; liq. plumbi diacetatis 3j; aq. ad gx. Nitrate of silver of the strength of ^ to ^ gr. to the ounce is frequently used, but it causes more pain than the other injections, and a further objection to its use is that it stains the linen. There are several points to be noted in the use of injec- tions in gonorrhoea. They should never be used strong, but should be used frequently, four or five times a day. The same injection should not be employed for too long a time; if no decided effect is produced in a week or ten days, it should be changed for some other. The patient should always be instructed to pass water before injecting; this washes away any discharge which may have collected in the canal. ' The nozzle of a half-ounce glass syringe is introduced into the orifice of the urethra, and the finger and thumb of the left hand compress the glans 3 s