FLAT FOOT 1123 condition of the foot is restored. The patient should wear boots without high heels, and should have 'valgus pads' inserted mto them. The success in the treatment of these cases depends upon perseverance with the manipulations after the wrenching has been performed. Flat foot or splay foot (fig. 422) is one of the commonest deformities of the lower limb. It is caused by a weakness of the muscles in the sole, and relaxation of the ligaments, so that the arch becomes lost and the foot flattened. I'he arch of the foot is maintained principally by the inferior calcaneo-navicular or ' spring' ligament, which is a highly elastic structure and which is supported and prevented from being overstretched by the e.xpansion of the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, which spreads out like a fan to be inserted into most of the tarsal and some of the metatarsal bones, and by the short muscles in the sole of the foot. When these muscles are weak, they allow the ligament to become overstrained, and it loses its elasticity and becomes relaxed, and the arch of the foot becomes gradually lost. The exciting cause is overstanding, especially in growing boys or girls, or in young adults. The disease is, therefore, very common in nurses, shop-people, and others who FlG. 422.—Flat foot, or spurious valgus. are compelled to stand for many hours every day. When the arch becomes lost, there is a tendency for the foot to become everted. The navicular bone is displaced outwards from the head of the astragalus, which forms a rounded prominence on the inner side of the foot. The transverse ligament binding the heads of the metatarsal bones together also becomes "stretched and the lateral arching upwards of the foot disappears. Great pain is often complained of after standing or walking, and the gait is shuffling and ungainly. Treatment.—The treatment of fiat foot consists, in the first instance, in improving the general health and muscular tone of the patient by fresh air, regulated diet, tonics, and other means ; secondly, in removing the cause which led to the condition—overstrain or fatigue to the foot by prolonged standing, too much walking, carrying heavy weights, and so on. Without this all local treatment to the foot will be of no avail. When the disease is in its initial stage, the treatment consists in massage to the foot and leg muscles, and regulated exercises to improve their tone. The exercises should be devised with a view to increasing the power of the muscles of the sole of the foot and the tibialis posticus. The patient 4 c 2