SYMPTOMS OF ERYSIPELAS i53 passed over it. The oedema in the simple cutaneous erysipelas is riot areat, except in those cases where there is a quantity of loose cellular tissue beneath, as in the eyelids, scrotum, or labia; here the oedema is very considerable. The skin of the inflamed part is tense and shming, and covered over with minute vesicles, or sometimes bulte. These at first contain clear serum, which after a time becomes turbid. Stiftness is complained of at first, succeeded by a burning sensation and a feehng ot tension. The pain is always increased on pressure, and is sometimes so great that even the application of a dressing to the part is painful to the patient. The redness spreads widely, and as it spreads is always character- ised by the same abrupt, irregular margin. Here the redness is brightest, for the colour has a tendency to fade in the centre as it spreads at the circumference. The wound, if it is of any size, from which the erysipelas started, becomes dry and glazed, and ceases, if in the suppurating stage, to secrete pus, but discharges merely a little thm sanious fluid, ihe surface of the wound presents no granulations, but often becomes covered with a layer of greenish grey lymph. The duration of the attack is very variable; it generally lasts from two to ten days, but it may continue twice as long and still terminate in recovery. The defervescence of the fever which accompanies the disease is in some cases abrupt; the temperature falls suddenly almost to normal, and coincidently with this the redness begins to disappear and desquamation to take place. In other cases the decline of the temperature is much more gradual (fig. 34)- The vesicles and bullae dry up and form crusts. Sometimes after the redness has disappeared a peculiar bronzing of the skin is left, which may persist for some time. • j j The constitutional symptoms of erysipelas are decided and well marked. The patient, who may have previously been in good health, feels ill, there is a sensation of chilliness, alternating with heat, sometimes even a distinct rigor; there is headache and nausea and frequently vomiting. In young children the attack is often ushered in by convulsions, which take the place of the rigor. There is a sudden rise of tempera- ture, which may indicate a difference of 4° or 5° between the morning and evening registration. The pulse is accelerated, and the tongue furred and creamy. Very often there is pain and enlargement of the nearest group of lymphatic glands, and the two signs of a sudden rise of temperature and an enlargement of the glands in the neighbourhood of a wound are often strong indications of an approaching attack of erysipelas. The fever, after the appearance of the eruption, rapidly assumes an asthenic type. The temperature continues high, 102° to 104° F., with slight remissions in the morning and exacerbations in the evening. The pulse is quick and weak. The tongue becomes brown and dry, and sordes collects on the teeth. The bowels are usually constipated and the motions dark and offensive. As the disease subsides an attack of diarrhoea frequently sets in, or diarrhoea may be present from the first. The urine is scanty, loaded with lithates, and in the later stages of the disease frequently albuminous. In severe cases, especially when the erysipelas attacks the head, there is delirium, which is usually of a low muttering type, but in some cases the patient may become violent and maniacal. Simple cutaneous erysipelas is not often fatal, unless it is complicated by severe visceral disease, especially albuminuria, or when it attacks the head and face and spreads to the membranes of the brain or, through the m.outh, to the pharynx and larynx. In the aged and young children it is