BURSAL TUMOUR 399 are the one over the acromion, from carrying heavy weights on the shoulder; the one over the olecranon, known as miner's ellmv; the one over the tuberosity of the ischium, common in weavers and coachmen ; the one over the inner condyle of the femur, caused by the use of the stretcher by carpet layers, and hence known under the name of carpet layer's bursa ; the one over the external malleolus, which becomes enlarged in tailors from sitting cross-legged on a board, known as tailor's bursa ; one over the posterior surface of the os calcis and tendo Achillis, from the pressure of the boot, known as the elastic boot bursa ; and many others. The affections to which these bursse are liable are several. (1) They may become acutely inflamed {acute bursitis), when they become suddenly swollen, hot, and very painful, and the skin over them red. The inflammation may run on to suppuration, when the redness becomes dusky, the pain becomes throbbing, and there is oedema of the subcutaneous tissues over the bursa. The temperature, which previously was probably above normal, is increased by one or two degrees. When the bursa first becomes inflamed, the patient should be confined to bed and the part kept absolutely at rest. Warm Goulard lotion with opium, or belladonna and glycerine with hot fomentations, should be applied, and the inflammation will probably subside in a few days. If suppuration supervenes, an incision should be at once made, otherwise the pus has a tendency to burrow laterally and surround the joint. When the disease affects the prepatellar bursa, the incision should be made at the outer side, as it insures better drainage and prevents the scar being irritated by subsequent kneeling. After the abscess has been opened, its cavity should be well flushed out with a i in i,ooo solution of corrosive subUmate, and a drainage tube inserted. (2) An accumulation of serous fluid may take place, constituting dropsy of the bursa. In this state it forms a globular, tense swelling, which is sometimes translucent and fluctuates, but there is no heat or redness of the skin. The treatment of this condition is simple ; if the swelling has taken place rapidly, the application of a blister will generally effect the absorption of the fluid, but there is always a tendency for it to recur. If the swelling has taken place more slowly, the fluid may be withdrawn by means of an aspirator, the interior of the sac scarified with the needle, and pressure applied by means of a pad and bandage. Or an incision may be made into the sac and a gauze drain inserted. If this is done with antiseptic precautions no suppuration will ensue, and the gauze may be removed at the end of a week or ten days. If these methods fail, excision of the sac yields the most satisfactory results. (3) An accumulation of fluid may take place in the sac, but combined with this is the presence of melon-seed bodies. These melon-seed bodies are similar to those found in the compound gangHa (see page 397), but there does not seem to be the same amount of evidence to show that they are always tuberculous in their nature, though it is probable that many of them are so. Their presence may be ascertained by the crackling sensa- tion that they give to the hand when the tumour is manipulated. The treatment of this condition is to make a free incision into the bursa, evacuate the loose bodies, and cither insert a drainage tube or stuff with antiseptic gauze for a few days, so as to allow the sac to fill up from the bottom. (4) The bursa may be converted into a solid or almost solid tumour. This takes place from a fibroid thickening of the wall of the sac, which