1046 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Whenever a laceration of the perineum, of greater extent than a slight tearing of the fourchette, takes place during labour, the medical attendant should at once carefully wash the parts, remove all blood clots, and bring the lacerated surfaces together with deep sutures. In the majority of cases the wound will heal, and no further trouble will be experienced. Should it not do so, and the patient finds that she suffers from any of the disabilities above mentioned when she begins to get about, secondary perinaeorrhaphy should be resorted to. The operation is, however, best deferred until the general health is restored and the child weaned. Many different modes of operating have been used, but for the most part they consist in refreshing the sides of the rupture and uniting them by suture. Perinaeorrhaphy.—The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and the skin dissected off from the sides of the fissure and the mucous membrane of the recto-vaginal septum, if it remains intact, so as to leave a rawed horseshoe shaped surface, which should extend forwards as far as the lower extremity of the nymphge. Care must be taken that the denudation is complete. Where the recto-vaginal septum has been torn through, rectal sutures are first inserted, so as to approximate the torn edges of the septum, and restore the partition between the rectum and vagina. Then three deep sutures of carbolised silk or silkworm gut are inserted with a Baker Brown's perineal needle—that is, a needle on a handle with a long deep curve. The needle is introduced just internal to the tuber ischii on one side, is carried to the very bottom of the denuded part, and brought out near the right tuberosity. The lowermost suture of the three should be carried through the recto-vaginal septum, when it exists, without appearing in the cleft at all (fig. 14). These sutures are then tightened over quills (page 64), and the rawed surfaces brought in contact. Superficial sutures are now applied to keep the edges of the skin in contact. The parts are dusted with iodoform, and a gauze pad applied. The patient is placed on her back in bed, with her thighs flexed over a pillow, and her knees tied together. The water is drawn off periodically, and the bowels are kept confined for a week. The deep stitches may then be removed, and the bowels opened by an enema. The patient should be kept in bed for a month until the union is sound. The late Mr. Lawson Tait devised a very simple and efficient way of operating in these cases, by separating the vaginal and rectal layers of the recto-vaginal septum from each other, and then bringing the separated surfaces together by a row of antero-posterior sutures, which are therefore at right angles to the plane of the perineum. The operation is performed as follows: the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and two fingers of the left hand are introduced into the rectum, to press up the septum; whilst the folds of the buttocks are held firmly apart so as to tense if. This exposes the greater part of the vaginal wall. An incision is then made along the free margin of the recto-vaginal septum, and the mucous surface of the vagina is separated from the mucous surface of the rectum by means of pointed scissors introduced between the two; by this means the recto-vaginal septum is spHt into two layers. From the extremities of the transverse incision two vertical incisions are made forwards to the point of junction of the labia majora to the labia minora, and backwards for about a third of an inch by the side of the anus. The incisions thus formed resemble the letter H, except that the crossbar is not in the middle, but is nearer the lower than the upper end of the letter. The anterior vaginal flap, which may be