476 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES termed c/oaae, which allow of the escape of pus. Where the periosteum has been torn off or destroyed, in cases of peripheral necrosis, there is usuall'j' no ensheathing bone, and the sequestrum when it separates is said to exfoliate. Symptoms.—The symptoms at first vary according to the cause of the necrosis, and are those of the disease which produced the condition, whether periostitis, ostitis or osteo-myelitis, but in all there is suppuration, and one or more sinuses are present. These sinuses are often funnel-shaped and usually present at their orifice florid granulations. They discharge thick pus, which is often foul-smelling and frequently of a brownish red colour. The bone beneath will be felt to be enlarged and thickened. On passing a probe, it will strike with a hard ringing sound on the smooth surface of the sequestrum. If the sequestrum is small the discharge will be slight, little or no thickening of the bone will be felt, and there will be only one sinus, or if more than one they will be close together ; whereas if the Fig. 169.—Necrosis of the lower extremity of the tibia, involv- ing part of the articular surface of the ankle joint. (From a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) Fig. 170.—Diagram repre- senting the process of separation of necrosed bone. A, periosteum : B, new bone ; c, granula- tion tissue ; D, necrosed portion ; E, cloaca. sequestrum is large there will be copious discharge, considerable enlarge- ment of the bone, and several sinuses, often at a considerable distance from each other, through all of which exposed bone can be felt with a probe. . As bearing on the treatment, it is necessary if possible to ascertain if the bone is loose; that is to say, that it has become separated from sur- rounding living bone. In arriving at a conclusion on this point the surgeon will be guided to a certain extent by the duration of the disease, though this is subject to considerable variation. Necrosed bone separates much