INTERNAL URETHROTOMY 1005 tendency to relapse after this method of treatment as there is after gradual dilatation. 5. Internal urethrotomy consists in dividing the stricture from within the urethra. It is an exceedingly useful mode of treating certain classes of stricture which are not amenable to treatment by ordinary dilatation. Among these may be mentioned : (i) the resilient stricture, which is highly elastic, and can be dilated with the greatest ease, but as quickly contracts again; (2) the hard, dense, so-called cartilaginous stricture, which resists all attempts at gradual dilatation; (3) the bridle stricture, which cannot be treated by dilatation; (4) the irritable stricture where the patient suffers from an attack of urethral fever after every attempt to pass a catheter; (5) internal urethrotomy is also suitable for the treatment of strictures close to the external meatus. There are two ways in which the operation may be performed, either by dividing the stricture from behind forwards, or by dividing it from before backwards. The former plan is usually stated to be the better, because it is said that the surgeon by this means is able to gauge the amount of tissue divided ; but this plan of operating can only be adopted when the stricture is sufficiently dilated to admit a urethrotome equal in size to a No. 5 English catheter. A very ingenious form of urethrotome was invented by the late Mr. Berkeley Hill, in which the cutting knife is concealed in a wedge-shaped block, and Fig. 385.—Berkeley Hill's urethrotome. by means of this the stricture can be divided from before backwards, without any risk of cutting anything but the stricture. The accompanying illustration will give some idea of the general construction of the instrument (fig. 385). The conducting sound is first passed, and the urethrotome is connected to it by means of the screw at the end, and is guided by it through the stricture. The wedge which contains the concealed knife is now inserted between the blades of the instrument, and is pushed down until it reaches the stricture and cannot be pushed any further. The wedge thus dilates the walls of the canal in front of the stricture, and keeps them out of the way, while by means of the button at the end of the instrument the concealed knife is made to protrude from the wedge and divide the stricture, and the stricture only. The wedge can now be pushed onwards, and this should be done in case there may be a second stricture. After all the strictures have been divided, the instrument is withdrawn and a No. 12 (English) catheter is passed, to see that the whole length of the urethra is pervious, and to empty the bladder. The patient should be wrapped up warmly in blankets, and enjoined not to attempt to micturate for eight hours. He should then be placed in a hot bath, and pass his water while in the bath. An hour after the urine has been passed the tempera ture should be taken, and if it is above normal five grains of quinine should