94 GENERAL INJURIES the ' mallein test.' Mallein is the toxic product of the bacillus mallei, and when injected appears to have little effect on healthy tissues, but when inoculated in a glandered animal it produces the most marked reaction, with considerable constitutional disturbance. This test is therefore relied upon as a means of diagnosis of the presence of glanders in horses. The serum diagnosis, as applied by VVidal in cases of typhoid fever, has been used in glanders, and it has been found that in this disease the serum of the blood of an acutely glandered individual produces clumping of the bacilli in a very few minutes ; whereas the blood of healthy persons is without any action on the bacilli. The value of the serum test is mainly applicable to the most acute cases where the mallein test is usually ab.sent. In chronic cases it may be applied to confirm the mallein test. Pathology.—The post-mortem appearances are merely those which are ordinarily recognised as due to blood poisoning. There are evidences of early decomposition. The blood is fluid, and the lining membranes of the head and arteries blood-stained. The spleen is diffluent. The subserous tissue of the thorax and abdomen is covered with minute extravasations of blood. . Billroth considers that the presence of h^emorrhagic abscesses in the muscles is the characteristic post-mortem lesion. Treatment.—The indications for treatment are to support the patient's strength and treat the symptoms upon ordinary surgical principles by opening abscesses early and using antiseptics freely. Internally, quinine combined with a liberal diet and free stimulation is perhaps the best line of treatment we can adopt, but strychnia, arsenic, and sulphite of sodium have been recommended. Locally iodoform is the best application, and the nostrils should be sprayed with carbolic acid or perchloride of mercury solution ; or carbolic, creasote or iodine vapour inhaled. d. Anthrax: Malignant Pustule : Charbon.—Anthrax is an infective disease produced by inoculation of the virus from splenic fever in animals. This disease of cattle is rare in this country, but is not uncommon on the Continent. The cases of anthrax which are met with in this country principally occur in those who are engaged in working amongst hides which have been imported from abroad. The disease is due to the inoculation of a specific micro-organism, the bacillus anthracis. This bacillus is a rod-shaped body about „ to ^ of an inch long. It is a non-motile organism, with blunted, square- shaped ends, and sometimes presents a notched appearance in its centre, where multiplication by \ fission is taking place (fig. 17). It may easily be destroyed by heat or antiseptics. Outside the body, in the discharges coming from animals, or in cultures, spores may be found. These spores are exceedingly tenacious of life, and Fig. 17.—The bacillus resist dry heat and many antiseptics, but iodine, anthracis. bromine, and corrosive sublimate destroy their vitality. When kept dry they will remain alive and virulent for years. These spores may be introduced into the circula- tion by the lungs or alimentary canal, and set up a general and rapidly fatal disease, which is known by the name of ' wool-sorter's disease' iatitkracamia), characterised by rapid emaciation and exhaustion, associated with a low form of pneumonia. Symptoms.—Anthrax is produced by the inoculation through some