EPITHELIOMA OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL 807 anus and fecal fistula will be described with diseases of the intestine, and ventral and umbilical hernia in the section devoted to the consideration of hernia. Affections of the umbilicus.—Two forms of fistufe, arising from congenital defect, are met with at the umbilicus. One of these arises from a want of closure of the omphalo-mesenteric or vitelline duct, and the other from a want of closure of the urachus. 1. Vitelline duct fistula.—The omphalo-mesenteric duct, the original communication between the portion of the yolk-sac which lies in the body cavity of the embryo and the portion outside, usually becomes obliterated, but it may remain pervious in whole or in part, and under these circumstances the vitelline duct fistula is formed. When it is per- vious throughout it communicates by one end with the lower part of the ileum, and by its other forms a fistulous opening at the umbilicus, through which a small quantity of faecal stained mucus is discharged; though in some cases where the lumen of the fistula is large a considerable amount of fecal matter rnay escape. When the original duct is obliterated in part it is the intestinal segment of the tube which becomes impervious, and then there is merely a discharge of mucus from the fistulous opening at the umbilicus. 2. Urachal fistula.—This is the result of non-closure of the urachus, or upper part of the allantois, from the lower part of which the bladder is formed. The urachus is generally obliterated before the termi- nation of foetal life, and forms an impervious cord which stretches from the upper part of the bladder to the umbiHcus. If it does not become impervious, a urachal fistula is formed, and the urine may sometimes escape from ,it in considerable quantities. Treatment.—Sometimes these fistufe close spontaneously, or their closure may be effected by a touch or two of the actual cautery. When this is not the case, in the complete fistulse where faecal matter or urine is discharged, they are probably incurable. Plastic operations have been tried for their relief, but without very satisfactory results. When they are incomplete they may be cured by excision, but it is questionable whether the operation is desirable, as the only inconvenience arising in these cases is the occasional discharge of a little bead of mucus. Other fistufe, such as faecal or biliary fistufe, sometimes form at the umbilicus later in life. They must not be mistaken for the congenital variety. Cysts are occasionally formed at the umbilicus as another result of imperfect development; either the omphalo-mesenteric duct or the urachus may become closed at both ends, and fluid may collect in a pervious intermediate portion. This may suppurate and give rise to abscess. They should be excised. A solid tumour may also be found at the umbiHcus, consisting of a red polypoid excrescence, which is composed of a number of tubular glands held together by connective tissue. It is believed to be the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric duct. It should be treated by removal. In new-born infants erysipelas and rarely tetanus (trismus neonatorum) originate from want of cleanliness during the separation of the cord, and later on in life eczema is a by no means uncommon complaint from the same cause. Epithelioma is occasionally met with at the umbilicus, and some- times epithelioma of the bowel may lead to faecal fistula in this situation.