GENERAL DISEASES and does not usually set in until suppuration has been going on for some time. It generally occurs in cases of chronic abscess, in which the wound has been allowed to become septic, and in which some of the discharge is not got rid of, but undergoes fermentation in the cavity of the abscess, and the products of this fermentation are absorbed under the pressure to which the pus is subjected. The symptoms are characteristic, and are marked by evening exacerba- tions of fever, with morning recessions; and by progressive emaciation and exhaustion. A patient suffering from hectic, towards evening shows marked signs of fever; the temperature is three or four degrees above normal; the pulse is increased in frequency, small, and compressible; the skin is burning hot to the touch and the cheeks flushed ; the eyes bright and sparkling, and the pupils dilated; the tongue is red, raw, and beefy. As night approaches profuse sweating occurs and the symptoms of fever disappear, and in the morning the patient is pale, weak, and languid, with a normal or almost normal temperature. The condition is accompanied by rapid and progressive exhaustion ; the appetite is irnpaired and the patient fastidious about his food ; there is often copious diarrhoea, which assists in exhausting the individual, and he dies either from sheer exhaustion or passes into a condition of lardaceous degenera- tion. Treatment.—The treatment of hectic should aim at, if possible, removing the cause ; and as we know that this is due to the fermentation of retained pus and the absorption of its products, our first endeavour should be, by free incision and careful drainage, to get rid of this offending material. It is a good plan as soon as hectic declares itself, if the patient can bear it, to lay the abscess cavity freely open, scrape away its walls, wash it out with some strong antiseptic, and powder the surface with iodoform or introduce iodoform solution, and employ free drainage. This treatment will, however, be quite futile unless all the recesses of the cavity are explored and dealt with. If the patient's condition will not stand such a radical proceeding as this, we must be content with daily irrigation with some antiseptic lotion and the insertion of large drainage tubes to the bottoni of the cavity, so that the discharge may escape freely. At the sanie_ time we must employ such constitutional remedies as we possess. Quinine is perhaps the most valuable remedy in these cases, and the mineral acids alone or combined with bark are useful. The sweating may be checked to a certain extent by the administration of belladonna and by sponging the body with acetic acid or with vinegar and water. The diet must be light, easily digestible, and nourishing; food being given frequently in small quantities; and a liberal allowance of ^^^ne or brandy is generally required. liardaceous or Amyloid Degeneration.—Many cases of hectic terminate in a peculiar disease of the viscera, to which the name lardaceous .or amyloid degeneration is given. This consists in a deposit in the viscera, especially the liver, spleen, kidneys, and intestines, of a peculiar substance, the exact chemical nature of which is unknown. It is an albuminoid, hyaline, structureless material which is insoluble in acids and alkalies, and has certain definite reactions to staining reagents. The most characteristic of these is the dark brown stain which it gives with iodine. The deposit first occurs in the walls of the smaller arteries, and from these it extends to the tissues around. The organs which it attacks become much enlarged. The liver, for instance, may attain more