954 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS The urine is scanty, high-coloured, alkaline, and contains pus and usually blood, so as to resemble prune-juice. There is usually a certain amount of fever, but it is not often very great unless some complication has arisen, such as an extension of the inflammation up the ureters to the kidneys. In rare cases the constitutional symptoms may be very severe, and the patient then rapidly sinks into a hopeless typhoid condition, with low muttering delirium, and dies with symptoms of acute septic poisoning. Treatment.—The patient should be confined to bed, and great relief will be afforded by a hot bath twice a day, and by hot fomentations to the hypogastric region and perineum. If the strangury is severe, morphia suppositories or henbane in a saline draught should be administered. Plenty of diluent drinks, barley water, &c., should be given, and the diet should consist of beef tea and milk ; all irritating articles of food and all stimulants should be interdicted. If the urine becomes foul and stinking, the bladder may require to be washed out, but it is better in these acute cases to avoid all passage of instruments, if possible ; and if there is much strangury which does not yield to treatment, it is better to perform- a perineal cystotomy and drain the bladder. The symptoms of acute cystitis usually subside in the course of a few days, and the disease will assume a chronic form or will disappear altogether. Chronic cystitis is much more commonly met with than the acute variety of the disease. It frequently follows the acute form, the more active symptoms subsiding; or it may be chronic from the first, arising very much from the same causes which were enumerated as producing acute cystitis. In cases of stricture of the urethra and stone in the bladder, chronic cystitis is sure, sooner or later, to be set up. It is also a common sequel of gonorrhoea, and may then be very persistent. It also arises from anything which may cause the urine to be retained in the bladder and become decomposed, as enlarged prostate, atony, paralysis from injury or disease of the spine. It is also set up in tuberculous disease of the bladder. Pathological changes.—The mucous membrane of the bladder becomes thickened, swollen, and soft, and of a dark purplish or slate-coloured hue. Its epithelium undergoes a mucoid softening, and the surface becomes raw and ulcerated, and sometimes covered with a membrane which resembles a diphtheritic exudation, on which phosphates are deposited. Occasionally small abscesses, the size of a pea, are found in the substance of the mucous coat; and, again, in some cases portions of the mucous membrane desquamate and are passed per urethram ; and in rare instances actual sloughing of the mucous membrane takes place. The submucous coat is commonly thickened and infiltrated with inflammatory products. The muscular coat undergoes changes, probably more from the causes which gave rise to the cystitis than from the cystitis itself; it is usually hypertrophied and fasciculated, but in those cases where obstruction has been due to some cause which no amount of increased force could over- come (see page 953), the bladder is dilated and its muscular coat is thinned and atrophied, and there is a large excess of fibrous tissue among its fibres. In cases of chronic cystitis, there is an abundant secretion of alkaline mucus from the surface of the bladder.^ This mixes with the urine and lessens its acidity, and decomposition is set up by the presence of a ferment, the micrococcus urecc, which _ is present m the bladder; or by some bacteria admitted from without, either by means of a catheter or through the agency of the mucus which collects in the