SYMPTOMS OF TUBERCULOUS ARTHRTITS N N 2 tissues which renders them suitable for the growth of the bacillus. The disease may invade the joint by two different routes. In those cases where the epiphysial cartilage is situated within the capsule of the joint, as in the hip, the disease may extend to the surface of the bone, and when it reaches this, being within the capsule, it may infect the synovial membrane and an arthritis may be set up. In other cases the disease may spread through the cancellous tissue of the epiphysis until it reaches the under surface of the articular cartilage; this it perforates by the formation of granulation tissue which destroys and replaces the cartilage, and when perforated the synovial membrane becomes infected. In whichever way the synovial membrane is involved, the changes which take place in it are similar to those wiiich take place in tuberculous arthritis due to primary deposit in the synovial membrane itself, consisting in the gradual destruction of all the structures entering into the formation of the joint, and their replace- ment by granulation tissue and the subsequent caseation of this tissue. Another situation which may be the primary seat of the deposit of tubercle, in these cases of tuberculous arthritis commencing in bone, is in the end of the bone, just under the articular cartilage. Here also is a quantity of highly vascular embryonic tissue, which is a favourable soil for the growth of the bacillus. When the disease commences in this situation it rapidly perforates the cartilage and infects the synovial membrane. Symptoms.—-The symptoms of tuberculous disease of a joint are usually of a very insidious character in their earlier stage, and the disease may have already existed for some considerable time and have made great advances before serious attention is given to the subject. The child is usually brought to the surgeon with the history that for some time it has been noticed to limp slightly in its gait, if the disease is in one of the joints of the lower extremity, and to complain of pain in one particular joint, especially after a little extra exertion. Possibly also it may be stated that the child has appeared to deteriorate somewhat in its general condition, to have displayed less activity and desire for play, and to become sooner tired after exertion. If the painful joint is examined under these circumstances it will probably be found that there is some slight limitation in the move- ments of the articulation ; a hinge joint, for example, cannot be flexed to the same extent as the corresponding joint on the opposite side of the body without causing pain. There may also be some slight enlargement of the joint, and a little increased heat about it. But in all cases, sooner or later, swelling appears, and this sweUing at first corresponds in shape to the syno- vial sac, and is due to the thickening of the synovial membrane and possibly to a little effusion into the joint. Later on, when the capsule and surround- ing structures become implicated, the swelling assumes a globular form, and all the bony prominences are effaced. The swelling is doughy and semi- elastic and presents no discolouration, the skin being white and waxlike in appearance; hence the popular name 'white swelling.' As the disease advances the movements of the joint become more and more limited, and it is semiflexed. When the ligaments have been destroyed partial displacement may take place. Thus in the knee joint the tibia is liable to become displaced backwards and outwards from the action of the ham- string muscles. During the whole of this time there is usually little or no pain whilst the joint is at rest, but more and more pain is complained of after movement and starting of the limb at night sets in. After these symptoms have persisted for a time, the swelling becomes more prominent at ohe part of the joint, and the skin over it becomes dusky red ; softening