276 TNJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES start from this point and sometimes spread over a considerable part of the sore, but at the same time it will continue to extend in other directions (fig.'74). This scar tissue which is thus formed is, however, of very feeble vitality, and is very apt to break down again and disappear, and unlike ordinary scar tissue shows no disposition to contract. In this way the disease may go on for years, gradually spreading and increasmg m size, until in some extreme cases a considerable part of the face may be eaten away producing the most hideous and distressing deformity. All the time 'the patient's health remains good, and an individual who has suffered from rodent ulcer for years may present an appearance of robust health, with a florid complexion and full muscular vigour. It never affects the lymphatic glands, and those cases in which the lymphatic glands have been reported to have been enlarged are probably instances in which the enlargement has been due to some irritation produced by the applica- tion of caustics or some irritating material to the surface of the sore. The diagnosis of rodent ulcer ought not to be difficult. It may be mistaken for tertiary syphilitic ulceration, lupus, or epitheUoma. From syphilitic ulceration it may be distinguished by the history of the case and the duration of the disease and by the absence of any other signs of syphilis ] from lupus by the age and general appearance of the patient and by the absence of the thin, purplish, undermined edge of the tuberculous ulcer ; and from epithelioma by the prolonged course of the case, the healthy appearance of the patient, the absence of any enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and the small amount of induration at the edges of the sore. , , , , . , Pathology.—Sections of the margin of a rodent ulcer show the typical structure of a carcinoma; that is, epitheUal cells in an alveolar^ fibrous stroma. The cells are arranged in columns which penetrate mto the neighbouring structures, as in the case of squamous epithehoma. But the cells of a rodent ulcer are not squamous epithehum. They are much smaller, rounded or angular in shape, often with spindle-shaped nuclei. Neither does the rodent ulcer take its origin from the surface epi- thelium though the place from which it does arise is still the subject of a difference of opinion. Some believe that it takes its origin from the sebaceous glands; others from the hair follicles ; and again others from the sweat glands. . . , , r . ^i. Treatment—When a rodent ulcer is confined to the solt parts, the best treatment is its free removal with a considerable margin of apparently healthy skin around, and then covering the rawed surface by means of Thiersch's skin grafting. If the disease is by this means thoroughly removed, a successful result may be anticipated, and there will be no recurrence. But it must be borne in mind that nothing but a very free removal of the tissues in the neighbourhood of the ulcer will effect this object. If the deeper structures, especially the bones, have become im- plicated, the outlook is not so promising; and in addition to the free re- moval with the knife, the whole of the rawed surface should be covered with a thin layer of Vienna paste, made by mixing one part of chloride of zinc with two of flour and mixing into a paste with water. This caustic is nreferable to fuming nitric acid or potassa fusa, which are sometimes recommended The paste should be left on for two or three hours and then removed, and a boric acid poultice applied. As the application is very painful, a full hypodermic injection of morphia should be given before the patient recovers from the anfesthetic.