PRESSURE EFFECTS OF AN ANEURISM 323 after ligature; the wound becomes septic, and if the aneurism is situated m loose and yielding tissues, as in the axilla, the structures around the sac and the sac itself become involved. When the suppuration takes place in the sac, it is generally in consequence of the aneurism having ruptured into the tissues by a small opening. The presence of the blood in the tissues around causes inflammation, and the presence of pyogenic organisms determines the suppuration, which secondarily affects the blood in the sac. The symptoms of this condition are those of acute inflammation and abscess. The swelling points and, if left alone, bursts and gives exit to a quantity of pus, mixed with broken-down coagula. This may be followed by a fatal gush of blood, or no htemorrhage may occur at the time of bursting because the orifice in the artery is plugged with a thrombus; this may subsequently become loosened and bleeding occur, or if, as occasion- ally but rarely happens, it remains permanently fixed, the cavity becomes closed like an ordinary abscess. Spontaneous cure of an aneurism.—The spontaneous cure of an aneurism is of very uncommon occurrence, though, as we have already seen, in all sacculated aneurisms there is a tendency to this spontaneous cure by the deposition of laminated fibrin on the surface of the sac This tendency is brought about by the alteration in the internal surface of the aneunsnial sac, which favours the adhesion of the leucocytes to it and by the diminution in the circulation through it, which is caused by the con- traction in the artery below the sac. But something more than this is necessary to complete the process of spontaneous cure, and two or three conditions are usually regarded as the means by which this end is attained • (I) By the partial blocking of the mouth of the sac with a piece of detached clot. (2) By a piece of clot from the aneurismal sac being carried into he vessel below, and becoming impacted there. (3) By the pressure of the aneurism on the vessel above narrowing its lumen, and Obstructing the flow of blood through it. (4) Plastic arteritis may, it is said, seal thf tissuestound. ' ^''"^ inflammatim. in the Pressure effects of an aneurism.-The pressure which an aneurism exer s on surroundmg parts is very considerable, and is a matter of great moment, not only on account of the changes which it produces in these structures but also because it constitutes an important facSr in the diagnosis of these cases. One of the most constant results of pressure IS to excite an inflammation in the tissues around ; this is attended by the effusion of mflammatory products which mat the structures toTe her and materially strengthen the sac of the aneurism, and prevent S Sase m size In this respect the pressure exerts a beneficial influence but i^Xer respects it exerts a prejudicial influence. When it presses on veins Is i so often must do on account of its proximity to theS,TSnds lo occlude S i'Sd" Uh'„?r'-'° P""^" the circ„laricn through fhic Koc 1 / : " presses. Lases have been recorded where vi h th^'fjmo'na'rrn";" 'T"""" V""' ^^^"^^^^^ aorta communica bg witn the pulmonary artery. Nerves when pressed upon become flattp,iPH out and ribbon-shaped, and undergo degenerative change.r^^^s'^lht