I102 mjURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORCIANS Pathology.—In cases of lateral curvature the greatest curvature of the spine is in the dorsal region, and in the majority of cases has its convexity the right, but in addition to this there is also a second curve in the to LUC iiguL, uuL Hi uuuiuun Lo cms mere is also a second curve in the lumbar region, which has its convexity in the opposite direction (fig. 407) Much has been written as to the manner in which these curves are pro- duced. The explanation would, however, appear to be simple. If an individual stands on the right leg the pelvis is tilted, and the articular surface on the top of the sacrum faces to the left; this causes the lumbar curve, with its convexity in the same direction, and the dorsal curve, with its convexity in the opposite direction, is compensatory. If the muscles are weak and the faulty position habitually assumed, the deformity becomes per- manent. The torsion ap- pears to be caused by the muscles of the spine attempting to restore equilibrium, to a certain extent, by twisting the bodies of the vertebrae in the direction of the con- vexity of the curve. Their spinous processes are therefore directed towards the concavity, and their articular facets on the convex side of the curve are directed backwards. This causes the angles of the ribs to project back- wards ; while on the con- cave side of the curve the front of the chest projects. As the disease advances, changes in the shape of the bodies of the verte- bras take place. They are squeezed together on the concave side of the curve, and become somewhat wedge-shaped, the base of the wedge being directed to the convexity (fig. 408). When this has taken place the curvature becomes incurable. The ribs which are carried backwards on the convex side of the curve diverge from each other, while on the other side they are crowded together. The capacity of the chest is diminished and its movements impeded, so that respiration is materially interfered with. Fig. 408.—Bones in a case of lateral curvature of the spine. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)