INFLAMMATION lO obseiva ion of Cohnheim's was of considerable importance in reference to the pathology ot inflammation. For prior to this the views of Lord Lister, that in an acute inflammation there was a more or less comnlete suspension of the functional activity of the affected tissues, was not generally adopted But the discovery by Cohnheim in 1867, by whid the appearance of_ new cells in an inflamed area was fully accounted for without the necessity of supposing that there was any increased nutritive activity m the ongina tissue of the part, at once caused pathologists to accept these views. The migration can be best demonstrated by spreading out the mesentery of a frog on a glass plate, and no further irritation than exposure to the air should be applied. By adopting this plan the changes will take place slowly, and can be observed with accuracy The dilatation, with increased rapidity of the flow, will first be noted, but some time will elapse before the vitality of the part is so much lowered as to mduce the retardation of the blood. As soon as this commences, if a small vein, which is the most suitable for the observation, is selected, it will be noticed that there are first of all two currents—a rapid, axial one, in which the red corpuscles are contained, and a slower, marginal one, in which are the white corpuscles; these latter tend to stick to the wall of the vessel, and after a time the vessel becomes lined with a more or less complete layer of leucocytes, in the manner above described. If now an indi- vidual corpuscle is selected and watched, it will be gradually seen to pass through the coats of the vessel. First of all a little bud or projection will appear on the outer surface of the vessel, opposite the spot at which the corpuscle is ad- hering. This bud steadily increases in size, and as it does so the corpuscle inside the vessel correspondingly diminishes. After a lapse of time the bud outside the vessel will be as big as the remains of the corpuscle inside the vessel, and the leucocyte may then be compared to an . . hour-glass with two equal globes, one outside and one mside the vessel, connected by a narrowed portion iu the wall of the vessel. The process still continues until gradually the whole of the corpuscle has disappeared from the vessel, and a body, somewhat pear-shaped and exactly resembling in size and structure the original corpuscle, is seen on the outside of the vessel, formed from the bud or projection which first appeared in this situation. This is at first still attached to the vessel wall by a sort of tongue or stalk, which finally gives way, and we have now a free body outside the vessel, identical in appearance and structure ^^^th the original leucocyte inside the vessel, and, like it, possessed of amoeboid movements. When the process is completed the wall of the vessel «hows no alteration at the part where the leucocytes passed through, but looks identically the same as it did before the process commenced (fig. 2). But not only do the white corpuscles migrate through the walls of the blood-vessels, but also to a certain extent the red corpuscles also pass out. These latter would appear to pass out mainly, if not altogether, through the capillary blood-vessels ; whereas the emigration of the leucocytes seems to be the most active in the small veins, though they also pass out through Fig. 2. — Emigration of leucocytes. Represented diagrammatically.