392 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES middle fossa, until the foramen spinosum is reached, when the trunk of the middle meningeal artery will have to be dealt with. It has been the custom-hitherto to ligature this vessel in two places and divide it between the two ligatures ; a matter of great difficulty as the vessel enters the dura mater immediately on emerging from the foramen ; and Mr. Horsley states that It IS quite possible to excise the ganglion without dividing the artery Ihe chief difficulty which is experienced in this part of the operation is the tree venous oozing, and it has been proposed to perform the operation with the patient in the sitting position. Though this is scarcely advisable on account of the anaesthetic, the head should be well raised on pillows After the foramen spinosum has been exposed and the meningeal artery dealt with, a little fiirther dissection will expose the foramina ovale and rotundum with the third and second divisions of the fifth nerve passing through them. These nerves should be clearly defined and divided • and the dura mater being raised from the surface of the ganglion, this body is isolated, with a director or blunt-pointed instrument, the first division of the fifth nerve divided, and the ganglion lifted from its bed in one piece The advantages of this operation are that there is less deformity and less nsk In Roses operation there is always a danger of opening the Eustachian tube and getting septic infection and meningitis from the tnZ^Z more risk of hcemorrhage-that is, haemorrhage from the pterygoid plexus, and it may be from the internal maxillary artery ihe results of the operation are not on the whole very encouraging, but Krause has had one case operated on more than five years ago without recurrence, and Horsley one of over four years. cK *''',a,chial plexus may be exposed in the neck by an incision above the clavicle, similar to that made for tying the third portion of the subclavian artery or in the axilla by an incision along the inner border of the coraco-brachiahs muscle. In the lower extremity the great sciatic nerve most frequently requires stretching. It may be exposed by making an incision from a point slightly to the inner side of the middle of a line drawn from the tuber ischii to the great trochanter, for three or four inches down the back oi the thigh. The gluteus maximus is drawn upwards and the biceps inwards, and the nerve will be exposed. Or it may be exposed at a lower level by making an incision at the middle of the back of the tmgh. Ihe deep fascia is opened and the inner hamstring muscles separated from the biceps, and the nerve will come into view The sciatic nerve may also be stretched by fully flexing the thigh on the ^^."'^^"ir^ J"'" ^""^ ^"^ ^hen forcibly extending the leg; the foot should also at the same time be flexed on the leg. ^i^^^iO'^ic spasm is a peculiar condition in which there is a constant momentary contraction or twitching of the muscles of ex- 5Son?f; . a'A- f accompanied by pain, but is a source of hPPn T. t '° F"'" '^^^^^ the facial nerve has been stretched. This may be done by making an incision behind the ear from the level of the external auditory meatus to that of the angle of the jaw. Upon dividing the deep fascia the parotid gland will be exposed, and mus be drawn forwards to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, which will now be seen and must be drawn backwards. This will expose the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and the facial nerve will be ound running parallel with its upper border. It must be isolated with the point of a director for fear of injuring the internal jugular vein, and picked up with a blunt hook and stretched.