INIURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL 'FISSUES iii attempting the reduction of an old-standing dislocation, all adhesions must first be thoroughly broken down, and then an effort made to replace the bone by manipulation or extension. In some cases of old unreduced dislocations, where attempts have been made to reduce it and have failed, or where it is judged not to be expedient to make these attempts, an open operation under strict antisepsis may be undertaken ; the displaced head of the bone may be cut down upon, all resistant structures thoroughly divided, and the head of the bone replaced or excised. Both methods give excellent results in cases of dislocation of the shoulder and elbow, to which this plan of treatment especially applies. The principal indication for its adoption is great pain, limited range of movement, and a wasted and atrophied limb. Compound dislocations.—A compound dislocation is always a serious lesion; for there is a risk of septic contamination, as there is extensive laceration of the soft parts around the joint, which communicates with an open wound. In addition to this, important vessels and nerves in the neighbourhood are frequently injured, and the bones entering into the formation of the joint fractured. Unless efficient means are taken to render the parts aseptic, inflammation, running on to suppuration and complete destruction of the joint, ensues, and bony ankylosis is the most favourable result which can follow. Treatment.—The first question to decide in undertaking the treatment of a compound dislocation is whether operative interference is necessary. In deciding the question many points have to be taken into consideration. In old and debilitated patients, or those whose constitutions are unsound, amputation may be indicated where the dislocation affects one of the large joints; and is required where the main vessels or nerves of the limb have been torn. If there is much injury to the soft parts around, or fracture of the bones, the question of excision versus amputation may arise. Dis- locations of the upper extremity are particularly suited to excision, pro\aded there is not too great laceration of the soft parts ; whilst in the lower extremity, where a' firm support to bear the weight of the trunk is required, the operation of excision is not so suitable. ^ If no operative interference is considered necessary, the most rigid cleansing of the parts is required. The dislocation must first be reduced, and then all the exposed and lacerated tissues thoroughly scrubbed with a strong antiseptic solution. A tooth-brush will be found to be a very convenient means of doing this ; it can be introduced into all the nooks and interstices of the wound, and the parts can be well scrubbed. If necessary, the wound must be enlarged to get at every part of the joint. One or more drainage tubes must then be inserted at the most dependent parts, and the case treated by the application of the principles of asepsis. SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS Under the head of special dislocations, we shall simply consider in this place dislocation of the bones of the two extremities, and reserve the consideration of the dislocations of the head and trunk for their appropriate chapters.