TREATMENT OF PRIMARY SYPHILIS i8i to these, the common sites of chancre, they may, of course, occur any- where where the syphilitic virus is accidentally inoculated. Thus they are not uncommon on the nipple of the wet-nurse, who suckles a syphilitic infant, or on the lips or tongue from smoking the pipe of a syphilitic indi- vidual, or from kissing when there is an abrasion on this part (fig. 38). Again, chancres have been caused by tattooing, by vaccina- tion, or by bites from syphi- litic persons. And, finally, surgeons, accoucheurs, and nurses are occasionally in- fected, during the dressing of a venereal sore, or the de- livery of a syphilitic woman. The diagnosis of a typical Hunterian chancre is not as a rule diffi- cult, but when the specific vims is combined with other products and a mixed sore is produced the diagnosis becomes more difficult, and under these circumstances herpes, epithefioma, and gummatous ulceration have all been mistaken for chancre. Especially is this so with that form of gummatous deposit which has received the name of ' relapsing chancre,' and which is nothing more than a gumma at the site of an old chancre m a syphiUtic individual. Perhaps a point of more interest and certainly of much' greater difficulty is the diagnosis between the hard and soft sore, and this in many cases is impossible until the advent of secondary symptoms solves the difficulty. Certain diagnostic points have been laid down, as, for instance, the character of the induration, the non-purulent nature of the secretion in the hard chancre, and the nature of the enlarged glands ; but all these tests are fallacious, because the two conditions may co-exist, and what was originally a soft sore may become a hard one; because the hard sore if exposed to any irritation can be made to suppurate ; and finally because the amount of induration in a hard sore may be so slight as to deceive the surgeon. The greatest caution must be observed, therefore, on this point, and in most cases it is wiser to tell the patient that you are unable to give him any information as to whether he will have secondaries or not, that time alone can reveal it. Treatment.—With regard to the treatment of primary syphilis, a diffi- cult problem has often to be solved. If there is no doubt about the diagnosis, that the case is one of Hunterian chancre, there can be no doubt about the treatment. Mercury should be at once given, and it will be found that this is the best means of healing the sore, getting rid of the induration, and diminishing the severity of the secondary symptoms, in addition to commencing the plan of treatment which is neces.sary to eliminate the poison from the system. But in those cases where there is a doubt as to the diagnosis, the line of treatment is by no means so positive, for if the sore is a non-infecting one, by adopting the plan of giving mercury we expose the patient to a course which is quite