SAWING THE BONE evils arc said to arise occasionally from its use : paralysis, from pressure on the nerves, especially in the arm ; sloughing of the flaps, or even gangrene of the whole stump. Esmarch's bloodless method, however useful it may be in some operations—such as nerve suturing, where a delicate dissection has to be performed to find the nerve—is not to be recommended in amputations. After the liml) has been remo\ ed, care should be observed to tie every vessel of any size, so as to prevent reactionary haemorrhage. After all visible vessels have been tied, the elastic cord should be taken off, an assistant being prepared to compress the main artery, in case any vessel of considerable size has been overlooked ; and the surgeon should wait a minute or two, until the circulation in the stump is completely re-established, Ijefore proceeding to close his wound. It is one of the principles which should always be observed in amputations, to make the wound as thoroughly dry as possible by a complete arrest of all haemorrhage. Fashioning the flaps.—Three grand principles should always be present in the mind of the surgeon in fashioning his flaps: (i) to make them sufficiently large to afford an adequate covering without tension ; (2) to arrange them in such a manner that the cicatrix shall not be situated over the end of the bone ; and (3) to provide for efficient drainage. To make sufficietit covering.—In deciding on the size of his flaps the surgeon must bear in mind that he is dealing with contractile structures, and that therefore the flaps must be considerably larger than would be necessary in non-contractile tissues. The natural tendency of the young surgeon is to make his flaps too short, and when he comes to bring them together he finds to his dismay that he can only do so by using some force and producing tension on his sutures. This is bad. It sets up a condition of unrest, which per- petuates the slight inflammation necessary for healing, and may lead to untoward results. I have often heard the late Sir Prescott Hewett say ' that he had never had to regret making his flaps too long, but that he had often regretted making them too short.' And the saying is one well worth bearing in mind. As long as the flaps are sufficiently ample to cover the stump without tension at any part, it does not so much matter what their shape is, or whether they are antero-posterior or lateral, or whether there be one or two ; though, as a rule, two are preferable to one, since if there is only one it must necessarily be of such a length that there is always a danger of its extremity sloughing from deficient blood supply. When two flaps are made, it is desirable that they should be of unequal length, so that the line of the cicatrix may not be over the end of the bone ; and this is especially so in the lower extremity, where the weight of the body has to be borne on the stump. If the cicatrix is just over the bone, this structure is pressed upon and often causes so much pain that the patient is unable to wear his artificial limb ; and in some cases the cicatrix may become adherent to the bone, and thus greatly increase his disability. In determining which flap shall be the longer, it is generally desirable, in antero-posterior amputations, to make the front one the longer of the two. This provides a more dependent opening and more efficient drainage. In some cases—as, for instance, in a Syme's amputation—this cannot be done, for, on account of other reasons, the posterior flap is necessarily the longer. When this is so, the difficulty in drainage may be overcome by making a buttonhole in the posterior flap, through which a drainage tube can be inserted. Sawing the bone.—After the flaps have been fashioned, the next step in the operation is sawing the bone. When the bone has been exposed, the periosteum should be incised, about an inch below the point where it is intended to make a section, by a circular sweep of the knife. The peri- osteum should then be raised from the bone to this level with an elevator, and turned upwards while the bone is sawn. As soon as the limb is removed, the sleeve of periosteum is turned down again over the cut surface of the bone and fixed there with a catgut suture. This proceeding is especially desir- able in amputation in children. Bier, of Kiel, suggests taking up a thm slice of the bone with the periosteum and turning it up over the sawn end.s