297 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES both above and below the injury, and divide it between. This funda- mental rule of surgery, that a wounded artery, if it is bleeding, should be secured at the place where it is wounded, is based on several considerations. I. Unless the artery is exposed at the point where it is wounded, it is impossible always to determine what vessel is bleeding ; and if the plan were adopted of ligaturing the artery higher up in its course, the wrong vessel might be tied. Take, for instance, a case of a stab in the front of the thigh, with sharp arterial haemorrhage. It might be assumed that the superficial femoral was injured, and this vessel might be secured, while the bleeding all the time came from the profunda. Or in a punctured wound of the axilla, the axillary artery might be supposed to be injured, when the bleeding came from a wound of the long thoracic, subscapular, or other branch. 2. If a large artery is wounded, and is tied some distance above the wound, blood may find its way by the collateral circulation into the artery again, either above or below the wounded spot, and bleeding recur either from the proximal or distal end. 3. If ligature some distance above the injured spot fails to arrest the haemorrhage, recourse will then have to be had to ligature of the bleeding artery in the wound, and thus the vessel is obliterated at two points, the establishment of collateral circulation is interfered with, and the risks of gangrene are greatly in- creased. Ligature of an artery in its continuity.—The artery having been exposed in the manner which will be described in the sequel, the sheath is picked up with a pair of fine forceps, and the small portion seized is cut off by a horizontal sweep of the scalpel (fig. 85). This leaves a small Fig. 85.—Opening the sheath. Fig. 86.—Cleaning the artery. (From Erichsen's ' Surgery.') (From Erichsen's ' burgery. ) circular hole in the sheath, through which the white coat of the artery can be recognised. The surgeon now takes hold of the margin of the opening with his forceps, and putting it on the stretch, proceeds to separate the sheath from the wall of the vessel in a circular manner as far as he can reach with a director (fig. 86). In doing this great care must be exercised