1076 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the cervix ; as a complication of delivery or abortion ; or from inflammation spreading from the Fallopian tubes. The inflammation may or may not run on to suppuration. If abscess forms, it may point in the vagina, the rectum, or the bladder, or tracking along the course of the round ligament it may point in the groin. The symptoms are pain and tenderness in the region of the affected tissues, with considerable fever and possibly a rigor. As exudation super- venes, a tense resisting swelling can be felt just above the brim of the pelvis in front, and there is pain and difificulty in micturition and defaeca- tion. Upon examination by the vagina a hard mass will be felt in one or both broad ligaments. The advent of suppuration is indicated by increased temperature and rigors. The hard mass in the broad ligament will become softer, and after a time fluctuation may be detected. Treatment.—The treatment must consist, in the early stage, in absolute rest in bed, a fluid diet, saline aperients to keep the bowels freely acting, and hot fomentations to the abdomen ; hot vaginal douches are also often comforting to the patient. When matter forms, the pus must be evacuated. Sometimes, when it is distinctly pointing into the vagina, an opening may be made through this canal and a drainage tube inserted, through which daily irrigation can be carried out. When the abscess shows a tendency to point in the groin, it may be opened m this situation by an incision just above Poupart's ligament without involving the peritoneal cavity. DISEASES OF THE BREAST Abnormalities of the breast.—The abnormalities to which the breast is liable may be (i) congenital, or (2) acquired. I. The conge7iital abnormalities consist either in the existence of super- numerary breasts or in the absence or imperfect formation of these organs. Supernumerary breasts {polymazia) are not uncommon, and under this head maybe included three different conditions : (i) supernume- rary breasts with nipples -,'(2) supernumerary breasts without nipples ; and (3) supernumerary nipples without breast structure. The last of these three conditions is the most common ; the first is the most uncommon. Neverthe- less undoubted cases have been recorded of an additional breast, which has been complete in structure and has secreted milk. The most common situation for them to be found is on the anterior surface of the trunk, below the level of the normal mammtE. They are also found in the axillse, in the groin, lumbar region, outer side of the thigh, and in other regions. Not "infrequently a mass of mammary tissue is found just under cover of the anterior fold of the axilla, which is devoid of nipple or excre- tory ducts. It is not improbable that this is merely a prolongation of the breast itself. The supernumerary breast is usually rudimentary, and rarely gives rise to any inconvenience. If it does it should be removed. Complete absence of the breast {amazia)h very rare. More frequently a rudimentary condition has been noted, in which the breasts are small and undergo no enlargement at puberty. This condition is said to exist most frequently in eases of congenital absence of the ovaries. 2. The acquired abnormalities of the breast consist in hypertrophy or atrophy. . Hypertrophy of the breast is not common, if we exclude those cases where there is an exaggerated enlargement at puberty or during