I050 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS clear. .- A plug of antiseptic gauze should now be inserted in the opening to prevent its closing, and it should be removed daily, and the vagina irrigated. The operation is not altogether devoid of risk, and the most careful asepsis must therefore be observed. When the hymen is partially perforate the condition may not be discovered until marriage takes place, when, as in these cases the hymen is generally very rigid and tough, the complete introduction of the male organ cannot be effected. The treatment consists in introducing a probe-pointed bistoury through the small opening, and nicking the membrane in several places, and then forcibly dilating it. 3. Atresia vaginae.—The vagina may be absent in whole or in part, and this may be either with or without the presence of the uterus and ovaries. The absence of the uterus may be at once ascertained by introducing a sound into the bladder and a finger into the rectum, when, in cases of its absence, the sound is felt by the finger. In these cases no treatment is necessary. In cases of atresia of the vagina, where the uterus and ovaries are present, symptoms show themselves as soon as the catamenia are established. The uterus becomes distended with blood (hasmatometra), and after a time the Fallopian tubes also become distended. Some of this fluid may find its way out through the open tubes into the peritoneal cavity, and a localised peritonitis be set up. The treatment consists in trying to establish an outlet for the menstrual fluid by means of a careful dissection from the vulva. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and a staff introduced into the bladder to act as a guide to its position, and an incision is made over the seat of the hymen. The forefinger of the left hand is then introduced into the rectum, and with this as a guide, the cellular tissue is burrowed through with a director or other blunt instrument in an upward direction until the fluid is reached. When this is done, the blood is allowed to escape, the cavity is washed out, and the opening made is carefully packed with gauze. The channel thus made will have a constant tendency to contract, and will require the occasional passage of a gum elastic bougie through it to keep it permanently dilated. Injuries of the vagina may be caused in several ways, viz. by the patient falling on some sharp, spiked body which enters the vagina ; by the too rough introduction of the forceps or other obstetric instrument in delivery; by violence in cases of rape; or by too energetic efforts of the male in a first copulation. There is in the Museum of St. George's Hospital a preparation of laceration of the posterior wall of the vagina into the peritoneal cavity, which occurred at a first coitus. In these cases the parts must be thoroughly exposed by a duck-bill speculum, all bleeding vessels tied, and the divided edges united by silver • or silkworm-gut sutures. Foreign bodies are constantly introduced into the vagina, and may sometimes cause laceration of the vaginal walls, or may be retained and give rise to ulceration and a stinking discharge. They may remain there for years, and may cause fistulous communications either with the bladder or rectum. Yaginal fistulas.—Fistulous communications between the vagina and bladder in front, or rectum behind, are not uncommon, the former being the commoner of the two. The most frequent cause of this condition is sloughing from the pressure of the head of the child during