io66 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS is also felt during defsecation, especially if the bowels are at all constipated, from'the pressure of the hardened fseces on the ovary. It can usually be felt as a firm, rounded body through the vagina, and the pressure of the finger on the swelling often causes a sickening pain. The tumour may be movable or fi.xed by adhesions. If it is movable, it can generally be pushed out of the pouch, and be prevented from returning by a suitable pessary. If it is fixed and the cause of great pain and suffering, it may be necessary to remove it by abdominal section, after milder means, such as rest, sedatives, and aperients, have failed to relieve. Oophoritis.—Inflammation of the ovary, either acute or chronic, is usually associated with salpingitis, and is a part of that disease, except in those cases to which allusion has already been made, in which it is a sequel to mumps (page 731). The ovary is sometimes the seat of tubercu- lous disease, rarely as a primary affection, but not uncommonly following tuberculous disease of the Fallopian tube, or occurring in cases of tuber- culous peritonitis. Tumours of the ovary.—Tumours of the ovary may be divided for the purpose of description into solid and cystic tumours. The latter, from the greater frequency with which they are found, require the first and the most careful consideration of the student. Cystic tumours of the ovary.—Under the class of cystic tumours of the ovary are included cystic tumours starting from every part of the tubo-ovarian apparatus, for from a practical point of view it is im- possible to separate cysts starting from the region of the ovary from those which commence in the ovary proper. It will be convenient to classify ovarian cysts in the following manner : (i) Multilocular cystic tumours, or proliferating glandular cysts; (2) papil- lomatous cysts, or proliferating papillary cysts ; (3) dermoid cysts; and (4) parovarian cysts. It must be mentioned, however, that there are several other forms of cysts found in the tubo-ovarian apparatus, which never attain a large size, and have no clinical importance, and therefore require no further mention; such are cysts of the corpora lutea, follicular cysts or dropsy of the Graafian vesicles, and residual cysts arising from the hydatid of Morgagni. I. The multilocular cystic tumour or proliferating glandular cyst.—This is the most common of all ovarian cysts; it often attains a large size, and may affect both ovaries, one usually vastly preponderating in size over the other. In shape it is generally spherical or ovoid, irregular on its surface with bossy projections. Some of these tumours are apparently, to the casual observer, unilocular, consisting of a single cyst, but on examination a number of secondary-cavities will be found in the cyst wall. Usually there are one or two cysts of predominant size, with a number of smaller ones, the size of an orange or a plum, or even smaller. The walls of the cysts vary much in thickness, and consist of a fibrous envelope lined by a layer or layers of cylindrical epithelium, which in the larger cells may be flattened, probably from pressure. The fluid they contain varies in colour from a grey or apple-green to red or chocolate, the difference in tint being due to the presence of altered blood. It is glairy or syrupy, and feels more or less oily. It is albuminous, and plates of cholesterine may be found in it. Sometimes these tumours contain soft, succulent, semi-transparent masses of solid material, which microscopically consists of minute cavities or loculi, lined with columnar epithelium and filled with mucoid material, supported in a stroma of young