963 STONE IN THE BLADDER injury or surgical operations, especially that for haemorrhoids; {d) from hysteria. (2) It may arise from obstruction to the outflow of urine from the bladder : {a) from pressure of tumours; {d) from stone or tumour in the bladder; (c) from abscess of or enlarged prostate; {d) from stricture, ruptured urethra, phimosis, or stone in the urethra, &c. In the old man it IS generally due to enlarged prostate, which from exposure to cold has become congested and swollen; in the adult man, to stricture, to which spasm may be superadded ; in the adult woman, to uterine causes; in the young man to gonorrhoea, and in the young woman to hysteria; in the male child it IS usually due to stone in the urethra, or to phimosis ; at all ages and in both sexes it may be due to reflex spasm from irritation about the rectum or anus. When it is due to paralysis or atony of the bladder, after the bladder has become over full, it will overflow, and incontinence with distension will ensue. When it is due to stricture of the urethra, the dilated urethra behind the stncture may rupture and extravasation of urine result, or in some cases even the bladder may give way (see Stricture of Urethra). When It anses from other causes, the retention can usually be relieved by appro- priate treatment before any untoward consequences result. The treatment will be discussed in connection with the various condi- tions which give rise to retention. STONE IxN THE BLADDER Stone in the bladder is produced by the aggregation of some of the ordinary urinary deposits. Formerly it was supposed that there was some definite diathesis connected with the formation of diff'erent calculi, but this is believed now not to be so ; but at the same time a knowledge of the character of these deposits is necessary for the successful treatment of the disease, and often affords valu- able information as regards irregularities in assimilation. The various deposits in the urine may be divided into two classes : those derived from the organic constituents of the urine and which are allied to the urates, and those derived from the inorganic salts, the phosphates, and the carbonates. The urates or lithates of ammonia and of soda are the most common. They form a precipitate in cold urine, which disappears upon the application of heat. The precipitate is usually of a yellowish-red colour, and gives to the urine a semblance to pea soup ; but at other times it is purplish or almost white. Under the microscope it appears as an amorphous deposit, or as minute globular masses with acicular spicula; protruding from them (fig. 367). They are very common, and may occur in a con- dition of health, especially in cold weather and after violent and prolonged 3 2 Fig. 367.—Urate of ammonia crystals. (From 'A System of Surgery,' by Holmes and Hulke.)