284 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES jet dei:)€nd, of course, on the size of the vessel. The student should bear in mind that there are exceptions to these characters of arterial haemorrhage. When a patient is asphyxiated the blood from an artery is not scarlet but of a purplish black colour. This is often seen in operations where the anfesthetic employed is ether. Again, if the wound is a punctured one and the blood has to find an exit along a sinuous tract, it loses its jetting character and simply wells from the wound. In venous haemorrhage the blood is of a dark purple-red colour. It is, like arterial haemorrhage, expelled in a stream, but the stream forms one continuous jet, which is uninfluenced by the contraction of the ventricles. The blood comes from the distal end of the vein. In capillary haemorrhage the blood, which is bright in colour, oozes from the whole surface of the wound, and collecting in its deeper parts forms a pool of blood. The effects produced by haemorrhage depend principally upon the amount of blood lost and the rapidity with which it is shed; but the age, sex, and constitutional condition of the patient may be said to have some influence on the effect produced. Children as a rule bear loss of blood very badly ; a comparatively small loss of blood in an infant, as, for instance, that which attends an operation for a complicated case of hare-lip, is often followed by very considerable collapse, and a still greater loss may be followed by fatal syncope. If, however, they recover from the immediate effects, they quickly recover from the resulting anaemia. Aged people also bear loss of blood very badly, and, unlike children, the convalescence is very slow, and a severe loss of blood in an old person may be followed by permanent ill effects, and he may fall into a condition of anaemia, from which perhaps he may never recover, or which may cause the development of some secondary disease. I think there can be no question that women not only bear loss of blood better than men, but their rallying powers afterwards are much greater than those of the male sex. Some people are said to bear loss of blood worse than others; this may be due to some constitutional peculiarity, or may be due to the presence of some organic disease : patients, for instance, suffering from albuminuria bear loss of blood badly. When a large quantity of blood is suddenly lost,, from the wound of one of the largest vessels, the patient dies in a few seconds. He becomes intensely pallid, falls fainting, makes a few convul- sive movements and expires. When a less amount of blood is lost, the face and general surface of the body become blanched and cold, and the lips and mucous surfaces pallid. The pulse becomes increasingly rapid, small, and weak. The breathing is hurried, gasping, and there is a sense of want of breath. There is constant restlessness, the patient turning himself on the bed and throwing his arms and his legs about; and sometimes convulsions occur, especially in children. The body becomes covered with a cold and clammy sweat. Dimness of vision and deafness, with singing noises in the ears, nausea and faintness, are complained of. After a time unconsciousness from syncope supervenes, and then the bleeding usually stops ; or, on the other hand, if the bleeding does not stop, the patient dies. After death the body is shrunken, white, or waxlike in appearance, and all the internal organs are pale and blood- less. In other cases of haemorrhage, if the bleeding is not from so large a vessel it stops after a time, probably when syncope supervenes, and may then recur. In this way the body becomes more gradually drained of blood, and shrunken from the absorption of fluid from the tissues. The