CONICAL STUMPS Haemorrhage, either reactionary or secondary, may occur, but is and ought to be very rare nowadays. Reactionary httmorrhage is ahiiost unknown in the present day after amputation, owing to the greater deliberation with which amputation can be carried out under anaesthesia. Secondary haemorrhage is also very uncommon, owing to the use of aseptic ligatures, but it may occur in old people, where the arteries are rigid and calcareous. Should it occur, the artery must be ligatured in continuity at a higher level, the stump opened up, all clots removed, and the wound stuffed with gauze and firmly bandaged. Septic conditions are prevented by due attention to antiseptic precau- tions, and cases of profuse suppuration and sloughing after amputation are now infinitely rare. Occasionally, however, in cases of primary amputation, in consequence of the surgeon's endeavour to preserve as much of the limb as possible, bruised tissues may be kept, which may subseciuently slough ; or, owing to a partial failure in the antiseptics, a little local suppuration may occur which may delay the union of the wound. In some cases a spicule of bone may necrose and a sinus form, leading down to a little bare bone at the end of the stump. STUMPS Upon examining a healthy stump a year or so after the amputation, it will be found to consist of a mass of condensed fibro-areolar tissue, in which the structures which composed it are barely discernible. The bone will be found to be atrophied, its compact layer thinned, and its cancellous tissue in the centre converted into yellow fat. The extremity of the bone will be covered with a layer of compact bone, which seals the end of what was originally the meduUaiy canal. All trace of muscular tissue will be gone, and its place taken by the mass of fibro-areolar tissue at the end of the stump ; higher up, the muscular tissue will be found gradually merging into this cicatricial mass. The blood-vessels may also be traced into this mass, converted into fibro-cellular cords up to their first collateral branch ; and the nerves in the same way may be traced into it, and will usually be found teiTninating in bulbous extremities, consisting of a rounded mass of fibi'ous tissue, in which are seen nerve fibres twisted on each other so as to form a convoluted skein. Conical stumps.—A stump may sometimes become pointed or conical, and this may arise from several different causes. In young children it is some- times unavoidable, and is due to subsequent growth of the bone after the amputation of the Hmb. This is especially the case in amputations of the arm, because the growth of the humerus is pi-incipally from the upper epiphysial cartilage. It not infrequently happens that, two or three years after an ampu- tation of the arm in a child, the end of the bone may be seen protruding a couple of inches or so from the stump, covered only by thin skin and requiring removal. I have had to perform this operation twice in the same stump ; the second operation being done after an interval of six years from the primary amputation. A conical stump may also be produced by cutting the flaps too short, or not sufficiently retracting the soft parts during the section of the bone ; it may be caused by the soft parts, which have been the seat of inflammation before the amputation, contracting during the process of healing, or it may arise from extensive sloughing of the flaps. When a stump is conical, the end of the bone presses against the skin and may become adherent to it. The skin is thinned, often ecze- matous, or a chronic ulcer forms on it. It is the seat of great pain when pressed upon, so that the patient is unable to wear his artificial limb. Even- tually, where the irritation has been long-standing, epithelioma may attack the stump. The treatment of this condition is to make a longitudinal incision, on the side of the limb away from the main vessels, and saw off the lower end of the bone and remove it.