SYMPTOMS OF ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 847 what more gradually. The patient is seized with a colicky pain, often referred to the navel and radiating from this point, and this pain raj^idly becomes more and more intense and spreads over the abdomen. The pain, whether beginning suddenly or in a more gradual manner, is con- tinuous, but subject to exacerbations, and is of a colicky nature. At this early period of the case it is not increased by pressure, and in fact the patient is sometimes relieved by the pressure of the hand placed upon the abdominal wall. Vomiting is an early symptom, and whether the contents of the stomach have been rejected at the time of the advent of the pain or not, persistent and copious vomiting, independently of taking food, soon sets in. The vomited matter is at first bilious and then brown and offensive, and after a time may become stercoraceous. There is a constant sensation of nausea, which is not relieved by vomiting. The abdomen becomes distended, the amount of distension varying with the seat of the obstruction. AVhen this is situated high up in the jejunum, the distension will be slight and will be confined to the region of the stomach; when the obstruction is low down in the ileum, the whole of the small intestine above will be distended, the tympanitis will be confined to the front of the abdomen, and the flanks will be flaccid; and when the obstruction is in the sigmoid flexure, the whole of the abdomen, and espe- cially the flanks, will be distended. If the patient is thin, the distended coils of intestine may be seen through the abdominal wall, but as a rule there is no movement in them In most cases constipation is absolute from the first, no matter in what part of the bowel the obstruction may be situated ; but in some few cases a motion may be passed after the symptoms have set in. The amount of the urinary secretion is usually diminished, owing to the impression made upon the nervous system, and not, as was formerly supposed, on account of the loss of fluid from vomiting. Thirst is usually intense; the tongue furred and the mouth dry. There is very marked vital depression almost from the commencement: a feeble rapid pulse, a temperature usually below normal, a cold sweat on the face, and great anxiety of countenance. There is rapid loss of strength, and if unrelieved the patient becomes collapsed, and dies within a week with symptoms of septic poisoning. Special symptoms dependent upon the cause.—The special symptoms which are due to the cause which gave rise to the obstruction, and by which a diagnosis can in many instances be made, are as follows : 1. In internal sfrafigulatio/i there may be the previous history of peritonitis, or of an attack of severe pain in the abdomen accompanied by fever. The patients are mostly young adults, for this condition is rare after the age of forty. The advent is sudden and often takes place during some muscular exertion, and the patient is conscious of something having given way or gone wrong at the moment of seizure. There is fre- quently an almost immediate rejection of the contents of the stomach after the advent of the pain, and the subsequent vomiting is usually very per- sistent. No tumour is to be felt in the abdomen. 2. Volvulus.—Volvulus is most frequently situated, as already stated, in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and under these circumstances usually occurs in males of somewhat advanced life, frequently about the age of sixty, in whom there is a history of habitual constipation. The onset is generally sudden, but the pain is not so severe, nor is the onset of vomiting so early a symptom as in internal strangulation. Great distension of the abdomen is a marked feature in these cases, and sets in early. The