373 N/EVUS appears as a small bright red patch, which may sometimes project slightly from the surface. The capillary ncevus is popularly known as ' mother's mark.' It is often multiple, may grow slowly or rapidly, or it may show no tendency to increase, and may disappear within a few months of birth. Occasionally the m-evoid tissue spreads through the papillary layer of the skin, and a considerable area of this structure may be involved, causing a red discolouration, which is known by the name of port-ivine stain. Treatment.—When of small size, the best plan of treatment is to apply a solution of corrosive sublimate collodion (i in 8 to i in 12). The healthy skin around is first to be painted over with flexile collodion, and this is to be allowed to dry before the corrosive sublimate collodion is applied, in order to protect the skin. The part is then brushed over two or three times with the solution, which is allowed to dry. . The pellicle formed is left to separate of itself, and when it falls off a white scar is left. Occasionally, if the solution is too strong, there is a little ulceration ; this should be avoided if possible. If the naevus is of larger size, this plan of treatment is not sufficient, and it will be necessary to apply fuming nitric acid or touch it with the point of Paquelin's cautery. The fuming nitric acid is perhaps the better application of the two. The skin Fig. 118.-- Section of a nrevus, showing its structure. (P'rom a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) around should be brushed over with olive oil to protect it, and then a drop of the acid is to be applied to the surface of the nsevus with a piece of finely pointed stick or a pointed glass rod. The acid is allowed to remain on until it is judged that it has burnt deeply enough to destroy the growth, and then a thick paste of chalk in water applied. Port-wine stains are not amenable to treatment. The venous or cavernous naevus is generally subcutaneous, and may occur in any part of the body. It is often surmounted by a capil- lary ncevus, which affects the skin over it. It is frequently multiple, and may attain a considerable size, forming a distinct tumour, which is soft, may be diminished by pressure, and is lobulated. When situated in the subcutaneous tissue entirely, it may present a dark purple or bluish colour through the thinned skin over it. It becomes fuller and tenser during straining or crying. The venous n;ievus on section presents a sponge-like appearance, being composed of spaces lined by endothelium similar to that found in veins (fig. 118). These spaces are connected together by delicate areolar tissue, and the whole is inclosed in a thin fibrous capsule. The cavities are produced partly by dilatation of the veins and partly by dilatation of the capillaries.