1124 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS should be instructed constantly to raise himself on his toes with the foot turned in, to walk on his toes and to hop, and these exercises should be repeated several times a day—not for too long a time at first, but gradually increasing the time as the muscles become stronger. The boots should be carefully fitted to the foot, wide and square at the toes, with the heels very little higher than the sole, and carried forwards as a triangular piece under the waist of the boot on the inner side, so as to support the inner border of the foot. In addition to this they should be fitted with a ' valgus pad '—that is to say, a sole plate with a wedge-shaped piece of cork fixed to it to support the arch of the foot. In more advanced cases before these measures are adopted adhesions should be broken down and the position of the foot rectified by placing the patient under an anaesthetic and the anterior part of the foot forcibly wrenched inwards. In doing thi.s, probably adhesions will be felt and heard to give way. After the foot has been brought into as normal a position as possible, it should be encased in plaster of Paris for a few weeks, and then the above mentioned treatment commenced. In very inveterate cases various cutting operations have been performed, such as excision of the head of the astragalus ; osteotomy of the tibia and fibula above the malleoli; and removal of a wedge-shaped piece of bone including the head of the astragalus and the posterior articular the measurement from the toes to the heel diminished; the arch is raised, so that there is a well-marked hollow under the middle of the foot. The toes are in a condition of ' hammer toe'—that is to say, the first phalanges are hyper-extended, often to such an extent that their articular surfaces rest on the dorsal aspect of the heads of the metatarsal bones, which project prominently in the sole, and the second phalanx is acutely flexed on the first. There is still some difference of opinion as to the mode of causation of this condition. Duchenne believed that it was due to paralysis of the interossei and the short flexor and adductor of the great toe, which .first produces the deformity of the toes from the un- balanced action of the muscles which extend the first phalanx and flex the other two, and then, by the continued action of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, flex the mid-tarsal joint and cause the arching of the foot. The plantar fascia subsequently contracting renders the archnig permanent. Parkin, on the other hand, believes that the initial condition surface of the navicular bone from the inner side of the foot. These operations are, however, rarely called for, and should not be done unless the patient is absolutely crippled. Fig. 423.—Pes cavus. Pes cavus or claw foot (fig. 423) is a con- dition characterised by an exaggerated arching of the foot, with a peculiar posi- tion of the toes, the heel being at the same time raised and the foot in- verted. In this condition the foot is shortened and