318 INJURIES AN:J3:;UISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES pxnands under its pressure. In the healthy condition the elastic tissue now comes into play, and by virtue of its property of elasticity contracts the vessel to its original dimensions, and drives the blood onwards in the course of the circulation But if the vessel is diseased, and the elasticity is impaired, this return to the natural condition of the vessel is not quite complete, and so a little permanent dilatation is produced ; this goes on increasing until in the end a fusiform aneurism is produced. The same process goes on in the wer arteries when they are diseased, and it is in them that fusiform anlirisms are found next in frequency to those in the arch of the aorta ; such vessels as the descending aorta, the iliacs, and the innominate. The.se aneurisms are also sometimes found in the common femoral, the sub- clavian, and the carotid arteries. . . Sacculated aneurism.—By a sacculated aneurism is meant one which erows from the side of an artery, and communicates with it by a r^oie or less constricted aperture. It is formed therefore by the dilatation S a part of the circumference of an artery. We have said that sacculated aneurisms are divided into two classes, the true and the false. The mode o oriein of the two is somewhat different. In the true aneurism a patch of itheroma generally of a considerable size, occurs ori sorne part of the c cumTerence of a vessel, and destroys the elasticity of the vessel at this spot; in consequence of this it yields to the pressure of the blood, and the whole wall of the vessel becomes dilated in one p ace only, and a t"ue sacculated aneurism results (fig. 93, b) This condition only exists during the earlier stages of the formation of the aneurism for very soon Sternal and middle coats disappear, and can no longer be recognised, Ind he aneurism becomes now a false one, m which all three coats are not Dresent It follows from this that the true sacculated aneurism when t e^ ts is always of small size, and has a large orifice of communication with the parent vessel. The false sacculated aneurism is formed m Tsomewhat different way. Here also it commences as a patch of atheroma, SutThir patch, instead of simply weakening the vessel and so causing It to d late, goes on to those degenerative changes of which we have spoken to the formation of an atheromatous abscess, and then by rupture or giving way of the thin covering of the abscess, and the discharge of Its intents into the blood stream, to the formation of an atheromatous ulcer We have now a Httle excavation or abrasion on the vessel wall, into whkh the blood during its passage down the vessel finds its way, and by Tessure causes dilatation of the external coat and any remains of the middle coat which may still be present, and so forms a false sacculated Aneurism or one in which the sac wall is not formed by all the coats of the ve sd (fig. 93, c). The coats of the vessel around the eroded patch the so as to prevent the blood, which finds its way ?nToThe"4rvioTf-^ forc'ed between the different coats of the ar erv irthl mat'ting does not take place, the third variety of aneurism, the dissecting is formed, as we shall explain directly. It must be mentioned fhat bv some surgeons the terms true and fa se sacculated aneurism are used to mply a different condition. They apply the term true aneurism to ?hose ca es where the sac of the aneurism is formed of one or more of the roa s of the vessel; and false to those in which some part, at all events, of coats ot ttie vessel condensed connective tissue derived the ^^l"^^ l^lZTZZd^^^ in whichever way the two terms 'true' anT are employed, it isl matter of no practical fmportlncerand^the mere fact that these terms are applied differently b)