622 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS CHAPTER VIII INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE FACE OF THE NOSE Contusions of the nose are not uncommon, being generally caused by blows with the fist. As there is only a small amount of subcutaneous tissue over the nasal bones, blows in this situation are often accompanied by wounds, and as the parts are freely supplied with blood and the vessels lie close under the skin, the amount of extravasation and swelling is often very considerable, and is attended by great pain. Wounds of the nose may be inflicted from without or wathin, through the nostrils. They may vary much in extent : they may simply involve the superficial structures, when the bleeding is generally free, or they may be complicated with fracture of the bones or division of the cartilages. On account of the great vascularity of the parts, union takes place very readily, and even when portions of the organ have been almost separated they should never be cut away, but should be replaced and adjusted as accurately as possible with horsehair or fine silkworm-gut sutures, having been previously cleansed and rendered as aseptic as may be. In thrust wounds of the nostril there is always a fear that the skull may have been penetrated and the brain injured ; therefore in these cases the patient should be kept at rest and carefully watched for a few days. Fracture of the nasal bones is always the result of direct violence. The fracture is generally transverse, and is situated most commonly a little above the free lower margin, but may occur at any part of the bone. When it takes place near the root it is frequently complicated with fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and may be accom- panied by injury to the brain. The broken fragment is generally displaced backwards and to one side, and this gives a flattened and crooked appear- ance to the nose. Owing, however, to the fact that the injury is produced .by direct violence, there is usually very considerable swelling, from lacera- tion of the subcutaneous tissues, which may or may not be accompanied by emphysema, and under these circumstances the nature of the injury may be overlooked. This is a matter of great importance, as a broken nose, if not properly treated, leaves a most distressing and unsightly de- formity. In many of these cases the fracture is compound, from laceration of the mucous membrane of the nostril, when severe epistaxis may result. The diagnosis can usually be made by grasping the nose and moving it from side to side, when crepitus will be elicited. The septum nasi is sometimes also fractured in cases of injury of the nasal bones, or may occur as an uncomplicated lesion. Occasionally it is bent to one side without being fractured, giving rise to a characteristic deformity. The treatment consists in replacing the depressed fragment as soon as possible. It is generally desirable to administer an anaesthetic in order to