464 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES coccus pyogenes aureus ajipears to be the most common. In the majority of cases it begins in the diaphysis of the bone in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage. The mode of entrance of the micro-organism into the body is unknown, but there is in a large number of these cases an antecedent history of some injury to the part some days previously, which would make it appear that some damage to the tissues is a constant means of providing a suitable nidus in which the microbes may multiply, and that if this nidus is not present the organism is incapable of exerting its evil influence. It commences as an effusion beneath the periosteum, which rapidly goes on to suppuration. The pus spreads far and wide, separating the periosteum from the bone, and may spread from one end of the shaft of the bone to the other, and completely around it, so that the whole diaphysis is denuded of periosteum. When it reaches the epiphysis it usually spreads along the epiphysial line, so that the epiphysis becomes separated from the diaphysis. Sometimes it spreads up the epiphysis to the neighbouring joint, which becomes filled with pus. Coincidently with this an extensive suppurative osteomyelitis takes place, and thus the whole shaft of the bone perishes. In other cases the ravages are not so extensive, and only a part of the shaft perishes ; in some a mere shell of the compact tissue. The periosteum which has been separated from the bone does not perish, but throws out new bone, which forms a sheath or casing around the necrosed portion, in which are left many apertures through which the pus escapes. The new bone is called the invaginating sheath, and the apertures m it cloaccB (fig. 165). As a consequence of this condition infective phlebitis and thrombosis of the veins of the bone and parts around may take place, and infective emboli are liable to become detached and cause secondary foci of suppuration in other parts of the body. Etiology.—The disease generally occurs before puberty, and in boys much more commonly than in girls, on account of their being more exposed to trivial injuries. When there is no history of an injury it has often been of a comparatively slight character, and may have been entirely forgotten. The disease appears to occur in those who are feeble, delicate, or ill nourished, especially in tuberculous children. It is sometimes a sequel to exanthematous fevers. •, j 1 t-u Symptoms.—The attack is generally ushered in very suddenly, ine child possibly may have a rigor and become manifestly very ill. There is fever, with a high temperature, 102° to 104° F., and profound constitutional disturbance. Delirium is an early and characteristic symptom. There is intense pain complained of in the part, which is greatly increased on any movement, so that the child shrieks if the Kmb is moved, or even it the bed is shaken. He cannot bear the weight of the bedclothes, ihe limb is swollen, tense, with some oedema, and if the affected bone is a superficial one there is redness; if the bone is deep-seated, as the femur, the skin is white and waxy in appearance. Frequently the constitutional symptoms precede any local manifestation, and the case may be mistaken at its outset for one of the acute specific fevers. The pain and swelling of the limb, which always follow not later than the second or third day, however negative this. Even after these signs set in the disease may be mistaken for acute rheumatism, but the fact that the swelling involves only one end of the joint, and not the whole articulation, ought to prevent tnis, and it is rare to have more than one bone involved in acute "ecrosis, whereas in rheumatism more than one joint is frequently affected As ne disease progresses the child suffers from vomiting and diarrhwa, tne