223 CHAPTER IX TUMOURS Perhaps there is no word for which so many definitions have been given in surgical nomenclature as the word 'tumour,' and none of them are quite satisfactory. Still, we all know what we mean when we speak of a tumour, and it is not necessary to labour to give an exact definition of the word. By it we mean a new formation, organised or partly organised, and not resulting from inflammation alone. This new formation has no tendency to undergo resolution, but, on the other hand, tends to grow, and does not, as far as our present knowledge goes, owe its origin to any infective cause, or belong to that class of new growths which are known as the infective granulomata, such as gummata, tubercles, actino- mycosis, &c. Tumours are derived from the tissues in which they originate, and resemble this tissue either in its complete or embryonic state. Thus, when a tumour grows from connective tissues, as bone, cartilage, fat, the tumour is composed of these structures; or it may consist of embryonic connective tissue, that is, of elements indistinguishable from the rudi- mentary tissues found in the embryo; or when the tumour grows from epithelial tissues, it consists of cells like those constituting epithelium. As, however, this new growth increases in size, it does not always behave in the same way to the tissues from which it originates, and the different behaviour of tumours in this respect has led to their division into two classes, the homologous and the heterologous. The homologous tumour simply grows by pushing on one side the tissue in which it originates. It is therefore always more or less circumscribed, is generally surrounded by a capsule formed of the condensed and compressed tissues, and remains limited to the structure from which it took origin. These tumours are generally innocent in their nature. The heterologous tumour, on the other hand, infiltrates, destroys, and replaces the structures in which it originated, and from them extends into neighbouring tissues of many different varieties. It is not therefore so distinctly circumscribed, and it is often impossible to say where the morbid growth terminates and the normal structure begins. These tumours are generally malignant. These obsei"vations lead us to say a word or two on the terms ' innocent' and ' malignant.' These words are used in a purely clinical sense, without any reference to the anatomical structure of the growth. The term innocent tumour is applied to those growths which do not return if com- pletely removed, which do not infiltrate surrounding structures, and do not affect the lymphatic glands or other parts of the body. A tumour may, however, be innocent and may yet destroy the life of the patient by the increase of its bulk, by its situation, or by inducing exhaustion from sloughing or ulceration. The term malignant tumour is applied to those