748 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS wound less liable to penetrate the canal. These wounds may also be caused by the body of the patient becoming impaled on area railings, pro- jecting iron spikes or branches of trees, in falling from a height. In gun- shot wounds they are generally complicated with fracture, and the bones of the spine may be extensively comminuted at the seat of impact, or may be simply perforated by a bullet travelling with great velocity. The spinal cord may be completely or partially severed, or may be crushed by detached fragments of bone. These injuries may be complicated with injury of other important structures, as the vertebral artery in the neck, and death may ensue from hemorrhage; or one of the great vessels lying in close relationship with one of the other regions of the cord may be injured, and death result from the same cause ; or one of the thoracic or abdominal viscera may be wounded. Punctured wounds from stabs, which penetrate the canal, may open it without wounding the membranes, or may pene- trate the membranes without implicating the cord, or lastly may divide the cord either completely or partially. Symptoms.—i. In those cases where the canal has been opened, but the membranes have not been penetrated, there would probably be no immediate symptoms beyond those due to the wound itself; but after a short interval symptoms due to haemorrhage between the bone and dura mater might come on. Such cases as these would probably do well with careful attention to antiseptic principles. 2. In those cases where the membranes have been perforated, but the cord has not been injured, the diagnosis can only be made with certainty when there is escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the wound. This, with a knowledge of the direction of the wound and the weapon that caused it, would be sufficient to enable one to make a diagnosis; but discharge of cerebro-spinal fluid does not take place in every case where the membranes have been penetrated, for the wound may be oblique or valvular, and thus prevent the escape of the fluid. Beyond the escape of cerebro-spmal fluid, there are no distinguishing signs of the injury, and it is only the advent of septic spinal meningitis, which is apt to supervene, that establishes the diagnosis. • j i j 3. In those cases where the cord itself is imphcated, the wound may produce complete or partial division of this structure. When the cord is completely divided, there is paralysis of sensation and motion in all the parts supplied by nerves coming ofi" from it below the point of division, the symptoms, therefore, will vary according to the situation at which the division takes place. • 1 u ^hot (1) If the division takes place above the fourth cervical vertebra—tnai is to say, above the origin of the phrenic nerves—instantaneous death is the result, from paralysis of the diaphragm and all the other inspirator)' muscles. . . ^u.,.^ (2) If the division takes place in the lower cervical region, mere paralysis of sensation and motion of the whole of the trunk and lower extremities, except the upper part of the front of the chest, where sensation is present, as this part is supplied by the descending branches ot m superficial cervical plexus. There is also paralysis and loss, of sensai o in the whole of the upper extremity when the division is high up, ana i whole of the brachial plexus involved; or partial paralysis and oss sensation when the section is lower down, and the "f-^^V^I muscles upper cords of the brachial plexus are not involved. -^l^^ '™ which principally escape paralysis under these circumstances are sou