356 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES performed with proper antiseptic precautions, it is probable that the common iliac artery will always be ligatured by the transperitoneal method. It seems, therefore, scarcely necessary to occupy space by describing the older methods, and it will be sufficient to say that it can be done by extending the incision used by Abernethy for ligature of the external iliac artery upwards and inwards towards the umbilicus, or by a posterior incision partly in the abdomen, partly in the loin, by the method introduced by Crampton. I'his incision is a curved one with its concavity directed towards the umbilicus, extending from the tip of the last rib to the anterior superior spinous process of the iUum, and the peri- toneum is raised from the subjacent structures, without being incised. In the transperitoneal operation the abdomen is opened by an in- cision in either the semilunar line or the linea alba ; the intestines are drawn on one side, and the peritoneum covering the artery divided. The sheath is then opened and the needle passed from within out- wards. On the right side great care must be exercised in passing the needle, since both the common iliac veins lie behind the artery. After the vessel has been tied the incision in the peritoneum over the artery should be sutured, so as to exclude it from the peritoneal cavity. Ligature of the internal iliac.—The internal iliac artery may be tied by the same incision that is employed for ligature of the common iliac, and the vessel may be found by tracing the common iliac downwards or the external iliac upwards until the bifurcation is reached. The peritoneum over the vessel is then incised and the artery exposed. The ligature should be applied round the vessel about an inch from its origin, and then the ureter, which crosses the common iliac about its bifurcation, will not be endangered. Care must be taken not to mistake the obturator nerve for the artery. Gluteal Aneurisms.—Aneurisms of the buttock, or, as they are generally called, gluteal aneurisms, may implicate either the gluteal, sciatic, or internal pudic artery. In about one half the cases they are traumatic in their origin, and in some of these there may be no sac, the blood being simply circumscribed by coagulating in the tissues around the artery. In these there may be no pulsation. In the spon- taneous form, however, and in the circumscribed traumatic form there is usually a strong pulsation and a loud bruit to be heard on auscul- tation. The most marked pressure effect is pressure on the sciatic nerve, which occasions severe pain along its course, and sometimes gives rise to paralysis. In the idiopathic form of the disease, the sac may lie partly inside the pelvis, so that in gluteal aneurism an examination should always be made by the rectum in order to ascertain, if possible, whether this is so or not. Gluteal aneurism may be mistaken for abscess, or for sarcoma of the ilium. With regard to the former the diagnosis ought to be fairly easy by attention to the general signs and by the absence of any bruit; but with regard to sarcoma the diagnosis is sometimes difficult. In doubtful cases, aspiration or hooking out of a small fragment of the growth and examining microscopically should be practised. Treatment.—In the traumatic form of the disease and in those cases of idiopathic aneurism where the surgeon can assure himself that the sac is entirely outside the pelvis, the best treatment would appear to be the old operation of Antyllus, especially if the aneurism is increasing and threatens to burst, or if the pressure on the nerves is causing great pain.