957 TUMOURS OF THE BLADDER demonstration of the tubercle bacillus in the urine will at once establish the diagnosis. Treatment.—In the early stages of the disease, local treatment is not of much use, and reliance must be placed simply on constitutional remedies. If practicable, the patient should be sent on a sea voyage, or at all events reside at the seaside, a dry warm climate being selected, and he should be out in the open air as much as possible. He should be warmly clothed in flannel, so as to promote the action of the skin, and his diet should be nourishing but unstimulating. I have found considerable benefit to arise in these cases from the internal administration of iodoform ; a grain in the form of a pill with extract of gentian, given three times a day, will in some cases do great good. Cod-liver oil should also be given. Later on, when there is intense pain and constant calls to pass water, a supra-pubic cystotomy should be performed and the ulcers scraped with a sharp spoon, so as to remove as much as possible of the tuberculous material, and disinfected with pure carbolic acid; the bladder should then be drained. Drainage by perineal section often gives the greatest relief, but does not afford the surgeon so good an opportunity of dealing locally with the ulceration. Tumours of the bladder may be innocent or malignant. I. The innocent tumours of the bladder are (i) myxoma, (2) fibroma, (3) m3roma, (4) dermoid, and (5) papilloma. All these, with the exception of the last, are very uncommon, i. The myxoma resembles, in structure the ordinary gelatinous polypus of the nasal fossa, and grows from the mucous surface. It never attains a large size, and is found only in children. 2. The fibroma grows from the submucous connective tissue, and consists of ordinary fibrous connective tissue. It is a solid growth, but is often papillated on its surface, as, indeed, are all tumours of the bladder. It may attain a very considerable size. 3. The myoma is an outgrowth of the muscular coat of the bladder, and consists of unstriped muscular fibre, with a varying amount of connective tissue. It does not as a rule attain a large size, and spring from the wall of the bladder by a broad base. 4. Dermoid is the rarest of all innocent tumours of the bladder. 5. Papilloma or Yillous tumour of the bladder is the most common form of non-malignant growths of the bladder; though structurally it must be classed among the innocent tumours, it may nevertheless cause death from hsemorrhage. Like other papillomatous tumours, it consists of a number of processes; each process being made up of a capillary loop in a fibrous network, covered by a basement membrane and a more or less thick layer of epithelial cells. It resembles to the naked eye the appearance of the villi of the chorion, consisting of a number of long slender processes or viUi, which, when immersed in water, float out and may be likened to a sea anemone (fig. 364). These processes are very vascular, and bleed freely when injured. The tumours are often multiple, and grow most frequently from the trigone, especially from the neighbour- hood of the orifices of the ureters. Symptoms.—The symptoms of tumours of the bladder are painless haematuria, followed by irritability. In villous tumour, with which we are especially concerned on account of its more common occurrence, the bleeding at first is usually small in amount, and then as the disease progresses there is a sudden, copious flow of blood, which is not intimately mixed with the urine, but comes chiefly towards the end of the act of micturition. This may continue for some days and then cease. There is