766 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS a curve. VVheo the angular deformity has taken place, the head and the upper part of the trunk is not directed forwards, but a compensatory curve takes place in the vertebrae below the disease, which enables the upper part of the body to be carried erect. When the disease occurs in the lumbar region, this compensation cannot take place to any great extent, and there- fore in' these cases the patient stands or walks with the trunk inclined for- wards. Secondary changes take place in the thorax, in those cases of dorsal curvature where several bodies are involved ; the sternum becomes bowed out and convex anteriorly, and the ribs attached to it become approximated to each other, so as to materially diminish the depth of the intercostal spaces. The lower two ribs, not being attached to the sternum, are not influenced by the curve, but remain in their normal position; this produces a very well-marked sulcus around the trunk, between the tenth and eleventh ribs. * i j • It must be borne in mind that the deformity is not produced entirely by the weight of the head and trunk causing the vertebrae above the disease to fall on those below; for the deformity is found frequently to occur in cases of spinal caries when the patient is kept continually in the recumbent position. It must therefore be due in these cases to the action of muscles, which by their continuous contraction bend the body forwards. Before leaving the subject of deformity, it is necessary to mention that in some rare Instances,'instead of its coming on gradually, it may be sudden in its onset, and this occurs usually from some injury m a case where the disease is already established, but where no change in the posi- tion of the bodies has as yet taken place. In these cases injury to the cord is likely to occur and paraplegia to result. Abscess.—The formation of abscess is a most serious complication of caries of the spine, and unfortunately makes its appearance in many cases before the disease has been recognised ; the patient first consulting the surgeon for a swelling which has appeared in one of the situations where these abscesses point, the previous weakness of the spine, and the pain, if there has been any, having been disregarded. These abscesses have often therefore attained a very considerable size and travelled far from the position where they were first formed before they come under the care ot the surgeon. The pus collects first on the front of the diseased vertebra, beneath the anterior common ligament, and then travels outwards under the lateral border of the ligament, or else perforates this structure, and the course which it subsequently takes is determined by the arrangement ot the fascice of the part and gravitation, and varies according to the part ot the spine affected. Thus when the upper cervical vertebra; are affected it comes forward behind the pharynx, constituting retro-pharyngeal abscess (see page 717). When lower down in the cervical region, it travels out- wards beneath the prae-vertebral fascia, and points behind the sterno- mastoid muscle, or occasionally perforates the fascia and points in tront 01 the muscle. In rare instances it gravitates into the posterior mediastinum or into the axilla. When the disease is situated in the upper doisai region, and sometimes in the mid-dorsal, it follows the course ot t ie posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves between the r t^s and points in the back on one or both sides of the dorsal spines^ In otiicr cases where the disease is situated in the mid-dorsal region, and ge^eiaU) when it implicates the lower dorsal vertebrfe, it tracks down the poster 0 mediastinum, passes beneath the ligamentum arcuatum internum, ai