ANEURISM 315 importance. Primary fatty degeneration is a disease of the lining membrane, beginning in the sub-endotheHal layer as yellowish patches, very slightly raised above the surface. They can be easily stripped off, producing a slight superficial erosion, but leaving the subjacent tissues natural. This is believed by some to be the starting point of dissecting aneurism. It occurs in young anremic people and is attended by no signs. Bony degeneration is of extremely rare occurrence, but cases have been recorded where minute scales of bone have been found embedded in the coats of arteries. The condition is, however, of too uncommon occur- rence to require further notice. Lardaceous degeneration of the viscera appears to begin, as I have already pointed out, in a degeneration of the coats of the smaller arteries of the affected organ, and from this spreads to the other structures of the viscus (see page 120). ANEURISM An aneurism may be defined as a sac containing blood and com- municating with the interior of an artery ; so that in every aneurism, if the term is correctly used, there must be a sac wall inclosing a space, this cavity or space must communicate with an artery, and it must contain blood, either fluid or coagulated. Aneurisms may result either from injury or disease. The former, which are called traumatic, we have already con- sidered : and we have now to describe the latter, which are termed idiopathic, spontaneous, or pathological aneurisms. Causes.—An idiopathic aneurism is formed when, from any cause, one or more of the coats of an artery become permanently expanded by the pressure of the blood within the vessel. Therefore there are two factors in the production of an aneurism : (i) a weakening of the wall of the vessel; for normally the coats of an artery are sufficiently strong and elastic to withstand any amount of blood pressure which can be brought to bear on them ; and (2) an increase in the blood pressure. So that it may be stated that an aneurism is generally caused by anything which renders the wall of the artery unfit to resist the pressure of the blood in it, and that this is in many case.s supplemented by increased blood pressure, from, it may be, increased action of the heart, or plethora, or increased resistance in the capillaries. I. Causes which weaken the walls of the vessel.—When an artery has undergone any of the inflammatory changes described in the last section, its walls become weakened, and thus unable to withstand the pressure of the blood within the vessel, and so become permanently dilated and an aneurism results. Chronic endarteritis is the most potent cause of aneurism. As we have seen, this inflammatory condition affects primarily and princi- pally the elastic coat of the artery, and when it is established the normal elasticity of the vessel is considerably impaired or altogether lost, and the vessel weakened, so that it is no longer able, during diastole, to recover the expansion which has taken place during systole, and thus becomes per- manently dilated either throughout its whole calibre or in one spot, where from a patch of atheroma the elasticity has been destroyed ; and this may take place in one or more situations (fig. 92). Again, other forms of inflammation of the coats of an artery lead to weakening and expansion, and .so to the formation of an aneurism, (a) The inflammation of the coats of an artery which is set up by a septic embolus, impacted in the vessel, is