95.0 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS comes back perfectly clear. On no account should more than three ounces be introduced at a time. While this local treatment is being carried on, constitutional measures must be adopted. It will very much facilitate recovery if the patient is confined to bed, and kept at rest and in an equable temperature. The diet should be light, a milk diet being espe- cially indicated, and no stimulants should be allowed. If the urine is alkaline and very foetid, salol or benzoate of ammonia should be given internally. Formerly buchu, pareira brava, and uva ursi were extolled in the treatment of these cases. They do not appear to have any very decided influence; probably buchu is the most useful of the three, but when given should not be in a smaller quantity than a pint of the infusion each day. If the pain and other symptoms continue in spite of this treat- ment, or if the patient's general health begins to fail from septic absorption and broken rest, a perineal cystotomy should be performed, so as to give the bladder physiological rest for a few weeks. This treatment is often followed by the most satisfactory results, after all other measures have failed. Perineal cystotomy.—The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and a staff with a median groove is introduced into the bladder. An incision an inch and a half in length is made in the central raphe of the perineum, terminating about half an inch in front of the anus, and the various structures divided until the triangular Hgament is reached. The point of the knife is now inserted into the groove in the staff by trans- fixing the membranous portion of the urethra, and the handle of the knife being raised, the instrument is pushed backwards and upwards along the groove into the bladder, dividing the prostatic urethra and a part of the prostate gland. The finger is introduced into the bladder by the side of the staff, and the bladder explored. A lithotomy tube is now passed through the wound into the bladder, and tied in. _ To the other end of the tube some india-rubber tubing is connected, which is carried to a utensil under the bed containing some solution of carbolic acid or other antiseptic, and by a siphon-like action the bladder is kept constantly empty. Tuberculous disease of the bladder is most frequently secondary to tuberculous disease elsewhere : either in the testicle, when it spreads up the vas deferens to the vesicula seminalis, and so infects the bladder; or in the prostate, when it rapidly spreads to the neighbouring viscus; or it may be the result of tuberculous disease of the kidney spreading down the ureter. Tuberculous disease of the bladder may, however, occur as a primary affection. It is much more common in the male than in the female, and occurs most frequently during the years of early adolescence. It commences as a deposit of tubercle in the submucous tissue, which caseates and breaks down, and forms a ragged, undermined, and unhealthy ulcer. The mucous membrane around is red, and the tissues beneath the .ulcer thickened and sclerosed. In rare cases the ulceration may extend through the bladder wall and form fistulous openings with the rectum or external surface; or in the female, with the vagina. The symptoms are those of chronic cystitis in the early stage, and the disease is often treated as this, unless some tuberculous disease elsewhere —e.g. in the testicle—suggests its nature. Later on, the intense irritability of the bladder, the great pain on pressure over the hypogastric region, and the presence of blood in the water will suggest ulceration ; and the