475 NECROSIS The treatment consists in mal^ing a free incision and in clearing out the abscess cavity and scraping the exposed bony surfaces. The parts are then thoroughly irrigated and a drainage tube inserted. In these cases the subsequent growth of the bone may be impaired or arrested. Chronic epiphysitis is probably always a tuberculous or syphilitic affection, and will be considered with the other forms of specific diseases of bone. NECROSIS The death of the whole or part of a bone, en masse, without any marked alteration in its structure, is termed necrosis. It corresponds to mortifica- tion of the soft parts. Etiology.—Necrosis is for the most part caused by an arrest in the circulation through the bone. This may be due to injury, from tearing off of the periosteum in a case of compound fracture, or it may be due to the vessels becoming blocked or destroyed, as the result of the in- flammatory process ; thus, in chronic ostitis the vessels may be blocked by the exudation taking place into the Haversian canals ; or in acute periostitis and endostitis the nutritive supply may be entirely cut off and extensive necrosis result. Inflammation of the soft parts around, as in whitlow, may give rise to necrosis, by spreading to the periosteum and bone. SyphiHs and tubercle may also give rise to death of a portion of bone. Necrosis of the jaw may occur from exposure to the fumes of phosphorus, and was formerly a common disease among lucifer m.atch makers, the acrid fumes gaining access to the bone through carious teeth. Mercury, if given in excess, may also cause necrosis of the jaw. Pathological anatomy.— Necrosis varies in extent and in the part of the bone affected according to the cause which gave rise to it. In those cases where the necrosis arises from an injury, stripping off the peri- osteum and denuding the bone, the outer laminae only perish, and to this condition is given the name ofperifheral necrosis ; where there is a limited inflammation of the cancellous tissue, generally tuberculous, which leads to the death of a portion of bone, as in chronic abscess, the term central necrosis is used ; and where, as in cases of panostitis, the whole thick- ness of the bone is destroyed, the term iotal tiecrosis is applied. The portion of bone which dies is called a sequestrum (fig. 169). A portion of bone having died, it has to be got rid of, and in order to effect this it has to become separated from the living bone with which it is in connection. This is brought about by an analogous process to that by which sloughs in soft parts are got rid of. An inflammation, attended by exudation, takes place in the living parts in contact with the dead, and the migrated leucocytes which infiltrate this inflamed tissue gradually destroy and replace the bone, so that after a time the living bone in contact with the dead is transformed into a layer of granulation tissue. Part of this tissue then degenerates and becomes converted into pus, and the dead bone lies loose in an abscess cavity, the walls of which are formed by the rest of the granulation tissue. If the periosteum over the necrosed portion has not been destroyed, but merely separated, new bone is formed on its under surface, and thus the abscess cavity containing the sequestrum becomes inclosed in a bony case formed partly by the remains of the original bone which has not died, and partly by the new bone formed from the peri- osteum (fig. 170). In this ensheathing bone are a number of openings,