PAPILLOMA 241 and these are regarded by some as true neuromata. It seems, however, more correct to relegate them to a class by themselves, for they are not, on the one hand, false neuromata, for they undoubtedly contain nerve fibres, and still it is scarcely right to regard them as true neuromata, for though there are nerve fibres in them, they are very much smaller than normal ones, and are probably either the old fibres atrophied by pressure or young tubules which are not properly developed; and in addition to this there is a great excess of fibrous tissue. These groAvths may therefore properly be placed in a separate group and be termed traumatic neuromata. In addition to these circumscribed nerve tumours, a form of neuroma has been described as plexiform neuroma, in which the terminal twigs of a nerve or division of a nerve become thickened and present a nodular appearance. These thickened fibres are bound together by areolar tissue, so as to form a diffused swelling. They are apt to arise in pigmented moles and are congenital in most cases. Treatment.—It is desirable not to interfere with these tumours unless they cause pain, and then they must be excised. This should be done if possible without dividing the trunk; and in order to give the surgeon every facility for doing this, the limb, if the tumour is situated on one, should be rendered bloodless. By a careful dissection it can then be often enucleated without injury to the nerve. Should the nerve, however, require division, it should be at once sutured, and provision should be made before commencing the operation to transplant a portion of nerve from one of the lower animals in cases where it may be necessary to remove so large a portion of the nerve as to render suture of the ends impossible. V. Papilloma.—The term papilloma is applied to those tumours which resemble in structure the ordinary papillse of the skin or mucous surfaces. A papilla is a more or less conical mass, consisting of a capillary loop, inclosed in connective tissue, and coated by one or more layers of epithelium. And this is the structure of a papillomatous tumour, though the size varies considerably ; an ordinary papilla of the skin is of micro- scopic size, a papillomatous tumour may attain large dimensions, and the blood-vessel, instead of being a single capillary loop, is often a vessel of considerable magnitude, which divides and subdivides into numberless branches, each of which terminates in a capillary loop, surrounded by one or more layers of epithelium, and so a structure is produced which may be aptly compared in appearance to a cauli- flower. Sometimes these capillary loops become enormously elongated, and the tumour then resembles the villi of the chorion, consisting of a number of threadlike processes, each of which is composed of a capillary loop clothed by epithelium. The vessels in these tumours are usually of large size, and their coats are generally very thin, so that they bleed furiously if they are injured. The amount of connective tissue supporting the vessels varies considerably; in some it is very abundant, and is crowded with round cells and contains lymphatic spaces; in others, as in villous tumours, it is very scanty, and consists merely of a little tissue surrounding the capillary loop and supporting the epithelium. The cells covering the surface of the growth are of different kinds, and resemble the epithelium of the surface from which the tumour grows. When the tumour grows from the skin, the cells covering the surface of the growth resemble squamous epithelium ; when it grows from the bladder, it is covered with transitional epithelium; and when from the rectum, with columnar epithelium. R