.1138 AMPUTATIONS As no tourniquet can be applied in these cases, the only method of arresting h£emorrhage during the operation is for an assistant to compress the subclavian artery against the first rib, either by his fingers or a compressor ; but as this means is not very efficient, an assistant should be prepared to grasp the axillary vessels in the wound, if possible before they are divided. Spence's method (fig. 432).—The patient is placed on his back so that the arm projects over the side of the table, and an assistant abducts the arm and rotates it outwards. An incision is made from a point midwav between the coracoid and acromion processes, down the front of the joint to the level of the lower border of the tendon of the pectoralis major ; this incision is carried deeply down to the bone, and divides some of the clavi- cular origin of the deltoid, and at its lower part the tendon of insertion of the great pectoral muscle. It also divides the anterior circumflex artery, which must be secured with a pair of forci-pressure forceps. At its upper part the incision has opened the joint, which can now be examined if judged Fig. 432.—Spence's and Larrey's method of amputating at the shoulder joint. A. Spence's method. B. Larrey's method. necessary. From the lower extremity of this incision another is curved gently outwards, round the ai-m, to the posterior fold of the axilla, cutting deeply so as to divide the deltoid muscle a little above its insertion. A third incision is carried inwards with a gentle curve round the inner side of the arm to meet the external one ; but this incision is carried only through the skin and subcutaneous tissues. The fingers of the left hand are now introduced under the outer flap, and the deltoid muscle is sepa- rated from the bone. No knife is to be used in doing this, for fear of injuring the posterior circumflex artery. In this way the head and upper part of the humerus may be fully exposed. The assistant now rotates the arm so as to bring the various capsular muscles into view ; and the sub- scapularis, the long head of the biceps, the supraspinatus, the infra- spinatus, and the teres minor are successively divided, together with the capsular ligament. The large deltoid flap is then well retracted and the knife passed behind the head of the humerus, keeping close to the bone to avoid wounding the posterior circumflex artery, and the arm removed by