620 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAE ORGANS and numerous methods of reaching them have been advocated. It would appear that draining them laterally is more satisfactory than through either the anterior or posterior horns ; and the best method is to trephine an inch and a half above the centre of the external auditory meatus (see fig. 231). The trocar is to be introduced directly inwards for a distance of about an inch and a half. In children the measurements must be less, and must vary according to the size of the head. A bundle of horsehairs should be inserted through the cannula and left in as a drain, the wound closed and dressed antiseptically. Neither aspiration nor drainage has been attended with very satisfactory results, though isolated cases have been recorded where it has been followed by recovery ; but they are so few that it is very doubtful whether these cases might not have spontaneously recovered even if no operation had been performed. In cases of hydrocephalus resulting from basic meningitis, attempts have been made to relieve the condition by draining the sub-arachnoid space in the occipital region. The operation is performed by trephining the occipital bone to one side of the crest, below the superior curved line, and incising the dura mater. A probe is then passed inwards towards the falx, and along the falx between it and the cerebellum until the sub-arach- noid space is perforated. This is followed by the sudden escape of cerebro- spinal fluid. A drainage tube is now introduced along the probe. The operation is not devoid of danger, as the medulla oblongata runs a risk of being injured. The results, as far as is known, have been uniformly unfavourable. Tapping in tuberculous meningitis.—Attempts have been made to cure tuberculous meningitis by relieving intra-cranial pressure, which appears to be the immediate cause of death. This may be done by the operation above described of draining the sub-arachnoid space through the occipital bone.. In one case which has been reported, recovery followed the operation. Or the pressure may be reUeved by a much simpler method, by puncturing the spinal canal. The child is held in the sitting posture, with the back bowed forwards so as to separate as far as possible the vertebral arches, and the trocar is introduced between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrse, just to one side of the spinous process, until it impinges on the lamina. When this has been done, the point of the instrument is shifted downwards until it is felt to impinge on some soft structure, through which it is driven with a slight inclination to the middle line for about the extent of three-quarters of an inch. On withdrawing the needle, cerebro- spinal fluid will flow from the cannula. In those cases which have come under my own observation, temporary mitigation of the symptoms has. certainly frequently been afforded, but in no instance have I seen any permanent benefit. Microcephaly.-—One other condition of the skull requires mention, as it has lately been subjected to surgical interference. This is congenital microcephaly, or diminished size of the cranial cavity, either associated or not with deformity. In those cases where there is no deformity, there has been arrested growth of the brain in early embryonic life, and the skull is small and diminutive, but natural. In the other class of cases, the skull is misshapen and the brain diseased, the disease of the brain giving rise to the alteration in the shape of the skull. The condition is generally associated with idiocy, and with general rigidity of the limbs. An attempt has been made recently to relieve this condition either by linear craniectomy or by removing a portion of the skull on either side. The best mode of proceed-