396 INJURIES ANi) DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES connective tissue between the fibres and not in the fibres themselves I hese undergo atrophy. The muscles which are principally and firsi affected are the superficial muscles of the back, the trapezius, the latissimus dorsi and the rhomboidei, but any other of the muscles in the body may be aHected. It is more common in men than in women, and it usually commences in early life. Its cause is entirely unknown, though there are some who believe that it is rheumatic in its origin, and regard it as an inflammation of the parenchyma of the muscle. The bony plates can be felt in the muscles, and as they increase they mterfere with the movements. They usually cause no pain merely inconvenience from the limitation of motion that they occasion and the constrained position which the patient is obliged to assume. ' The disease is slow in its progress, but as the ossification increases the movements of the thorax are interfered with, and the case terminates fatally trom chest complications. No treatment is known for this condition In addition to these cases of myositis ossificans, ossific masses are sometimes formed in muscles, as the result of some long-continuing irritation or strain. Such a nodule is sometimes found in cavalry soldiers in the adductor longus. Syphilitic disease of muscles.—In the tertiary stage of syphilis two torms of disease may affect the muscles. One of these is a diffuse sclerosis ; the other a gumma. Diffuse sclerosis is a rare affection, and is generally met with, when it occurs, in the tongue. It is a chronic inflamma- tion of the interstitial tissue, which at first causes swelling and enlargement ot the muscle, and subsequently, when the newly formed fibrous tissue contracts, a diminution in size. The muscle then becomes hard and fixed and Its action is impaired or lost. A gumma also more frequently occurs in the tongue than elsewhere, but is not uncommon in other muscles. It grows slowly, causes pain, which is greater at night, interferes with the movements of the muscle, and eventually breaks down. It forms oval masses in the substance of the muscle, and is generally multiple. The treatoent of these conditions is the ordinary treatment for tertiary syphilis. Tumours of muscle.—Primary tumours of muscle are not common. Those most frequently met with are sarcomata, fibromata, angiomata, and cysts. Among the cysts, the parasitic cysts are perhaps ■ the most common, viz. the hydatid, the cysticercus cellulosge, and the trichina spiralis. Most of the innocent tumours of muscles may be treated by removal, but the malignant tumours generally require amputation when situated in the extremities. When they occur on the trunk no treatment IS of much avail. Teno-synoYitis.—The synovial sheaths of tendons are liable to become inflamed, and the inflammation may be acute or chronic. Acute teno-synovitis is generally caused by prolonged use; thus the sheaths of the long tendons of the extensor muscles of the forearm may become inflamed after a hard day's rowing, or the sheaths of the long extensors of the foot and those of the peronei may become inflamed by excessive walking. The inflammation is generally attended by a fibrinous exudation on the interior of the sheath, and when this is the case a peculiar creaking sensation is communicated to the hand placed on the part when the muscle is set in motion. Sometimes a serous effusion takes place into the sheath of the tendon, and then the creaking sensation is not felt, but there is a long sausage-shaped swelling in the course of the tendon, which is painful and tender, and the skin over it is red.