758 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS projecting substance. The accident is accompanied by very severe pain and bruising, the pain being especially great upon the patient attempting to sit down or pass a motion. The diagnosis can be at once made by introducing the finger into the rectum, and the bone can usually be replaced without much difficulty. The displacement has, however, a tendency to recur, but this may sometimes be prevented by introducing a large plug of wool'in the rectum and retaining it there for a week or so, during which time the bowels are kept from acting by opium. Should recurrence of displacement occur in spite of this, the bone should be cut down upon by a median posterior incision and removed. In some cases persistent pain in the part follows the injury, even when no recurrent displacement occurs ; under these circumstances also, the bone may be removed. DISEASES OF THE SPINE Spina bifida is a congenital malformation due to the absence of one or more of the spines and neural arches of the spinal canal, and generally attended with the protrusion of the membranes, and generally the cord, through the gap which is thus left. Cases have been recorded where there has been a protrusion in front, through an hiatus left from defective development in the bodies of the vertebraij but these are mere pathological curiosities, and need not occupy our attention further. Etiology.—The condition arises, like so many other congenital mal- formations, from an arrest in development; from a failure in the process by which the medullary arches of the embryo, growing up on either side ot the primitive groove, fuse together and enclose a canal, which is the future central canal of the cord, and from the walls of which the spinal cord and its membranes are developed. As this fusion of the medullary arches takes place from above downwards, the cleft in the spinal canal is usually situated at the lower part; and spina bifida is most common in the lumbo- sacral region, but may occur elsewhere, as in the dorsal region, or the whole, or nearly the whole, of the spinal canal may remain open. Four diff'erent varieties of spina bifida are described : (i) meningocele; (2) meningo-myelocele; (3) syringo-myelocele; (4) spina bifida occulta. But in addition to these it must be mentioned that cases are met with where there is an entire absence of all attempt to form the medullary arches, and at birth the primitive groove may be seen patent, coverea o) nerve tissue, which is the spinal cord developed from the epiblast and spread out over its surface. To this condition the somewhat inappropriate term of mye/oce/e has been given. It is incompatible with life, and thereiore requires no further description. , .^Unm'H (1) Meningocele.—In this form the dura mater and arachnoiQ membranes only are protruded through the gap in the bones, the cora o Cauda equina, remaining in its normal position. The herniated sac or oag thus protruded outside the spinal canal contains cerebro-spinal ^uia, a freely communicates with the sub-arachnoid space. This is not a com form of spina bifida. Of the 125 cases examined by the Committee 01 Clinical Society, ten only were of this variety. f (2) Meningo-myelocele.-This is the .most common form .spina bifida. Of the 125 cases, 76 were of this ^ane y. I c^'^^ of a protrusion, not only of the membranes, but of the cord 'tselU"^- ^^j^^ The filum terminale of the cord is attached to the inner surface u