558 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES joint; afid the treatment by forcible rupture is still less so, the adhesions almost always re-forming. Should the ankylosis be at all firm, or should it be bony, the operation of excision should be seriously considered, and this more especially if the ankylosis has taken place in not quite the most satisfactory position. The results of this operation are most excellent, a joint being formed in which there is a very great range of movement and almost as much strength as in the natural one. Tuberculous arthritis is of common occurrence in the elbow joint; in these cases the forearm becomes semiflexed, the position of greatest ease and relaxation of ligaments. It must be borne in mind that the superior radio-ulnar joint forms part of the elbow joint, so that the power of supination and pronation is interfered with or lost. The disease in these cases may begin either in the synovial membrane or the bone. Loose bodies are very rarely met with in the elbow joint, and they do not, as a rule, give rise to the same urgent symptoms as they do in the knee. The elbow joint is occasionally the seat of osteo-arthritis, but not so frequently as some of the other larger articulations. Excision of the elbow joint may be required for tuberculous disease, severe injuries of the joint, and ankylosis. It is also occasionally called for in cases of disorganising arthritis, in old unreduced dislocations, and in osteo-arthritis. There are several ways of performing the opera- tion ; by H- or T-shaped incisions, or by a single vertical incision down the back of the joint. This latter is probably the best, and is the one most generally employed, and will be the one described here. It can easily be converted into a T-shaped incision by making a transverse cut across the external condyle, if from thickening and fixation of the parts there is not room enough for the necessary manipulations. The forearm is flexed to a right angle and held across the chest of the patient by an assistant, and a vertical incision is made over the back of the joint, some four or five inches in length, according to the amount of thickening of the tissues, so that the centre of it lies a line or two to the inner side of the top of the olecranon (fig. 197). This incision is made directly down to the bone, in its upper part dividing the tendon of the triceps longitudinally. The tendon is then separated from the upper surface of the olecranon, and this process cleared on its inner and outer surfaces, in dearing the olecranon great care should be taken to keep close to he bone so as to avoid woSnding the ulnar nerve on the inner side and the proToC^^^ of the triceps into the deep fascia of the forearm on the oute Sde It will now much facilitate proceedings if the olecranon is cut through with a D^r of cutting bone forceps and removed, though many surgeons Teave thrto a future^tage of the operation. The olecranon having been leave tn s introducing his thumb nto the wound and keeping Tnlifclose to't ^bo^ the soft parts, g-dually sepaijtes the s' uc ures from the internal condyle with the point of h.s knife 01 u h a perSeal elevator ; in this way he detaches the common tendon of origin Fig. 197.—Diagram show- ing the line of incision in excision of the elbow joint.