STAPHYLORRAPHY 647 On. account of the difficulties of the operation for closing a cleft in the palate, and the frequent failures which take place, many surgeons have recommended that an obturator should be adapted to the cleft in the hard palate, which would close it, and to which a flexible india-rubber leaflet should be attached, to take the place of the soft palate. They believe that rnore satisfactory results can be obtained by this means, and several varieties of obturators have been devised. But there are many objections to their use in children. In consequence of the constant growth in the mouth of the child, they require renewing frequently; they have to be fixed to the teeth, which they destroy and displace; by being wedged into the cleft they have a tendency to increase its size, and if not accurately fitted they often produce ulceration. The use of obturators should therefore be confined to adults, and to those cases in which opera- tions, perhaps more than once, have been undertaken and have failed. In the vast majority of cases it is advisable to attempt the closure of a cleft palate by operation. And the first point to consider is the best age at which to make the attempt. Some difference of opinion exists on this point, and something must depend upon the general condition of the patient and the extent of the cleft. In the young infant the operation should clearly not be undertaken ; it IS one of severity, is sometimes attended with considerable loss of blood, which the young infant is ill prepared to stand, and will often prove unsuccessful. Many surgeons, however, recommend operation at the age of twelve months. For my own part, I do not think operations at this age are desirable. There is no real necessity for them, for if the child has been reared to this age, it is probable that there will be no difficulty in continuing to maintain its nutrition. I think the operation should be delayed as long as possible, and this for two or three reasons. The older the child is, the better able he is to withstand the operation; the longer he lives up to a certain date the smaller will be the cleft which has to be closed, for during the first two or three years of life the palatal segments of the maxillary process, in a case of cleft palate, have a tendency to grow mwards and partially narrow the cleft; and thirdly, the muco-periosteum covermg the palate tends to thicken as the child grows, and thus forms a more substantial and more vascular flap. I have seen many cases of cleft palate where the muco-periosteum in young infants was exceedingly thin and almost diaphanous, who a year or two afterwards have had a thickened structure well adapted for operation. When, however, a child attains the age of two and a half or three years, he begins to speak, and then a real necessity for operation arises ; for if he is once allowed to acquire a nasal intonation, it will be found an exceedingly difficult thing to eradicate it. The time, therefore, that I recommend, as a rule, for the operation is about the age of three years, or as soon as the child begins to speak. In some cases where the child's nutrition is very defective, or where the cleft is a very wide one, it may be prudent to wait even longer than this. Operation.—Two different names have been given to the operations tor uniting a cleft in the palate: where the soft palate only is cleft and requires operating upon, the term staphylorraphy is applied ; but where the hard palate is the part involved, the operation of closing it is called uranoplasty. So that when both hard and soft palates are involved, the complete operation for closure would be uranoplasty and staphy- lorraphy. It is the. usual practice to deal with the two conditions at the same time when it can be done, but there are some cases where there is a