36o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES Ligature of the common femoral.—The thigh should be abducted and rotated outwards, and an incision, about two and a half inches in length, made in a somewhat oblicjue direction over the course of the artery, commencing just above Poupart's ligament. Having divided the skin and superficial fascia, any glands or superficial veins which present themselves are to be drawn aside and the fascia lata divided. The pulsa- tion of the artery will then be felt. The sheath is now to be opened, about an inch below Poupart's ligament; care being taken to avoid the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, which lies in front of it, and the needle passed round the artery from the inner side. Ligature of the superficial femoral at the apex of Scarpa's triangle (fig. 112). The limb is to be flexed, abducted, and rotated out- wards, and an incision made along the inner border of the sartorius muscle, or if the border of the muscle cannot be defined, in a line from a point upon it; occasionally the long Fig. 112.—Ligature of superficial femoral at the saphenous nerve may also be apex of Scarpa's triangle, i, superficial femoral visible. The sheath is now the point of a director and the aneurism needle passed from within out- wards, great care being observed to keep close to the vessel, so as to avoid contusing the vein, which is very liable to be injured, as it lies behind and to the inner side of the artery. Ligature of the superficial femoral in Hunter's canal.—The limb having been placed in the same position as in ligature of the artery at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, an incision is made in the course of the artery; that is, in the line from a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tubercle. The incision should be three inches in length, and its centre correspond to a point midway between the groin and the knee. The skin and fasciae are divided and the sartorius exposed ; the outer border, which will correspond to the incision in this situation, is to be drawn inwards, and the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal will be exposed. This is to be divided on a director, and the artery will then be found. Its sheath is to be opened and the artery cleared, care being midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the adductor tuber- cle on the lower end of the femur. The incision should be about three inches in length, with its centre a hand's breadth below Pou- part's ligament. The skin and fascife having been divided, the inner border of the sartorius will be exposed, and is to be drawn slightly outwards. The sheath of the vessels will then be seen, with the long muscular branch to the vastus internus lying artery ; 2, sartorius muscle. to be opened on its outer side and the artery cleared with