GENERAL INJURIES lOO reaction sets in ; the pulse becomes stronger; the face flushes ; headache is complained of or the patient may become delirious. Formerly suppura- tion was the almost inevitable consequence of a gunshot wound, and even in the present day healing without suppuration is comparatively rare, on account of the absence of suitable treatment in the first instance, and the insanitary conditions to which the sufferers are unavoidably exposed in the crowded hospitals in times of war. Forty-eight hours or so after the receipt of the injury the patient will be found in a state of septic traumatic fever, complaining of acute pain in the wound, the tissues around which will be found to be swollen and tense, with heat of the part and redness. These symptoms are due to the retention in the wound of putrid matter and exudation, and they speedily culminate in suppuration. The discharge is profuse and offensive, and the septic absorption which takes place from the wound is so considerable that the patient may sink into a state of profound septiccemia and die. Should he not do so, the fever generally diminishes about the tenth day; this is due to granulations having formed over the surfaces of the wound, and these form a barrier to the absorption of so great an amount of septic material. A period of great danger to the patient is while the sloughs are separating, because during this period secondary haemorrhage is very liable to occur, more so in the olden days than at present. It may be that the bullet, in its course, has struck some vessel of importance, without actually dividing its coats. The force of the blow has been so great that the vitality of the vessel at the point struck has been destroyed, and the injured tissues must be got rid of; when they separate, perforation in the vessel takes place and secondary hsemorrhage is the result. In other cases where the vessel has been bruised without being cut, thrombosis may occur and gangrene of the limb result, especially if the vein has also been injured. And again in other cases a traumatic aneurism or an arterio-venous aneurism may be the result of the injury to the vessel walls. Treatment.—The immediate treatment has first to be considered. The first indications for the surgeon are to combat the pain, the shock, and the haemorrhage, if there is any. The pain, if severe, should be relieved by a hypodermic injection of morphia. The shock, if it is very great, is best over- come by the subcutaneous injection of ether (30 or 40 minims) or a solution of strychnine (^V of a grain). If not so severe the patient should be kept recumbent, with the head low: wrapped up as warmly as possible and some hot fluid administered ; beef tea, coffee, or brandy, according to the requirements of the case. In transporting him to the field hospital the bearers should be cautioned not to raise the head, but carry it on a rather lower level than the rest of the body. With regard to the hsemorrhage, this was formerly not an important feature in the treatment of the case, but is likely to be more so in the future. Many experienced military surgeons have stated that they have never met with a case of primary hsemorrhage on the battle-field, that required a ligature. The patient was either dead before any assistance could be aflbrded, or else the hsemorrhage had stopped or was not formidable enough to require an immediate ligature. Should, however, bleeding occur and require treat- ment, it is better on the battle-field to arrest the hasmorrhage temporarily with a tourniquet and then transport the patient with all expedition to the field hospital, where it can be more efficiently dealt with. The tourniquet may be improvised by tying the soldier's scarf or handkerchief round the limb, and then introducing a bayonet or the scabbard of a sword between