ATHEROMA it, disintegrate, and so cause coagulation and the formation of a thrombus ; or portions of the plate may become detached, carried into the blood stream, and form an embolus in some distant vessel. This condition is known under the name of laminar calcification or secondary calcification, to distinguish it from the ' primary ' calcification of the middle coat (fig. 91). After the formation of the atheromatous patch in the deeper layers of the intima, the other coats of the artery become involved. The middle coat becomes infiltrated with round cells, and the muscle cells become destroyed and replaced by cellular growth; the outer coat becomes much thickened by the formation of a compensatory fibroid material. Causes.—Atheroma is a disease of advanced life, and is produced by long-continued mechanical strain. There is abundant evidence to prove that anything which increases the strain or pressure of the blood within the Fig. 91.—Calcification of arteries. A, Primary or annular calcification ; b, Secondary or laminar calcification. vessels tends to produce atheroma. Thus, it is more frequent in men than in women, and when it occurs in the latter sex it is found in those who have been engaged in laborious occupations. Again, the positions in which it is found in the arterial system are those where there is the greatest amount of strain. It is most common in the'arch of the aorta, which has to bear the greatest strain at each contraction of the ventricles. It is also frequently met with at the points of bifurcation of the arteries, or around the orifices of lateral branches, or where an artery is curved or rides over a bone, situations in which necessarily the pressure or strain must be greater than elsewhere. Thirdly, certain constitutional conditions in which there is increased pressure in the vessels tend to produce atheroma. Thus in Bright's disease, in which obstruction to the flow of blood through the arterioles and capillaries is set up by the arterio-capillary fibrosis induced by the renal trouble, and consequently increased pressure behind in the larger vessels, atheroma is exceedingly common. Gout acts