92 GENERAL INJURIES rapidly upon the onset of the symptoms that there is not time for the drug to talve effect. Recently it has been suggested by MM. Roux and Borrel to perform intracerebral injections of the antitoxine on the following grounds. There appears to be a very strong affinity between tetanus toxine and the cells of the brain and spinal cord; the bacteria at the seat of inoculation produce the toxine, which is absorbed and taken up by the cells of the central nervous system and fixed there. If this fixation of the toxine in the central nerve cells has taken place, the patient cannot be cured by antitoxine administered hypodermically, as the central nerve cells do not take up the antitoxine from the blood, or, at all events, are not influenced by it; but if the antitoxine is injected directly into the cerebral substance, the progress of the disease is arrested. The operation is performed by perforating the frontal bone with a drill, and introducing through this puncture a needle, with a rounded point, into the substance of the frontal lobe in front of the motor area, and on each side. Through this needle is injected 2^ c.cm. of doubly strong antitetanic serum. This is to be done very slowly, so as to avoid breaking up the brain substance. At the same time antitoxine is injected hypodermically in the usual way. Tetanus is daily becoming more and more rare owing to the greater attention of sur- geons to aseptic surgery, and I think that its treatment ought to be one rather of prevention than cure. Trismus Neonatorum.—A form of tetanus which has been digni- fied by a special name requires a brief mention. This is the tetanus of new- born infants, known popularly under the name of ' nine-day fits,' because its advent is usually ushered in about the ninth day after birth. This is a true traumatic tetanus, and is due to the infection of the umbilical cord, during division, after delivery. It is very common in tropical climates, and usually runs a very acute course and terminates fatally. There is nothing, how- ever, special about these cases to distinguish them from ordinary tetanus. c. Glanders is another form of infective disease, which is due to the accidental inoculation of a specific poison, derived generally from the horse, ass, or mule. The poison is a specific organism, the bacillus mallei, which appears to occur primarily in the horse, and from this animal may be transmitted to man and some of the lower animals, whilst others, as oxen and pigs, are incapable of taking the disease. The bacillus mallei is a rod-shaped organism, somew^hat resembling the tubercle bacillus, but is somewhat broader, though of about the same length. It was experimentally proved fifteen years ago by Loeffler and Schiitz to be the cause of glanders. In the horse the veterinary surgeon distinguishes two diseases, glaitders and farcy, which are, however, believed to be pathologically identical. Glanders in the horse is characterised by a viscid tenacious discharge from the nostrils, with ulceration of the nasal mucous membrane ; accompanied by enlargement and stony hardness of the sub-maxillary lymphatic glands, which become adherent to the bone. Farcy, on the other hand, is characterised by enlargement of the lymphatic glands, especially on the inner side of the legs; the lymphatic vessels running from and to these glands also become enlarged and solid, so that they can be felt as hard, nodulated cords. The enlarged glands are known as farcy buds. In man the two diseases are generally combined and run their course together. That is to say, there is in man both the acrid discharge from the nostril and also the presence of the farcy buds. The disease is always communicated by inoculation, generally through some slight sore or wound