1057 HYSTERECTOMY is divided, and two of the free ends are now tied on the inner border of the ligament, and the other two on the outer. One pair of ends are cut off short, the other are made to encircle the whole pedicle, and again tied, and then cut off short. The same proceeding is repeated on the other side. While the liga- tures are being tied the forceps should be re- moved, the ovary and tube being held by an assistant, so that the knot may be tied as tightly as possible. The broad ligament, with the Fallopian tube and the ligament of the ovary, is now divided with scissors external to the encircling ligature and removed. The pedicles must be examined to see that they are per- fectly dry, the peritoneal Fig. 399.—Mode of grasping the appendages and in- cavity sponged out if serting the needle in oophorectomy. (Alter Doran.) necessary, and the ex- (From ' Operations of Surgery,'by Jacobson.) ternal wound closed. Hysterectomy.—Three different operations have been performed for removal of the uterus in cases of uterine fibroids, (i) Supra-vaginal hysterectomy, where the main bulk of the uterus is cut away and the stump, consisting of the cervix, encircled by a wire constrictor, is brought outside the abdominal wall and fixed there, and allowed to separate. (2) Supra-vaginal hysterectomy, where the uterine and ovarian arteries are secured separately, and the stump, consisting of the cervix, is returned, the peritoneal edges being sutured over it, so as to avoid, if possible, septic infection through the cervical canal, which has been cut across. Neither of these operations is completely satisfactory. In the first the pedicle becomes adherent to the abdominal wall; there is the prolonged period of separation of the stump with its consequent dangers, and the abdominal cicatrix is not so firm as one resulting from immediate union. In the second there is always the danger of septic inflammation of the peiitoneum through the cervix, which allows of a communication between the vagina and the under surface of the peritoneum, which is sutured over the end of the stump. It seems probable that in the future these two operations will be entirely superseded by (3) pan-hysterectomy, or removal of the whole of the uterus. This operation, which is comparatively new, has already yielded the most satisfactory results. It will be sufificient if we describe this third operation, which, though more difficult of performance, is the one which should be selected, and which is performed as follows: For some days prior to the operation the external genitals must be thoroughly cleansed, and the vagina frequently syringed out with a solution of corrosive sublimate, and plugged with iodoform wool. An hour or two before the operation the lower bowel should be emptied by a copious enema.' The 3 Y