GENERAL DISEASES 15° • CHAPTER II ERYSIPELAS Erysipelas is an infective inflammatory process which may affect the skin, mucous or serous surfaces, with or without implication of the underlying cellular tissue; or which may affect the cellular tissue alone without any implication of the cutaneous, mucous, or serous surfaces. In this chapter it will be considered mainly as affecting the cutaneous surfaces and the cellular tissue, and will be described under three heads: I. Simple cutaneous erysipelas, where the inflammation is con- fined to the skin. 2. Cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous ery- sipelas, where the skin and cellular tissue beneath are involved. 3. Cellular erysipelas or cellulitis, where, the inflammation affects the cellular tissue with little or no implication of the skin. In all forms the inflammation is characterised by the same tendency to spread with great rapidity by continuity of tissue. Pathology.—The exciting cause in all cases of erysipelas is the intro- duction of a micro-organism, but it is not yet certain whether the micro- organism is the same in the two varieties of erysipelas—namely, that ^yhich attacks the cutaneous surfaces, and that which attacks the subcutaneous tissue. With regard to their morphology and their behaviour in artificial cultiva- tions, the infecting microbes cannot in most cases be distinguished from each other; but when introduced into the human body, the effects they produce are in one respect characteristically different from each other. In the simple cutaneous erysipelas the inflammation spreads without, as a rule, any tendency to suppurate, whereas in the cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas suppuration is the rule, rather than the exception. About the simple cutaneous erysipelas there is no doubt. It has been abundantly proved by the experiments of Fehleisen and others that there is a specific microbe, the Streptococcus erysipelatis, \A-\v:\-\ vi, the essential cause of cutaneous erysipelas. Fehleisen cultivated this micro-organism on gelatine and coagulated serum through many generations, until he believed that he had got a perfectly pure cultivation ; this he inoculated not only into the lower animals, but also into the human subject, and produced typical erysipelas. These results have been confirmed by others, so that there is no question as to the specific nature of this microbe. Furthermore, Fehleisen denied, as the conclusion at which he had arrived^ as the result of his experiments, that this micrococcus can cause suppuration. If this is true, we must account for those rare cases where suppuration does undoubtedly occur in cutaneous erysipelas by supposing that there has been a mixed infection of the streptococcus erysipelatis with some of the pyogenic organisms. The cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas is also caused by a streptococcus, but