46 GENERAL INJURIES more likely, prematurely aged and broken down in constitution by his intemperance, I believe that alcohol is absolutely required, but it should not be given in the enormous quantities with which it was the fashion some years ago to treat these cases, but in small and frequently repeated doses. A teaspoonful or a couple of teaspoonsful of brandy given every two or three hours has a far more decided and beneficial effect than a larger dose given at longer intervals. Remote constitutional effects of injuries.—Constitutional effects of a very varied character are liable to be set up by severe injuries, and these are usually to be traced to some functional derangement of the nervous system, which manifests itself after the local injury has been com- pletely recovered from, the patient never appearing to entirely regain his normal condition of health. This condition is known under the name of Traumatic Neui'asthenia. It most frequently occurs in those persons whose general health is lowered at the time of the injury, either from organic disease, or from overstrain produced by prolonged work, or privation, or deficient sleep, &c. It also appears to be more common in females than in males. The symptoms characteristic of this condition may not come on for some considerable time after the injury, but it will always be found that there has never been a complete restoration of health from the time of the accident to the occurrence of the more pronounced symptoms, though the local effects of the injury may have long passed entirely away. This condition manifests itself in various ways, but especially in derangements of the circulatory and vaso-motor systems. The patient complains of a feeling of general malaise, and his appearance shows that he is not well, he looks wan and ill, and there is often an expression of anxiety on his face. He is restless, is unable to fix his attention on any occupation, and complains of early fatigue and exhaustion if he attempts to do any work, either mental or physical. His sleep is disturbed and broken, and he often suffers from frightful dreams. There is great nervousness, the patient starts at any sudden noise, often loses control over the emotions, and will on the slightest cause, and sometimes without any cause at all, burst into fits of hysterical crying. He is also depressed and despondent. Combined with these symptoms there is palpitation and irregular action of the heart, impairment of the general muscular power, coldness of the extremities from defective nutrition, sensations of heat and cold, and sometimes excessive sweating. If there is no organic disease, recovery, in the- majority of cases, is complete, but in others a permanent condition is set up from which the patient never recovers, and cases have been recorded where death has supervened suddenly from failure of the heart's action some months after the accident, and in which, on post-mortem examination, no lesion of the nervous system has been found. The treatment in these cases consists essentially in rest, good air, and good food. The patient should be sent into tha country, and should pass his time as much as possible in the open air : he should abstain from all work either mental or physical, but especially the former, and should have light, easily digestible food in small quantities at frequent intervals. With regard to medicines, no drug has any special influence on this condition, but tonics, by improving the general health, assist in bringing about recovery : of these, Easton's syrup, combined with dilute hydro- bromic acid, is perhaps the best. " "