TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE BREAST 1099 In atrophic cancer some difference of opinion exists as to the propriety of removing the breast. My own feeUng is in favour of leaving it alone ; the disease is exceedingly chronic, is not attended with much pain or dis- comfort, and in many cases the patient dies of some other disease. More- over, it is a well-recognised fact that in many cases where an atrophying scirrhus is removed, it returns rapidly, and in a far more active form, and speedily destroys the life of the patient. In cases of duct cancer it is usually wiser to remove the whole breast, if the diagnosis of cancer is thoroughly established, but as in these cases it is almost impossible 10 distinguish between duct papilloma and duct cancer in its early stage, except by microscopic examination, it is justifiable in a doubtful case to excise first the affected lobule, and subject it to microscopic examination; if the results of this examination show that the disease has perforated the wall of the duct, and is infiltrating the surrounding tissues, excision of the whole breast should at once be performed. It appears, however, unnecessary in these cases to interfere with the glands in the axilla. Cases unfit for the ordinary operation of removal of the breast.—In speaking of the cases unfit for operation, it was stated that when there was extensive oedema, and pain in the arm from involve- ment of the axillary vessels and nerves, no operation should be performed. It must be mentioned, however, that in cases of recurrent cancer of the axilla, associated with great oedema, and excessive pain in the arm, it has been proposed by Berger to remove the whole of the upper limb with the scapula. And in those cases where the sufferings of the patient are very great the operation is justifiable, provided the glands at the root of the neck are not extensively implicated; but it is only in extreme cases that the operation is called for. Recently it has been proposed by Beatson of Edinburgh to perform the • operation of oophorectomy in cases of inoperable cancer, and combine with this the administration of thyroid extract, which he regards as a ' powerful lymphatic stimulant,' in the hope that the growth of the cancer might be arrested. Stanley Boyd has adopted this plan of treatment in seven cases, and states that, in his opinion, in two of these cases the beneficial effect was indubitable ; in two, probable; and that there was no improvement, or very doubtful improvement, in three. He states that he considers that ' oopho- rectomy is of value as a paUiative operation.' With regard to the thyroid extract, he says that the cfises in which he has tried it ' afford little evidence that it has any action upon the disease.' Independently of these operations the treatment of inoperable cancer of the breast must consist in local applications to relieve pain and destroy fcetor ; in the administration of narcotics to soothe the patient and promote sleep, and in careful dietary. The most useful local applications are iodoform,' to which a small pro- portion of morphia is added; or the breast should be douched with a solution of sulphurous acid (i in 40), or of chlorinated soda (one drachm of liq. sodte chlorinatce to one pint of water), and then covered with a strong solution of chloral hydrate, or a hemlock poultice. If bleeding occurs it can generally be arrested by soaking a pledget of wool in the liquor ferri perchloridi, and pressing it over the bleeding spot.. When the pain becomes so great that it cannot be relieved by local measures, general ' The 'iodoformum aromaticum,' which contains 2 per cent, of coumarin, should be used in order to destroy the offensive odour of the iodoform. • '