STOMATITIS the irritation of a jagged or carious tooth ; the constant ingestion of hot foods, strong condiments, or raw spirits ; the fumes of tobacco smoke and other chemical irritants ; or it may be associated with disturbances of the digestive organs; or, finally, it may arise in the course of fevers, especially the exanthematous in children. The disease is characterised by increased redness and swelling of the mucous membrane, which becomes oedematous and indented by pressure against the teeth : there is an increased secretion of a viscid character, and sometimes salivation. There is a clammy feel about the mouth, sometimes pain on taking hot food, a nasty taste, and foul breath. The epithelium covering the mucous membrane becomes white and sodden, and in some cases there is superficial ulcerarion. The treatment consists in frequently washing out the mouth with some mild antiseptic mouth-wash, as boric acid or chlorate of potash (gr. x to gj), and administering chlorate of potash internally. The diet should be fluid, consisting of milk, beef tea, &c. Ulcerative stomatitis is a further development of the simple form, and in many cases occurs from the same causes in persons of unhealthy constitution, or who are crowded together under bad hygienic conditions. It may also arise from septic forms of inflammation following injuries or operations about the mouth. The eariy symptoms are much the same as in the simple form, but there is more swelling and great pain, so that taking food is almost impossible. The mucous membrane presents greyish sloughy patches; the gums are swollen and recede from the bone, exposing it, and they bleed on the slightest touch. There is profuse sali- vation, and the breath is foetid. The constitutional symptoms are severe, and are accompanied by great exhaustion. The treatment is the same as for the simple form, but great attention should be paid to the hygienic surroundings of the patient, and change of air is often followed by the happiest results. Tonics, especially quinine, and stimulants must be given where there is debility. Aphthous stomatitis occurs mainly in infants and ill-fed children. In this condition, in addition to the diffused general stomatitis, there are whitish, slightly raised patches on the mucous membrane, surrounded by an inflammatory zone; this is due to fibrinous exudation into the superficial layers of the mucous membrane and a degeneration of the epithelium. As the epithehum is shed, superficial ulcers are formed, which may become more or less confluent. The treatment must consist in attention to the general health. The milk which is given should be absolutely pure, and It IS often of advantage to change the source of supply, as it is believed by some that the disease may be caused by the milk from diseased cows. 1 he mouth should be constantly washed out with chlorate of potash or boric acid lotion and borax and honey, or the glycerine of borax mav be used. Thrush is a very analogous aff'ection to the foregoing, but should be carefully distinguished from it, as it arises from a distinct and special cause—the parasitic fungus {Oidhim albicans). This fungus is found m acid milk, and the sahva of the child is also acid. The treatment is the same as for the aphthous form, except that no sugar should be given, as this IS a favourite food for the fungus on which it flourishes. Specific stomatitis may be the result of a mercurial, syphilitic or scorbutic condition. Mercurial stomatitis may be due to the excessive administration of mercury, or to some idiosyncrasy on the part ot the patient which renders him susceptible to the drug. Individuals