CHAPTER X SURGICAL DISEASES DUE TO PARASITES The term Animal Parasite includes ' all those forms of creatures which in a direct manner, by dwelling in or upon other livmg ammals, or by merely visiting or momentarily alighting on the surface of the body, are thus enabled to acquire means of subsistence' (Cobbold). Etymologically, a parasite means one who feeds on or with another {para, beside ; siteo, I feed), and therefore an animal parasite means an anunal which lives on another. So that the term would include all those microbes, such as those of glanders, anthrax, &c., which we have already considered. In this place we shall briefly allude to those other varieties of creatures which take up their residence in the tissues of the body and produce diseases which are usually recognised as surgical, excluding, however, those creatures which only temporarily sojourn on the surface of the body for the purpose of obtaining food, and do not live within their host, such as mosquitoes, bugs, fleas, &:c. ECHINOCOCCUS The echinococcus is a tapeworm about a quarter of an inch in length which infests the intestinal canal of the dog, wolf, and jackal. Its ova find their way into the stomach of the human subject in water or food con- taminated by the excrement of one of these animals. As soon as the ova enter the stomach, their capsule is dissolved by the gastric juice, and the liberated embryo, by means of hook-shaped processes with which it is pro- vided, bores its way through the coats of the viscus, frequently entering a blood-vessel, and by it is carried to diff'erent parts of the body, where the embryo develops into the so-called bladder stage, producing an hydatid cyst. The liver, presenting the first set of capillaries through which the embryo has to pass, is the most frequent place in which arrest takes place, but by no means the only one, for hydatid cysts have been found in almost all the organs and tissues of the body. When lodgment of the embryo has taken place, a capsule of fibrous tissue forms around it, as the result of irritation and inflammation of the neighbouring tissues. To this the name of ectocyst is given ; within this is the wall of the true cyst, called the endocyst. This latter is a semitrans- parent, elastic membrane, which consists of two layers, an outer laminated layer, which curls up in a characteristic fashion when liberated, and an inner germinal layer from which the scolices or heads of the taenia are developed. These are just visible to the naked eye, as minute sohd bodies attached by a constricted neck or stalk to the interior of the cyst. They are provided with four section discs and a ring of booklets, which