GENERAL DISEASES 134 venous circulation from gradual diminution in their calibre, as in calcifi- cation or atheroma in the arteries; or else from the sudden obstruction to the flow of blood through them from accident, ligature, thrombosis, or embolism. Gangrene due to gradual diminution in the calibre of the arteries is generally known under the name of senile gangrene. But in this form of gangrene the diminution of the calibre of the vessels is only one of the factors in the production of the disease ; another and perhaps an equally important factor is a weak heart, whose propulsive power is not sufficient to drive the blood onwards through the vessels, especially in the lower limbs. In addition to this, senile gangrene has generally some exciting cause, in the form of inflammation induced by some slight injury, which throws an extra strain upon the enfeebled circulation. The cause- of the gradual diminution in the calibre of the arteries is generally primary calcification, a senile change in the muscle cells of the middle coats of the arteries which converts them into rigid tubes. But it may also be due to atheroma, which when it affects the smaller vessels is especially apt to undergo secondary calcification, and appear as calcareous plates on the inner surface of the artery. These are liable to excite thrombosis. Whether they do or not, the lumen of the tube is much diminished from the irregular thickening, and the circulation of the blood interfered with. Senile gangrene is, as its name implies, a disease of advanced life, rarely appearing before sixty, and it is much more common in the male than in the female. This form of gangrene is usually ushered in by certain premonitory symptoms due to the defective supply of blood to the part. Thus, the patient complains of cold feet, which no amount of warmth seems to relieve. He "also complains of all sorts of abnormal sensations, ting- lings, or feelmg of ' pins and needles;' a sensation of weight in the limbs ; and frequently says that he feels as if he were walking on cotton wool. He suffers also from cramp, especially in the muscles of the calf. If under these circumstances the patient is examined, it will be found that the arteries are hard, rigid, and incompressible, and probably no pulsation will be felt in the tibials at the level of the ankle joint. ^ The actual advent of the disease is usually ushered in by some slight irajury; the patient chafes his foot with an ill-fitting boot, or in paring his nails or a corn he inflicts a slight scratch. The part inflames, the skin around the little wound becomes of a dusky red hue, and in the centre of this there is a little black spot. Or the gangrene sets in without any apparent exciting cause, a toe becomes swollen, red and oedematous, and on the end of the toe a black spot appears. Occasionally the toe be- comes black and shrivelled without any appearance of inflammation ; but, as a rule, an inflamed area precedes the formation of the gangrenous spot. Once started, the condition slowly spreads. The black patch extends into the area of redness, and, as it does so, afresh halo of inflammation appears. One of the great characteristics of the disease is the intense burning, smarting pain by which it is accompanied. In fact, it is the only thing of which the patient complains, and his general health does not, as a rule> suffer at first. After a time, as the disease progresses and the pain con- tinues, he becomes worn out by it and by the want of sleep ; he be- coiries weak and restless, with a feeble pulse, and dies exhausted. In addition to this, if great care is not observed in keeping the part aseptic, especially at the line of demarcation after it has formed, and where a suppurative process is going on, septic absorption may take place.