942 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Through this puncture a small sound is introduced, and the pelvis and calyces of the kidney systematically explored. In this way a stone, if present, can usually be detected. When the stone is found, a tenotomy knife is passed through the substance of the kidney down on to it, till the point of the instrument can be felt to grate against the stone; a director is then passed down by the tenotome, and along the director a pair of dressing forceps; by opening these the wound is dilated and the stone freely exposed. It can then most easily be removed by a scoop, which prises it out of its bed. In puncturing the kidney the haemorrhage is usually very free for a few minutes, but it usually soon stops upon the application of a little pressure. If not, the wound in the kidney should be plugged with gauze, which may be removed at the end of twenty-four hours. When the stone is situated in the pelvis of the kidney, this part must be incised and the stone removed; but under these circumstances urinary fistula is more likely to result, as wounds in this situation heal with much less readiness than wounds through the parenchyma. After the operation is completed a drainage tube should be inserted down to the opening in the kidney, the rest of the wound sutured and dressed with gauze and a thick layer of wood wool wadding impregnated with corrosive sublimate. This will require frequent changing, as it becomes soaked with urine, which will probably escape for three or four days. When the stone in the kidney has set up a condition of pyo-nephrosis, and the organ has been converted into a bag of cysts, filled with pus, in which the stone or stones are lying, the operation of nephrotomy should first be performed. . ... Nephrotomy.—The kidney must be exposed by a similar incision to that for nephro-Uthotomy. When the kidney is freely exposed and • drawn up into the wound, it is to be punctured with a tenotome, and through the puncture a pair of dressing forceps inserted, by means of which the wound is dilated. When the pus has escaped, the finger is introduced mto the abscess cavity, the stones felt for and removed with forceps, and the cavity well sluiced out with antiseptic solution and a large drainage tube inserted into the kidney. The rest of the wound is then sutured and dressed. In some cases, the source of irritation having been removed, the abscess cavity may fill up and the wound heal; but in many cases this is not so, a sinus persists and continues to discharge pus, and when it is known, from the exploration of the kidney which was made at the tinie of the nephrotomy, that the renal parenchyma was considerably destroyed, nephrectomy or removal of the kidney must be resorted to, provided there is reason to believe that the other kidney is in a sound working condition. i. i i u Nephrectomy.—This operation may usually be done by the lumoar incision which will be described in the sequel; but it must be borne in mind that the kidney must be removed from its capsule, and this latter structure left behind. There has in these cases been so much peri-nephntis that the structures around the kidney will be all firmly matted together and to the capsule, so that it will be found to be impossible to remove it. Tuberculous kidney.—Tuberculous disease of the kidney may arise in two ways : It may commence as a primary deposit taking place in the kidney, or it may be the result of general tuberculous disease ol tne genito-urinary tract, and be due to an extension upwards from tuberculous disease of the bladder. Under these circumstances both kidneys are