GENERAL DISEASES i8o The first thing which usually draws the patient's attention to the part is intense itching, and on examination a little papule at the seat of inocula- tion may be found ; this increases, becomes somewhat button-shaped and hard, with clearly defined margins. The epithelium covering it then dis- appears, and an exposed raw surface is established. It now forms a slightly cup-shaped, rounded mass, distinctly circumscribed, which can be pinched up between the finger and thumb, and feels like a button of carti- lage with a depressed centre. The tissues around this circumscribed mass are apparently perfectly natural and free from any implication in the disease. The discharge from the surface is very slight, and if the sore has not been irritated by dressings, friction, or such like, on examinarion under the microscope it will be found to consist of epithelial debris in a clear fluid ; no pus cells will be discoverable; but if the sore has been irritated, then pus corpuscles can be found. This is the true Hunterian chancre; but every specific chancre does not present these appearances, sometimes the sore is the prominent feature, and the induration does not extend beyond it; that is to say, there is only induration under the base of the sore and not around it, and in some cases it is very slight. It has been compared by Ricord to parchment. Between this condition and the true Hunterian chancre are found a series of gradations, but in all there is a certain though varying amount of induration. The number of chancres in any given case depends upon the number of points of inoculation ; in most cases, therefore, the sore is single. In this respect the chancre resembles vaccination, where a vesicle is formed at each point of inocula- tion. In another point it also resembles vaccination, and that is, that as soon as the period of incubation is over and the local manifestations of the disease appear, no further result can be obtained by inoculating the patient. It will be seen, then, that the main difference between the hard and soft sore is the presence of induration in the former and its absence in the latter, at all events in the characteristic form in which it occurs in the Hunterian chancre. In the soft sore there is a process of true ulceration, and the discharge from the surface is true pus ; any induration that there may be is merely inflammatory exudation and the tissues are infiltrated with leucocytes. In the hard sore there is the formation of a new^ tissue at the seat of inoculation which produces the induration, and consists of small round cells, with some large multinucleated cells, which to some extent resemble the giant cells of tubercle, but are more regular in outline. Within a very short time after the appearance of the hard sore the neigh- bouring inguinal lymphatic glands become enlarged, and can be felt under the skin as hard, bullety, almond-shaped bodies. They are quite isolated from each other, freely movable, and there is no inflammation of the structures around. The greater proportion of infecting chancres in the male occur on the delicate epithelial surface of the glans penis or the inner aspect of the prepuce. The most frequent situation is in the retro-preputial fold, especi- ally on its under surface at the frtenum. They are also not uncommon around the meatus urinarius, but chancres in the canal itself are rare. In the female, chancres are most commonly found on the inner aspect of the labia minora; they are not unfrequently concealed between the rugte of the mucous membrane, and may escape detection unless a most careful exami- nation is made. They occur sometimes on the cervix or os uteri; but rarely if ever occur on the lining membrane of the vagina. In addition