VASECTOMY IN ENLARGED PROSTATE 987 pelvis is then raised considerably, so that the intestines gravitate to the upper part of the abdominal cavity, and the peritoneum being carried with them, is not in danger of being wounded. The bladder having been exposed through a median incision, is opened, and the edges of the wound well retracted. It can then be illuminated by a small electric lamp, and the mucous membrane over the projecting part of the prostate divided ; and, partly by means of the fingers and partly by scissors, the whole mass is enucleated. The htemorrhage is often very free, but can usually be controlled with hot water. The most suitable case for this operation is where a pedunculated or encapsuled tumour exists ; but even in those cases where the whole organ is enlarged, those portions which cause the obstruction can be removed, to the great relief of the patient. 4. White of Pennsylvania, and Ramm of Christiania, have recommended castration in enlarged prostate, on the principle that removal of the ovaries causes diminution in size of fibroid tumours of the uterus ; and that a similar diminution might be expected to take place in the prostate if the testicles were removed. Griffiths says that after castration the gland undergoes degenerative changes, which lead to its conversion into a small tough and fibrous mass, in which there are only remains of the glandular tubules and ducts. William White affirms that rapid atrophy of the prostatic enlargement followed the operation in 87-2 per cent, of the cases, and that the deaths were 20 in iii; that is to say, a percentage of 18. Unilateral castration was in some instances followed by unilateral atrophy. The operation has been frequently performed, and many surgeons speak well of it. There is no doubt that it has been followed in some by an actual diminution in size of the gland in a very few days; but the operation is one of considerable risk in an old man, and in many cases in which the operation has been performed the results have not been satisfactory. More experience is required before a definite opinion in its favour .can be given. 5. Reginald Harrison, recognising the danger of double castration, has recommended vasectomy, or excision of a portion of the vas deferens of either side, in place of castration. The operation in his hands has yielded some good results, and, as it is a much simpler and less dangerous operation than castration, it should in my opinion be pre- ferred to it. To sum up the treatment of enlarged prostate. So long as the patient can pass a catheter, and does not suffer from constant cystitis with great irritability of the bladder, or from frequent haemorrhage, the catheter life should be persevered in. But when these evils supervene, then operative interference should be undertaken. When the obstruction arises from a bar across the neck of the bladder, and there is a considerable amount of cystitis present, a prostatotomy should be performed, and the bladder drained for a time, or a permanent fistulous opening in the perineum formed. When it can be ascertained with the cystoscope that there is a localised projecting outgrowth into the bladder, prostatectomy should be resorted to, and the operations of vasectomy, and certainly castration, reserved for those hopeless cases for which no other plan_ of treatment seems applicable. White himself does not advocate castration in every case of enlarged prostate. He says that as long as the patient is not very old, retains his sexual power, has sound kidneys and only a moderate amount of residual urine, the operation should not be resorted to ; but if the age is great, and the sexual powers gready diminished or