278 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES maligna the disease begins in the same way; the nail becomes shrivelled, black, and loosened, and eventually separated, leaving a foul excavated ulcer, exuding a foetid discharge. This ulcer shows little tendency to heal if untreated, and may spread until the bone becomes exposed and necrosed, or the neighbouring joint opened. Treatment.—If the nail has not separated, it should be removed and the part dressed with iodoform. If there is any suspicion of its being syphilitic, black wash applied locally and the usual constitutional treatment for syphilis is indicated. In many cases scraping the surface of the sore will expedite the cure. Ingrowing of the Nail.—This is an exceedingly painful affec- tion arising from wearing pointed boots, so that the toes are squeezed together, and the outer edge of the nail, generally of the great toe, is pressed into the skin and causes ulceration, which leads to the formation of large painful granulations, which discharge foetid, sanious pus, and prevent the patient taking any active exercise. Treatment.—In the early stages, before ulceration has occurred, relief maybe given by removing all pressure by the use of proper boots and fiUng down the nail along its centre until it is quite thin. After ulcera- tion has taken place, the only plan which affords real and permanent reUef is to remove the nail, and even after this it not unfrequently happens that the condition recurs ; therefore at the .same time that the nail is removed a wedge-shaped piece of the skin over the pulp of the toe should be removed and the edges brought together. This simple little operation may be performed in the following manner. After the nail has been removed by sUtting it down the centre with a pair of scissors and tearing out each half with avulsion forceps, a semicircular incision is made around the end of the toe from a point correspondmg to where the nail joins the skin on the dorsum and about half an inch below the level of the nail to a corresponding point on the opposite side (fig. 75). A second incision is then made of corresponding length starting from the same point, but carried round the end of the toe about a third of an inch below it; the piece of skin included between these incisions with a wedge-shaped mass of the subcutaneous tissues is re- moved, and the two edges sutured together with a continuous horse- hair suture. The wound will heal in a week or ten days, and no recur- rence of the disease is to be anticipated. Fig. 75.—Operation for the cure of ingrowing toe-nail.