568 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES that on the opposite side, but will look flattened and depressed and the Gluteal fold at the back of the thigh will be wholly or partially obliterated. This is in a great measure due to wasting of the gluteal muscles but no doubt also to a certain extent to the flexed position of the limb Fhe other muscles of the limb are also wasted, and this wasting is manifest at a very early period of the disease, within a few weeks after its_ commencement. The amount of pain in tuberculous disease of the hip vanes: m the grea er number the pain is either very slight or there is none at all, except after using the Unib ; in others the disease sets in with pain, sometimes of an acuti character. The pain is often referred to the knee, that is, to the peripheral termination of the obturator nerve, which supplies both joints. As the disease progresses the pain increases, and the patient complains whenever the joint is moved. Starting pains occur at night and the wasth'g of the limb becomes more marked. The position of the limb l altered • while the flexion still remains, the limb becomes adducted and turned inwards, so that the direction of the axis of the femur is across the sound thigh. When this condition of things comes about the patient nstinc vely, if left alone, lies on his sound side, with the affected limb thrown across ts fe low, and the knee resting upon the bed beyond it, 1 he cause of thTs change in position is not very clear, but it is usually said to be due to the actio^ of the adductors and internal _ rotators overcoming the resist- ance of the external rotators and the posterior part of the capsule, wh ch have been weakened by the inflammatory changes which have taken place L them In consequence of this change from abduction to adduction the pelvis is now tilted upwards, and there is apparent shortening of the hmb when the thighs are parallel. During this stage of the disease there s a certain amount of constitutional disturbance : the tempera ure is sligh ly above normal in the evening, and there is loss of flesh and genera deterioration in the condition of the child. After a tmie some mcreased fulne s in The region of the joint indicates that matter is forming and soon deep sealed fluctuation will be felt, in most cases on the outer side of t >per part of the thigh, beneath the -^erior superior spine ; ^ times it may be more internal, underneath the pectineus : or m the oack bTneath the glutei muscles. In cases where the d-ease begms in ^e acetabulum the matter, as stated before, usually comes to the surface Sove Plpart's ligament to the inner side of the femoral vessels ; thougn in rire cases it buLws downwards, and points in the ischio-rectal fossa After suppuration sets in, the final stage of the disease o^-^s. Thi. s the stage of real shortening, and the shortening is due to tw o causes . to the gradual enlargement of the acetabulum and the f^^ing upward of the head of the bonefand to erosion of the upper ^nd of the fen ur _ In those cases where the disease begins in the upper end of ^^-^^ ^a^^^^^ head becomes separated from this part of the bone, the shortening is otten "^'^After'"the abscesses point and burst through the skin, they leave .inntes which burrow in every direction and discharge for an inoefimte Sod The pa St steadilySvastes, and eventually dies of lardaceous disease in the majority of cases, unless previously earned off" by son e S tul^^^rculou? condition. Occasionally, however, he may live through It Se i^es mly close and the patient recover, with an ankylosed hip and ""mag"^here are many other affections for which disuse of the hip joint has been mistaken, such as angular curvature of the spine.