997 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA brane. This has induced some authors to describe stricture of the urethra under three different heads—as spasmodic stricture, congestive stricture, and organic stricture; but the two former of these conditions cannot rightly be regarded as stricture, as there is merely temporary obstruction and retention; though it frequently happens that these conditions are set up in cases where there is a slight degree of organic stricture, not sufficient to produce any marked symptoms, and to this the spasm or congestion is superadded. It will be convenient to consider these two conditions first. Spasmodic stricture.—The so-called spasmodic stricture occurs in those cases where there is some irritation of the mucous membrane of the urethra, and the exciting cause of the spasm is usually too free indulgence in drink or exposure to wet and cold, whereby the action of the skin is suspended. A patient, who possibly may be suffering from some slight stricture of the urethra, which has not produced any marked symptoms, or who is suffering jfrom an irritable condition of the urethra from too great sexual indulgence, or too high living, after a debauch, suddenly finds himself unable to pass water. The bladder is full and the desire to micturate is urgent, and he is in great pain. The bladder may be seen, in thin persons, as an oval tumour in the lower part of the abdo- men, which is dull on percussion. The treatment consists in administer- ing a hypodermic injection of morphia (gr. ^) and in placing the patient in a hot bath (105° F). This will generally be all that is necessary, and the spasm will relax as the patient becomes somewhat faint in the bath and the opium begins to take effect, and he will pass his water. Should this not be so, he should be placed under the influence of an anaesthetic, and there will then be usually no difficulty in passing a full-sized catheter. Congestive stricture.—In this condition the obstruction to the flow of urine is due to the swollen state of the mucous membrane of the urethra. It occurs in gonorrhoea and in gouty subjects where the mucous membrane is inflamed and swollen to such an extent as to occlude the canal. In these cases, in addition to the inability to pass water, there is swelling and redness of the lips of the urethra and a more or less abundant purulent discharge. The treatment consists in the introduction of a soft instrument with great care and gentleness. This will usually be attended by some hfemorrhage, which will act beneficially by diminishing the congestion. Various terms are applied to organic strictures according to their physical characters : an annular stricture is the most common form, and, as the name implies, is one in which a narrow rim of cicatricial tissue encircles the whole lumen of the tube. An indurated stricture is where a considerable portion of the wall of the urethra is involved in a dense mass of cicatricial tissue. This form of stricture may be also tortuous, when there is more deposit on one side than the other, so that the canal is deflected and not straight. A peculiar form of stricture is the bridle stricture (fig. 382), where a band stretches across from one side of the urethra to the other: the mode of causation of this form of stricture is not very clear, but it is believed that it is produced by a perforation of an annular stricture by the point of the catheter. An irritable stricture is a term applied to those cases where the passage of an instrument is fre- quently followed by a rise of temperature, with chills or rigors. The term resilient or elastic stricture is applied to one which can be rapidly dilated, and as rapidly contracts. A permeable stricture is one which