I'ROSr BITE instance, in cases of burns at the front of the elbow, the forearm becomes flexed acutely on the arm and the limb comparatively useless, or burns in the groin may be followed by flexion of the thigh on the pelvis, and ordmary progression rendered impossible. Unfortunately, the results of operation are''not very satisfactory in these cases. They are conducted on two principles. One is to divide the contracted cicatrix freely across, and then stretch the part and allow the diamond-shaped Avound thus made to heal by granulation. The great objection to this plan is that the cicatrix which forms has the same tendency to contract as the former one had, so that m many cases where this plan has been adopted, the deformity in the process of time has become as bad as ever. The second plan is to divide the cicatrix as in the first proceeding, and then fill in the gap with a flap of skin transplanted from some other part of the body. This is the better plan of the two, and the one which is most frequently successful, but it does not always succeed in completely removing the deformity, though generally considerable amelioration can be obtained. It must be left to the surgeon to plan his flaps in each case according to its requirements, and only one or two broad principles of procedure can be alluded to: (i) the contracted tissue must be completely divided, not only in its breadth, but in its thickness, and no bands left in the deeper parts of the wound; (2) the flap must be cut larger than the gap it is intended to close, on account of the elasticity of the skin; (3) the flap must be accurately adapted, raw surface to raw surface, and held in position by sutures without tension ; (4) there must be no stretching or tension of the tongue of skin which connects the flap to the rest of the body, otherwise the circulation in the flap will be interfered with : (5) strict asepticity must be obtained. Lightning stroke.—Burns and accidents from lightning are not very common in this country, and vary much in degree. In all at the moment of the stroke there is a shock to the brain, which may be only slight and produce a momentary unconsciousness, or may be so severe that the person is killed on the spot. As a rule there is insensibility, which may last for a considerable time, accompanied by paralysis and loss of sensation, both general and special. The paralysis may last for months, and sometimes there is loss of sight or hearing, which may be permanent. The more local effects show themselves in burns. These burns may be very ex- tensive, but are generally superficial, that is to say, of the first degree —the body is scorched. Sometimes it has been noted that this scorch- ing is in lines, arranged in an arborescent manner, and this is beUeved to be a sort of photograph of neighbouring trees. Rarely bones have been broken by lightning stroke. If death is not immediate, recovery usually takes place. In the post-mortem examination of those that have died, the blood has been found imperfectly coagulated, the heart uncontracted and empty, but no special or characteristic appearances. FROST BITE Frost bite is the name given to the local effects produced by the application of extreme cold to the body. They very much resemble burns and scalds, and like them vary in degree. Frost bites occur in those parts of the body wliich are farthest removed