INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES PATHOLOGICAL DISLOCATION Pathological dislocations are the result of some articular affection such as tuberculous disease, osteo-arthritis, or Charcot's disease. They will be considered with the special diseases in which they occur. DISEASES OF JOINTS Diseases of joints are of considerable variety, affecting primarily the different structures which enter into their formation : the synovial membrane, the ligaments, the cartilages, and the bones. But though each of these structures may be the starting point of the morbid condition, it seldom happens that the disease remains confined to this structure without the others becoming involved. Some of these structures-the-synovia membrane and the bone-are much more prone to take on pathological processes than the others, viz. the cartilage and ligaments. Indeed, it is rare for disease to occur primarily in these latter structures, though secondarily they frequently become involved. In considering the various diseases of the joints it will be convenient to discuss first affections of the synovial membrane, which form a fairly definite class; then diseases of the ioint as a whole; thirdly, some other conditions, such as ankylosis loose bodies in joints, cysts in connection with joints, which may affect any articulation ; and finally diseases of special joints. SYNOVITIS By synovitis we mean an inflammation of the synovial membrane, which is confined to this membrane and does not affect, or affects only to a slisht extent, the other structures of a joint. It may arise from either local or general causes, and therefore requires to be considered under two ^^^Non-infectiYC synovitis.-By this is meant inflammation of the synovial membrane set up by injury, such as wounds, blows, sprains, over-use, and exposure to cold, and the disease varies much in its intensity according to the cause. It is therefore customary to describe it as acute, •s-ub-acute, and chronic. v . a ■ Acute non-infective synovitis, when uncomplicated, is never fatal, but the inflammation may extend to the other structures of the joint and'a form of acute arthritis may be set up. , i c Pathology.—In acute local synovitis the synovial membrane becomes injected and loses its satiny poHsh, and its fringes are swollen and turgid with blood The synovial fluid is poured out in increased quantities, so that the cavity of the joint is distended with it. The fluid is at first thin and serous, and then becomes mixed with inflammatory exudation, so that flakes of lymph may be found floating about ,n it; it also coagulates spon aneously when removed from the joint. Lymph may become de- puted on the articular surfaces, and may either later o^^ecome absorbe^, or may become organised and converted into scar tissue, which foin s adhSns and a greater or less amount of rigidity. In favourable case. Sie whole of thes^e products are absorbed ; but in less favourable cases,