727 ACUTE LARYNGITIS wound in the abdominal wall, and the parts left for a couple of days. At the end of this tune an opening is made in the apex of the cone, and the edges of the incision are turned inwards into the cone, and fixed by means of Lembert's sutures so as to form a permanent valve, and a rubber tube introduced. In cases of urgent necessity the opening in the cone may be made immediately. DISEASES OF THE LARYNX Laryngitis may be either acute or chronic. The acute form may arise from several different causes, and presents itself under two distinct and separate varieties. 1. Acute catarrhal laryngitis, in which the disease arises from exposure to cold, or from extension of catarrh from the nose and pharynx ; from overstrain of the voice, especially in those who are addicted to the use of tobacco; and from the inhalation of irritant vapours. The inflammation in these cases is confined to the mucous membrane. Symptoms.—Acute catarrhal laryngitis is most commonly met with in the male adult, and is rare in children. Pain is complained of about the larynx, greatly increased on coughing, and the voice is hoarse, and in some cases entirely lost. There is constant hawking and coughing and attempts to clear the throat, and a little mucous expectoration, which may be occasion- ally tinged with blood. There is rarely any serious dyspnoea, but a considerable amount of constitutional disturbance and fever. Upon examination with the laryngoscope, the mucous membrane of the larynx will be seen to be intensely injected. Treatment.—The patient should be kept in bed, in a warm, equable, and moist atmosphere. He should inhale steam, to which compound tincture of benzoin may be advantageously added (3j to Oj), and hot fomentations should be applied to the throat. The acute symptoms speedily subside under treatment, but a condition of chronic laryngitis may remain and persist for some considerable time. 2. Acute cedematous laryngitis may arise from an extension inwards of erysipelas from the face; from the inhalation of sewer gas; from the poison of contagious fevers, scarlet fever, smallpox &c., and from injury, scalds, corrosive fluids, &c. The inflammation is attended with considerable effusion into the submucous tissue, so that the mucous membrane becomes swollen and pulpy, and of a dusky red hue. The infiltration is confined to the upper part of the larynx, and does not extend beyond the vocal cords, since there is an absence of submucous tissue over these structures, the mucous membrane being intimately adherent to the cords. The infiltration may be so great as to obstruct respiration. Symptoms.—The disease generally begins with the symptoms of ordinary sore throat. The patient is feverish and complains of pain, especially in swallowing or speaking. Then inspiration becomes painful and difficult, and the patient's countenance presents a distressed and anxious appear- ance, and he is constantly coughing and hawking up small hard masses of inspissated mucus, which are supposed to come from the ventricle of the larynx. The voice is at first hoarse, and then entirely lost or converted into a whisper. The febrile disturbance becomes increased ; the dyspnoea more and more urgent; the face livid and bathed in sweat; the pulse