374 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES N^vi rarely produce any serious ill effects. They may remain stationary for years, without showing any disposition to grow, and may eventually disappear, or they may increase with great ra]iidity. They may undergo secondary changes in the course of their growth. This may consist in a process of ulceration, which, commencing in their centre, gradually spreads to the periphery and cures the disease. Or the areolar stroma may increase, and by its increase may press upon and obliterate the cavities, and the whole growth may be converted into a solid fibrous mass. Or they may undergo a cystic change, and the tumour become converted into a blood cyst, probably owing to the shutting off of one of the spaces and its subsequent distension. NcEvi are sometimes asso- ciated with an increased development of fatty tissue, and are then termed ncBVo-Hpomata. Treatment.—Cavernous nsevi only require treatment when they are growing ; if they show no tendency to increase, they should be left alone in the hope that they may disappear. If the ntevus is entirely sub- cutaneous the best plan of treatment is excision. If care is taken not to open the thin capsule this can be done with very little hjemorrhage and without any great difificulty. The edges of the wound are then sutured, and will in all probability unite by first intention and leave nothing but a linear scar. If the nsevus is not entirely subcutaneous, but is complicated with a capillary naevus of the skin, this plan of treatment is not always possible, as it would involve the sacrifice of too much of the skin. When the skin is only involved to a very slight extent, the portion implicated may be included in two elliptical incisions and the whole growth excised. It must be boinie in mind, however, that every particle of the neevoid tissue must be removed, otherwise the disease is sure to recur. When excision cannot be undertaken, electrolysis is the best substitute for it. The best form of battery to use is one of Leclanche's (sal ammoniac cells), and not more than ten cells should be used, as the most successful results will be obtained by a slow, weak action continued for some time. The needles, which are of platinum, should be insulated to within half an inch of their points. One needle should be connected with the negative pole, and several with the positive pole. They should be thrust into several parts of the growth before the current is passed. This should be done gradually, and the current slowly increased until little bubbles of gas are seen issuing from the minute punctures ; when this is observed, no further increase is required. The current should be allowed to pass from ten to fifteen minutes, and the position of the needles shifted once or twice during the process. At the end of this time it will probably be noticed that the tumour is sensibly harder and more solid. Before withdrawing the needles, the current should be reversed for a minute, as this will materially lessen the chance of bleeding afterwards. If there should be any, it can always be arrested by a little pressure from a pad and bandage. The object of the operation is to cause the blood to coagulate, but not to cause necrosis of the tissues, so that in this way nfevi may be cured without leaving any scar except the punctures made by the introduction of the needles. The operation is a painful one, and therefore anaesthesia is required, and in all probability it will be necessary to repeat it, perhaps more than once, before a cure is effected. No attempt should be made to do too much at a time. Many other plans have been advocated for curing ncevi. In former times the ligature was much resorted to, in order to strangle the na^vus and cause