•LIPOMA NASI 623 do this, as the proceeding always causes great pain, and should be done with care and deliberation. A broad director or elevator is introduced into the nostril, and the bone gently prised back into its normal position. When once replaced, the fragment will often remain in position, and all the treatment that is necessary is to place a piece of strapping across the nose to prevent any displacement. Should there be any tendency to a return of the deformity, the nostril on the affected side should be packed for a few days with gauze, which has been soaked in carbolic oil. This, if properly applied, will effectually prevent any recurrence of the displacement. When the septum is deflected, it can usually be straightened under antesthesia, but there is a great tendency for it to recur (see page 627). Foreign bodies in the nostrils.—Children very frequently intro- duce foreign bodies into the nostrils, where they may cause serious trouble, setting up inflammation and ulceration of the mucous membrane, and sometimes causing disease of the bones. They then give rise to off'ensive discharge, which may be mistaken for ozsena or tuberculous disease of the bone. It must be borne in mind, however, that the discharge is confined to one side, and when a patient applies with discharge from ofie nostril a foreign body should always be suspected, and a careful examination under anesthesia made. The foreign body is generally lodged in the inferior meatus, and can usually be detected by a probe, and can be seen if the nostril IS dilated with a nasal speculum and illuminated by reflected light It can be removed with a small scoop or polypus forceps. In removing it the forefinger of the left hand should be introduced into the naso-pharynx in case it should be pushed backwards, when it might find its way into the air-passages. Rhinoliths are occasionally found. They are formed usually by a deposition of the salts of the nasal discharge around some foreign body introduced from without. They may attain a very considerable size and give rise to severe neuralgia. They may require to be crushed before they can be removed. Malformations of the nose are rare and of httle surgical interest. The only one to which allusion need be made is occlusio^'n of the nostril. This consists usually in a thin membranous septum which closes the anterior nares, and merely requires an incision for its relief. In other cases the occlusion is much greater, and a considerable depth of tissue has to be cut through. In these cases it is necessary to introduce a piece of hollow tubing—a portion of a gum-elastic catheter for example— and retain it there for some weeks, to prevent adhesions re-forming I he skin of the nose is subject to many diff-erent forms of disease of which acne rosacea, lipoma nasi, lupus, rodent ulcer, and epithdioma are ' the most common. Acne rosacea is the name given to a disease which affects the nose most frequently in women who are the victims of chronic dyspepsia It mnTfl?"" rf'! T V"^""^^?- °^ capillaries of the skin, which become markedly dilated after taking any hot liquid, or sometimes after food and cause the nose to assume a bright red, greasy and shiny appearance! At er a time the sebaceous follicles become involved, and the skin irregu- arly tuberculated and knobbed. The treatment consists in combatme the dyspepsia and paying attention to the general health. ^nr.T"^^?*"*,"*®* a chronic hypertrophy of the sebaceous follicles and surrounding skin and subcutaneous tissues, and not a true fatty growth as Its name would imply. It affects the tip and ate of the nose, aixl consists