STRICTURE OF THE INTESTINE 839 all symptoms of obstruction subside, though the dyspeptic troubles remain. After a longer or shorter time a second attack occurs, and a third; each attack being more severe and more difificult to overcome than the preceding one. This goes on until at last an attack of complete obstruction comes on, which cannot be overcome by medicine, and the patient, unless relieved by operation, dies ; or without absolute obstruction occurring he may die worn out and exhausted by repeated attacks of constipation, vomiting, and pain. In the diagnosis of these cases some clue may be obtained from the previous history of tuberculosis, hernia, injury, &c. When the stricture is in the large intestine there are the same attacks of obstruction from time to time, but the symptoms of these attacks vary somewhat: constipation is the prominent sign, and vomiting less pro- nounced ; it does not come on so early, is not provoked by food, and is not fiEculent. The abdomen usually becomes distended with flatus, and the coils of intestine can be seen in movement through the parietes. Treatment.—Much may be done in the earlier stages for the relief of the patient. Careful dieting, so that the food taken shall leave as little solid residue as possible, is essential. The bowels must be kept loose by laxatives, of which none is so useful as a teaspoonful of castor oil every morning if the patient will take it. Massage applied daily to the abdomen is also extremely beneficial, and large enemata should occasionally be administered, especially when the stricture is in the large intestine. It is a good plan in these cases to give a five-grain dose of salol twice or thrice a day, so as to check decomposition in the bowel. Sooner or later, however, complete obstruction will come on—an obstruction which cannot be relieved by medical means —and surgical interference will be called for. This will be considered under the heading of Intestinal Obstruction. Malignant stricture of the intestine.—Malignant stricture of the intestine is usually a primary disease, and is due to the growth of a columnar epithe- lioma. It most commonly occurs in the form of a ring which encircles the gut, forming a tough indurated mass, which speedily becomes ulcerated and forms an ulcer with thick everted edges, and by its contraction constricts the bowel (fig. 331). Malignant stricture is much more common in the large intestine than in the small; its most frequent seat is the rectum, then the sigmoid flexure, and the higher one ascends in the intestinal tract the less frequent is its occurrence. The disease in the coats of the bowel speedily extends to neigh- bouring parts, and the growth becomes yu-.. 331.—Malignant stricuuc of fixed; the mesenteric glands become in- the inte.stine. (From the Museum yolved, and secondary growths may appear of St. George's Hospital.) in the liver and elsewhere. Not infrequently suppuration takes place about the growth, due to the bacillus coli com- munis finding an exit through the ulcerated surface; an abscess forms and