URETHRAL FISTULA lOII patient survive, he will have to go through an exhausting process of separa- tion of sloughs and healing of large granulating sores, and this with kidneys which are probably far from healthy, so that the prognosis in these cases is always most grave, for even if the powers of the patient enable him to survive the primary toxaemia, he will often subsequently succumb to exhaustion from the severe strain on his constitution produced by the profuse discharge and other sources of irritation which are set up. Stone in the urethra.—Stones are occasionally impacted in the urethra, especially in boys. This is usually a stone which has been formed in the kidney, and having found its way down the ureter into the bladder, is passed with the urine and becomes impacted or fixed in the urethra. Stones may, however, form primarily in the urethra, and these are most usually phosphatic concretions forming in a pouch-like dilatation behind a stricture. In the adult the presence of a stone in the urethra may be recognised by difficulty in micturition amounting sometimes to retention, and by feel- ing the stone either with a metal sound passed down the canal or by the finger through the walls of the urethra. They are most frequently lodged in the fossa navicularis or in the bulbous portion of the urethra. When in the former situation, they can be at once extracted by notching the meatus and prising it out with a director. When situated farther back, they may sometimes be worked forwards by manipulation with the finger and thumb under an anaesthetic. If not, an attempt may be made to push it back with a metal catheter into the bladder. The catheter should have an opening at the end, and a little fluid may be injected through this to dilate the urethra around the stone and facilitate its passage backwards. In some cases it is found impossible to move the stone, and then it must be cut down upon in situ, the urethra opened and the stone removed. This should never be done in the penile portion of the urethra if it can be avoided, as it is very likely to be followed by the formation of a urinary fistula. In boys, impaction of a stone in the urethra is the most common cause of retention. It is most frequently situated in the fossa navicularis, and then can be at once felt by the introduction of a probe. It is usually easily removed, in these cases, by the introduction of the bent end of a hair pin down the urethra beyond the stone and then prising it out. When situated farther back it should be pushed into the membranous portion of the urethra, cut down upon in the perineum and removed; or, if the surgeon is provided with the necessary instruments for lithotrity, it may be pushed backwards into the bladder and crushed. Urethral fistula.—Three forms of urethral fistula may be de- scribed : (i) penile; (2) perineal or scrotal; (3) rectal. I. Urethro-penile fistula.—This is not common, and when it occurs is either the result of a lacunar abscess following gonorrhoea, or from the destructive ulceration of a soft chancre, or an epithelioma, which spreads inwards and opens up the urethra. When produced by a lacunar abscess it is usually short and direct. During micturition a few drops of urine escape from the opening, which prevent its closing. These fistulse are very difficult to heal. Sometimes the application of the actual cautery will succeed in closing them, but the best mode of treatment is to freshen the edges and bring them together with sutures. After the operation a catheter must be passed and tied in the bladder. To the end of the catheter a piece of tubing mu.st be attached and carried into a receptacle under the bed, so as, by a syphon action, to keep the bladder constantly drained. If the 3 'r 2