497 TREATxMENT OF DISLOCAllONS dislocated. (3) The age of the patient.—Dislocations generally occur in adults or middle-aged people, and are rare in children (with the exception of those of the elbow joint) and in old people. (4) The sex.—As would naturally be supposed, dislocations are more common in the male than the female, on account of their greater exposure to accidents. The exciting causes of dislocation are either mechanical violence or muscular action. Mechanical violence may act in two ways, either directly or indirectly. A direct blow on a joint may drive one bone directly away from the other. Indirectly a dislocation may be produced by a fall or blow on one end of a bone, driving the other away from the articular surface with which it is in contact. Effects.—A\^hen a dislocation takes place, there is more or less injury to the parts in and around the joint. The ligaments, which bind the bones together, are always to a certain extent torn in a complete dislocation. The bones are frequendy fractured, as well as displaced, and this is especially likely to occur in hinge joints. The amount of fracture may vary from chipping off of a fragment to extensive comminution. The muscles which surround the joint are often bruised and torn, and the cartilages may be injured. Vessels and nerves may be compressed by the displaced bone and sometimes lacerated. Considerable extravasation of blood is always present, producing great swelling and bruising around. If the dislocation is speedily reduced, these injuries are soon re- covered from and the functions of the joint are not usually interfered with, though cicatricial contraction of the injured structures may prevent a full range of movement for some considerable time—perhaps permanently. Symptoms.—The signs by which a dislocation may be recognised are : (i) pain, following an injury, and usually of a severe and sickening character; (2) swelling and deformity about the joint; (3) alteration in the relative position of the bony prominences in the neighbourhood of the jomt to each other, as compared with those on the opposite side of the body; (4) impaired mobility, both active and passive : but with regard to this sign It must be borne in mind that a fracture may exist with the dis- location, under which circumstance the mobility may be increased; (5) the displaced end of the bone or bones can generally be felt in a new position ; (6) there is an alteration in the length of the Hmb, sometimes lengthenmg and sometimes shortening ; and (7) there is an alteration in the direction of the axis of the limb. Diagnosis.—Dislocations are liable to be mistaken for fractures in the neighbourhood of joints, but there are three points of distinction between the two injuries. In dislocation the mobility is impaired : in fracture it is increased ; in dislocation there is no crepitus : in fracture crepitus can, as a rule, be elicited ; in dislocation, when the deformity is reduced, it does not generally recur: in fracture it does. There are, however, some exceptions to this rule. Treatment.—The treatment of a dislocation consists in the first place m reducing the deformity and returning the displaced bone to its normal position. This should be done as soon as possible, and if a patient is seen immediately after the accident, while he is faint and his muscles relaxed, It can generally be done with ease ; but if some time has elapsed, muscular tension becomes so great that an anaesthetic is usually necessary. Ihere are two principal modes of reducing a dislocation, viz. by manipulation and by extension. Manipulation is always the be.st way to reduce a dislocation, if po.ssible. i< K