1089 SARCOMA OF BREAST The treatment consists in excision. In the early stages the tumour may be enucleated without removing the breast, but later on when it has attained a considerable size the whole breast will have to be excised. After removal it has no tendency to return. Duct papilloma.—It is convenient in this situation to mention a tumour which goes under the name of duct papilloma, and which resembles the tumours which have just been described in the fact that the disease is characterised by the appearance of papillomatous outgrowths upon the interior of some pre-existing cavity. Occasionally women will complain of a little discharge of blood-stained serum from the nipple, and upon examination this organ will be noticed to be unduly prominent, and a little swelling may be detected under the areola at one point. If an incision is made, a little cavity will be exposed, which is a dilated milk duct, in which will be seen a soft papillomatous growth. This condition merits its chief importance from the fact that it is often the precursor of a disease which will subsequently be described, and which is known by the name of duct cancer. These tumours should therefore always be freely excised, and it will be necessary to sacrifice the nipple. 2. Sarcoma.—Sarcoma is not a common disease of the breast, many of the cases which were formerly classified as sarcoma belonging to the class of adeno-sarcoma or adeno-cystoma. The spindle-celled sarcoma, either consisting of the large or small celled variety, is the most common form met with; but the round-celled sarcoma is also not uncommon. Myeloid sarcoma has been said to occur in the breast; but it is very doubtful whether this really occurs, though in some cases large multi- nucleated cells have been found. Cystic degeneration from mucoid changes is exceedingly common in sarcoma of the breast; and extravasation of blood, which may also cause the formation of cysts, is not uncommon. On section a sarcoma of the breast in an early stage is usually found to be encapsuled, and will vary in appearance according to its nature and the changes It has undergone. It may be white or rosy pink in colour, and firm in consistence ; or it may be dark and studded with hsemorrhages, and soft and converted into a jelly-like mass. The fluid in the cysts is usually thick and viscid, and may be straw-coloured, brownish from altered blood, or it may be almost pure blood. Symptoms.—The disease usually occurs about the age of forty, and the patient is generally otherwise in good health. Sometimes there is the history of a small tumour which has existed in the breast for years without cau.sing any inconvenience, and this suddenly without assignable reason has begun to grow rapidly. It forms a firm lobulated tumour, which pro- gressively increases; but it is not so hard or so freely movable as the adeno- fibroma. There is no retraction of the nipple, though it may be sunken from the prominence of the growth. There is no puckering of the skin, which at first is natural, but later on, as the tumour grows, becomes thin, stretched, and congested, and minute extravasations of blood may take place into it. The glands in the axilla are not as a rule enlarged, though occasionally secondary growths take place in these bodies. As the tumour grows and cysts form, the lobulation of the growth becomes more marked, and prominent bosses may appear, in which fluctuation can be detected. The growth is rapid, and should pregnancy occur the rate of growth is alarm- ing. When the tumour reaches the surface of the body, the skin gives way, fungation ensues, and a foul bleeding mass sprouts from a clean-cut hole- in the skin, which is not infiltrated around.