GASTRO-ENTEROSTOMY 821 over the diseased and contracted structures at the pylorus. The operation is, of course, entirely palliative, but it affords the patient great relief, and no doubt prolongs life by saving the patient from the horrors of slow starvation. In performing the operation, care must be taken to open the intestine as high up as possible, the duodeno-jejunal junction being the point which should be selected. Cases have been recorded where the lower part of the ileum has been opened by mistake and the patients have died of inanition. The commencement of the jejunum can be found with ease by drawing the omentum and transverse colon upwards and to the right, when this portion of the bowel will be seen lying along the under border of the pancreas close to the bodies of the vertebrae. The posterior wall of the stomach should be utilised for making the anastomosis j this is easily reached by tearing a hole in the transverse meso-colon and forming the junction through the rent. If the anastomosis is made on the anterior wall, the loop of small intestine has to be dragged up over the transverse colon, and this causes a strain on the loop, which prevents the perfect emptying of the stomach, and moreover tends to direct the contents of the duodenum into the stomach rather than in the opposite direction. This is avoided if the junction is made on the posterior surface. The junction may be made by (i) suturing ; (2) Senn's plates ; (3) Murphy's button; (4) decalcified bone bobbin. When the patient can stand the extra time required for the operation by suturing, this plan appears to give the best results. The operation by Halstead's method is thus performed : the stomach should previous to the operation be thoroughly washed out with some mild antiseptic lotion, boric acid solution or Condy's fluid. The abdomen is incised in the middle line above the umbilicus, and the periconeal sac opened. The duodeno-jejunal"junction is first to be sought for, in the manner mentioned above, and a point selected an inch or two below it, so as to allow of the gut being easily brought up to the stomach, and the intestine is to be clamped on either side of this point. A hole is made through the transverse meso-colon by tearing so as to avoid the vessels, and the posterior surface of the stomach reached through the lesser sac of the peritoneum. The selected portion of jejunum is now brought up and laid alongside of the posterior wall of the stomach at the point at which it is intended to open it, generally about an inch from the lower margin. Half a dozen square sutures are passed in a row between the jejunum, half an inch from its mesenteric attachment, and the posterior surface of the stomach. Halstead's square suture is practically a double Lembert's suture, a loop being formed at one end and a knot tied at the other (fig. 320, a). They have the advantage that they tear out less easily and constrict the tissues less than Lembert's suture. They are passed into the submucous coat. These sutures are tied and cut off short. At either end of this row of sutures two or three more square sutures are placed, nearer the free border of the gut ; these are not tied at present (fig. 320, b). Six similar sutures are now placed in a row parallel to the first series, but about three-quarters of an inch distant from them (fig. 320, c). These sutures are not tied, but are drawn aside—in the same way as in a case of abdominal section, the sutures after they have been applied are drawn away to permit of the extraction of a flat sponge which has been applied over the intestine during their insertion. Between the two rows of suture an incision is now made into the stomach, and a corresponding one into the jejunum (fig. 320, d), and all the remaining sutures rapidly tied