TREATMENT OF NEURALGIA 389 and is frequently of a darting or shooting character. It is sometimes accompanied by muscular spasm. It is an important pomt to remembei that the pain of neuralgia, except where it depends on neuritis, is often relieved by pressure, as this forms a characteristic difference from inflam- matory pain, which is increased by pressure. Neuralgia is occasionaUy attended with derangements in pigmentation of the skin and hair or by increased secretion of the glands. A special form of neuralgia, k o^^ n by the name of epileptiform neuralgia, sometimes affects one or a 1 of ^he branches of the fifth pair of cranial nerves. It is called ep ept.form because it is often accompanied by a convulsive twitching of the facial muscles, but this is not always present. The attacks are paroxysmal, often excited by some stimulus, as a draught of cold air or a slight touch, or in fact anything which produces a stimulation of one of the branches ot the fifth pair. The paroxysms of pain are generally described as beginning at one definite spot, and from this they radiate over the whole or part ot the head and face, following the course of the fifth nerve or one of its main branches. During the attacks, which sometimes last only a few seconds, at others are prolonged to a minute, the face becomes suffused, the eyes water, and the patient clasps his face in his hands, with a view to reheving the pain by pressure. The length of time between the attacks vanes ; sometimes they recur every few seconds, at others several minutes may elapse between one attack and the next. Between the paroxysms the patient is quite free from pain. The cause of this condition is uncertain ; sometimes it occurs in gouty individuals, but m most cases it cloes not appear to be associated with ill health. In some it appears to be due to some peripheral irritation, as a carious tooth, but in most it is apparently set up by some disease of the central nervous system. ... Treatment.—In the treatment of neuralgia the first indication is to endeavour to ascertain and remove the cause. Some of these cases arise from peripheral irritation, as a carious tooth, a foreign body pressing upon and irritating a nerve, or the implication of a nerve in a scar; and ihe removal of the source of irritation will cure the disease. Again, other cases occur from some general conditions—anaemia due to dyspepsia and in- sufficient food, gout, rheumatism, debility after long-continued illness or after malarial fever or influenza ; all these must be treated by appropriate remedies. When no cause can be discovered, the treatment must be empirical, and a long list of remedies might be given which have been em- ployed for the cure of this condition, were it not that the cases fall more under the care of the physician than the surgeon. It will be sufficient to say that arsenic and quinine are the two drugs which appear to give the best results. Locally also a large number of remedies have been tried with the hope of relieving the pain : aconite, in the form of liniment; menthol ; chloral and camphor ; belladonna; chloroform; and the subcutaneous injection of morphia, all serve to relieve the pain for a time, but have no effect in curing the disease. Recently it has been recommended to inject osmic acid into the sheath of the affected nerve, and this is said to destroy the pain in the course of a few days. One gramme of a 1-5 per cent, solu- tion is the quantity used for each injection. But there are always a certain number of cases in which all these remedies fail, and then will arise the question as to whether any relief can be given by surgical operation. In intractable cases, and especially in cases of epileptiform neuralgia, it is right to resort to operation, not because the nerves are the seat of the disease, nor because by this means a cure is effected in the majority of cases but