939 STONE IN THE KIDNEY The most common form of calculus which is found in the kidney is the lithic acid, or in quite young children the lithate of ammonia; but not unfrequently, especially in individuals over the age of forty, oxalate of lime may be the chemical composition of the stone. Under rare circum- stances the stone may consist of cystic oxide, xanthine, &c. They vary much in size, and are sometimes round and smooth, sometimes rough and branched, and when situated in the pelvis of the kidney take the form of that cavity. AVhen many stones are contained in the kidney they may be variously facetted. Renal colic.—A very small stone may form in the kidney and pass down the ureter without giving rise to any symptoms, but if it is of any size it irritates the mucous membrane, and gives rise to reflex spasm of the muscular coat, which produces a very severe train of symptoms. The patient is seized with intense and agonising pain in one loin, radiating down to the groin and into the testicle. The pain comes on quite sud- denly and is paroxysmal in character. It is accompanied with shock, a sub-normal temperature, and a quick and weak pulse. The patient will often be found lying in bed, writhing in pain, faint, and his face bedewed with a cold and clammy sweat. There is always nausea, and very often actual vomiting. He is constantly making efforts to pass water, but as a rule passes only a few drops, and this is usually blood-stained. The symptoms suddenly cease when the stone enters the bladder, or when, as sometimes happens, it slips back into the pelvis of the kidney. The treatment consists in these cases in administering a full hypodermic injection of morphia, and putting the patient into a hot bath (105° F.) to produce faintness and relaxation of the muscular coat of the ureter. Bland diluent drinks should at the same time be given. If this fails to relieve the pain, chloroform should be administered, and while the patient is under its influence massage in the course of the ureter may be employed, in order to assist the descent of the stone. Stone in the kidney.—Symptoms.—The patient complains of pain which is usually referred to one loin, and radiates from this point in the course of the genito-crural nerve down to the groin, the testicle, and the inner side of the front of the thigh. The pain is more or less persistent, often paroxysmal in its nature; it is described as being ' sickening' in its character, and is aggravated by movement. There is -usually tenderness, often acute pain, on deep palpation over the kidney, but no enlargement can, as a rule, be felt unless there is pyo-nephrosis as well. If the stone is of considerable size, it may be felt, and in one case under my care where there were two stones, I was able to move them on each other and produce grating. Frequency of micturition may or may not be present. The presence of blood in the urine is an important sign. In nearly every case of stone in the kidney there will be the history of the passage of blood at some time, and in most cases a few blood corpuscles will be found upon microscopic examination. In some the htemorrhage is at times very considerable, coming on for a period and then subsiding. It is often increased by violent exertion, riding on horseback or in a carriage over a rough road. It may also be increased by the manipu- lations attending an examination of the case. Later on pus may be found in the urine, when pyelitis has been set up. Under these circum- stances the pain becomes more acute and persistent, and there is greater frequency in micturition. There is also a rise in the temperature, especially at night. The amount of pus varies, sometimes it is very considerable,