DISEASES OF THE CHEST WALL 791 operation is usually performed in the fifth or sometimes the fourth inter- costal space, about an inch from the sternum, so as to avoid wounding the internal mammary artery. It has also been done, where there is much distension in the fourth or fifth space, in the left nipple line, and this position is thought to afford better drainage; or it may be done on the right side. The skin having been rendered aseptic, an incision is made in the spot selected, and a carefully sterilised hydrocele trocar and cannula are inserted for about two inches in a direction upwards and outwards, so as to avoid wounding the heart. As soon as all the fluid has been reirTbved, the cannula is withdrawn and the puncture sealed with gauze and collodion. Sometimes the fluid may prove to be pus, and some indication of this will be afforded by the temperature, the occurrence of rigors and superficial oedema. Under these circumstances the pericardium must be incised; a narrow bistoury is introduced, guided by the cannula, and along this a pair of dressnig forceps, with which the wound is dilated. When the pus has escaped, a drainage tube is inserted and the dressings applied. DISEASES OF THE CHEST WALL Diseases of the chest naturally fall under the care of .the physician; but there are certain diseases of the parietes of the thorax to which allusion must be made. Tuberculous periostitis of a rib is a common aff"ection in children and young adults, and usually runs on to the formation of a chronic abscess. An indolent circumscribed swelling appears on the chest wall, without pain or any active symptoms. On incising it, curdy pus will escape and the abscess cavity can be traced down to diseased bone, which is almost always situated on the internal surface of the rib. The only satisfactory treatment for these cases is to excise the portion of rib which is mvolved, as it is impossible, the disease being on the internal surface, to thoroughly scrape it and get rid of all the tuberculous material. Syphilitic periostitis and gumma of the sternum and ribs are also common affections. They must be diagnosed from the tuberculous condition by the age of the patient, the history and by the presence of other evidences of syphilis. The condition is to be treated like other tertiary affections, with iodide of potassium in full doses; and the result of the treatment will serve to distinguish them from sarcoma, for which they may be mistaken. Lipomata are very commonly situated on the chest, but when they grow from the subcutaneous tissue they resemble fatty tumours in other situations, and require no special description. There is, however, another form of lipoma, which grows from the sub-pleural tissue and protrudes out- w-ards through an intercostal space. These resemble much the chronic abscess of tuberculous disease, from which they are difficult to distinguish until they are incised. They will then be found to consist of a mass of fat attached by a pedicle which passes inwards between two ribs. The pedicle should be ligatured and the tumour removed. Chondroma of the ribs.—Cartilaginous tumours occasionally grow from the ribs, especially their anterior part, at their junction with the costal cartilage. They have also been described as growing from the site of an old fracture. They may consist of pure chondromatous tissue, but are more often fibro-chondromata, myxo-chondromata, or chondro-sarco- mata. They form lobulated sessile tumours, fixed to the ribs, and are of