652 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL OROANS who are the subjects of Bright's disease are peculiarly liable to be affected with stomatitis from taking mercury ; a single dose being often sufificient to set up the condition. In severe cases there is swelling and sponginess of the gums, foetor of the breath, and profuse salivation. In order to avoid stomatitis in patients taking a course of mercury, the teeth should be carefully cleansed and the mouth washed out several times a day. If the condition is set up, the drug should be stopped or the dose materially diminished. The mineral acids, with chlorate of potash, should be given internally, and the patient sent out in the fresh air as much as possible. Syphilitic stomatitis.—In the early stages of secondary syphilis there is often a general stomatitis, accompanied by the formation of mucous plaques. These are small white or greyish white patches, due to a superficial inflammation, with degeneration of the epithehum. The patches are raised, and surrounded by an inflammatory zone. It must be borne in mind that these patches are infective, and therefore great care must be taken that the cups, spoons, &c., used by the patient are carefully cleaned and kept exclusively for his use. The treatment of these cases must be the ordinary constitutional treatment of syphihs. Mouth washes of borax or bicarbonate of soda should be used. Scorbutic stomatitis is rarely seen in this country. It is a severe form of inflammation, accompanied by ulceration and sometimes gangrene. The teeth become loosened and drop out, and the alveolar portion of the jaw becomes necrosed. The treatment consists in administering anti- scorbutic remedies, and in constantly washing out the mouth with dilute antiseptic lotions. Tumours of the mouth.—Tumours of the mouth, other than those of the tongue and jaws, which will be considered later on, are principally cystic in their nature, and are found in the floor of the mouth. Of the solid growths, angiomata are the most common of the innocent growths, and epithelioma of the malignant, but occasionally Upomata and adenomata of the salivary glands are found in this situation. Of the cystic tumours, ranula is the most common. This is a cyst the exact pathology of which has been the subject of considerable con- troversy. There would appear to be certainly two and perhaps more causes to which this cystic swelling is due. There can be no doubt that in the majority of cases it is a retention cyst of one of the mucus-secretmg glands in the floor of the mouth, especially of a gland which is situated near the apex of the tongue on either side of the fr^num, and which was first described by Blandin and Nuhn; in certain cases, however, it is not due to this cause, but is the result of a dilatation of Wharton's duct, the orifice of which has become occluded. It has been stated also that ranula may be caused by an enlargement of a bursa which hes on the genio-hyo- glossus muscle on either side of the frsenum, and by others that it may be due to dilatation of the duct of Bartholin, one of the ducts of the sub- lingual gland. The cystic tumour forms a swelling in the floor of the mouth, generally to one side of the middle line; it is globular, semi-trans- parent, and may attain the size of a bantam's egg, pushing the tongue upwards and backwards, and interfering with deglutition and speech. It contains a glairy, mucous fluid. The treatment consists in excising a portion of the anterior wall of the cyst, and then stuffing it with pieces ot lint which have been steeped in a saturated solution of sulphate of copper and then dried, or by rubbing the remains of the interior of the cyst witn lunar caustic.