IIOI CHAPTER XVIII DEFORMITIES Lateral curvature of the spine: scoliosis.—This deformity, thou<^h in rare instances a congenital, is usually an acquired condition, and fs not, as its name would seem to imply, a simple curve of the spine to one side or the other, for accompanying this curvature there is a certain amount of axial rotation of the bodies of the vertebrte on each other. Etiology —In considering the causation of lateral curvature it must be borne in mind that the spine is a flexible column which is kept straight by muscular action, the muscles on the two sides of the body acting equally. It is therefore predisposed to by weakness of the spinal muscles, and is brought about, in the majority of cases, by the patient constantly assuming a faulty position. Such positions as standing 'at ease;' sitting in a lounging position, with the legs crossed ; a faulty position in writing at a low desk, with one shoulder higher than the other ; and habitually carrying a weight on one arm, as in a nursemaid carrying a child, are all causes which bring about a lateral deviation of the spine when the muscles are weakened or exhausted. Other causes are, however, concerned in the production of this disease, as inequality in the length of the lower extremities, which produces a tilting of the pelvis to one side, and as a result a compensatory curve in the spine. The alteration in the length of the hmbs may be due to many causes : congenital imperfection, congenital uni- lateral dislocation of the hip, faulty anky- losis of the hip in a position of abduction or adduction, paralysis of the muscles of one limb, congenital or otherwise, valgus or genu valgum. Rickets is also another cause of lateral curvature, though more frequently in these cases the curve is antero-posterior. Finally, it may be caused by falling in of the chest wall, as the result of an old empyema; but in these cases there is not the same amount of rotation as in an ordinary case of scoliosis. The condition is most common in girls about the time of the onset of puberty, no doubt because they possess fewer opportunities of exercising their muscles than boys. Fig. 407.—Lateral curvaiure of the spine. (From Erichsen's ' Surgery.')