127 EXUBERANT ULCER Treatment-The treatment consists in elevating the limb, so as-^ to faci^^tatftre return of venous blood, and keeping it at perfect rest, ai.d in he S^ to the part fhe best way to do Sis is to appb^ boracic acid poultice ;-a double thickness of boracic hnt^ suffic enth larae to cover the sore and the inflamed tissue around s beeped for a Sinute or two in hot boracic lotion, and is then immediately applS to tSe part and covered with oil silk or jaconet to retain the heat and moisture. This should be changed every six hours. A brisk purge is also usually indi- 3. The weak ulcer is characterised by pale, flabby, unhealthy granulations. It gene- rally occurs where there is some defective nutrition of the part, either from some obstruction to the circulation or deficient quality tn the blood from some consti- tutional condition. A simple ulcer may, however, become 'weak' horn the too long continued application of emollient lotions. The edges lose the characteristic healing hne, and become pale and flat. The surface of the sore is covered with large, semi- transparent, oedematous looking granulations, which readily perish. The discharge is thin and scanty. The treatment must be of a stimulating character. The ap- plication of a lotion of sulphate of copper or sulphate of zinc, with elevation of the part so as to favour the return of venous blood. YiG. 27.—Drawing showing the ravages of a sloughing nicer of the leg, after the sloughs_ have separated. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) favour the return 01 venous Diooa, . , . , t t. c a is generally followed by satisfactory results. The lotion which I have found most useful in these cases is the red wash of the St. George's Hospital Pharmacopoeia: Copper sulphate and Armenian bole, of each 15 grains; camphor, s grains ; and boiling water, 5 ounces. 4 The exuberant ulcer.-This is the form of ulcer which one usually meets with after the sloughs are separated in burns, and arises where there is some interference with the contraction of the sore, impedmg the circulation. It is characterised by large, flabby red granulations, which project from the ulcer and give it a velvety appearance. Ihey bieea easily, even from the slight mechanical violence employed in removing the dressing or from a slight touch of the finger. It may be mentioned in passing! that the characteristic of healthy granulations is that they sliould bear the tap of the finger without bleeding. These florid, red granulations are popularly known as ' proud flesh.' _ w 1 Treatment—The treatment consists in repressing the granulations by nitrate of silver and dressing the part with some stimulating apphcation, as the red wash. The caustic only requires applying occasionally, i.e. every