ioo6 INJURIES ANJ) J)ISEASES OF SPECIAL OROANS be "given. Prior to commencing the operation it is advisable to wash out the urethra and bladder with boric acid solution. No instrument should be used for ten days afterwards, and then a full-sized bougie should be passed, and the operation repeated once a week for a time. After which the patient must be taught to pass an instrument for himself, and be enjoined to do so once a month for the rest of his life. 6. External urethrotomy.—This operation, known as Syme's opera- tion, is now rarely performed, as many of the cases for which it was formerly employed are treated by internal urethrotomy. It is practi- cally reserved for those cases of old and hard stricture in the deeper part of the urethra, which are complicated by urinary fistulse. A special instrument, known as Syme's staff, is required for the performance of the oiJeration (fig. 386). This consists of a staff, the distal end of which is of small size, equal to about No. 2, and is grooved on its convex surface. This joins the rest of the instrument about two inches from its extremity by an abrupt shoulder. The patient having been placed in the lithotomy position and the perineum shaved and cleaned, the staff is introduced and the small end passed through the stricture, so that the shoulder rests against the face of it. An incision is made in the middle line and deepened until the staff can be felt at the bottom of the wound. The point of the knife is inserted into the groove in the stafif close to the shoulder, and therefore opens the urethra just behind the stricture and is carried forwards along the groove to its anterior extremity, and in this Fig. 386.—Syme's staff. way the stricture is divided. In doing this great care must be observed to keep strictly in the middle line, and not allow the point of the knife to slip out of the groove. Any fistulae which may exist are now to be opened up into the median wound, scraped and swabbed out with pure carbolic acid or chloride of zinc solution. A full-sized soft catheter is introduced through the urethra into the bladder and tied in, and the wound packed with antiseptic gauze and allowed to granulate up from the bottom. The catheter should generally be removed on the second day, and a full-sized instrument passed every other day until the wound has healed. 7. Excision barely requires mention, as it can only be rarely required. The only cases for which it would seem to be applicable are inveterate traumatic strictures in the penile portion of the urethra, which have resisted all other plans of treatment. The operation is performed by exposing the urethra by a median incision, and excising as much as possible of the indurated tissue, and if possible suturing the cut ends of the canal to- gether. When the stricture is in the penile portion of the urethra this is comparatively easy; but in the deeper parts the chances of affording relief are so slight that the operation cannot be advised. Treatment of impermeable stricture—Because a surgeon is unable to pass any instrument through a stricture on the first or second time that he attempts to do so, he must not therefore regard the case as one of miper- meable stricture. As a matter of fact, impermeable strictures, except those resulting from injury, are comparatively rare, and by patience and care the surgeon can in many instances succeed in passing an instrument in a