376 INJURIES AND DISEASES Ol- SPECIAL TISSUES lymphatics of the tongue gives rise to a condition of hypertrophy of its tissues, "tvhich is known under the name of macroglossia; this will be described with diseases of the tongue. A somewhat similar condition sometimes affects the lips, and is called macrocheilia. Yarix of lymphatic vessels—The lymphatic vessels may become dilated, with hypertrophy of their walls. This would appear to be the result of obstruction from the pressure of a tumour in most instances as, for example, an aneurism pressing on the thoracic duct; or a malignant growth in the groin pressing on the vessels in this situation. When the larger vessels are affected, they form cystic spaces, lined with epithelium, and to them the term lymphangeioma is applied. When the smaller- vessels become varicose, they present slight elevations on the surface of the skin, which give it a roughened appearance, which has been compared to the rind of an orange. This condition, which is named lymphangi- ectasis, is most frequently met with along the course of the lymphatics on the inner side of the thigh. The dilated vessels may burst, giving rise to lymphorrhoea. Lymphangitis {Angeioleucitis).—These terms are applied to an inflammation of a spreading or diffuse character which attacks lymphatic vessels. It arises from the presence in the vessels of some septic material derived from decomposing tissues or the products of an infective in- flammation affecting the tissues from which they derive their lymph. It is therefore very commonly associated with cutaneous erysipelas, and also occurs from some slight wound or scratch, into which some septic pro- ducts of decomposing material have found an entrance. The disease is common among butchers, cooks, and those who are engaged in making post-mortem examinations. A wound or abrasion is in most instances present, though it may be so minute as to escape the observation of the surgeon. The disease is predisposed to by anything which impairs or vitiates the general health. Habitual intemperance, neglect of proper hygienic surroundings, and albuminuria, all tend to induce it. Pathology.—The inflammation attacks the coats of the vessel, which become much swollen and infiltrated with round cells. The intima becomes opaque and swollen, and the endothelium degenerates and de- squamates. The inflammation extends from the coats of the vessel to the surrounding tissues, which become swollen and infiltrated. The contents of the vessel become cloudy and may coagulate. In many cases pyogenic organisms are mixed with the infecting virus, and then suppuration occurs. Symptoms.—The patient is first of all conscious of a general feeling of malaise, and complains of alternate sensations of heat and cold, or he niay in some cases have a distinct rigor, and this may be accompanied by diarrhoea and vomiting. An abrupt rise in the temperature up to 102° or 103° F. will be noted. He will complain of pain and stiffness extending up the Hmb, _ with acute pain and throbbing in the wound if there is one. Upon examination it will be found that the wound presents an unhealthy appear- ance and is surrounded by a red area. Radiating from this will be seen a number of fine red streaks, running in the course of the lymphatic vessels to the lymphatic glands, into which they empty themselves. The streaks are considerably wider than the vessels themselves, in consequence of the implication of the adjacent structures in the inflammation, and sometimes they are coalesced with each other so as to form a band, which presents a somewhat thickened sensation to the finger. In some cases the inflam- mation spreads to surrounding parts to such an extent as to give the