385 CHAPTER III INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES Injuries.—Nerves may be contused, compressed, or divided. Contusion.—A nerve may be slightly squeezed, producing a sensation of pain in the part and of tingling or ' pins and needles' in its peripheral termination. A familiar illustration of this is the so-called ' funny bone' caused by a slight blow or squeeze of the ulnar nerve as it lies behind the internal condyle of the humerus. The sensation as a rule passes off in a few minutes; but when the injury is more severe and the nerve is actually bruised, that is to say, when there is extravasation of blood among its fibres, there is impairment of function of the nerve. If it is a compound one, both sensation and motion may be lost; but it is a fact of everyday experience that in these cases of contused nerve, motion is more impaired than sen- sation. In fact, we may have complete paralysis of the parts which the nerve supplies, with little or no loss of sensation. In this condition no immediate operation is indicated. As long as there are any indications that any sensation or motion remains, the surgeon should hold his hand and keep the parts at rest, in the hope that the normal functions may be restored. In a large majority of cases this will be so; and when a return of the sensation and motion is becoming evident, the recovery may be accelerated by galvanism and massage. If at the end of two or three months there is still loss of motion and sensation, it will be evident that the nerve has been so crushed that it cannot recover itself, and it will be right under these circumstances to consider the propriety of exposing the nerve, resecting the injured part, and suturing the two extremities. Con- tusion of a nerve may give rise to persistent neuralgia, or may set up a condition of chronic neuritis. Compression.—The function of a nerve may be impaired either temporarily or permanently by pressure. This may be caused in very many ways. Perhaps the most familiar example is the pressure of a crutch on the brachial plexus in the axilla, causing ' crutch palsy.' Nerves may also be pressed upon by tumours and especially aneurisms. Thus an exostosis on the first rib has been known to cause pressure on the nerves forming the brachial plexus ; a mass of malignant glands in the axilla may cause pressure on the brachial plexus ; enlarged glands in the neck cause pressure on the nerves in this situation, and a pelvic abscess or stone in the bladder cause pressure on the sacral plexus or its branches. Many other examples too numerous to mention might be cited. Again, a displaced bone, either in fracture or dislocation, may press on a nerve and impair its function ; or callus thrown out in the repair of a fracture may do the same thing. Finally, the contraction of scar tissue may press upon the terminal fibres of the sensory nerves and cause neuralgia and reflex spasms. The first