752 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Hospital.) 2: Complete fracture.—In this variety of fracture the bodies of the vertebra; are implicated, and are often extensively comminuted, and loose fragments of bone may be driven into the canal and injure the cord. The broken fragments are often crushed together and impacted into each other. The laminae and processes usually partake in the injury, and are often variously broken and comminuted. Sometimes the injury consists m a partial fracture of the body of a vertebra and the partial tearmg of the intervertebral substance, and then the vertebra above is usually displaced forwards on the lower, so that the spinal cord is compressed, when it is injured between the posterior margin of the body below and the laminae of the vertebra above. Generally the vertebral body is irregularly broken and crushed, but the displacement is the same; the vertebrae above the injury being displaced forwards (fig. 287). In those cases where the cord is crushed, it is generally completely disorganised at the seat of fracture, and symptoms are produced exactly resembling those which follow a transverse section of the cord, and these vary according to the region implicated (see page 748). When the displacement is not so great, the spinal cord is not so extensively injured, and under these circuni- stances there may be only partial paralysis of the parts below the injury : for example, there may be paralysis of one side of the body, below the lesion, when one half of the cord has been injured. In some cases there may be very con- siderable displacement, and still the cord may escape injury; and again, on the other hand, there may be complete disorganisation, where there has been little or no displacement. This may be due to haemorrhage into its substance, or between the -ord and its membranes, or to subsequent myelitis which has been set up by the injury to the bones and other structures. , -ru^c^. Fracture-dislocation without injury to the cord —itiese cases are very uncommon, but undoubtedly do occur. The symptoms produced are merely the local signs due to the injury and displacement 01 the bones. There is always a very considerable amount of shock, tor ine injury which will produce a fracture of the spine must be a severe one. There is pain at the seat of injury, which is greatly increased upon a»y movement or upon manipulating the parts. The patient is uiiame maintain the body in the erect position or to sit up, and even tuniii'o bed is impossible, and any attempt to do so attended wi h gj^fat p. • Upon examining the back there will be found to be considerable deto muy, resembling an angular curvature of the spine, prominence ot/^jT^P' process of the vertebra below the fracture, and a hollow and aos*-"^ the spinous process above. There is often bruising of the sou Fig. 287.—Fracture of the body of a ver- tebra, with displacement, crushing the cord. (From the Museum of St. George's