INJURIES AND IHSEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES desirable to administer an anaj.sthetic, and then Hex the leg on the thigh to its fullest extent; this relaxes the pressure of the condyles of the femur on the cartilage and renders it more movable. By now suddenly extending the leg the displaced cartilage will generally slip into its place. The patient, if he is not under the influence of an anaesthetic, will at once be conscious that the displacement is reduced, and will again be able to move his leg. In some instances it has been found impossible to restore the cartilage to its proper position; when this is so, passive motion should be persevered with for some time, beginning it as soon as the symptoms of synovitis have subsided, and generally a very useful limb will be obtained. As soon as reduction is accomplished the limb should be placed on a splint, and cold lotion or ice applied, to reduce the inflammation. Passive motion should be begun early. It must be borne in mind that this acci- dent is very liable to recur unless means are taken to ensure the union of the ruptured ligamentous tissue. This is best done by applying to the knee a clamp which has been especially devised for these cases. This consists of a semicircular spring, which passes behind the joint, and is attached on either side to a carefully padded plate, which is shaped to embrace the lateral borders of the patella and make pressure upon them. This should be applied as soon as it is judged advisable to allow the patient to have his limb removed from the spUnt, which certainly should not be for three weeks after the accident. In cases where, in spite of treatment, or for want of proper treatment, a recurrence occurs, a repetition may often be prevented by wearing the same clamp ; but where the accident has occurred more than once, it will often be found that the cartilage is constantly slipping in and out, and seriously interferes with the patient's comfort and welfare. Should this be so, or should the cartilage be irreducible and seriously cripple the patient, operative interference will have to be undertaken. This inust be done with the strictest antiseptic precautions, and no surgeon is justified in undertaking it unless under these conditions. The operation is performed by making an incision (with the knee flexed to a right angle) a finger's breadth from the patella, commencing it oppo- site the middle of this bone and carrying it to an inch below the head of the tibia. The skin, subcutaneous structures, and the capsule are di\ided, and the synovial membrane exposed. This is opened nearly to the same length as the skin incision. The position of and extent of injury to the cartilage is now ascertained by introducing the finger into the joint. If the cartilage is curled up into the intercondyloid notch, or if it is considerably lacerated, it had better be removed; but if its anterior attach- ment or the coronary ligament has simply been torn, it may be sutured down to the head of thd tibia. In order to remove the cartilage, it should be seized with a pair of catch forceps and pulled outwards as far as possible, and a pair of scissors being introduced into the joint on the under surface of the cartilage, it'is cut away as near its posterior attach- ment as possible. When the cartilage is to be sutured, a curved needle mounted on a handle is passed through the fibrous tissue about the head of the tibia, and then through the cartilage near its circumference. A piece of chromic catgut is then threaded through the needle, and it is withdrawn and the suture tied. In this way, one, two, or three sutures may be inserted. The wound is now lo be closed, a drainage tube having been first inserted. In suturing the wound, great care must be taken to