1079 MASTITIS INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE BREAST Mastitis neonatorum.—In infants, about the third or fourth da}- after birth, the breasts not infrequently become swollen and red, and the child cries when they are handled. Upon squeezing the breasts a small quantity of milky fluid may be expressed from the nipples. 'Fhe disease is said to be caused, or, at all events, aggravated, by a habit which nurses have of rubbing and pulling the nipples. Formerly these cases often ran on to the formation of abscess, but now that they are simply treated by rest and cleanliness, and the pernicious practice of squeezing and pulling the nipple is to a great extent abandoned, abscess is very rare. Inflammation of the breast at puberty is not uncommon, both in boys and girls. The breast becomes swollen, painful, and tender, and sometimes there may be a little serous exudation from the nipple. It usually subsides of itself, and rarely goes on to the formation of matter. The breast should be shielded and protected by a belladonna plaister. Acute mastitis.—Acute inflammation of the breast in adults is, in the great majority of cases, associated with lactation ; though it may occur in non-puerperal women as the result of injury, or after mumps or typhoid fever, or a py^emic abscess may form in the breast. When occurring in connection with lactation it most usually shows itself about the end of the first month, but may occur earlier, within the first fortnight, and at any time up to the termination of lactation. In the majority of cases acute mastitis, occurring in puerperal women, runs on to suppuration and the formation of abscess, and there seems no reason to doubt that it is invariably produced by the invasion of pyogenic organisms which have found an entrance through some crack or abrasion of the nipple. Hence, ' sore nipples ' are a fertile source of this disease. When these organisms effect an entrance through some abrasion of the nipple, they find their way through the lymphatics into the substance of the breast, and set up an inflammation of the inter- stitial tissue between the lobules, which rapidly runs on to suppuration. Some pathologists beUeve that the organisms may effect an entrance through the ducts of the gland, and in this way cause suppuration in the alveoli of the gland substance itself, constituting what has been called galactophoritis. It is doubtful, however, whether this is so, and at all events the point cannot be regarded as definitely settled. Formerly it was supposed that puerperal mastitis was due to the retention of the secretion in the acini and ducts of the glands, and was due to over-distension, but this is not now believed to be so, as engorgement takes place when suckling is suddenly interrupted, and is rarely followed by abscess. Formerly it was customary to describe abscess of the breast as occur- ring in three situations, as the supra-mammary, intra-mammary, and sub- mammary abscesses, and it is no doubt true that abscess may occur in these three situations; but the only ones of any real practical importance in connection with diseases of the breast are the intra-mammary abscesses, which occur in the interstitial tissue between the lobules or, it may be, in the lobules themselves. The supra-mammary abscesses are merely instances of suppuration in the subcutaneous tissue; they may originate in a superficial lobule, but far more frequently arise from causes quite unconnected with the gland. They are to be treated in the same way as a similar condition in other situations. The sub-mammary abscess is situated in the connective tissue beneath the breast. It is very rare,