GENERAL DISEASES in the lower than the upper extremity, and the extent of the gangrene will depend upon the seat of the lesion in the artery, though it does not necessarily extend up to this point. For instance, if the lesion is in the superiicial femoral, the gangrene will not extend higher than the upper part of the leg, because the branches of the profunda are sufficient to supply the whole of the thigh; usually it does not extend higher than the level of the ankle. ' A case recently under my care in St. Georo-e's Hospital illustrates this point. It is that of a young man, aged 20, who was admitted into hospital for rheumatic fever and endocarditis. A day or two after admission he was seized with intense pain in the foot, and it became cold and white. Gangrene set in and was limited to the'sole of the foot, and did not implicate the toes or the dorsum of the foot. After amputation an embolus was found at the bifurcation of the posterior tibial, which completely occluded the artery at this point. No doubt the reason why the toes were not involved was because of the anastomosis of the digital branches of the dorsalis pedis with those of the plantar arteries. The only point in connection with the treatment of these cases to which allusion need be made is the question of amputation. In all other respects the treatment is that of any other case of gangrene. In these cases it is necessary before resorting to amputation to wait until an arrest of the process takes place, and this for two reasons : in the first place, the surgeon can never know how much of the limb will perish, and if he amputated at once he might remove too much; and secondly, by delaying the operation he gives the collateral circulation an opportunity of establishing itself, and thus does away with the chance of sloughine takine place in his flaps. ^ (c) Mention must be made of another way in which gangrene is induced by an arrest of the circulation, and this is by strangulation. This strangulation may be sudden and complete, or gradual and incomplete. Sudden and complete strangulation is sometimes practised by the surgeon as a remedial agent, as in the strangulation of a pile or njEvus. The part is encircled with a ligature, which is tied as tightlv as possible, so that all circulation through it is arrested, and the part becomes gangrenous and separates from the living tissues. Incomplete strangulation is generally accidental, and is well exemplified in a strangulated hernia. Here a portion of gut is nipped by the rmg through which it passes, and is partially strangled, the veins being principally involved, so that some blood finds Its way into the strangulated piece of intestine, but none can get out. The part swells, turns black, the vessels become choked, stagnation takes place, and the gut eventually dies if the constriction is not removed. _ (^) Inflammation as a cause of gangrene.—In speaking of fion It has already been stated that this condition may end in gangrene. It may be that the irritant which produced the inflammation is so intense that It causes stasis in the vessels, and this, if not relieved, will result in gangrene. But a great deal depends in these cases upon the tissues which are the seat of the inflammation. Some tissues, which are not very vascular, as areolar_ tissue and fasciae, are much more apt to die than other more vascular tissues, as muscle or skin. Again, tissues which are degenerated, as in old people or in the intemperate, are more likely to fall into gangrene] if they become inflamed, than the tissues of the robust and vigorous! The gangrene which follows inflammation is always of the moist kind, and is generally attended with fever of an asthenic type, due to septic poisoning.