782 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS physical examination of the chest is made there will be found to be a circumscribed area of dullness, over which coarse crepitations or sometimes fine nioist rales will be heard. After some days the patient coughs up a quantity of dark viscid sputum, and as this is got rid of the dyspnoea is relieved and he eventually recovers. These cases are to be treated by rest in bed, the patient being well propped up by pillows, or in a bed chair. The room should be kept at an equable temperature, and expec- torants should be given. Rupture of the lung—This may occur without any fracture of the ribs There is simply a laceration of the lung tissue, with tearing of the visceral pleura, without any lesion of the chest wall. It usually occurs in children or young persons, and in a large percentage of cases the lacera- tion takes place near the root of the lung, so that the large vessels are torn and death results from haemorrhage. When death does not take place speedily, the presence of pneumothorax and haemothorax, without any penetrating wound of the thoracic wall, indicates the nature of the ^^^^ Wound of the lung.—Wounds of the lung may be of two kinds: (i) from a fractured rib perforating the lung, without any external wound; and (2) from a wound from without, which has transfixed the chest wall. The distinction is of importance, since in the first class of cases the air which finds its way into the pleural cavity from the torn air cells and air passages has been filtered of its organisms by its passage through the lungs, and therefore no infective inflammation is likely to occur ; whereas where there is an external wound the air passes unfiltered through it into the pleura, and septic organisms may be introduced into the pleural cavity and an mfective inflammation may be set up. , ^ ^ -i. -+1 * I Wound of the lung from fractured rib, without external wound—In a case of fractured rib the lung may be known to be wounded if there is surgical emphysema around the fracture, and if there is constant tickling cough, with expectoration of frothy bloody mucus. Ihe former of the two is the more constant sign. , , , , , If a lung is torn by a broken rib both air cells and blood-vessels are lacerated, and there must therefore be effusion of air and extravasation of Air may be effused in these cases into (a) the subcutaneous tissue, constituting what is known as surgical emphysema; or (/y) into the pleural cavity, constituting pneumothorax. • , • ,.„nrtnrpd (a) Surgical emphysema may arise also in cases of punctured wounds of the lung; from wounds of the thoracic parietes without wound of lung (see page 780); and from rupture of the air cells from disease or from violent straining, as in parturition. Emphysema from fracm^d r b. generally occurs without any air getting into the pleural cavity. \) hen me pleura costalis and pulmonalis have been perforated by a broken nb, ^ hicn Then penetrates the lung substance, the air which escapes from the woundea air cells passes directly outwards through the wound in the layers, which lie in close contact and are_ not separated from each other because the pressure of the air is not sufficient to separate them, a d find its way into the subcutaneous tissue. In some cases, ^^^^'^^ f j^^^^'Von. pressure is greater, the air escapes into the Pleural sac during msprat^^^^ and is then forced out into the cellular tissue outside the ho ax throug the wound in the pleura costalis, during the succeeding expuation, ana emphysema is complicated with pneumothorax