AMPUTATIONS XI30 sawn through at a sHghtly higher level than that at which the section of the deeper layer of muscles was made. In this way the liml) is removed, and the stump consists of a cone-shaped hollow, of which the cut end of the bone fornib the apex ; the deeper layer of muscles projecting a little beyond it, the super- ficial layer of muscles projecting still further, and the whole iDeing surrounded by a sleeve of skin and subcutaneous tissue, which projects still further beyond the severed muscles. The vessels are then ligatured, and the skin flaps l)rought together with sutures. This operation is not often performed. It possesses the disadvantage that the cicatrix is over the end of the bone, and owing to the shrinking of the soft parts the stump is apt to become conical and the cicatrix to become adherent to the end of the bone. 2. The flap operation (fig. 427, b) was formerly, before the days of chloro- form, a favourite one with surgeons, on account of the celerity with which it could be performed. It was then done by the transfixion method, and was particularly applicable to those parts of the limbs, the upper arm and thigh, where there is only one bone. The operation is performed with a long sharp- pointed knife. The surgeon, standing on the right side of the patient, seizes the soft parts of the limb in the fingers and thumb of the left hand, and raises them Fig. 428.—Circular amputation of the thigh : the skin and subcutaneous tissue have beeii reflected, and a circular sweep of the muscles is about to be made. from the bone. He then transfixes the limb just below the spot where the saw is to be applied (fig. 429), passing his knife close in front of the bone, and carries it downwards and outwards, making as long an anterior flap as is judged necessary. He now releases the soft parts held in the left hand, reintroduces the knife at the same spot, but now passes it behind the bone and fashions his posterior flap by cutting downwards and backwards. He then retracts the soft parts a little, and saws through the bone. In this operation the soft parts are formed of all the tissues of the limb. The great objection to it is that the vessels are cut obliquely, and are therefore moi-e difficult to secure efficiently. The flap operation may be variously modified : the flaps may be made of unequal length ; only one flap, anterior or posterior, may be formed ; lateral flaps, instead of antero-posterior, may be made ; or if the surgeon desires to fashion his flaps of skin only, he modifies the operation by cutting from without inwards, instead of making the flaps by transfixion, and under these circum- stances may form his flaps of any shape which he desires. He makes his incisions through the skin, and divides the parts from without inwards in any dii-ection he chooses, so long as he secures sufficient coverings for the bone. It is on these lines that the surgeon of the present day operates, selecting what may be characterised as a combination of the flap and circular methods.