793 CHAPTER XIII INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE ABDOMEN Contusions of the abdominal wall. — Contusions of the abdominal wall are serious in proportion to the extent and depth of the tissues involved. A large number of them follow the course of like injuries elsewhere, and terminate without serious inconvenience. They may be attended with subcutaneous laceration of a vessel of con- siderable size, when a h^ematoma or large extravasation of blood will take place, which may descend into the scrotum and thighs ; or they may be complicated with rupture of one of the muscles of the abdominal wall, especially the rectus. ' The symptoms are those of contusions elsewhere, swelling, discoloura- tion, tenderness, pain, and shock. The shock is a very uncertain symptom. Some patients, after an injury to the abdomen, may present but little signs of shock, and yet the injury may be complicated with the rupture of some viscus; while in others the shock is alarming and profound, and yet the patient recovers in a few days without any untoward symptom. Indeed in some cases the shock is so severe that it may destroy life without the appearance of any gross lesion after death. Death is said to be due in these cases to concussion of the solar plexus. When a muscle is torn, the retraction of the muscular fibres gives rise to a gap, which becomes filled mth blood. This injury, after recovery, leaves a weak spot in the abdo- minal wall, through which a ventral hernia may subsequentiy protrude (see fig. 347). Where considerable extravasation has taken place into the abdominal wall, suppuration and abscess is liable to follow, and the matter is apt to burrow in the loose cellular tissue under the tendinous planes. When evacuated, it is often foetid and suggestive of the presence of the bacillus coli communis. Peritonitis of a local character sometimes follows contusions of the abdominal wall, without injury to the abdominal viscera; this is believed by some to be due to laceration of the parietal peritoneum, but there is no evidence to prove that this is so, and it is probable that laceration of the parietal peritoneum, without injury to the viscera, is comparatively rare. Treatment.—The patient should be kept absolutely quiet on his back, with a pillow under the knees to relax the abdominal wall. Opium should be given to relieve pain, and the patient kept on a fluid diet and watched. A guarded prognosis should always be given. If the shock is severe,^the usual remedies for this condition should be applied (page 40). Injuries of the abdomen attended by rupture of the viscera,—Injuries of the abdomen are often associated with rupture of one or more of the viscera, or of laceration of one of the large blood-vessels. The sufferer may die at once from shock, or in the course of a few hours from hfemorrhage, or later on from peritonitis.