552 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES destrilction ceases; and then that portion of the granulation tissue which f overs the denuded surfaces of the bones and retains its vitaHty undergoes developmental processes, and becomes converted into fibrous tissue, and eventually into bone. In this way the two or more bones which entered into the formation of the original joint become firmly united together, as in a compound fracture, and practically form one bone (fig. 195). To this condition the name synostosis is applied, because there is a direct growing together of the bones. (2) Another form of bony ankylosis is due to bony bridges or arches being thrown across from one bone to the other around the joint. This is sometimes due to ossification of the lic^aments, as is seen in the spine where the anterior common and other ligaments'undergo ossification and. ankylose the vertebrae together. Incomplete ankylosis—In cases of incomplete ankylosis, the stiffness of the joint depends on several different conditions. It is frequently termed fibrous ankylosis, for the cause of the stiffening is either the formation of new fibrous tissue, which unites the bones, or the contraction and thick- ening of pre-existing fibrous tissue. When it arises from the first of these two causes, it is due to fibrous bands, the result of inflammation, stretching across from one articular surface to the other. These bands may have been caused by a simple synovitis, or by a destruction of the articular cartilage and its repair by fibrous tissue. This form of fibrous ankylosis is the intra-articular variety, and when the fibrous bands are very numerous, as often takes place in cases of gonorrhoeal syno- vitis, the union is exceedingly firm ■ ■ and the amount of movement between..the two bones comparatively sHght. When the stiffening is due -to. contraction of pre-existing structures it arises from induration and thickening of the capsular Hgament the result of inflammation, or from fibrous induration of the soft parts external to the joint, and their contraction, from the hmb having been kept long in a fixed and constrained position. This variety is sometimes termed extra-articiilar fibrous ankylosis. The diagnosis between bony and fibrous ankylosis is to be made by the absolute immobility of the one and the greater or less amount of move- ment permitted in .the other. In the firmest degree of fibrous ankylosis, such as we meet with after gonorrhoeal synovitis, there is always a certain amount of ' give' or yielding between the articular surfaces, w^hich is most percep- tible if the patient is under an anaesthetic, \vhereas in the bony ankylosis there is none. In addition to this, any attempt at forcible movement, \\ the ankylosis is fibrous, is attended with pain; whilst the proceeding in bony ankylosis is absolutely painless. The diagnosis between the intra- and extra-articular forms of fibrous ankylosis can be made in the following way. If the ankylosis is intra-articular, except in extreme cases, there is a greater or less degree of movement, which is perfectly free, and then Fig. 195.—Synostosis of the hip. (From . the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)