185 SECONDARY SYPHILIS psoriasis or papiilo-squamoiis syphilide is applied. (3) Still later, a tuber- cular eruption may appear, especially occurring on the face. To this the term acne is sometimes given, but the term is a bad one if the word acne is restricted to an affection of the sebaceous follicles, and the term tuber- FiG. 39.—Syphilitic rupia. (From a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) cular syphilide more correctly expresses the condition. Pathologically it is identical with lichen, and differs only in degree, the inflammatory infiltra- tion of the skin taking place in larger masses. These are the more common eruptions in syphilis, and occur at the earlier stages of the disease. Those which occur less frequendy and at a later period are : (4) Vesicular erup- tions, which are very rare.. (5) Pustular eruptions, which are more common. The pustule dries and forms a scab, which after a time falls off and leaves no scar behind it. (6) Bullous eruptions, which consist of large buUt^ or blebs, filled with serum, which soon suppurate and burst; the discharge dries on the surface and forms a scab; beneath this a further secretion takes place, which goes through the same process, and forms a second scab of rather larger size; by a repetition of this process a dark-coloured pyramidal scab is formed, which resembles a limpet shell. To this form of syphilitic eruption the term rupia is applied (fig. 39). After a time the scab falls off, leaving a circular ulcer, which tends to heal from the centre. Rupia occurs usually as a late secondary; when it occurs at an early stage of the disease it betokens a serious condition, as it only arises at this time in the debilitated and worn-out individual, and the prognosis in these cases is never good, as the patients bear mercury badly. Though these eruptions for the sake of clearness have been described independently of each other, it must be understood that they do not occur as isolated eruptions in any given case of secondary syphilis, but that one of the great and leading characteristics of the syphilides is their polymorphism; that is to say, they are not limited to one type, for in the same patient there may be seen papules interspersed with a scaly eruption or with tubercles, and as these eruptions are merely modifications of the same pathological process, this is not to be wondered at. The other lead- mg characteristics of syphilitic eruptions are their colour, which is often described as being coppery, but more correctly as being- of the colour of lean ham. A third characteristic is the absence of any itching or local discomfort. They are fairly symmetrical, and especially affect the flexor aspect of the limbs and the front of the chest and abdomen. They have a tendency to fade a\vay and disappear after a few weeks or months if left untreated, and to disappear rapidly under the internal administration of mercury. Some of these syphilitic eruptions may be modified by the position in