597 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN (/') Extravasation of blood on the surface of the brain beneath the dura mater takes place much more rapidly, because there is not the same resistance as there is in the sub-cranial haemorrhage, and hence the same sequence of events is not observed, and the symptoms of concussion usually merge into those of compression without any inter- vening period of consciousness. In many of these cases the bleeding comes from the small vessels of the pia mater, and the amount of blood extravasated is not large, and therefore the signs of compression are very slight, or may be altogether absent, the patient after the injury present- ing symptoms of apparently very severe concussion from which he does .^^t 11,, f— -. 1 1 • ! not rally for some time; eventually, perhaps signs of some irritation of the brain, as persistent pain, loss of mental power, irritability of temper, or perhaps epileptiform seizures. In these cases the blood clot becomes converted into a cyst, constituting what is termed blood cyst of the arach- noid (fig. 22\)} In severer cases where the blood poured out is greater, the symptoms of compression are well marked; and in these cases the supervention of compression on the top of concussion after a severe in- jury to the head, without any inter- vening period of consciousness, would point to the extravasation having taken place either in the sub-dural space or in the substance of the brain. The diagnosis between these two latter conditions cannot be made ; but extravasation into the substance of the brain after injury is very rare, except when there is extensive lacera- tion, and then the symptoms of laceration would be superadded to those of pressure, and the case would in all probability be rapidly fatal. In those cases, therefore, where com- pression comes on gradually after however, he may recover, with Fig. 221.—Blood cyst of the arachnoid. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) concussion, without any recovery of consciousness, there is a fair inference that the extravasation is sub-dural, and the diagnosis mav be confirmed by observing that there is paralysis or spasm of a single group of muscles or of one limb, and this observation would serve also to localise the clot. In such a case it would be right to remove a crown of bone with a trephine trom that part of the skull where the clot was judged to be; and if, on removing the crown, the dura mater bulged up into the hole, and no pulsations were visible, to incise the dura mater. If blood clot is found. It must be gently removed and the cavity syringed out, and any bleeding points secured and tied if possible ; or if not, plugged with antiseptic gauze. ' The manner in which these cysts are formed has been referred to on page 49.