410 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES important sign of fracture, and is in some cases almost sufficient by itself to establish the diagnosis to the practised eye. It is due to the displacement of the..broken portions of bone from each other, and this displacement may occur in many different directions. Thus it may be lom^itudinal one bone overlapping the other, and this gives rise to shortening of the 'limb • angular where the broken ends form an angle with each other and the axis of the bone is altered at the seat of fracture, so that the limb appears to be bent at this point; rotatory where the lower fragment is twisted on its own axis, and the limb below the fracture is seen to be rotated either outwards or inwards j and lateral where one fragment is displaced to one side or the other. Separation of the fragments may also occur in transverse fractures and a gap may be felt between the two broken ends, as in fracture of the patella from the action of the quadriceps extensor muscle and effusion into the joint. The principal causes of displacement of the fractured ends of a bone are four, (i) The direction of the violence. The same violence which produced the fracture may produce also the displacement, as when the bones of the skull are driven in by a blow. (2) The weight of the limb or body may drag the fractured bone out of place, as in fracture of the clavicle, where the outer fragment is drawn downwards by the wei^rht of the arm. (3) Muscular contraction. This is the most important and the most active cause of displacement. The muscles by their contraction which may be either spasmodic or tonic, draw the fractured ends out of their normal position, owing to the support afforded by the unbroken bone having been removed. (4) Rough handling on the part of the attendant or the movements of the patient, especially during delirium, may cause displacement of the fragments. 2. Iticreased mobility in the continuity of a bone is a certain sign of frac- ture when It can be ascertained to exist; but its absence is no evidence that there is not a fracture, for in impacted fractures, in incomplete fractures, and in some forms of serrated fracture, where the ends are more or less dovetailed into each other, there is no increased mobility. And, again, in those cases where two bones lie parallel to each other, as in the forearm and leg, and one only is broken, any increased mobility is exceedingly difficult to detect and very liable to be overlooked. It is best ascertained by grasping the bone firmly above and below the supposed seat of fracture, and trying if any angular movement can be obtained. _ Z. Crepitus—The grating of one broken end of the bone on the other is an important sign of fracture, yet there are many cases in which it either does not exist or cannot be felt: in the impacted fracture, and as a rule in the incomplete fracture, it does not exist; and, again, where the broken ends cannot be brought into apposition, either from too great separation or from overriding of the fragments, no crepitus can be elicited ; and, finally, the presence of foreign bodies, as a piece of muscle or fibrous tissue, between the broken ends will prevent its being felt. In addition to this other sensations may be mistaken for crepitus, as the rubbing together of the inflamed and roughened surfaces of a synovial membrane or of a sheath of a tendon, or the grating of a rheumatoid joint. 4. The impairment of function, or inability to move the limb, is not a sign of any great importance, inasmuch as it is common to so many injuries. 5. Ecchymosis.—This sign requires special mention, since it is in some fractures the only one on which we can rely for a diagnosis. In fractures