CALCULUS IN THE URETER 949 parts. AH bleeding having been arrested, a large drainage tube may be inserted if thought necessary, and the wound closed and dressed. In the after treatment of nephrectomy, care must be taken to keep the patient warm and promote the action of the skin. There is often con- siderable shock, and this must, as far as possible, be guarded against (see page 41). Haematuria.—The presence of blood in the urine may generally be recognised by the colour which it gives to the fluid. This will vary according to the amount of the blood. When this is considerable, the fluid has the appearance of coffee, and will stain red the bottom of the utensil in which it is contained. When the amount of blood is only small the urine has a smoky appearance, and a reddish-brown precipitate falls if it is allowed to stand. The more accurate way of ascertaining the presence of blood is by microscopic examination, when blood corpuscles will be readily detected. The blood may come from any part of the urinary tract. When it comes from the kidney it is uniformly diffused throughout the whole volume of the urine, and upon microscopic examination blood-casts— I.e. clots of blood from the urinary tubules—may be detected. Occa- sionally larger casts may be seen, from clotting of the blood in the ureter. When it comes from the bladder, the urine first passed may be clear and normal, and become more and more tinged with blood, until, at the erid of micturition, the fluid voided is almost pure blood! This, however, is not always the case; in some instances the blood is uniformly mixed with the urine. When the blood comes from the urethra It may be passed quite independently of the act of micturition, or in some cases a small quantity of nearly pure blood may be expelled at the com- mencement, and this is followed by urine which remains clear to the last drop. When the blood comes from the prostate or the prostatic portion of the urethra, it generally finds its way back into the bladder, and the signs are the same as those of bleeding from this organ : the blood appearing towards the end of the act of micturition, or else the blood being uniformly mixed with the urine. When the blood comes from the kidney it may be due to many different causes : from injury, from inflammation, from malignant disease, from calculus, tuberculous disease, and from certain drugs, as can- tharides. It may also occur in some general diseases, as haemophilia, scurvy, and continued fevers, and may be due to the presence of minute worms {Bilharzia hcematobia) in the kidney, or from the presence of the Filaria sanguinis hominis in the blood. When the blood comes from the bladder it may be due to injury of the bladder or prostate ; to stone in the bladder; to growths, either villous or malignant; to acute cystitis or ulceration, tuberculous or otherwise; or to congestion of the prostate. When the blood comes from the urethra it may be due to laceration; to impaction of a calculus ; to rupture of the corpus spongiosum; to tumours m the urethra; to ulceration, generally phagedsenic; or to gonorrhoea. Calculus in the ureter.—A stone in its passage from the kidney into the bladder may be arrested in the ureter, and it is probable in many cases in which a stone in the kidney has been diagnosed, an operation performed and no stone found, that the stone was lodged in some part of the ureter. • There are three situations in which it is mo.st usually arrested. I. About two inches from the kidney, and here it can be detected