26 INFI^MMATION in the blood of the ferment set free by the disintegration of the emigrated eucocytes. There is. however, another theory as to the causation of thfs febrile condition. _ It is known to physiologists that there S a heat regulating centre situated in the medulla which presides over and controls ture. It 1. believed by some that in inflammation this centre is thrown out of gear either as the result of the interference with its nutrition oZl to the vitiated blood from the inflamed area flowing through it or as a reflex act, brought about by the tension on the peripheral terminations of the sensory nerves of the inflamed part. " "niduons The fever which follows an injury or operation may not, as we have said, subside in the course of a few days ; this is due to the presence of some source of irritation; it may be the presence of a foreign body or tension from too tight sutures, or some other condition of unrest' and these cases generally terminate in suppuration; or the fever mav subside, and the temperature become normal, or almost normal, and may then again rise. This is due to the absorption into the blood of the pro ca^n e.^L hp T°''k° 1 ■ . ^^^'^ ^r'^'^''^ ^y'^^Senic substances, and can easily be absorbed from raw surfaces, less easily after granulations are formed, as these structures appear to act as barriers to absorption 1 hus after a wound, if drainage is not provided for, dead animal matter- e.g. serum—may be retained in the wound and undergo putrefaction • the ptomaines, the products of this fermentative process, are rapidly absorbed from the raw surface, and, carried in the circulation, act as pyrosenic agents and maintain the high temperature. At the end of a week or ten days the temperature will, however, fall, though perhaps not quite to normal ; this is due to granulations having formed, which, acting as barriers prevent the further absorption of the chemical products of the decom- position. Again, the fever may continue and the temperature remain high where there is no decomposition going on, and where there can be there- tore, no absorption of its products into the blood. This is due to the absorption of the chemical products of the growth of infective micro- organisms into the blood. These organisms multiply in the living bodv and therefore the effects they produce are not proportional to the amount ot the poison which has been inoculated or introduced into the system _ Acute inflammatory or symptomatic fever varies not only in its inten- sity but also in its form, according to the condition of the patient and the nature of the pyrogenic substance which excites it. Two distinct varieties are usually described, the sf/temc and the asiAemc, but between these two extremes there will be found to be an infinite variety of gradations- (1) The st/zemc form occurs in the hale and strong. It is characterised by a lull, bounding, incompressible pulse, generally accelerated some thirty or forty beats in a minute; a hot, moist skin, with a rapidly mounting temperature to 102° F. or 103° F. ; the tongue is furred, white, and moist; the respirations are increased in frequency ; the face is suffused ; there is thirst, loss of appetite, and the secretions are diminished; there are often nervous complications, languor, headache, and sometimes delirium, which is generally of a noisy, more or less violent character. (2) The asthenic form indicates a graver depression of the patient's vitality, and occurs in those who are broken down in health by privation or dissipation, or in those who are suffering from organic disease of the .eliminatory organs. In these cases the action of the" heart is more rapid than in the sthenic form, the pulse beating from 130 to 150 a minute; it