GENERAL DISEASES 206 disease,-' especially when it occurs in external parts, there are no recognisable symptoms of constitutional disturbance: the patient makes no complaint of feeling ill, and presents no indications that he is otherwise than in the enjoyment of his ordinary condition of health. In some cases, however, and this especially applies to tuberculous disease in joints, there are frequently evidences of slight febrile disturbance. There is usually some slight elevation of the temperature at night, and this is especially the case after caseation has commenced. In fact, one of the best indications, in a case of a tuberculous joint, that caseation has commenced, and that therefore the probabilities of obtaining a cure by long-continued rest are not favourable, is the occurrence of a slight rise in the temperature every night, and this is often an important factor in determining the treatment. When general tuberculosis supervenes on a local tuberculous trouble, the first indication is generally a considerable nightly rise in the tem- perature : though in some cases the rise may be in the morning. But, at all events, if in the course of any local tuberculous condition the temperature suddenly mounts up to 103° or 104° F. without any local condition in the part to account for it, the very gravest apprehensions should be entertained that some acute condition, as tuberculous meningitis or acute .pulmonary trouble, will assert itself ere long. And this is especially the case in children. Scrofula.—Scrofula is a term which has never been verj' clearly defined, and up to quite recent times has been used rather to express the idea of a diathesis than a disease. It was said to mean a constitutional disease, which predisposed those who suffered from it to the occurrence of a low form of inflammation of a pecuUar type. We now know that this low form of inflammation is nothing more or less than a tuberculous condition, and that a so-called scrofulous gland which has broken down is pathologically and etiologically identical with a tuberculous vomica in the lung ; so that the time has arrived when the term 'scrofula,' or its synonym 'struma,' should be banished from medical literature. As Mr. Treves says, ' There is no disease requiring the special designation, scrofula. The term was a convenient one to cover ignorance. It has served its purpose and may now be most profitably abandoned.' Treatment.—In dealing with the treatment of tuberculosis, we must consider first preventive treatment, by which we mean an endeavour to prevent any manifestation of the disease in those who present any pre- disposition to it, either from hereditary or acquired causes. An individual may be what we have termed a tuberculous individual and still may never present any manifestation of tuberculous disease, and our endeavours should be, by preventive treatment, to prevent these manifestations in these cases. And this to a very great extent may be done by strict and continuous attention to hygienic and dietetic rules ; by, in fact, keeping the patient in the best possible condition of health, which will, in spite of his predis- position, enable him to overcome any inroads of the tubercle bacillus, pro- vided they are not admitted in any considerable numbers. Attention should be paid, therefore, to all the patient's surroundings. He should have plenty of fresh air, live in well-ventilated rooms both by day and by night, and be out in the open air as much as jDOSsible. He should, if it can be done, reside in a dry and equable climate, and especially at the seaside. He should be warmly clad and always wear woollen garments next his skin, and by baths and friction promote its action. His diet should consist of light, nutritious, unstimulating food, and care should be taken never to