874 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS is dull on percussion, and presents a doughy, boggy sensation to the fingers. It can, for the most part, be diminished in size by pressure, but it is nevertheless quite irreducible. It presents an impulse on coughing, which is not, however, so distinct and marked as the impulse of a reducible hernia. The patient complains of colicky pains over the abdomen, and soon begins to vomit, but merely rejects the contents of the stomach, and if food is withheld the vomiting ceases, at all events in the earlier stages; the tongue becomes furred, the abdomen distended, and there is constipa- tion, but the constipation is not absolute ; flatus, and perhaps even a certain amount of faecal matter, may be passed. In the later stages, especially in the aged, collapse may supervene. The symptoms may per- sist for several days, and then pass off when the bowels are relieved, or they may gradually pass on into symptoms of strangulation. To a certain extent the symptoms of obstruction resemble those of strangulation, and the one condition may be mistaken for the other; but the diagnosis may be made by observing the non-persistence of the vomit- ing if food is withheld, the absence of complete obstruction, and by noting the presence of an impulse on coughing. Treatment.—The patient should be confined to bed, and an ice bag applied to the part. A little morphia or opium should be given to relieve pain and promote sleep, and no food, except an occasional spoonful of milk and water, for twenty-four hours. Then a copious oil enema should be administered, followed, after the lower bowel has been emptied, by a full dose of castor oil. After the bowels have been relieved, the patient should be kept in bed until all local pain has subsided, and a careful system of dieting must be enjoined to prevent another attack. 4. Inflamed hernia.—A hernia usually becomes inflamed as the result of some injury to an irreducible hernia, either a blow on the part, or too violent or too prolonged taxis, or from injury produced by an ill-fitting truss. It is essentially a form of localised peritonitis involving the sac and its contents. The inflamed parts, if examined, are found to be red and injected, and covered over with flakes of lymph; there is usually a litde fluid in the sac, and the effused lymph becomes organised and forms adhesions between the sac and its contents. In some cases there may be considerable effusion, and this may go on to suppuration. Symptoms.—The swelling becomes hot, tender, and painfulit is tense and firm, and the pain is increased by pressure. There is an impulse on coughing. With these local signs are associated fever, vomiting, and con- stipation. This condition, therefore, like the obstructed hernia, resembles to a certain extent strangulation ; but the vomiting is merely the rejection of the contents of the stomach, and is never stercoraceous, and the constipation is not complete. Moreover, in these cases there is fever, with an elevated temperature, in contradistinction to the collapse which speedily supervenes when the bowel is strangulated. Treatment.—The patient should be kept absolutely at rest in bed, with the parts in as relaxed a position as possible ; on low diet, consisting simply of fluid ; hot fomentations, or hot Goulard lotion with opium, should be appUed to the part, and a little opium given internally to relieve pam. The condition usually subsides in a few days, but may terminate in general peritonitis. If suppuration should take place, an incision must De made and the pus evacuated. , 5. Strangulated hernia—A hernia is said to be stranguiatea when it is constricted in such a way that there is an obstacle to the tree