343 ANEURISM OF. THE SUBCLAVIAN either fracture of the base of the skull or penetrating wounds of the orbit; the rest were idiopathic. Many of the cases where the disease occurred spontaneously commenced quite suddenly with a sharp crack or noise in the head, accompanied by severe pain, leading to the inference that a small aneurism of the carotid had given way into the sinus. And in the traumatic cases it seems probable that an arterio-venous aneurism is the most frequent pathological lesion which would produce the symptoms. Further than this, the differential diagnosis of the various pathological conditions giving rise to a pulsating tumour in the orbit is scarcely possible. The symptoms, after the preliminary pain and noise, when these occur, are protrusion of the eyeball, with swelling and congestion of the lids and conjunctiva ; pulsatioii of the eyeball; a pulsating tumour, generally situated above the eye beneath the inner part of the orbital arch ; more or less im- pairment of sight, wth paralysis of the iris and the orbital muscles ; pain of varying intensity, and a loud whizzing bruit. The essential symptoms are, according to Rivington, the exophthalmos, the bruit, and the congestion of the conjunctiva. Treatment.—The symptoms have been known to subside spontaneously, and therefore it is better at first to watch the case, and if no great inconveni- ence is experienced it may not be necessary to adopt any treatment. When, however, on account of the inconvenience or persistence of the symptoms, treatment becomes necessary, constitutional remedies, combined with such digital compression of the common carotid as the patient can tolerate, should be first tried, and failing this ligature of the common carotid should be performed. This has been followed by very satisfactory results. Aneurism of the subclavian artery.—An aneurism may form on any part of the subclavian artery, except the intra-thoracic portion of the left vessel, which is said never to be the seat of aneurism. The most cornmon situation is the third part of the artery, external to the scalenus anticus muscle, and on the right side of the body. This greater frequency of occurrence on the right side of the body is no doubt due to the greater amount of use to which the right upper extremity is put. The disease is especially common in sailors, who are engaged in hauling heavy ropes &c., and therefore subjecting their arms, and especially the right arm, to great strain. _ S3miptoms.—An aneurism of the subclavian "artery is generally charac- terised by a small tumour in the subclavian triangle. It varies in size, and may sometimes attain an enormous bulk (fig. io6), and as it increases it bulges forwards the sterno-mastoid muscle. It presents the ordinary symptoms of aneurism as regards bruit, pulsation, &c., and the radial pulse IS weaker and delayed on the affected side. The pressure effects depend on the part of the vessel affected. When it is confined to the third part of the artery the brachial plexus or its branches may be pressed upon, producmg pam and numbness in the arm and fingers, with loss of power or paralysis in the muscles of these parts. GEdema may also be present from pressure on the subclavian vein. The external jugular vein may also become involved and become distended and varicose. When the first part of the artery is involved, pressure on the internal jugular and vertebral veins may cause cedema of the head and face, with lividity, congestion ot the brain, and a semi-conscious state. The phrenic nerve may be involved causing spasmodic action of the diaphragm, or the recurrent laryngeal, producmg paralysis of the vocal cord on the affected side. An