TREATMENT OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP 517 characteristic one, is the presence of the head of the bone in its new situation. It can be distinctly felt, as a round hard ball, in the groin, rather above the level of Poupart's ligament. There is an absence of the prominence of the great trochanter, and a depression in the position where it ought to be. There is generally about an inch of shortening, and the thigh is markedly everted and more or less abducted from the middle line of the body. Frequently intense pain is complained of in the lower extremity, from pressure of the head of the bone on the anterior crural nerve. Treatment.—The pubic dislocation can generally be reduced by manipulation—that is to say, by making the head of the bone retrace the steps by which the dislocation was brought about. The patient is to be placed on his back on the floor and under the influence of an anaes- thetic. The leg is to be flexed on the thigh and the thigh on the pelvis, with a certain amount of abduction, so that the knee is beyond the line of the side of the body. The limb is to be held in this position for a few moments, and then slowly carried inwards into a condition of adduction, so that the knee is over the middle line of the body. By this means the head of the bone is forced round the inner side of the cotyloid cavity to the rent in the capsule through which it emerged. Care must be taken not to adduct the limb too far, or else the head of the bone will slip past the socket and a dislocation backwards result. After this motion has been accomplished, the limb is to be rotated outwards, when the head of the bone will enter the rent in the capsule ; and by extending the limb the head will be carried to the bottom of the cavity, and the dislocation will be reduced. Rotation inwards seems to succeed in some cases equally well as rotation outwards. In cases where manipulation fails to reduce the dislocation, the plan advocated by Mr. Kelly for dislocations backwards (page 515) sometimes succeeds in reducing the dislocation. Other plans, by combining ex- tension with manipulation, have occasionally been adopted with success. Thus, after flexing the thigh, the head of the bone may be dragged directly outwards, by means of a long towel placed around the upper part of the thigh. In order to accomplish this most satisfactorily, the patient should be laid on his sound thigh, and the towel can then be placed over the shoulders of the surgeon, who, standing over his patient, fixes the pelvis by placing his foot upon it. An assistant grasps the ankle and steadies the lower part of the limb. After the reduction of any of these forms of dislocation of the hip, the subsequent treatment must be carried out on the lines laid down above (page 498). In the intervals between the daily massage, it is not as a rule necessary to apply any splint, but merely to support the limb on either side with a sandbag, a long one reaching to the pelvis on the outer side, and a short one reaching to just above the knee on the inner. A couple of turns of bandage round the bags, inclosing the knee, will be all that is required to secure the necessary quietude. Occasionally it will happen that the dislocation will recur after reduc- tion. This will probably be due to the injury being complicated with fracture of the rim of the acetabulum, and during reduction crepitus will probably have been felt. These are exceedingly difficult cases to deal with, for, in spite of all the extension which can be made, the head of the bone is very likely to become permanently displaced, and deformity and lameness result. In cases where fracture is suspected, after reduction