664 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS impure air, and is very frequent among residents in hospitals, not only patients, but also house surgeons, nurses, &c., and therefore is commonly known as hospital throat. It is characterised by enlargement of one or both tonsils, which become dusky red in colour, and a secretion is seen oozing from the mouths of the inflamed follicles; this may coagulate on the surface, forming a yellow patchy exudation, which might be mistaken for diphtheria, but unlike the false membrane of this disease is not adherent, and can be readily brushed away with a camel-hair brush. The disease is ushered in by a sudden rise of temperature, and sometimes a ri<^or There is pain in the throat darting up to the ear, and obstruc- tion to both breathing and swallowing. The tongue becomes furred, the breath offensive, the saliva runs copiously from the mouth, and the glands behind the angle of the jaw become enlarged. The disease usually subsides under treatment in the course of two or three days. Treatment should be commenced with a brisk calomel purge, followed by twenty-grain doses of saHcylate of soda every four hours for three or four doses, which often has the effect of at once cutting short the disease. Locally the throat should be frequently gargled with chlorate of potash gargle Later on quinine or tincture of perchloride of iron should be given in full doses. The diet must be fluid, and a small quantity of port wine daily is beneficial. , (3) Acute parenchymatous tonsillitis—cynanche ton- sillaris or quinsy—is a more diffuse inflammation, affecting not only the tonsil, but also the neighbouring soft palate and fauces. It begins with a chill or perhaps rigor, with stiffness and pain at the back of the throat, especially in swallowing. One side of the soft palate and the corresponding tonsil is swollen and red. There is difficulty in breathing, which is sometimes so great that the patient may dread suffocation. Gradually the tonsil softens, an abscess forms inits substance, and when this is opened or bursts, the patient immediately experiences great relief. In some cases, after the inflammation has subsided in one tonsil, the other becomes similarly affected. , , 1 u 1^ The treatment must commence with a sharp purge, and the throat stiouia be steamed by inhaling over boiling water, to which a little creasote or eucalyptus may be added. Great relief is often afforded by making scarifications into the inflamed tissues, even though no pus is found. Care must be taken not to direct the knife outwards in making these incisions, on account of the proximity of the internal carotid artery. After matter has formed, one of these incisions will open the abscess and at once relieve the patient. Hot fomentations should be applied outside to the throat, and the patient have as much fluid nourishment as he can take. Chronic tonsillitis is generally the sequel of the acute disease, after which the organs remain enlarged, and occasionally become swollen, congested, and painful under the influence of slight causes. Chronic enlargement of the tonsils is an extremely common affection in tuberculous children, in whom it is frequently associated with adenoid growths in the naso-pharynx. It consists in a true hypertrophy ot the normal structures of the organ, especially the lymphoid tissue Ihe tonsils, on examination, are seen to be enlarged, sometimes so much so as to meet in the middle line; they are pale in colour and firm in consistence , the crypts on their surface are enlarged, and are filled with a mucous secretion, which sometimes becomes caseous, and may be seen protruding from the cryfits in the form of whitish plugs. These sometimes become