TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOUS ARTHRTITS 549 fore the limb must be fixed in that position which will be most convenient to the patient should such a condition result. The rest must be continued for a long period. We cannot measure this period by days or weeks, but by months. Twelve months is about the average period that it will take to cure a case of tuberculous arthritis if the disease is fully pro- nounced when the treatment is commenced, and great care and judgment are required by the surgeon to decide when he may safely allow a little movement. The law laid down by Mr. Howard Marsh in respect to these cases is a good one, that ' rest should be maintained, as a rule, for at least three months after all signs of disease have disappeared.' Care must be taken to commence movements very gradually, and the case carefully watched, so that on the slightest appearance of any recrudescence of the disease the rest may be resumed. Combined with fixation of the joint, extension is often of the very greatest use in overcoming the disease. In these cases the muscles are in a state of reflex contraction, and are the cause of the impairment of movement which we have noticed as one of the symptoms. This tonic contraction of the muscles keeps the diseased articular surfaces closely pressed together, and is a source of a condition of unrest. This may be overcome by extension, which by slightly separating the articular surfaces from each other does away with this undue pressure, and is therefore nothing more or less than a further means of maintaining perfect and absolute rest. In cases of hip-joint disease it is necessary, in order to apply extension, to confine the patient to bed; but in the knee joint extension can be applied whilst the patient is up and about in a Thomas's knee-splint, as will be explained in the sequel. Another use of extension is to overcome any faulty position that the limb may have assumed. As was stated above, a joint affected with tuberculous arthritis is liable to become semiflexed, and it may be fixed in this position by the tonic contraction of the muscles. This faulty position may_ be overcome by extension exerted in the right direction. Ex- tension is best applied by means of a weight attached to the Hmb on the distal side of the affected joint and suspended over the end of the bed through a pulley. In addition to these local measures for the treatment of tuberculous disease_ of joints, counter irritation by blisters, painting with iodine, mercurial ointment, &c., have been and are frequently recommended, but it is very doubtful whether they do any good, and the disturbance of the parts necessary for their application probably does more harm than the amount of good which is derived from their use. There are, however, two plans of treatment which have been recently advocated which require mention. One of them is the injection of iodoform emulsion, com- bined with rest and immobilisation. This is injected both into the joint cavity and into the pulpy thickening of the synovial membrane. The injection is often attended by a rise in the temperature and increased swelling, which usually subsides by the fourth day. The emulsion most commonly employed is a lo per cent, solution in glycerine, to which a certain amount of sterilised water is added (see page 70). Six drachms may be injected into the knee joint of an adult; about half that quantity into the knee joint of a child six or seven years old. The injection may be repeated at the end of a fortnight. The result of this treatment, combined with rest and judicious general treatment, is often very satis- factory, and is especially .successful in private practice, where the after-care and open-air treatment can be efficiently carried out. Lannelongue in