io^.6 TNIURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS be remo\ cel. Eiasion should be reserved for those cases where sinuses exist, and both testicles are invoh-ed. The scra])ing should be very thorough, and every particle of diseased tissue should be removed. The cavity is then to be dusted with iodoform and stuffed with iodoform gauze. Under these circumstances it will occasionally close by granulation, and the wound heal. The diagnosis between simple, syphilitic, and tuberculous sarcocele is not always easy. In the accompanying table the main points of difference between the three diseases have been arranged : Simple. Both Ijody and epididymis involved. Enlargement smnolh and uniform. Painful and lender. Cord thickened. the Syphilitic. Confined to body. Indurated, irregular, and hard. Neither painful nor tender. Cord natural. Frequently fluid in the tunica vaginalis. Histoiy of syphilis or syphilitic manifestations. Tuberculous. Begins in epididymis. Nodular with spots of softening. Not painful as a rule, but tender. Vas thickened, other con- stituents of cord natural. Rarely fluid in the tunica vaginalis. Tuberculous family history. Other evidence of tubercle. Occasionally fluid tunica vaginalis. Patient gouty or rheumatic, or history of injury or gonorrhoea. Hernia testis.—Hernia testis is a protrusion of the tubules of_ the testicle through an opening in the tunica albuginea, infiltrated and mixed with granulation tissue. It occurs in cases of septic wound of the testicle which have gone on to suppuration ; or cases of chronic abscess, ^vhether simple or tubercialous, which have perforated the coverings of the testicle and discharged e'xternally ; or it may occur after the breaking down of a gummatous deposit in syphilitic disease. The perforation of the capsule having taken place, the tubules are forced out through the opening in consequence of the pressure to which they are subjected on account of the inflammatory material which has been effused in the interior of the organ. In this way the whole of the secreting structure of the testicle may be protruded and nothing remain but the shrunken capsule and the remains of the epididymis. It appears in the form of a yellowish-red, somewhat mushroom-shaped mass, projecting from one surface of the testicle, which discharges pus. It usually increases slowly, and is fairly firm and hard. It differs from fungus hasmatodes, the fungous protrusion of a malig- nant growth of the testicle, in its rate of growth and in its microscopic characters, consisting merely of the seminal tubules in a mass of granula- tions, whereas the fungus hcematodes presents the characters of the new growth. Treatment.—Hernia of the testis, if small, should be treated by pressure and by maintaining as strict asepticity as possible. The parts should first he thoroughly cleansed with solution of corrosive sublimate, then dusted with iodoform and covered with two or three layers of gauze, and carefully strapped so as to maintain firm pressure over the protruding part. Some- times it is advisable before applying the dressing to shave off the herniated part. Some surgeons recommend that the protrusion should be shaved off, and the edges of the skin on either side rawed, and then brought together by sutures over the site of the hernia, but the operation is rarely attended with any success. When the protrusion is of large size, and the greater part of the gland has escaped from its covering, it is better to remove