PYLORO-PLASTY 817 distension and flatulence and frequent vomiting. The patient does not as a rule vomit the whole of the food taken, but is generally sick some hours after each meal, bringing up a quantity of sour fermented fluid; but the vomited matter rarely contains blood. There is gradual wasting and loss of strength. Upon examination it will be found in those cases where the stricture is at the pylorus that the stomach is very considerably dilated, whereas in cases of hour-glass contraction the dilatation is not so great' and what dilatation there is is not uniform, and is situated at the cardiac end. In addition to this, in these latter cases, upon listening with a stethoscope a gurgling sound may be heard, as of fluid running through a narrow orifice about the centre of the stomach. Treatment.—The surgical treatment of stenosis diff"ers somewhat as to whether the contraction is at the pylorus or in the centre of the stomach When it is situated at the pylorus, the old plan of treatment was by Loreta's operation, which consisted in opening the stomach near the pylorus and inserting one or two fingers through the pyloric opening and forcibly stretching it. This treatment was frequently followed by relapses, and has now been superseded by pyloro-plasty. Loreta recommends the same treatment for stricture at the cardiac orifice; but in consequence of the depth of this part, and the difficulty in introducing the finger, he has devised a special dilator for these cases. Pyloro-plasty.—In this operation the stomach is exposed and an incision IS made in the long axis of the gastro-duodenal canal over the pylorus, so that it extends one inch on either side of the valve into the stomach wall and duodenum respectively. This incision divides all the coats, and therefore necessarily the stricture (fig. 316, a). The edges of the B Fig. 316.—Pyloro-plasty. a, the longitudinal incision; 15, the diamond- shaped wound and the manner of inserting the sutures. wound are then seized with forceps on either side near their centre and stretched transversely, so as to convert it into a diamond-shaped cut and (fig ^le'^B^ """'^^^ transversely to the long axis of the bowel Another plan of treating fibrous stricture of the pylorus is by gastro enterostomy or making an artificial opening between the stomach and ri^,. n u °P^''^^'.°" IS easier in its performance and is quite as efifica- V K described in connection with cancer of the pylorus toT the treatment of hour-glass contraction two operations are available uLt's^^^u operation to pyloro-plasty may be performed (gastro- plasty;, ihis consists in making a transverse cut through the strK;ture • ^nat IS to say, a cut at right angles to it, dividing all the coats of the 3 G