GENERAL DISEASES 13° about the junction of the middle and lower third, because here there is very little communication between the superficial and deep veins; whilst lower down, that is to say around the ankle joint, the communication between the superficial and deep veins is free, and the surplus blood is carried away by the latter vessels. In consequence of the impediment to the return of the venous blood from the incompetency of the valves in the varicose veins, these parts become involved in a condition of passive congestion, resulting in induration. Any slight injury or abrasion of the tissues, instead of healing as it ordinarily does in healthy tissues, starts the ulceration, which is continued on account of the defective circulation, and speedily results in the formation of a callous ulcer. One serious complication may occur in these cases : the ulcerative process may extend into one of the dilated veins, and a very considerable loss of blood may result. Treatment.—These ulcers must be treated on the lines laid down for the treatment of the indolent or callous ulcer ; and when healing has taken place, attention must be directed to the treatment of the cause of the con- dition, viz. the varicose veins. This will be referred to in the section dealing with injuries and diseases of blood-vessels. 9. The haemorrhagic ulcer.—Under the head of haemorrhagic ulcer are included two distinct classes of cases, (i) We occasionally meet with an ulcer which is often of inconsiderable size, but in which the tissues around are swollen and of a dusky red hue, whose great charac- teristic is that it is constantly bleeding. The slightest injury or even the rough removal of the dressings will cause it to bleed. These ulcers are generally found in persons suffering from scurvy, and are therefore some- times termed ' scorbutic ulcers.' (2) The other form is comparatively rare, but of considerable interest. The ulcer presents nothing of special note, and the only peculiarity about it is that at intervals a discharge of blood takes place from its surface and continues for some days, and then spontaneously ceases, only to recur at regular or irregular intervals. These are believed to be cases of vicarious menstruation. I have only had an opportunity of seeing one such case, which occurred in St. George's Hospital under the care of the late Mr. Pollock. It was in a young girl, aged about 20, who had a small punched-out ulcer on the outer side of one leg. There was nothing peculiar about the appearance of the ulcer, but it refused to heal, and, as she stated, regularly once a month a slight discharge of blood took place from its surface and continued to do so for five days and then spontaneously ceased. The patient had never men- struated, but otherwise was apparently healthy. The patient was retained in the hospital for some months, and the accuracy of her statement verified. She was then discharged and lost sight of. ID. The phagedsenic ulcer is an ulcer which is probably due to some specific infectioii. The disease shows itself both in an ulcerative and a gangrenous form. The description of it will therefore be postponed till we come to speak of Gangrene. GANGRENE By Gangrene is understood the death of a visible portion of the soft parts; and the term is usually employed where the part that dies is of •considerable size, as a limb or portion of a limb. When only a small