TREATMENT OF PILES 911 Treatment by ligature.—The patient's lower bowel having been emptied shortly before the operation by an enema, he is anaesthetised and placed in the lithotomy position, or on his side across the bed, with the knees well drawn up The two index fingers are then introduced into the bowel and gradually separated as far as possible ; this will stretch the sphincter, and in the course of a minute or two paralyse it, and thus freely expose the lower end of the canal and cause the piles to prolapse. Stretching of the sphincter possesses also this additional advantage, that it materially diminishes the after-pain of the operation, which, if this is not done, is sometimes extremely severe, and is due in a great measure to spasm ol the sphincter muscle. When the piles are brought into view they are to be seized with ring or catch forceps, and each one m succession is to be brought down and held by an assistant, while the mucous membrane or muco-cutaneous surface is divided at the lower attachment of the pile. This is not attended with much bleeding, as the vessels enter the pile from above As soon as a deep groove has been thus formed, the pile is encircled with a ligature, which is carried into the groove and tied as tightly as possible, so as to entirely strangle the pile. The portion of the tumour in front of the ligature is now removed, taking care to leave enough to prevent slipping, and the ligature cut off short. Each pile is treated in this way until all have been removed ; the parts are then dusted with iodoform, a morphia suppository (gr. h) introduced into the rectum, and an antiseptic pad and T bandage applied. The bandage should be tightly fixed, as the pressure of it assists in relieving the after-pain. Excision of the pile area.—This operation is recommended by White- head, and is applicable to those cases where the whole of the plexus of veins at the lower end of the rectum is involved in the disease. It is a severe operation, but possesses this decided advantage, that the whole of the affected mucous membrane, with the diseased veins, are removed, and therefore all Hability to recurrence is prevented. The patient is placed in the Hthotomy position, and the sphincter ani having been stretched, the mucous membrane is divided from the skin throughout the entire circum- ference of the bowel. The mucous membrane, with the attached vessels, is then separated from the muscular coat by tearing through the sub- mucous tissue with some blunt instrument, as an elevator ; any vessels which are wounded being at once seized with clip forceps. The separated mucous membrane is now drawn down, and divided transversely above the pile-bearing area. This is to be done gradually. Commencing below, a small portion is divided, and then the severed upper end is attached by a chromic catgut suture to the external skin wound. In this way successive portions are cut through, and each divided part is at once attached to the skin below. When the whole of the pile-bearing area has been separated and all the sutures applied, the parts are dusted with iodoform, a morphia suppository is introduced, and an antiseptic pad applied. The bowels are acted upon on the fourth day, and union is generally complete by the tenth. Injection by carbolic acid is recommended by some. Three or four drops of a solution consisting of twelve grains of carbolic acid in a drachm of glycerine and a drachm of water are injected into the pile with a hypodermic syringe. The operation requires to be frequently repeated, and is not always successful. Crushing consists in seizing the pile with a powerful clamp, which is allowed to remain on for a couple of minutes ; the portion of pile projecting