STAPHYLORRAPHY 649 blade of a pair of curved scissors can be introduced between the two ; the other blade is inserted on the posterior surface of the soft palate, close to its junction with the hard, and the structures between the blades divided by cutting outwards. When this has been done on both sides, the two flaps of muco-periosteum will fall like curtains. If the child was com- pletely anjesthetised when the operation was commenced, and the proceed- ings described have been performed quickly and without any hitch, it will generally be found that these two stages of the operation can be completed before the child gives evidence of recovery from the chloroform. The child's head should now be turned over to one side, and the hremorrhage, which is always pretty free during the stripping down of the flaps, arrested. This may generally be done by syringing cold iced water through the nostrils. This not only arrests the bleeding, but also clears away the clots without sponging, which is to be avoided as much as possible, as it tends to bruise the edges of the incision and to prevent clotting in the vessels. During this time the child has been recovering still further from the antesthesia, and it is well to let it do so, as with returning consciousness it will expel any blood which may have found its way into the air passages. As soon as all bleeding has ceased, some more chloroform may be given, and the head having been turned back, the third stage of the operation may be commenced. This consists in passing and tightening the sutures. Silver sutures should be used for the hard palate and anterior part of the soft palate, and horse- hair for the uvula and posterior part of the soft palate. The best form of needle for the introduction of the sutures is the tubular needle invented by Sir Thomas Smith (fig. 250); by means of this instrument the suture can be introduced at once through both flaps of the palate. In doing this great care must be taken not to bruise the edges of the cleft, and on no account should they be seized, as is so often done, with a pair of forceps in order to steady them while the needle is being passed. The only difficulty is with the first suture, but by a little manoeuvring this may be intro- duced, and then being held in the left hand it tenses the flaps, and the rest of the sutures can be passed without difficulty. When all the silver wires have been inserted, they are tightened to a sufficient degree to bring the edges of the cleft into contact, and are then twisted with a wire twister, care being taken not to twist them so tightly as to strangle the tissues. One or two horsehair sutures are now to be intro- duced into the posterior part of the soft palate and uvula, with a needle on a handle bent at a right angle, and tied. The final stage of the operation consists in making lateral incisions to relieve tension. This is easily done by continuing the lateral incisions, already made, backwards through the soft palate, and this should be done until the palate hangs quite flaccid, and there is not the slightest tension on the stitches. The whole success of the operation depends upon this Fig. 250.—Smith's tubular needle for inserting the su- tures, in the ope- ration for cleft palate.