233 MOLLUSCUM FIBROSUM The soft fibromata, sometimes called fibro-cellular tumours, grow from the subcutaneous tissue, being especially common in the scrotum of the male and the labia of the female. They also grow from the submucous tissue, as that of the gums, forming an epulis; or from that of the nasal cavities, constituting one form of nasal polypus. In addition, intermingled with muscular tissue, they grow from the uterus, constitutmg uterine fibroids. (Growing from the subcutaneous tissue of the trunk generally, they often form a large pendulous tumour, which is known as vioUuscuni fibrosum. Like the hard variety they are encapsuled, and when cut into are found to contain a considerable quantity of serous fluid. When examined micro- scopically they display a number of wavy bands of white fibrous tissue, but rarely contain any yellow elastic fibres; in the midst of the fibres are ordinary connective tissue cells. These tu- mours are soft, rounded, circumscribed masses, often lobulated. They grow much more rapidly than the hard fibromata, but without pain, and often attain a consider- able size. MoUuscum fibrosum (pachydermatocele). These tumours consist of an overgrowth of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, which hangs in pendulous folds, espe- cially from the neck, buttocks, and thighs (fig. 50). They consist of ordinary connective tissue, which is often infiltrated with large Y\g. 50.—Molluscum fibrosum. (From a drawing in the quantities of fluid from Musemn of St. George's Hospital.) (jedema, and contain large blood-vessels, which when cut bleed furiously. The fibromata are subject to certain retrogressive changes. They are liable to undergo mucoid degeneration in their centre, and thus to form a cyst in their sub.stance. This is an example of a cyst in a tumour. They also sometimes calcify ; this is especially the case with the uterine fibroids, which may become converted into hard calcareous masses. The molluscum fibrosum may sometimes undergo ulceration and sloughing, or the skin over it may slough, from deficient blood supply, exposing the tumour. Treatment.—The only treatment of fibromata, if any treatment is necessary, is removal. In some instances, especially in regard to the hard fibromata, which may remain stationary for years, and are perfectly [)ainless, it is often expedient to leave them alone, especially if they are not situated on any exposed part of the body and are not therefore