137 EMBOLIC GANGRENE damage .0 .he great ^ lation through them. This may be causea uy which severs the artery; or by -J-^^^^.^^^f ^^^^^^^^^ upon an laceratmg the artery ; or by the broKen enu o^i from anery .ithout lacerating P'™,^/ E.S.eoL kceration ;?KranSy':frurtL'o:gr^^^^^ st^in; this .est is more hkely to be followed by gangrene than any other vessel on account of the small amount of collateral circulation. When gangrene does occur after ligature it is generally due to thrombosis ot the vein, resulting either from some injury done to it during the operation ; or from the loss of the vis a tergo, or propulsive power which is mainly instrumental in promoting the circulation through the veins. When the main artery is tied this propulsive power is lost, and the blood becoming stagnant may coagulate and form a clot in the vein, and under these circumstances gangrene is very liable to occur. In these cases the gangrene is of the moist variety, whereas when it occurs as the result of ligature, as an uncomplicated condition, it is of the dry kind. . (y) Embolism is an occasional cause ot gangrene. An embolus is a soUd body, gene- rally a vegetation from one of the valves of the left side of the heart, or a portion of fibrin from an aneurism, which has become loosened, and is carried along in the current of the blood through the arteries until it becomes lodged in a vessel too small to allow of its passage. This lodgment usually occurs at the point of bifurcation or where some large branch is riven off, so that the artery becomes suddenly smaller The embolus thus corks up the vessel and entirely prevents the passage of blood through it (fig. 31)- A thrombus forms on the top of the clot up to the first collateral branch. . When a limb is thus suddenly deprived of blood by the division or laceration of its main artery; by a ligature of the artery when it is not complicated by thrombosis of the vein; or by an embolus becoming lodged in it, the limb becomes cold and white, and all pulsation in the vessels below the seat of injury is lost. If the collateral circulation is established, it soon recovers its colour and warmth ; if not it falls into a condition of gangrene. It becomes colder, feels heavy, and all sensibility becomes lost; the whiteness becomes mottled with brownish streaks, then becomes black and shrivelled, and presents all the characteristics of dry gangrene. Gangrene from these causes occurs much more frequently ,FiG. 31.—An embolic dot, lodged in and completely obstructing the superficial femoral artery. (From a patient who was admitted with diseased heart and dropsy, and in whom gan- grene of the foot subse- quently supervened. St. George's Hospital Museum.)