124 GENERAL DISEASES The pathology of ulceration is therefore briefly as follows: Inflamma- tion IS set up on the surface of the body, and is attended by emigra- tion of leucocytes; these leucocytes infiltrate the inflamed area • thev destroy the tissues of this area and get rid of them ; then they perish and are thrown off and disappear. And by a spread of the inflammation and continuance of this process the ulcer increases in depth and extent But the time comes when the cause of the inflammation is removed • the cir- culation in the surrounding vessels recovers itself, and the emigration of the leucocytes ceases. Repair now commences, and the process by which it takes place is identical with the process of union of wounds by granu lation, already described. Loops of capillary blood-vessels permeate the deeper layers of the infiltrated tissues forming the base of the ulcer and thus granulations are formed, consisting of the round cells of the infiltrated tissue enclosing and surrounding each capillary loop. At the same time the cells of the superficial layers of the infiltrated tissue degenerate die and are cast off. The surface of the ulcer is now covered with a laver of granulations (fig. 26), and under healthy conditions these undergo de- velopmental changes, and are converted into scar tissue by the process already described in speaking of the union of wounds by second intention i^inally, epithehum forms over the scar by extension of the epithelium from Its margin. ^ Causes.—The causes of ulceration may be considered under the two heads of (i) General and (2) Local causes. 1. The general causes are those which produce such a condition of tissue as to render it liable to be affected by ulceration, and they may be summed up under the one head of impairment of vitality—anything which impairs the vitality of a part by interfering with its nutrition, or otherwise renders it liable to take on the process of ulceration, or, in other words' acts as a predisposing cause of ulceration. Accordingly we find that old people are more prone to suffer from ulceration than those of adult life because the circulation is less active and nutrition is impaired, so that anv slight exciting cause may induce this condition. Again, deficient innerva- tion, as in cases where parts of the body are paralysed, by interfering with their nutrition, is a predisposing cause of ulceration, which may be excited by a very slight cause, as the pressure of the nates on the bed in bedsores. Thirdly, certain diseases, by inducing malnutrition of the body generally, may act as predisposing causes of ulceration; such diseases as diabetes and scurvy are exceedingly prone to be attended by the formation ot ulcers from very slight exciting causes. 2. The local causes are generally due to one of two conditions : either nV • ,^'^^"^^tion of a part; or (2) some irritation applied to a part (i) The interference with the circulation may be due either to a fault in the arteries, veins or capillaries. Perhaps the best example of this IS a varicose ulcer, which is due to the interference with the return of venous blood from the part owing to the varicose condition of the veins, and the incompetency of their valves. This leads to loss of nutrition, which results in ulceration. But the arteries may also be at fault. Atheromatous arteries, by preventing a sufficient supply of blood to a part and so impairing its nutrition, are very apt to give rise to ulceration 1 he manner in which the capillaries take part in the causation of ulcera- tion IS by pressure on them from without, which interferes so much with the circulation through them as to lead to the formation of ulceration (2) Irritation of an inflamed part may cause ulceration. Thus