GENERAL J)ISEASES GROUP I. CONNECTIVE TISSUE TUMOURS Connective tissue is found in many different forms in the human body, as ordinary fibrous connective tissue, adipose tissue, cartilage, and bone ; and we shall find that there are tumours which are composed of each of these different structures, and that in addition to these there is a tumour which is composed of a tissue resembling the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord of the foetus, which is also a form of connective tissue and which has therefore to be included in this group. The various tumours, therefore, which we shall have to consider in this section, corresponding to these different varieties of connective tissue, are the following: I. Fibrous tissue (Fibroma). II. Adipose tissue (Lipoma). . III. Cartilage (Chondroma). IV. Bone (Osteoma). V. Mucoid tissue (Whartonian jelly) (Myxoma). VI. Neuroglia (Glioma). I. Fibroma.—The term fibroma is applied to those tumours which consist entirely or almost entirely of fibrous tissue, and in which the cells are of the type of the connective tissue corpuscles. In many other tumours fibrous tissue forms an important, though by no means the only, constituent of the growth, and these are not included among the fibromata. Thus among innocent tumours the lipomata consist of lobules of fat, contained in a fibrous envelope; and among malignant tumours, the carcinomata consist of a fibrous stroma in which epithelial cells are contained. In many tumours, indeed, the fibrous tissue forms such an important constituent that the prefix ' fibro' is applied to the proper name of the tumour to indicate this excess of fibrous tissue, as the fibro-adenoma and the fibro-lipoma. The fibromata are not common. They vary much in consistence, so much so that they are commonly divided into two classes, the soft and the hard fibromata ; but between the two there are numerous gradations, though their structure is essentially the same. ■ The hard fibromata are found principally in the subcutaneous tissue, or growing from periosteum or in connection with nerves. They are round or oval, smooth on the surface, and of uniform consistence. They are usually encapsuled, and on section present a pearly-white glistening appear- ance, with numerous white bands, which have a tendency to arrange themselves in whorls. Under the microscope they present nothing but ordinary white fibrous tissue, with connective tissue corpuscles uniformly distributed among the fibres. Clinically these tumours are slow in grow- ing, and rarely attain a large size. They are distinctly circumscribed and freely movable, except when connected with periosteum. They are hard and firm, but at the same time there is a degree of elasticity about them which serves to distinguish them from chondromata and osteomata. The\' are not usually painful, but one particular form which grows in the deeper layer of the skin and is known as the painful subcutaneous tumour is exquisitely painful : so, also, is the fibroma growing around the cut end of a nerve, as in a stump. This form is known as a false neuroma. The fibromata are usually single, but the false neuromata are often multi])le.