MYOSITIS OSSIFICANS 395 cicatrix, but what part it takes in the process of union is by no means certain. Union of a ruptured tendon takes place in the same way : by the emigration into the extravasated blood of leucocytes which replace the red corpuscles and fibrin ; then the emigration of plasma cells, which replace the leucocytes ; and, finally, the formation of fibrous tissue, some of the plasma cells forming the fibrous tissue by elongation, and others the vessels by joining end to end and forming channels. Treatment.—The treatment of a ruptured muscle or tendon consists in placing the limb in such a position that the points of attachment of the injured muscle are approximated as much as possible, and maintaining the limb in this position. For instance, in rupture of the tendo Achillis, the limb should be placed on its outer side on the bed with the knee flexed and the ankle extended, and maintained in this position by a leather strap buckled round the lower part of the thigh and tied to the heel of a sfipper (fig. 123). The subsequent stiffness and weakness must be combated by methodical friction and passive motion. Wounds of muscles or tendons.—Muscles and tendons are frequently divided in open wounds, as in sword or sabre wounds. The diagnosis of these is usually apparent or easily arrived at, but a word or two requires to be said about the treatment. Unless the tissues are much lacerated and fouled, an attempt should always be made to suture the cut surfaces, and no pains should be spared to bring them into accurate appo- sition. The best material for doing this is chromic catgut, and after they have been sutured the limb should be put in such a position as to relax the muscles as far as possible. Sometimes, especially in transverse wounds in the lower part of the forearm, it is difficult to find the upper end of the divided tendon, as it has been retracted in its sheath; under these circumstances it is necessary to slit up the sheath until the tendon is exposed. DISEASES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS Atrophy and degeneration of muscle.—Simple atrophy of a muscle is usually the result of long-continued disuse. The muscular fibres are wasted, but their striation still remains, while fat accumulates between them. Such a condition is recoverable from, and must not be mistaken for fatty degeneration, in which the muscular fibre actually undergoes degeneration and is converted into fat. Atrophy of muscles may also arise from lesions of the anterior cornu of the cord and of the nerves supplying them ; under these circumstances the muscles undergo fatty or vitreous degeneration, in the latter case losing their striation and becoming converted into a homogeneous, glistening material. Myositis.—Inflammation of muscles may be caused by injury; by extension from neighbouring parts ; or by rheumatism. In a diffuse from it also occurs in pytemia, and under these circumstances rapidly runs on to suppuration. The rheumatic form is said to occur in the muscles of the loin, as lumbago ; in the intercostal muscles, as pleurodynia; and in the muscles of the neck, as rheumatic torticollis ; but the exact pathology of these affections is unknown. Myositis ossificans.—In this rare disease bony plates form in the substance of the muscles. The formation of bone occurs in the