46o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES external malleolus ; this causes a fracture of the fibula at its weakest part, and" the fragments, especially the lower, have a tendency to be displaced outwards. The foot at the same time is displaced inwards. Treatment.—The first thing is to reduce the deformity. This can gene- rally be done by flexing the leg on the thigh, in which position it is held by an assistant, and making traction from the foot. If the deformity cannot be reduced in this way, it is better in the first place to administer an anaes- thetic and try again, care being taken during the administration of the anaesthetic to prevent the patient doing any injury to his limb by his move- ments. In the event of there still being difficulty in overcoming the displace- ment, subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis must be resorted to. As these are cases in which the treatment by massage and early passive move- ments are especially called for, the best plan of maintaining the parts in position is to place the limb on a back splint with a foot-piece, from which it need not be raised during the first week or ten days while massage is being appUed to the front and sides of the limb. Between the sittings the Umb is secured to the splints by bandages round the foot and at the knee, and' for extra security two side splints are applied. Care must be taken in these cases not to displace the fragments during the necessary exposure for the daily massage. At the end of a week or ten days the limb may be raised gently and carefully from the back spHnt, and passive movements of the ankle joint begun. Two special methods have been recommended for the treatment of these fractures, to Avhich, perhaps, it is well that some allusion should be made, though personally I have never seen a case which required any special treatment. i. Pott's method.—The patient is placed on his injured side, with the knee bent and the foot inverted. A short inside splint, reaching to the base of the internal malleolus, and an ordinary outside side spUnt, with the foot more thickly padded than the rest of the splint, are now applied. The thick padding turns the foot inwards. 2. Dupuy- tren's method.—A straight splint, reaching some inches below the foot, is applied to the inner side of the leg, with a wedge-shaped pad, broad end downwards, corresponding to the base of the internal malleolus, between the Hmb and the splint. The upper part of the leg and the foot are bandaged to the spUnt, and thus the foot is drawn inwards. Fracture of the bones of the tarsus.—The calcaneum may be broken by direct violence or by muscular action. The fracture usually takes place in the posterior half of the bone, and the detached fragment is drawn upwards by the muscles of the calf, and the deformity produced is evident. Where there is no displacement, crepitus can usually be felt, and there is much swelling and bruising. In the treatment of fracture of the calcaneum without displacement all that is necessary is to immobilise the part by means of an outside splint, the limb resting on the splint, and to apply an evaporating lotion. If there is displacement, the leg must be flexed on the thigh, and the foot extended on the leg and fixed by a leather collar fastened round the lower third of the thigh and attached by a string to the heel of a slipper, the Umb being laid on its outer side on a pillow. There is nothing special to be said about the fractures of the other tarsal bones. They are produced by direct violence, and are usually accompanied by much bruising and swelling. They are frequently difficult to diagnose, but crepitus may generally be elicited by moving the bones on onp another. Rest, with the foot and leg on a splint, and the application of lotion or ice, is all that is necessary.