LEUCORRHCEA parturition ; but they may also be caused by wounds of the bladder or rectum, through the vagina, or from ulceration due to foreign bodies, or some malignant growth of the bladder or rectum. Yesico-vaginal fistulae cause great distress to the patient, since the urine is constantly escaping and excoriates the thighs. An atternpt should be made to cure them by paring the edges of the fistula and bringing them together with silver wire sutures ; but the operation very often fails. Recto-vaginal fistulte are also the source of great annoyance to the patient, from the escape of faeces and flatus into the vagina. They show a much greater tendency to heal spontaneously than the vesico-vaginal fistula, but if they do not, a similar plastic operation must be performed for their relief. When a recto-vaginal fistula is the consequence of malignant disease of the rectum, the operation of colotomy is often the means of affording great relief to the patient. Vaginitis (Kolpitis).—Acute vaginitis may arise from several causes, of which undoubtedly gonorrhoea is the most common; it may arise also from injury, the introduction of foreign bodies, the use of too irritating injections, and from exposure to cold. It may also occur in children as a sequel to the exanthemata. Symptoms.—The symptoms are a copious muco-purulent discharge, pain, and discomfort, especially severe on micturition, when the pain is of a scalding character, or during defecation or connection. Upon examina- tion the mucous membrane is found to be swollen, red and injected, and to be very tender to the touch. Occasionally patches of superficial ulcera- tion may be seen upon it. In severe cases the inflammation may extend to the uterus (endometritis), and thence to the Fallopian tubes (salpingitis). Treatment.—The patient should be confined strictly to bed, on a light diet, without stimulants. The bowels should be kept freely acting with saline aperients, and the vagina frequently douched with hot Condy's fluid (5j to Oj). A hot bath often affords considerable relief, and may be repeated every night. When the more active symptoms have subsided, astringent injections—acetate of lead or sulphate of zinc—should be used, and a pledget of lint, soaked in glycerole of tannin, introduced into the vagina. Leucorrhcea.—By the term kucorrhcea is meant a muco-purulent discharge from the vagina. It is popularly known as the tvhites. It may arise from many causes. It may be simply due to a catarrhal condition of the mucous membrane of the vagina and cervical canal in females who are the subjects of debility and ansemia, but it is also un- doubtedly not infrequently the sequel of an acute attack of vaginitis, especially when it is of the gonorrhoeal form. It is also of constant occur- rence in prostitutes and others in whom there is constant excitement of the generative organs. The disease is characterised by the discharge of a glairy mucous, 'or muco-purulent, discharge from the vagina, without any other symptoms, except that it is often attended, especially in the debilitated, by aching pain in the lower part of the back. It is often impossible to distinguish the disease from the gleety stage of gonorrhoea, more especially as, in its aggravated form, it may give rise to urethritis in the male. The treatment consists in repeated douching with some mild astringent lotion and in absolute cleanliness; in improving the general health by tonics, careful dieting, regular gentle exercise, and in keeping the bowels freely open.