CHAPTER VI RICKETS Rickets is a constitutional disease, essentially due to malnutrition, the chief manifestations of which are found in the bones, but which implicates other organs, especially the great viscera. The disease may commence in utero, and many cases of intra-uterine fracture are ascribed to this cause ; but the most usual time for its appearance is between the first and second year, though it may appear later. A form of rickets has been described under the name of ' late rickets,' in which the disease has not appeared until the age of ten to thirteen, but it is probable that these are cases of recurrence where the early attacks have not been noticed. The disease is confined to childhood, and an important characteristic of it is its tendency to disappear, the child entirely recovering from the constitutional condition, though the deformities produced by it remain for life. It rarely causes death directly ; but by impairing the general health it indirectly causes death in many cases from some intercurrent disease. Etiology.—Rickets is a disease of malnutrition, induced by improper food, and exaggerated by the want of healthy hygienic surroundings. The natural food of an infant for the first nine months of its life is its mother's milk, and rickets is induced by this milk not being of a proper quality or by the substitution for it of some artificial food, which either lacks some constituent of the mother's milk, or else contains some harmful substance. The former of these two is usually believed to be the more potent cause, and Cheadle believes that the material which is deficient is animal fat. Others, however, are of opinion that rickets is rather due to the administra- tion of starchy food, which the infant is Unable to digest on account of the deficient action of the pancreas. There appears to be no connection, as was formerly supposed, between rickets and syphilis, beyond the fact that syphilis naturally induces a condition of debility on the part of the mother which may conduce to the occurrence of rickets in the child from malnutrition arising from deficiency in the supply of nutrition. In the same way tuberculosis and rickets may be indirectly connected, but at the same time there is no direct relation- ship between the two. Pathology.—In rickets the pathological changes are principally found in the bones, but also in many cases in some of the viscera. The changes in the bones are most marked in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilages, where they become enlarged, but changes also take place in the periosteum and the whole bone becomes softer than natural and deficient in its earthy constituents. The changes in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage are due to the abnormal excess in the quantity and the imperfection in the quality of p