291 PRESSURE IN HAEMORRHAGE which will not bear a ligature. The galvano-cautery and the Paquelin's knife are still used by some in operating on very vascular parts, as in removal of the tongue, but their action is uncertain; they leave a charred surface, which has to separate by sloughing, and is very liable to be followed by secondary hiemorrhage. They are not therefore to be recommended. 5. Pressure is another means by which haemorrhage may be arrested, and when employed as a temporary expedient it is a most valuable and efficient method of doing so, either by making direct pressure on the bleeding spot with a finger, or by means of a tourniquet arresting the circulation in the wounded part until some other means can be taken to secure the wounded vessel. As a permanent mode of treating hsemorrhage, pressure is also frequently useful, but requires caution in its use. The cases for which it is most applicable are the following: (i) Where the bleeding is from a superficial vein ; here it can always be arrested by a compress placed over the wounded vein and bandaged in position. Much less force is required to arrest the flow of blood through a vein than an artery, and the amount of pressure employed need not be so great as to run the risk of interfering with the vitality of the parts pressed upon. (2) Where the bleeding is from a medium-sized artery, which lies on a bone and can be compressed against it without any great amount of force, as the temporal artery in the scalp. But in those cases where pressure is applied under these circumstances, care should be taken, before applying the pad, to divide the vessel completely across, if it has only been punctured, to permit of its contraction and retraction. (3) Where the bleeding is a general oozing from the surface of a wound, as after an excision of the breast,pressure is all-sufficient in restraining the haemorrhage. After the wound is dressed and covered with a thick layer of wool, a bandage firmly applied will make uniform elastic pressure, which will arrest the bleeding without doing any harm. (4) Where the bleeding is from a cavity which can be completely filled with gauze or lint, pressure forms a convenient method of arresting hjemorrhage : thus, when a cavity is left in a bone, after removal of a sequestrum or scraping out a carious cavity, the haemorrhage may be easily controlled by stuffing it with gauze; or bleeding after opening a cystic bronchocele or a haematocele in the neck may be treated in the same way. (5) Where the bleeding comes from sonie deep part, as the prostatic sinuses or deep perineal vessels, after perineal cystotomy, and the vessels cannot be reached to ligature, reliance must be placed on pressure to control the hemorrhage ; but in these cases pressure must be applied directly to the injured vessels to be of any avail, and not to the external wound, otherwise the blood will go on collecting in the deeper parts of the wound and will eventually displace the pad, and the bleeding will recur. Formerly efforts were often made to control bleeding by a graduated compress placed over the bleeding point and firmly bandaged in position. For mstance, in wounds of the palmar arch, the ordinary routine treatment was to place a graduated compress over the wounded vessel and then firmly bandage it there, a splint being placed on the back of the hand from which to make counter-pressure. This plan of treatment has, however, very serious drawbacks, and should never be resorted to unless circumstances render it absolutely necessary; for, in the first place, the amount of pressure necessary to restrain the hemorrhage is often so great as to produce sloughing of the tissues upon which it presses, and when the sloughs separate, secondary haemorrhage is the result; or, again, u 2