BEDSORES 149 (2) the acute bedsore, which occurs from pressure applied to a part where there is deficient innervation. _ , , ■, . j 1 The ordinary bedsore usually occurs m weak and debihtated peop e who are confined to bed, and who on account of their weakness are unab e to constantly change their position, so that pressufe is always being made on the same part. It occurs, therefore, chiefly over the sacrum, the most common situation; the heels and the spines of the scapute ; or if the patient is lying on his side, over the trochanter. They may, however, also occur from the pressure of splints or other rigid appliances, ihe skin first of all becomes dusky red, and then black, and a slough forms. In some cases the slough may extend deeply, exposing the bone, or even, at the back of the sacrum, opening the spinal canal. The condition is attended by profuse discharge, which further weakens an already debilitated subject, and may be the cause of death. The preventive treatment re- solves itself into good nursing, and in the hands of a good nurse bedsores of this kind ought to be of very rare occurrence; by frequent shght changes in the patient's position, by relieving the pressure by a water pillow, or thick felt plaister cut into a ring; by strict cleanliness, and drying the skin whenever it has become wetted from any cause, and by applying some lotion which will harden the skin, of which, perhaps, corrosive sublimate dissolved in spirits of wine is the best, bedsores ought very rarely to take place. If a bedsore threatens, change of position is imperative, and the application of a litde boracic acid ointment will then be all that is neces- sary; but if a slough has formed, a hot boracic pad under oil silk is the best application. Acute bedsores.-~A.cVi\.& bedsores occur in those cases where a part has been deprived of its nerve influence. They are principally met with in surgical practice after fracture-dislocation of the spine, and are very frequently the cause of death in these cases. The gangrene takes place on any part which has been exposed to pressure, and has been deprived of its nerve influence, and also sometimes on places where there has apparently been no pressure, but where there is not a very free circulation of the blood, as over the malleoli. The tendency to the formation of bedsores in these cases is no doubt increased by the irritation produced by the presence of f^ces or urine in the bed, which the patient often passes unconsciously, so that good nursing is of essential importance. These are cases of moist gangrene in which the disease comes on very suddenly and spreads rapidly, and soon exhausts the patient's strength. The case must be treated on ordinary principles.