282 INJURIES AND DISEASES OK SPECIAL TISSUES contain..- Hence it follows that a fatal issue may result from a subcutaneous laceration of a large vein ; or, if this does not occur, the amount of e.xtrava- sated blood is so great that it presses on the vessels by which the collateral circulation should be carried on and produces gangrene. In certain .situa- tions, where the veins are contained in rigid canals, as the hepatic veins and the sinuses of the cranium, no collapse can take place, and here death from hjemorrhage may occur, even though the vessel injured is of no very great size. "Wounds.—When a wound of one of the large veins, such as the femoral or internal jugular, is inflicted, it rapidly proves fatal, unless prompt measures are taken to arrest the bleeding. This can generally be done by external pressure, on account of the thinner coats and the lower pressure of blood in the veins. In punctured and small incised wounds, especially if made in the long axis of the vessel, the lips of the wound come together and unite without obliteration of the lumen of the vessel if pressure is applied. This was commonly the case in former days, when venesection was constantly practised—a patient was often bled many times from the same vein. When a vein is completely cut across, it collapses as far as the nearest set of valves, and becomes perma nently occluded up to the first collateral branch. Treatment.—When possible it is desirable to get wounds in veins to heal without obliterating their lumen. Punctures in large veins should therefore be treated by picking up the wall of the vein around the puncture and tying it by a lateral ligature. A large wound, however, requires ligature of the vein in two places and division of the vessel between the ligatures. When a large external vein is wounded it was formerly recom- mended that the accompanying artery should also be ligatured, in order to prevent the occurrence of moist gangrene; but this is now believed not to be desirable, as it is more likely to lead to gangrene than if the artery is left alone. When, however, both vessels are wounded, both must be tied. Wounds of veins are dangerous, not only on account of htemorrhage, but also from the risk of septic or spreading inflammation, which will be considered in the sequel; and in certain regions from the risk of the entrance of air into the lumen of the tube. Entrance of air into veins.—This is a rare accident, and almost unknown since the introduction of anaesthetics. It generally occurs during operations at the root of the neck or in the axilla, in what is known as the ' dangerous area;' that is, in that part of the venous system where, in consequence of the tendency to the formation of a vacuum in the chest during inspiration, there is a suction action in the large veins in or near the thoracic cavity. If a large vein is opened in this .situation and the opening kept patent, air is sucked into the vein and is carried to the right side of the heart, where it produces very definite and serious symptoms ; or if admitted in large quantities, instant death. Three things are there- fore necessary for the occurrence of this phenomenon : (i) A wound of a vein in the dangerous area; (2) The patency of the wounded vein ; (3) The aspiration of the thorax. There are several causes which may lead to the patency of the wounded vein, which under ordinary circum- stances would collapse. It may be caused by thickening of its coats by inflammation, which prevents its collapsing; or by induration of its sheath and surrounding tissues, which keeps it open ; or it may be kept agape by the contraction of neighbouring muscles, as the platysma in the neck ; or by the hand of the surgeon. This latter is especially likely to occur if a