936 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS be absent, and the cortex is. thinner than natural, and of a somewhat opaque whitish tint and tough consistence. This surrounds a bag of cysts, freely communicating with each other, and lined with a smooth membrane continuous with that lining the ureter. The size of a hydro-nephrotic kidney varies considerably ; it may be no larger than a normal kidney, or, on the other hand, it may attain enormous dimensions, so as to occupy a considerable portion of the abdominal cavity. Symptoms.—The symptoms are few, unless the.dilatation is so great as to produce a tumour. The most characteristic sign if both kidneys are affected is, in the early stage, an increase in the amount of the urinary secretion, with a low specific gravity. Later on there is a diminution in the secretion, with thirst, pain in the back, and intermittent anuria, followed at last by complete anuria and urtemia. If only one kidney is affected these symptoms are absent, as the increased growth of the sound kidney compensates for the diminished secretion of the diseased one. The tumour when present is lobulated, elastic, and sometimes fluctuating, and is dull on percussion. It is best felt by a bimanual examination, when it can be detected both in the flank and from the front. A characteristic symptom is that it varies in size, being much larger sometimes than at others. It is usually painless. Treatment.—The first essential point in the treatment is to ascertain and if possible remove the obstruction which is the cause of the distension. If this can be done, and the tumour has attained no great size, no further treatment is necessary. But if the cause of the obstruction cannot be removed, very little can be done if the hydro-nephrosis is bilateral; no medical treatment is of any avail. If the disease is unilateral two courses are open to the surgeon : either repeated aspirations may be performed, but the result is rarely satisfactory; or the diseased kidney may be exposed by an incision in the loin. In some cases, as for instance where the ureter is blocked by a calculus, the stone may be removed, and a cure effected ; but if not, and the kidney structure is almost entirely destroyed, nephrectomy should be performed. d. Pyo-nephrosis, or dilatation of the pelvis and calyces of the kidney with pus, is often an advanced condition of hydro-nephrosis, sup- puration extending from the bladder to the previously dilated pelvis and calyces of the kidney. It may also be the result of pyelitis, the formation of pus preceding the dilatation. In these latter cases the inflammatory con- dition causes a blocking of the ureter, either from swelling of the mucous membrane, or a clot of blood, or a little inspissated pus, and this leads to the retention and subsequent dilatation. In pyo-nephrosis the same destruction of the pyramids and secreting structure of the kidney takes place, and the same formation of dilated pouches opening into the pelvis, as in hydro-nephrosis ; but the lining membrane of the cavity is thickened, injected, and often ulcerated, and the dilated pouches are full of decomposed urine mixed with pus. ^Yhat kidney structure remains is also inflamed and very often studded with foci oi suppuration, and the tissues around the kidney are often involved m the general inflammation. Symptoms.—The symptoms are those of enlargement of the kidney, with pain and tenderness. If the obstruction is not complete there will be pus in the urine, which will probably be acid, unless there is also a condi- tion of cystitis present. If the obstruction is complete there will be no pus, but in many cases an intermittent discharge of pus will be noticed, accord-