TUBERCULOUS SARCOCELE 1033 is very frequently associated with it, and under these circumstances the tunica' vaginalis is also thickened. If there is no fluid in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, it will generally be found that the visceral and parietal layers are adherent, the inflammation affecting the body of the testicle having extended to this co\ ering and caused adhesion. In the gummatous varietj', in addition to the interstitial form which involves the organ, there are localised masses of gummy deposit of a yellow colour and leathery consistence. I'hey are usually multiple. They have a tendency, likegummata elsewhere, to soften and break down, and the scrotal tissues become adherent; they give way and form an ulcerated cavity, from which exudes a wash-leather slough. Symptoms.—The disease comes on insidiously, without pain ; the patient often discovering accidentally that the one testicle is larger than the other. The enlargement is slow, but progressive, until the testicle becomes twice its normal size or even larger. It involves the body of the gland, which becomes globular in shape ; very hard and stony to the feel ; sometimes irregular or nodular on the surface. The condition is painless, except for the dragging sensation which it produces from its weight. It is not tender to the touch, and after a time all testicular sensation is lost. The cord is unaffected and the scrotal tissues are normal, unless softening of a gumma has taken place. There may be fluid in the tunica vaginalis, but this is not often sufficient to obscure the outUne of the testicle. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilitic testicle depends in a great measure upon whether the patient has had a thorough mercurial course. If the disease is of the interstitial form, and has come on as a ' reminder,' and there is not evidence of his having had a sufficient course of mercury, this drug should be given by the mouth for a considerable period. If, on the other hand, the disease has come on at a later period of the syphilitic history, and the patient presents evidence of cachexia, iodide of potassium with tonics, change to the seaside, and any means which will improve the general health, is the line of treatment to adopt. In addition to this, mercurial inunction, combined with a certain amount of pressure, is a useful adjunct. A long strip of lint should be spread with oleate of mercury or blue ointment, and wrapped round the enlarged organs every night with such a degree of tightness as to make a fair amount of pressure. When treated early, syphilitic sarcocele generally terminates in recovery; but if not treated, it usually results in destruction of the secreting structure of the organ. When a gumma softens and bursts, hernia testis may result. 3. Tuberculous sarcocele.—Chronic tuberculous inflammation of the testicle may occur at any age, but is most frequent in the young adult. It may be either a primaiy affection or secondary to tuberculous disease in some other part. When it occurs as a primary disease, it is due to the location of the tubercle bacillus in a testicle, which affords a suitable nidus for its growth and development. Accordingly we find that tuberculous disease often attacks a testicle whose structure has been vitiated by a gonorrhceal epididymitis, or where some injury has set up an inflammatory condition which has deteriorated the structure of the organ. The disease almost invariably commences in the epididymis, in which generally a single nodule is first to be felt in the globus major; sub- sequently other nodules appear in the body, and these coalesce, so that the whole epididymis is converted into a hard irregular mass. Later on this caseates and breaks down ; the scrotal tissues become adherent to it, and, giving way, discharge curdy pus, and leave a fistulous opening,