1007 PERINEAL SECTION case which has perhaps too hastily been regarded as one of impermeable stricture. In the event of the surgeon failing to introduce an instrument on his first attempt, the patient should be strictly confined to bed, on a light diet; have a hot bath every evening ; and a dose of Epsom salts each morning. After this treatment has been persevered in for a week or ten days, another attempt should be made under antesthesia to pass an instru- ment, and with patience the surgeon will, in the great majority of cases, succeed in overcoming the difficulty. Even if he only succeeds in intro- ducing the finest catgut bougie a great point will have been gained. This may be left in the stricture, and the patient will probably succeed in pass- ing his water by the side of it; if not, it must be taken out when he wants to micturate, but it will be found on the following day that the same bougie will pass with comparative ease, and by increasing its size from day to day the stricture may be dilated. When no instrument can be passed operative interference becomes necessary, and there are three modes of dealing with these cases : either by dividing the stricture from before backwards by Wheelhouse's operation, or by dividing the stricture from behind forwards by the old operation of ' la boutonniere' or permeal section; or by opening the urethra behind the stricture and allowing the patient for a time, or permanently, to pass his water through the artificial opening thus made. This is known as Cock's operation. Wheelhouse's operation is difficult in performance, but is un- doubtedly the most efficient of the three. For its performance two special instruments are required—a straight staff with a groove on one side and a blunt hook at the end opposite the groove, and a small gorget. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, with the pelvis Avell raised, in a good light. The staff is introduced down to the stricture, with the groove facing the operator, and a median incision is made in the perineum clown to the staff and the urethra opened by cutting into the groove in front of the stricture. The staff is then turned round, so that the hook at its end may catch in the anterior extremity of the incision in the urethra, and then by pulling on the staff the incision can be brought into view. After sponge pressure has stopped all haemorrhage, the edges of the incision in the urethra are seized with sharp hooks and drawn apart. If the Hght is good, the aperture of the stricture will now be seen, and a probe-pointed director is inserted into it and passed through the stricture, which is then divided by a knife carried along the groove in the director. A small gorget is then passed and the director removed. Guided by the gorget, a full-sized catheter is passed down the meatus and tied in the bladder, where it is allowed to remain for three days, and is then removed and passed daily. The wound is allowed to heal by granulation. Perineal section consists in cutting down in the perineum and opening the urethra behind the stricture and then attempting to divide the stricture from behind forwards. The operation is thus performed : A full- sized silver catheter is passed down the urethra as far as the stricture, and the patient is placed in the lithotomy position. The surgeon then passes the index finger into the rectum, and with the cutting edge of his knife directed upwards, introduces the point about half an inch in front of the anus in the middle fine of the perineum, and divides the tissues directly upwards. This incision is deepened until the triangular ligament is reached. This will be recognised by the resistance which it gives to the finger introduced into the wound. When this structure is reached a soft and yielding ])oint will be felt on it, about an inch below the symphysis pubis, in the middle