GENERAL DISEASES this vessel. The circulation in the wedge-shaped piece of lung supplied by this small artery is thus interfered with, and it becomes filled with blood clot, possibly by giving way of the vessels and extravasation, but the exact way in which it occurs is not at present known. The wedge-shaped portion of lung becomes black in colour and quite solid. It forms what is called an licemorrhagic infarct. This solid mass of lung tissue does not, however, suppurate or die, but gradually undergoes absorption and leaves' a cicatrix behind. But if, on the other hand, the small solid particles injected into the blood are irritating or infective, that is to say, contain infective micro-organisms, then the effect is very different. We have the same formation of an hfemorrhagic infarct, but when formed it breaks down and softens, inflammation and suppuration occur in the tissues around, and an abscess is formed. From these experiments a theory, which has been termed the mechanical theory, of pyaemia has been deduced. The wounds, associated with pysemia are in an unhealthy condition, they are usually suppurating or sloughing, discharging a sanious or stinking pus, or covered with ashy lymph. The veins leading from these wounds are filled with thrombi, which are septic, that is to say, contain bacteria introduced into them from the wound. These septic thrombi, beginning at the veins in the wound, extend into the larger veins under the influence of the infecting organisms which they contain, become broken down, and small pieces of blood clot become detached and carried into the blood stream, along which they pass until, in the course of the circulation, they reach some vessel which is not sufficiently large to admit of their passage, and there they become arrested, and form an embolus, which results in infarction, and the piece of clot, being of an infective character, that is, carrying in it some of the bacteria from the wound, causes suppuration, and an abscess is formed. This mechanical theory of pyaemia was until recently received as the true theory of the pathology of pyaemia and the cause of the formation of the secondary or metastatic abscesses; but there was always one difficulty to explain, and for this no satisfactory explanation could be given. It was this—that secondary abscesses might, and did frequently, occur in distant parts and in other organs beyond the first set of capillaries in the course of the circulation from the original centre of infection, and it was impossible to conceive how this could be the case if we accepted the mechanical theory of pyaemia in its entirety. O. ^Veber endeavoured to explain this by stating that very fine particles of thrombus might pass through the first set of capillaries, viz. generally those of the lungs, and give rise to embolism in the capillaries of the systemic circulation. It is believed now that in this embolic process the thrombus merely takes a passive part in the causation of the secondary abscesses, and that they are really caused by the bacteria which the clot contains, but that this merely acts as a carrier of the micro-organism. So that septic thrombi and emboli are not essential to the production of pysemia, though they are important factors of it. There are therefore two processes in the formation of pyemic abscess ; first, the formation of an infective infarct; and, secondly, changes in the infarct produced by the organisms which are contained therein. These are similar to changes produced elsewhere; namely, septic inflammation and suppuration. And this septic^ inflammation and sup- puration may occur without the formation of an infarct, as is proved by the fact that pyaemic abscesses can be produced experimentally by the