(lENERAI. DISEASES 122 matter in its walls. These occur in cases of chronic abscesses which have been opened. In these abscesses, as we have seen, a layer of tuberculous material forms the wall of the abscess, and when it contracts and forms a sinus the latter is lined with the same material, so that it cannot close The imperfect evacuation of the discharge from an abscess also prevents Its healing, and under these circumstances it contracts and forms a sinus. A fistula is in some cases a sinuous track which communicates at one end with the cutaneous surface and at the other with some mucous tract as salivary fistula, urinary fistula, ftecal fistula, complete fistula in ano ■ at other times it is a direct communication between two mucous surfaces as vesico-vaginal or recto-vaginal fistula. The principal cause which produces these fistulfe—that is to say, which prevents the abscess from healing—is the constant passage of some secretion over the surface of the abscess ; thus in the salivary fistula it is the saliva ; in the urinary fistula it IS the urine ; in the ffecal fistula the fseces ; and in the complete fistula in ano it is no doubt also to a certain extent the faeces. But there is also in some cases another cause which prevents the abscess closing, and this IS the action of neighbouring muscles. To this cause we must attribute the non-closure of a blind external fistula in ano, and to a great extent the complete fistula in ano. The constant action of the sphincter ani keeps ujp a perpetual condition of unrest in the part, which prevents the healing 01 the abscess. ^ The walls of the sinus or fistula are lined with a thin layer of ill-formed granulation tissue, which was originally the wall of the abscess, and outside this, especially where the channel has existed for some time, is a layer of hbroid material which may sometimes be of considerable thickness. The treatment of sinus or fistula consists essentially in removina the cause. If It is due to the presence of a foreign body, the body must be removed ; if to the presence of tuberculous material or pus, this material must be got rid of; if to the passage of some irritating fluid over the surface of the sinus, means must be taken to prevent its passing over it; or if it is due to the contraction of neighbouring muscles measures must be adopted to paralyse or prevent the action of these muscles The details of the treatment of the various kinds of fistula will be considered in dealing with the surgery of the several tissues and organs, and nothing more need be said in the present place. Congenital fistulae.—There is another kind of narrow track met \vith sometimes, which is also unfortunately termed a fistula, though it ditters in all essential points from the fistulte we have been describina itiese are the various forms of congenital fistula, commonly occurring in the neck, and are the remains of the branchial clefts. They are of congenital origin, and are not contracted abscesses ; they are not lined by granulation tissue, but by epithelium, and their non-closure is not due to any of the causes above enumerated, but to the epithelium which lines them and which prevents their closing unless it is removed. They will be considered in the ULCERATION Ulceration, as we have already stated, is really suppuration on the surface ot the body, and the two processes, formation of acute abscess and ulceration, are pathologically identical, and the only difference is that the one takes place in a closed space, the other on a surface. We have seen