177 PHAGEDENIC SORE excoriation produced at the time of connection, or as a vesicle; which soon becomes pustular and then ulcerates. It is very often multiple, and is most usually situated in the sulcus between the glans penis and the prepuce ; frequently it commences as an abrasion of the frasnum, which it may destroy. It is usually circular in shape, with an abrupt margin and defined sharp-cut border, as if a piece of tissue had been punched out; the surface of the sore presents a grey, unhealthy appearance, and discharges pus. There may be or there may not be induration ; if there is, it is not the hard, defined induration of the Hunterian chancre, but is due to inflammatory infiltration. The condition is frequently attended, though not invariably, with inflammatory enlargement of the glands in the groin, which usually runs on into suppuration. The pus from these suppura- ting glands is contagious, and if inoculated will produce a soft sore at the seat of inoculation. Occasionally the inflammation from the sore extends to the prepuce, causing phimosis ; this condition, however, is more frequently the result of the sloughing variety. The soft sore, if untreated, may run on indefinitely, but under the influence of treatment it usually heals in a week or ten clays. The surgeon, however, should ever have present in his mind the fact that a twofold inoculation may take place, and that the soft sore may be merely introduc- tory to the hard; he should, therefore, never give a confident opinion as to the local nature of the sore, as to the rapidity of its- healing, or the improbability of the occurrence of secondary symptoms, for he may find, instead of the sore healing in a week or ten days, as he had predicted, that it will continue to discharge, that its edges will present true induration, and a typical Hunterian chancre will after a time evolve, and be followed by secondary syphilis. The treatment of the soft sore is simple ; strict cleanliness and some . antiseptic powder is all that is necessary. The patient should be in- structed to bathe the part night and morning with a little Condy's fluid (si to Oj), and then sprinkle it with a little crystalline iodoform, the smell of which may be disguised by the addition of co\xma.Ym {lodoformum aroma- ticum, Martindale), and the part then covered with a small piece of cotton wool, which may be retained in position by allowing the prepuce, which has been retracted for the dressing, to come forwards over the glans. 2. The Phagedaenic sore is characterised by a tendency to erosion and destruction of the parts which it invades. It is in its typical form a true eroding ulcer, though sometimes the process may be so rapid that sloughs may be formed. It varies much in its rate of progress, being sometimes slow, sometimes rapid, but it is always obstinate and difficult to arrest. When it_ advances slowly it gradually undermines and erodes the tissues, healing in one part as it advances in another, and so forming a true serpiginous ulcer. In this way it may destroy the end of the penis, open up the urethra and produce an intractable fistula, or in women destroy the recto-vaginal septum. It occurs generally in the debilitated and broken- down in health, and may attack either the soft or the hard sore. As a rule the ulcer presents an irregular form, with sharply cut edges, where it is spreading, and is accompanied by a foul-smelling, blood-tinged discharge. There is usually considerable pain and very often a certain amount of constitutional disturbance. Treatment.—The phagedaenic ulceration of a chancre . may usually be checked by the local application of iodoform, combined with tonic treatment, change of air, a generous and nutritious diet, and regulation of the digestive N