TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA In those cases where upon examination it is found that the white rin^'^does not recover itself after the release of the stricture, or where it is evident that all the coats have been destroyed except the serous coat or even in some cases where there is a minute perforation, it may be possible to sequestrate this part by suturing the serous surfaces together on either side of the line by a row of Lembert's sutures ; but this can only be done in those cases where the bowel around is fairly normal, and this is very seldom the case. Under other circumstances the portion of bowel involved must be "excised, and the opening closed by a Czerny-Lembert suture or an end-to-end anastomosis performed. 4. When the gut is obviously gangrenous, two courses may be pursued, (i) The stricture may be left undivided, and a free incision made into the gangrenous gut; this will usually be sufficient to give a free exit to the frecal matter, but if not a pair of dressing forceps should be introduced, and the opening gently dilated. An artificial anus is thus formed, and through this the patient is allowed to pass his ffeces until he shall be in a condition to stand an operation for the radical cure of the artificial opening. The great objection to the formation of an artificial anus is that the openino- may be made high up in the small intestine, so that there is not sufficient length of tube left for absorption, and the patient perishes from inanition. (2) The other plan of treatment consists in resecting the gan- grenous bowel, and in uniting the resected portions by an end-to-end anastomosis ; returning the sutured bowel into the abdomen and closing the external wound. There is no question that the second plan of treatment is the better of the two, if it can be carried out, but usually the patient in these cases is in a desperate condition from the prolonged or severe strangulation which must have existed before the bowel can have become gangrenous, and is not in a state to stand a severe and protracted operation. Now-a-days, when the end-to-end anastomosis can be performed with much greater celerity by the use of Murphy's button or some such appliance, this plan of treatment has become much more generally practised, and with a > very fair measure of success. The decision as to which operation shall be performed must depend, therefore, upon the age and condition of the patient; if he is not in a profound condition of exhaustion, resection of the gut should be attempted. Radical cure.—After the gut has been returned into the abdomen, , in all simple and uncomplicated cases it is desirable that a radical cure should be performed by one of the methods enumerated above. The operation is already half completed by the necessary procedure to reduce the gut; and if the patient is in a condition to stand it, there can be no question that it is the duty of the surgeon to at once proceed to perform one of the various operations which has for its object an occlusion of the canal down which the hernia descends, in order to relieve the patient of his trouble. After treatment.—The treatment of a patient after the operation of herniotomy is of considerable importance. He should be placed on his back in bed, with a pillow under his knees, so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and as a rule, unless he is very much exhausted, nothing should be given by the mouth for the first twenty-four hours, except hot water in small quantities to allay vomiting and relieve thirst. If the patient is in severe pain, which is not, however, usually the case, a hypodermic injection of morphia should be given, otherwise no form of opium should be administered, as it tends to maintain the paralysed 3 L