341 LIGATURE OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID a considerable number of cases succumb from impaired nutrition of the brain. Erichsen says that he has come to the conclusion that one-fourth of all the cases of ligature of one carotid are followed by cerebral disturb- ance, and that one half of these are fatal. The interference with the cerebral circulation may kill in one of two ways ; either by inducing softening, which gives rise to convulsions, hemiplegia, and death, or by setting up a low form of pneumonia owing to the disturbed circulation in the medulla. Ligature of the internal carotid is not often performed. It may be required for wounds of the vessel, and possibly in some cases of aneurism it may be substituted for ligature of the common carotid. The artery can only be tied at its commencement by an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, the centre of which is to be a little above the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Ligature of the external carotid (fig. 105) is an operation which should always be done for wounds of its branches, which cannot otherwise be secured, in preference to ligature of the common carotid, on account of the fact that by it the circulation in the brain is not in any way interfered with. The main objection that has been raised against it is the fear of secondary hemorrhage from the close proximity of large branches to the ligature, but this has been proved by statistics to be more theoretical than real. There is usually about half an inch of the artery available for the purpose between the origin of the superior thyroid and the lingual arteries ; and if these two vessels are ligatured at the same time as the main vessel is secured, there need be no fear of secondary haemorrhage taking place. The head having been placed in the same position as for ligature of the common carotid, an incision is made about a quarter of an inch in front of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid from the level of the angle of the lower jaw to that of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the skin, platysma, and deep fascia divi'ded. Upon opening up the cellular tissue beneath the deep, fascia, in which are some lymphatic glands and vems, the posterior belly of the digastric and a little lower the hypo- glos.sal nerve will be exposed. This nerve forms the guide to the artery which will be felt pulsating immediately beneath it. The vessel is to be carefu ly cleared in this situation, taking care to preserve the descendens hypog oss^ which lies on the sheath. Especial care must be exercised owards the outer side of the vessel, for here the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein are m close proximity. After the sheath is opened and the vessel separated from it, the needle is to be passed from without inwards, bearing,n mind that the superior laryngeal nerve runs oblmey downwards and inwards behind the artery oonquciy Another operation for tying the external carotid artery above the Fig. 105.—Ligature of external carotid artery, i, External carotid; 2, Hypo- glossal nerve; 3, Digastric muscle ; 4, Internal carotid artery; 5, Internal jugular vein ; 6, Sterno-mastoid muscle.