169 PYEMIA There seems to be very good reason to hope that in some of these cases, at all events, the injection of antistreptococcic serum may be fol- lowed by favourable results. Indeed, cases have be^ recorded where the best results have followed this plan of treatment. The subject is sti 1, however, quite in its infancy, and is too undeveloped for us to be able to give any authoritative opinion. The injection can only be of use m streptococcic infections, and ought never to be employed until it has been proved either by microscopic or bacteriological examination that strepto- cocci are present in the blood or discharge. Mr. Watson Cheyne believes that the main use of the serum will be as a prophylactic m those cases where infection by the streptococcus is hkely to occur, and says that the evidence that the recovery is due to the injection is not to his mmd quite satirfactOT)^ plan of treating these cases which has been advocated_ is by the intravenous injection of large quantities of normal saline solution (5j to Oj). It is believed that the diarrhcea and diuresis which are in- duced will assist in eliminating the micro-organisms and their products. This plan of treatment, however, would appear to be more suited to cases of sapreemia, and does not appear to hold out the same prospects of success as the treatment by the antistreptococcic serum. In addition to these plans of treatment, the administration of quinine in large doses and free stimulation, with such nutritious, easily digested food as the patient can take, is indicated. Other remedies which have been recommended are salicylate of soda, antipyrm and phenacetin, and the employment of the cold pack or bath to reduce the temperature. These remedies are probably not of much value. One of the best means of combating the depression which exists is the free inhala- tion of oxygen, but this has no curative effect on the disease. PYEMIA We have already defined Pyaemia as being septicccmia plus the formation of secondary abscesses in various tissues and organs of the body. It is, in fact, a general infection of the blood with pyogenic organisms, leading to the formation of multiple abscesses. Pathology.—The special point to consider in the pathology of pytemia is why these secondary abscesses should form. We have first of all a general condition of septiccsmia, that is to say, a general infection of the blood from the introduction of septic organisms, which have been absorbed from some putrefying wound and are multiplying in the fluid. But in addition to this we have the formation of multiple centres of suppuration in various parts of the body, which was not the case in true septictemia, which we have just been considering. Why should these abscesses form ? Experimental research has thrown some light on the subject. It has been proved by experiment that if a fluid holding in suspension solid particles too large to pass through the smaller arteries is introduced into the blood stream, these particles will be arrested in the small arteries and form an embolus, the effect of which will depend upon whether the particle is irritating or non-irritating in its nature. If small, _«c«-/rr/Vrt//-'^^-,_ solid particles are introduced into a systemic vein, they will flow along in the course of the circulation through the right side of the heart into the pulmonary artery, and become arrested in one of the small ramifications of