886 INJURIES AND DISEASES OK SPECIAL ORGANS the sac is above Poupart's ligament, when it will be an inguinal hernia, (jr below it, as in the femoral variety. The diagnosis of a complete inguinal hernia from other scrotal swellings ought not to be difficult. The swellings with which it is liable to be confounded are hydrocele, hrematocele, solid tumours of the testicle, inflamed testicle, and varicocele. In all these, except varicocele, the diagnosis may at once be made by grasping the structures which pass through the external abdominal ring with the finger and thumb. If the case is one of a scrotal swelling other than a hernia or a varicocele, the structures of the cord will be felt distinctly passing into the canal, and the swelling will be completely isolated from the ring. In case of a hernia, on the other hand, the limit cannot be defined, and the structures of the cord will be masked by the neck of the hernia. The only cases in which possibly there might be a fallacy in this test are where the funicular process is patent throughout the greater part of its length, but closed at the internal abdominal ring. If a collection of fluid were to take place under these circumstances into the tunica vaginalis, it would distend the funicular process, and the spermatic cord would be obscured upon grasping the scrotum just below the external ring. But in these cases translucency and other physical signs of hydrocele would be present. The diagnosis between varicocele and hernia need not be dwelt upon. The peculiar swelling which is produced by varicose spermatic veins is so characteristic that no mistake is likely to be made except by the most careless observer. In the female, a labial hernia may be mistaken for a cyst of the labia; but the latter is irreducible, well defined, and limited above. In incomplete hernia, or bubonocele, there is a small rounded or oval swelling in the course of the inguinal canal, in which there is an impulse on coughing. It is generally movable, and is reducible under ordinary circumstances. Its diagnosis is sometimes difficult, and it is Uable to be mistaken for encysted hydrocele of the cord, enlarged gland, re- tained testicle, hematocele of the cord, fatty tumour, and chronic abscess. Those swellings which are situated in the cord, such as encysted hydrocele and hematocele, may be at once differentiated, by the fact that they are irreducible if the testicle is fixed by the hand so as to make traction on the cord, though they may be movable and capable of being partially pushed upwards into the abdomen if no traction is made. From a retained testicle it may be diagnosed by the absence of the testicle from the scro- tum, and by the dear defined upper border of the swelling. It must be borne in mind, however, that a hernia is very frequently associated with an undescended testicle. From enlarged glands the diagnosis can be made by introducing the finger into the canal through the external ring, by invaginating the scrotum; the swelling will then be found to be superficial to, instead of being in, the inguinal canal. The same plan may be adopted in diagnosing a chronic abscess in the abdominal wall from a bubonocele. The consistence of the swelling also, which is soft and fluctuating, dis- tinguishes it from the definite tense outline of a hernia. Fatty tumours are occasionally met with in the inguinal canal, and can be recognised by their defined upper margin, which may sometimes be made out to be lobulated, and by the absence of any impulse on coughing. . The existence of a congenital hernia may generally be surmised by tne history of its sudden descent, in contradistinction to the gradual descen of an acquired hernia. For it must be remembered that a congeni al hernia is not necessarily a hernia which is apparent at birth, but one which takes place through a congenital opening.