TREATMENT OF FRACTURED PATELLA 455 articular surface. Along the tracks thus formed a stout silver wire is passed, the fractured surfaces are approximated, and while they are held in position the wire is drawn tight and twisted, cut off short and the ends pressed down into the anterior surface of the bone. The wound is then sutured and dressed and placed on a back splint. At the end of a week passive motion is commenced, the limb being retained on the sphnt during the intervals for three weeks. The patient may then be allowed to get up and go about on crutches,^and at the end of six weeks bony union will probabfy have taken place, and the patient may put his foot to the ^''^ In-order to avoid an open wound many subcutaneous operations have been suggested. The first of these is Kocher's method. He passes a thick silver wire beneath the fragments, by introducing a strong curved needle on a handle with an eye at the point, through the skin and quadriceps extensor immediately above the patella, into the joint; he then carries it down behind the fractured bone and makes it emerge through the iiga- mentum patellae and the skin immediately below the patella. He now threads it with the wire and withdraws it. Having approximated the frag- ments, he t^vists the ends of the wire together, protecting the skin over the patella with a pad of lint. A. E. Barker has slightly modified this opera- tion, for after passing the silver wire very much in the manner described, he by a reintroduction of the needle between the skin and the patella, brings the upper end of the wire down to the lower puncture, and twists the two ends together. He also makes a puncture into the joint with a scalpel immediately below the lower fragment, so as to evacuate as much of the blood as possible. Mayo Robson aspirates the joint, then passes two stout needles trans- versely one through the quadriceps extensor immediately above the upper fracrme'nt, the other through the ligamentum patellae below the lower frag- ment. He then draws the needles together by elastic bands twisted over the ends of the needles on either side. Twynam passes a silver wire subcutaneously around the two fragments, making the two ends emerge at the same opening. Having approximated the fragments, he twists the two ends tightly together. Having thus briefly alluded to the principal modes of treating fracture of the patella, the question naturally suggests itself as.to which is the best plan to pursue. And in answering this question the general condition and • habits of the patient will have to be taken into consideration. If the patient is not advanced in life, is perfectly healthy, without any visceral disease, and is engaged in active manual work, the treatment by operation would appear to be the best, always provided that the operator is a surgeon who is accustomed to practise aseptic surgery and is thoroughly well drilled in its technique ; but if, on the other hand, the patient is advanced in life, is debilitated by privation, by indulgence in excess of alcohol, or by disease of any of the internal organs, treatment by some form of retentive apparatus should be resorted to. The main reason for advocating operative interfer- ence is the length of time which the other plan of treatment requires to be carried out. We have seen that by various splints and contrivances very excellent results can be obtained, and this without the slightest danger to life or limb; but for this to be carried out effectually it is necessary to deprive the patient of the full use of his limb for twelve months, and this to a man in active manual work is a very serious matter. It seems, there- fore, to be worth his while to run the risk of an operation in order to secure