THE CONTINUOUS SUTURE 63 not supple or easy to manage, and it is painful to remove. It is principally used in wounds of mucous surfaces or where strict antiseptic measures cannot be employed. Catgut is not a good material for sutures on the surface of the body, because it may become absorbed and give way before the wound has united, but in buried sutures it is the best material to use, as the object of the surgeon is to obtain absorption of the suture. Cat- gut which has been chromicised resists absorption much longer, and is extensively used by some surgeons as a suture. The modes of applying sutures are as follows : a. The continuous suture (fig. 12, b and c) is now much more com- monly employed than it was a few years ago. It possesses two distmct advantages over the other common form of suture, the interrupted. First, it produces a more accurate adjustment of the edges of the wound; and secondly, it can be inserted very much more quickly. By some surgeons the more accurate and closer adjustment of the edges of a wound is not regarded as an unmixed advantage; because, they say, by uniting the wound only at certain equidistant points, and leaving the edges of the wound between them in contact, but not closely adjusted to each other, the serum, which always exudes from the clots which have formed in the cut ends of vessels and elsewhere, has a way by which it can escape. There may be some truth in this, but a means of escape for serum can always be afforded by drain- ing the wound, and I am always more inclined to use a drainage tube for twenty-four or forty- eight hours in wounds which I unite by a continuous suture than in those in which I use an interrupted suture. There are two ways of applying a con- tinuous suture: (i) by the , • •, o.. 7 . ^ • glover's stitch, and (2) by the buttonhole stitch. The g/overs suture is made by introducing the needle, armed with a long thread, from the skin surface on one side of the wound and through' the cut surface on the other until the whole of the edges of the wound have been brought into apposition (fig. 12, b). The first suture inserted is tied, and then the same thread is continued in and out until the whole wound is united, and the end of the thread is then knotted to the last loop. The hittonhole suture is inserted in the same way except that the needle is always passed, inside the loop, after the stitch has been made ; by this means the stitches are transverse to the cut, and there is practically a continuous line of thread on one side of the wound (fig. 12, c). The great objection which has been urged against the continuous suture is that a single loop cannot be interfered with without loosening the connections of the whole length of the thread. But this objection is practically valueless in these days, when sutures rarely require interfering with until they are removed. _ And, moreover, if the buttonhole continuous suture is used, and especially if horsehair is employed, it will be found that one suture can be removed without in any way loosening the others. FiG. 12.—Varieties of suture: A. Interrupted suture ; B. Glover's, continuous, suture; C. Buttonhole, continuous, suture.