TERTIARY SYPHILIS 193 condition of the skin is a form of serpiginous ulceration, which begins as an infiltration of the skin, sometimes commencing as small nodules (? minute gummata), which coalesce and form a reddish brown elevation. This breaks down and ulcerates, leaving an ulcer which is usually some- what horseshoe in shape, and has a tendency to spread in one direction, while it heals in another. In addition to these affections of the skin, rupia sometimes occurs as a tertiary condition, and forms a limpet-shaped scab, in the manner already described (p. 185), which after a time separates, leaving a circular ulcer which has a tendency to heal from the centre. Tertiary syphilitic disease of mucous surfaces.— Tertiary syphilitic disease of the mucous surfaces is usually confined to those parts which are situated at the commencement and termination of those tracts which are lined by mucous membrane. Thus in the gastro- intestinal tract tertiary syphilis is almost entirely confined to the mouth and pharj'nx at its commencement and the rectum at its termination, the intervening portions being seldom affected. So in the respiratory tract, the mucous membrane of the larynx is frequently the seat of tertiary syphilis, but it seldom implicates the mucous membrane of the tract below this. And in the genito-urinary tract, the end of the penis in the male and the vulva and lower part of the vagina in the female may be the seat of gummatous deposits, while it is rare to find them throughout the rest of the tract. The mucous membrane of the lower lip is sometimes the seat of a diffuse gummatous infiltration, which produces thickening and induration of the inner surface of the lip and causes its erosion and an unsightly appearance. This may subsequently lead to contraction and puckering, or else tertiary ulceration may be set up. Inside the mouth the tongue is the most frequent seat of tertiary syphilitic disease. We may sometimes get in the tertiary stage the same bald patches which were described as occurring in secondary syphiKs ; or leucoplakia, going on to psoriasis and ichthyosis, frequently occurs during the tertiary stage and is often the precursor of epithelioma. It may or may not be syphilitic in its origin, and will be described with diseases of the tongue. Gummata are of very frequent occurrence in the tongue. They are usually situated on the dorsum near the centre, and in this respect differ from epithelioma, which for the most part affects the edges. They form swellings, somewhat ill defined and hard at first, but after a time soft from breaking down of the inflammatory tissue. They burst and give exit to a wash-leather slough, leaving an excavated ulcer with sharp, undermined edges, and considerable induration around (fig. 40). In the pharynx gummatous infiltration is very common. This breaks down and leads to tertiary ulceration, which is often of a most destructive character, rapidly eatmg away in some cases the whole of the soft palate and interfering with deglutition and articulation. It also destroys the mucous membrane of the pharyngeal wall, and after it has healed leads to serious contraction, which may almost or completely occlude the communication of the pharynx with the nasal fossae, or lead to great stenosis of the lower part of the pharynx and extreme dysphagia. It is said that tertiary ulceration may occur in the cesophagus, leadmg to stricture of the canal, but this is not common. The larynx is frequently the seat of tertiary syphilitic disease. Gum- mata are deposited in the mucous tissue, which break down early and are attended by extensive ulceration, which may lead to destruction of the vocal cords or necro-sis of the cartilages, and is often followed by stenosis o