TREATMENT OF LATERAL CURVATURE 1103 Symptoms.—In most cases of scoliosis the surgeon is consulted because it has been noticed that the shoulder or hip is ' growing out;' that is to say, for some alteration in the symmetry of the child. As a rule no pain is complained of, though in some cases pain of a rheumatic character is noticed, which may lead to this condition being mistaken for lumbago. The statement that the hip or shoulder is growing out should at once lead the surgeon to make a careful examination of the back. The patient should be stripped to the waist, so that the crests of the ilia are fully exposed. The boots should be removed, and he should be placed with his back to the light, standing in the position of ' attention,' with the heels together and the hands hanging by the sides. At first httle deformity may be visible, as the patient may do his best to assume a correct attitude, but as the muscles of the spine become tired the body assumes its ordinary position. It will be noted that the lobules of the ears are not on the same level; that the contour of the shoulders is not the same, but that one is on a higher level than the other; that one scapula, generally the right, projects more than the other, and that their apices are not on the same level; that the crest of the ilium on the same side is higher than its fellow, and that the loin on this side is hollow, while the opposite one is prominent. Upon taking an aniline pencil and marking the position of the tip of each spinous process as it is felt under the skin an outline of the curvature will be demonstrated. To ascertain how far the deformity is confirmed the surgeon should raise the patient, if a child, from the ground by placing the hands under the armpits ■ if the deformity disappears a favour- able prognosis may be given. If the patient is too heavy to be raised in this way, he should be directed to stoop forwards with the heels together, the knees rigid, and the arms hanging loosely. If the back assumes a natural appearance and the spinous processes return to a straight line, there is sufficient evidence to prove that the deformity is not irremediable. Any causes of the deformity must now be looked for ; the length of the two lower extremities must be compared ; the hip joints examined for con- genital displacement or ankylosis, the knees for genu valgum, the feet for valgus. Treatment.—In treating lateral curvature of the spine, any obvious cause for this deformity must be removed ; faulty ankylosis, genu valgum, or flat foot, must be treated by appropriate remedies ; any irregularity in the length of the legs must be corrected by a cork sole and heel to the boot; any bad habit such as standing on one leg or carrying a heavy weight on one arm must be abandoned. Loss of tone of the system must be treated by tonics, fresh air, and attention to diet. The enfeebled muscles must be improved by massage and by regulated exercises, which must never be carried to fatigue and must be followed by periods of rest. The following is a summary of the plan of treatment. The patient must educate himself to maintain his body in a correct position. In order to do this he should accustom himself to the habit of correcting his position in the looking-glass until he learns what the correct "position is. Standing, as far as possible, should be avoided, and when sitting he should always do so in a straight-backed chair; all lounging in an easy chair should be interdicted. Walking, playing games such as lawn tennis, hockey, &c., should be encouraged, so long as they are not carried to the point of fatigue. After these games the patient should lie down for half an hour or so to recuperate his muscles. In every case a thorough rest for at least a couple of hours on an inclined board in the supine position should be taken daily about