TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS 813 1. The ascitic form.—In which the peritoneum becomes studded with tubercles, which have a tendency to become confluent, and consider- able effusion of a clear, yellowish fluid takes place, which may occasionally become sero-purulent when the infection has been a mixed one. There are usually few, if any, adhesions in this form, which is the most amenable to surgical treatment. 2. The fibrous form.—This form is essentially chronic, and is characterised by the tendency to form fibrous or cicatricial tissue, which mats the viscera together. The effusion of fluid is generally very little. 3. The ulcerative form.—This is the most serious and fatal form of the disease. The tuberculous nodules have a tendency to caseate and soften. In these cases the contents of the abdomen become converted into a more or less shapeless mass, buried in caseous material and glued together and to the abdominal wall. The softened material sometimes finds its way through the abdominal wall, frequently at the umbilicus, and a fecal fistula may be formed in this situation. These cases are quite un- suited for operation. Symptoms.—The symptoms of this disease are very variable. Except m the acute miliary form, they begin obscurely. The child complains of pams about the belly, and there is usually a slight elevation of the temperature in the evening, and with this a gradual wasting and marked deterioration in health. The bowels are commonly relaxed, or there may be alternations of diarrhoea and constipation. In the ascitic form the abdomen enlarges, and is resonant in front and dull in the flanks when the child is lying on its back, and the line of dullness varies with the position of the patient. In the fibrous form the abdomen feels nodular, and there is no sign of fluid. In these cases there is less evidence of impairment of health than in the other forms. In the ulcerous form, large hard masses may be felt in the abdomen, which may be mistaken for malignant growths, and there are alternating regions of dullness and resonance. In this variety of the disease the general symptoms are much more marked than in the others. There is usually a marked exacerbation of fever towards evening, followed by sweating, vomiting, and rapid emaciation, and the case usually terminates fatally. Treatment.—The treatment of tuberculous peritonitis in the first in- stance naturally falls under the care of the physician, and it is only in those cases which have resisted medical treatment that the surgeon is called in to perform laparotomy. The cases which yield the best results after this opera- tion are those of the ascitic form, though it has also proved useful in cases of the fibrous variety, where there is also effusion. It should not be done m the acute miliary or ulcerous form of the disease, or where the peritonitis IS only one part of a general tuberculosis. The operation simply consists m making an incision into the peritoneal cavity in the middle line. If the fluid is simply serous, it is evacuated, and the incision is then sewn up agam without flushmg and without drainage. If, however, the fluid is purulent, adhesions must as far as possible be broken down to give exit to any pus which may be localised, and the abdominal cavity flushed with a 0-6 per cent, solution of common salt or a saturated solution of boric acid. It is advisable also to insert a drainage tube for two or three days closmg the rest of the wound. ' The operation, especially in cases in which the fluid is not purulent, is attended by a large measure of success, though cases of relapse, possibly due to fresh infection, not infrequently occur. We are ignorant of the