TREATMENT OF TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM 45 restless,'excitable manner. A peculiar tremor sets m, affecting all the muscles, but especially the hands, the tongue and the hps. If the patient is requested to protrude his tongue, it will be seen to be in a constant tremu- lous agitation, and he will often close his teeth upon it, in order to check its movements ; in the same way the hands will be seen to present the same tremor, and the patient will be noticed to be constantly picking at the bed- clothes, to be arranging them, or to be 'busy' about something. He is always doing something, is constantly muttering or talking to himself, and generally has one dominant idea. He frequently has delusions, sees animals creeping about his bed or in the room and is ever trying to get rid of them. Occasionally he is violent, tries to get out of bed, and even attempts to destroy liimself. The general condition is not one of fever, the temperature is not as a rule raised ; if it is, the case at once assumes a grave aspect, as in fatal cases the temperature sometimes rises rapidly just before death. The skin is usually bathed in a profuse per- spiration, the tongue is white and furred, and the pulse quick, soft and com- pressible. The sleeplessness continues and the patient generally refuses food, though he will take fluid. Death may occur very rapidly in fatal cases, or the patient may live some days and die of exhaustion. Treatment.—The chief points in the treatment of these cases is to pro- cure sleep and to support the patient's strength. In the premonitory stage, before delirium has set in and when there is merely restlessness and sleep- lessness, with possibly tremor of the muscles, a good brisk mercurial purge, followed, after its action, by the subcutaneous injection of a J or a ^ of a grain of morphia, may be all that is necessary ; the patient will fall into a sound sleep and awake quite well. When the disease is thoroughly established, the same Hne of treatment should be pursued, but it will generally be found that it will require more than one dose of the sedative, before sleep is induced. There can, I think, be no doubt that morphia is the best form of sedative, unless indeed the patient is the victim of kidney disease, when it should be given, if given at all, with extreme caution. The best way to administer it is by subcutaneous injection, as when given by the mouth it may perhaps not be absorbed. Four or five doses of a quarter of a grain, given at intervals of four hours, rarely fail to procure sleep. Other sedatives are bromide of potassium alone or combined with chloral hydrate. The bromide alone is not very reliable, and the administration of chloral hydrate is not always devoid of risk. Cases have been recorded where a large dose of this drug has been followed by sudden death from cardiac syncope. In cases of advanced kidney disease probably hyoscyamus or its alkaloids is the safest drug to employ. When sedatives fail to procure sleep, it has been recommended to place the patient under chloroform and then follow up its effects by the subcutaneous injection of morphia.' But this is another plan of treatment which entails a certain amount of risk, and cases have been recorded where it has been followed by the death of the patient. The diet should consist of light and nourishing food: milk, beef-tea, strong soups and eggs, and if there is depression, a certain amount of stimulants. A^ery considerable difference of opinion exists amongst surgeons as to the propriety or not of administering stimulants in cases of delirium tremens. For my own part I would draw no hard and fast line. If the patient is young and vigorous and it is a first attack, probably no stimulants will be required ; but if the patient is old or, what is ' Morant Baker, St. Bartholomew's Hospital Reports, xix. 249.