I020 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORdANS Removal of the whole penis.—In those cases where the penis is involved as far back as the scrotum, the whole of it must be removed by separating it from its attachment to the pubic arch. The patient being placed in the lithotomy position, a circular incision is made round the root of the penis, cutting through the skin only. From this incision another is made along the median raphe of the scrotum to the perineum, and the two halves of the scrotum separated from each other by tearing with the fingers. A full-sized bougie is now passed into the bladder, and the membranous portion of the urethra defined and dissected free from surrounding parts as far back as the triangular liga- ment. The bougie having been withdrawn, the membranous urethra is divided just behind the bulb. The penis is now removed by dividing the suspensory ligament from above, and by separating its two crura from the bone by means of a raspatory. The remains of the urethra is slit up for about half an inch on its dorsal aspect, and the flaps thus formed attached to the skin at the posterior extremity of the incision in the perineum. The rest of the wound is then sutured, drainage being provided for. The patient's mode of micturition is afterwards the same as that of the other sex. If the inguinal glands are enlarged, they must be removed, if it is believed that they can be thoroughly extirpated; otherwise the operation should not be attempted. Such removal often entails a very serious dissec- tion, which will expose the femoral vessels, the internal saphena vein, and the anterior crural nerve. Some rarer diseases of the penis require a passing notice. Persistent priapism.—A few cases of persistent priapism have been recorded. This is a continuous and painful erection of the penis without sexual desire. It appears to usually follow an act of violent coitus or great venereal excess, and has been believed to be due to extravasation of blood into the corpora cavernosa. It is more probably due to some reflex nervous irritation. It is best treated by rest, free purgation and large doses of bromide of potassium. Gangrene of the penis occurs rarely as one of the sequelae of typhus, or typhoid fever or smallpox, generally in the aged or those broken down in constitution by privation or drink. It is probably embolic in its origin. It usually terminates fatally either from exhaustion, haemorrhage or pyaemia. The treatment must be conducted on general principles. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE TESTES Abnormalities of the testes.—Cases of a supernumerary or third testicle have been described, but, as far as I am aware, no proof exists from actual dissection that such a condition ever exists. Cases in which a body in the scrotum has been believed to be a third testicle are usually encysted hydroceles of the cord which often much resemble the gland. Fibrous bodies sometimes exist in the tunica vaginalis, which may also be mistaken for a third testicle. The opposite condition of absence of one or both testicles is also rare. Most of the cases in which this condition has been believed to exist are where the testicle is retained or atrophied. Instances have been recorded where a part of the testicle has been absent; either the body, the epididymis and vas deferens being present, or the body is present, and the epididymis and vas deferens,