CEREBRAL TOl'OGRAPHY 607 out into a series of topographical areas, each of which is intimately con- nected with some well-defined function. Although the functions of many of these areas is unknown, yet there are others where the function can be stated with considerable accuracy. The principal of these is that known as the Rolandic or motor area, because it is that part of the cortex in which lesions cause paralysis on the opposite side of the body. It may be said to include a parallelogram about an inch wide, drawn in such a manner that the fissure of Rolando passes obliquely from the posterior superior to the anterior inferior angle. Its limits will be seen by referring to fig. 225. In this figure the various sub- divisions marked out indicate the different parts of the cortex which are believed to preside over the muscles of different regions of the body, and indicate the position in which the trephine should be appUed, where there is irritation or paralysis of the muscles of that region. In many instances Fig. 225.—Topography of the molor area of the brain. lesions are combined; under these circumstances the trephine must be applied to points intermediate between the respective centres. Other parts of the convolutions, the functions of which are sufficiently well localised, are the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the occipital lobe. The upper temporo-sphenoidal lobe contains the auditory centre, and lesions in this situation cause deafness. The deafness is not, however, complete unless there is a lesion of both hemispheres ; hence it is assumed that each ear is connected with both hemispheres. The occipital lobe is the seat of the function of vision. Lesions of this lobe on both sides produce complete blindness; lesion on one side only produces hemianopsia, blind- ness of one half of the retina in each eye. In connection with the centre of speech which lies at the lower and anterior angle of the motor area (fig. 225), it should be noted that it is situated in the left hemisphere only in right-handed individuals, and the right only in left-handed people. Lesion of this particular convolution destroys the ability to express ideas correctly in words : lesion of the