867 TRUSSES inner part of the pad. The object of this second belt is to keep the pad in position and prevent it riding upwards during the movements of the body. When there is a double rupture, that is to say, a hernia on either side, the spring is made to almost completely encircle the body, and terminates at either extremity in a pad. In the case of inguinal rupture, the two pads are connected by a cross strap passing from one to the other and fixed by buttons on to the pads. Some modifications of the ordinary spring truss may be briefly alluded to. Salmon and Odv's truss consists of a semicircular spring, having fixed to its posterior extremity a flat, circular plate, which rests against the upper part of the sacrum. In front the pad is fixed to the spring by a ball-and- socket joint, so as to allow movement of the spring on the pad in any direction. The truss is self-retaining, and does not require. any straps to hold it in position. The spring, however, is made to encircle the opposite side of the body to that on which the hernia is situated, and there- fore is rather more than a semicircle and crosses the pubes (fig. 339, c). This truss possesses some advantages; it is exceedingly strong and reliable, and is adapted for labouring men, porters, navvies, &c., who are engaged in laborious occupations and especially in lifting heavy weights. But it is irksome to wear, and is particularly uncomfortable while_ the patient is lying in bed. Coles's truss is somewhat similar. It consists of a semi- circular spring fixed to a pad behind, but the spring is applied to the affected side, and attached to the plate behind is a soft belt which encircles the sound side and is attached to the pad in front by a button. The pad over the hernia has a spiral spring inside, instead of being made of some solid material. The moc-main truss is constructed on quite a different principle. There is no steel spring around the body, but in its place a softly padded belt. The pad is of large size, and attached to its external surface is a spring and lever (fig. 338, f). To the end of the lever is attached a" perineal band, fixed to the back of the belt. By tightening this band the lever causes the pad to make pressure over the site of the hernia, so that the pressure can be regulated by the degree of tension of the band. This truss is said to be comfortable, but it is not so reliable as the other forms. It is especially appUcable for a small hernia in the debilitated or aged, who are not engaged in any severe manual labour. In infants and very young children a truss is not easily adapted, and moreover is inconvenient because it is liable to become soiled by the fjeces and urine. When a truss is employed in these cases, it must be covered with some impermeable material. An excellent substitute for a truss is afforded by a skein of wool. This is applied in the following way : it is placed round the body in such a manner that the loop at one end of the skein is over the opening in the abdomen through which the hernia descends ; the other end is then carried through the loop and under the perineum, and fixed behind to the portion of the skein encircling the body (fig. 340). This can be changed as often as necessary. In the treatment of hernia in male children, circumcision should be performed if there is any phimosis. 3 K 2 Fig. 340.—Mode of applying the skein of wool truss.