89 SYMPTOMS OF TETANUS first premonitory contraction of the muscles of the neck. He will early complain of plain in the epigastrium from spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm, and the respirations become short and catchy. The spasm now extends to the muscles of mastication and expression j the patient first of all is unable to open his mouth fully and to take any food and drink, then the jaws become clenched, and the temporal and masseter muscles become hard and rigid, and stand out in bold relief. To this condition the term trismus is given, and it is this which has earned for the disease its popular name of 'lockjaw.' When the muscles of expression become involved there is great distortion of the features ; they become fixed and giye to the countenance a ghastly grin. This appearance goes by the name of risus sardonicus. When the muscles of the trunk become involved, those of the back are most frequently implicated, and during their exacerba- tions the body is violently arched backwards, and the patient lies on the bed resting on the back of his head and his heels, with the spine raised from the bed and the belly projected upwards. To this condition the term opisthotonos is applied. In other cases the ab- dominal muscles are more at fault, and the trunk is arched forwards during the exacerbations, so that the face approaches the knees, and the back is markedly convex from above downwards. This is called emprosthotonos. Still more rarely the body is bent to one side, when the nerves of one side are more involved than the other. This condition, to which the name oipkurosthotonos is given, is one of great rarity. In some cases the trunk becomes perfectly rigid, the muscles of the abdomen retracted and hard like boards, and the chest expanded; the muscles of respiration, both ordinary and extraordinary, become contracted and rigid, and respiration is impossible. When the muscles of the extremities become implicated, the limbs are extended and the joints stiffened. During the attacks of clonic spasm, that is to say, during the periods of exacerbation, the pain is very severe, and is similar to the pain which is complained of in severe cramp, only, of course, very much exaggerated from the number of muscles involved. During these attacks the muscles stand out prominently and feel intensely hard ; the face is congested and cyanosed from defective aeration of the blood, and bedewed with a profuse sweat; the jaws are tightly clenched, the teeth ground against each other, and the face set in a ghastly grin, whilst the trunk is distorted in one of the ways indicated. These clonic spasms are, at all events in the earlier stages of the disease, of a reflex character, and like the spasms of hydro- phobia are excited by some trifling irritant appUed to the peripheral terminations of the sensory nerves or the nerves of the special senses. Thus they may be excited by the touch of the surgeon's or nurse's hand, by the contact of the lips with a cup or glass in an attempt to drink, or by a blast of cold air on the body ; or, again, through the auditory nerve by the slamming of a door, or through the optic nerve by the sudden admission of a strong light. The medulla oblongata and spinal cord being in a state of exalted sensibility from the poison in the blood which is circulating through them, speedily reflects these slight centripetal stimuli and a violent spasm is set up. Sometimes these spasms are so severe that the muscles are ruptured. This appears to take place in the rectus abdominis oftener than in any other muscle. The intellectual faculties are undisturbed, and in most cases the mind remains clear till the fatal termination. In some for a short time prior to death there is delirium. The pulse is quick, especially towards