SARCOMA OF THE KIDNEY 945 Tumours of the kidney—Tumours of the kidney may be classified mto fluid and solid. Of the fluid tumours, hydro-nephrosis and pyo-nephrosis have already been alluded to, and these are the most common. More rarely we get cystic kidney; or cysts of two kinds- serous and hydatid—may be present in the organ. Cystic kidney appears to be due to degenerative changes in the kidney. It may occur as a congenital condition, when it is believed to be due to degenerative changes in the embryonal structures, and both kidneys are usually afi"ected; or it may occur in somewhat advanced life, when it is supposed to be due to degenerative changes in the interstitial connective tissue, which compresses the tubules and causes their dilatation These cysts vary in size, and their contents may be clear and limpid ; turbid and viscid • blood-stained or even purulent, but always contain urea. The walls of the cysts are hned with epithelium. In these cases the kidney may become converted into a mass of cysts, and attain an enormous size The cysts do not communicate with each other, nor with the pelvis of the kidney. In the adult form of the disease one kidney only may be aff"ected • or if both are involved, the disease is more extensive and further advanced in one than the other. In some instances, only a portion of one kidney is implicated. These tumours appear to cause little inconvenience in their early stage; later on they may cause pain and pressure symptoms from their size. _ They eventually cause the death of the patient from inter- ference with the proper eHmination from the blood of the materials excreted from the kidney. Serous cysts are quite distinct from the small cysts often found on the surface of granular kidneys. They are cysts which originate in the cortical structure of the organ and grow out from the surface, probably being the result of the blocking of a tube. They are full of a thin fluid containing salts and albumen. They give rise to no symptoms, and, indeed are rarely recognised until the post-mortem examination. If they attain a large size, they may form a discoverable tumour, which might require aspiration. ° ^ An hydatid tumour is rarely found in the kidney. If it attains a large size it forms a rounded elastic tumour, which cannot be diagnosed as hydatid until its contents are examined, after aspiration. They may burst into the pelvis of the kidney, or, like hydatids elsewhere, they may suppurate. ■' ^ Solid tumours of the kidney are most commonly sarcoma; but other torms of solid tumours are occasionally met with—of innocent tumours papilloma, and rhabdo-myomata or myo-sarcoma; and of malignant tumours' carcinoma. ' Sarcoma of the kidney may occur in early life, being either congenital or showing itself shortly after birth. It often affects both Kiciney.s, is usually of rapid growth, and consists of a mixture of round and spindle cells. The symptoms are those of a rapidly growing tumour, which may attain an enormous size, without pain or hematuria. They speedily kill the patient either from dissemination or pressure effects. Nothing can be done rL, uT'• u /'^^^^ removed in many instances, but death has resulted either from the shock of the operation or from rapid recurrence barcoma in the adult is of the spindle-celled variety. It runs a less 3]''°"''"^ ^^r" "^i^^ ''''^'''^ is attended with h^ematuria, and usually proves fatal from secondary deposits taking place in other organ.s, 3