INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES bone. In some cases the whole of the epiphysis may be involved in the inflammatory infiltration, and may die. In others it may be perforated, and ..pus may find its way into the joint, and acute arthritis, the ' acute arthritis of infants ' (Sir T. Smith), be set up. Again, in other cases the pus may burrow laterally, and open into the joint. This is especially the case in the upper end of the femur, where the epiphysial line lies within the capsule. Symptoms.—In many of these cases a history may be obtained of some sudden jerk or strain. The first noticeable signs are that the child becomes fretful and listless, and cries out when one particular limb is moved. On examination a swelling, painful on pressure, will-be found in the neighbour- hood of one of the joints of this limb. The swelling will be found at this early period of the case to be in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage, and perhaps to be greater on one side of the bone than the other. Later on the swelling will be much increased and involve the articulation, indicating that the joint has become implicated. In some cases, on moving the Umb a grating will be detected, denoting that the epiphysis has become separated. Conjoined with these.local signs there is a febrile condition. The temperature rises, and very soon the child becomes manifestly very ill. The face is pale and contorted, sleep is disturbed, and the secretions dis- ordered. It is frequently sick, and often refuses food, and unless prompt measures are taken, rapidly dies from exhaustion or pytemia. Treatment.—The treatment consists in free incision, with evacuation of the matter, and removal of all the diseased tissue. If the joint is im- plicated it must be freely opened, washed out with antiseptic solution, and a drainage tube inserted. This will in most cases suffice, if the focus of disease is removed from the end of the shaft of the bone. But in those cases where the epiphysis is more or less completely disorganised, it will have to be removed, though this should always be avoided if possible, as the epiphysial cartilage will be removed with it, and the future growth of the bone interfered with. After all diseased tissues have been removed, the parts should be thoroughly flushed, a drainage tube inserted, and the parts dressed with antiseptic gauze. Subacute epiphysitis—A form of the same infective disease, which does not run quite such an acute course, is occasionally met mth m older children. The main diff"erence in these cases is, that the epiphysis being more or less bony, the matter rarely burrows through it, and perforat- ing the articular cartilage, invades the joint. It usually spreads along the under surface of the epiphysial cartilage to the circumference of the bone. In those cases where the epiphysial cartilage is within the capsule, as in the upper end of the femur, it now invades the joint; while in those where the epiphysial cartilage is outside the capsule, an abscess forms external to the articulation. Symptoms.—In these cases the symptoms are not nearly so acute, and there is not the same profound constitutional disturbance. There is almost always the history of some injury, followed, after a time, by pain on moving the injured limb, which the child keeps absolutely at rest. In the neigh- bourhood of the epiphysial cartilage will be noticed a circumscribed swelling, which fluctuates, and the skin over it will probably be reddened. On manipulating the parts in most cases crepitus will be detected, and lateral mobility discovered. There is not usually any great amount of fever. These cases, if properly treated, usually progress to a satisfactory termina- tion.