1041 TREATMENT OF VARICOCELE of support in the loose cellular tissue of the scrotum; (2) their great length, tortuosity, and dependent position; (3) the constriction to which they are subjected in their passage through the abdominal wall. Lastly, masturba- tion is frequently spoken of as a cause, from its producing an abnormal vascularity of the testicle. Some, however, regard the masturbation as the effect, and not the cause, of the varicocele. Various causes have been assigned for the greater frequency of varico- cele on the left side. The left spermatic veins opening into the left renal at a right angle ; the left spermatic veins being a little longer than the right ; and the pressure of fsecal accumulation in the sigmoid flexure press- ing on the left spermatic vein, have all been given as causes. Lately it has been asserted that in the foetus and young child the veins of the left side are more numerous than on the right, and if the congenital theory of the origin of varicocele is the right one, this would explain its greater pre- ponderance on the left side. Symptoms.—The symptoms are a well-defined swelling lying along the course of the spermatic cord, which on handling feels like a bag of earth- worms. The swelling is soft and compressible, has a distinct impulse on coughing, and disappears, or greatly diminishes, when the patient lies down, and reappears when he assumes the erect position, even though firm pres- sure is made over the external abdominal ring. The scrotum is generally relaxed and flabby, and when this is so the varicose veins can be seen, and the disease at once recognised, without even touching the scrotum. There is often a sensation of weight or dragging, sometimes amounting to real pain of a dull, aching character, and this is generally worse after fatigue or exhaustion. The testicle on the affected side is sometimes smaller and softer than on the other, but in most cases is absolutely normal. In these cases there is often a considerable amount of mental disquietude and distress, out of all proportion to the local trouble, and the patient worries himself by apprehensions of impotence or impaired virility. Treatment.—The treatment may be either palliative or operative. In the vast majority of cases the former is all that is necessary. If the patient can be persuaded that the condition is one of no importance, the wearing of a well-fitting suspensory bandage will relieve him of any dragging pain from which he may suffer, and no other treatment is necessary. But there are certain cases where operative treatment is to be recommended. These cases are (i) those of young men who desire to enter one of the public services, and are ineligible as long as they are the subjects of varicocele (2) cases where the varicocele causes much pain or physical distress, which is not relieved by wearing a suspensory bandage ; and (3) where the disease produces mental distress, the operation may be performed as the best means of relieving the patient from his condition of mental disquietude. The best mode of operating for the cure of varicocele is by excising a portion of the veins and suturing the two cut ends together. The opera- tion is thus performed : The parts having been shaved and thoroughly cleansed, the surgeon grasps the scrotum, containing the spermatic cord, with his forefinger and thumb, and allows the skin to gently recede under them until he feels the vas deferens slip, like a piece of whipcord, under his finger. An assistant now takes charge of the scrotum, seizing it with his two forefingers and thumbs, about three inches apart, between the spermatic veins, which lie superficially under the skin and the vas deferens. The surgeon makes an incision over the prominent veins between the two hands of the assistant, and exposes the thin fascia covering them. An 3 ^