440 INJURIES AND DISEASES Ol SPECIAL TISSUES which the displacement is forwards instead of backwards. This is caused by falls on the dorsum of the hand. e. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the radius is not an uncommon accident, and occurs in children from the same form ol mjury which produces Colles' fracture in the adult. The deformity, how- ever, IS different, for the displacement is directly backwards, and there is no radial abduction or prominence of the styloid process of the ulna The injury more nearly simulates dislocation of the carpus backwards, but may be distinguished from it by the alteration in the relative positions of the styloid processes of the radius and ulna. Fracture of both bones of the forearm may occur from either du'ect or indirect violence, more commonly from the former inas- much as when indirect force is applied to the bones, the radius as a rule only suffers. The fracture m.ay occur at any part of the bones, but more commonly in the lower than the upper half. In many cases it occurs about an inch above the wrist joint, and is then a Colles' fracture plus a fracture of the lower end of the ulna. This injury requires to be differentiated from Colles' fracture, as the displacement is different and is principally due to muscular action. The radius is pronated by the pronator radu teres, and the two bones approximated by the pronator quadratus; the lower fragment is drawn upwards by the supinator longus. In fracture of both bones higher up, the displacement varies according to the direction of the fracture and the amount of force applied. AVhen the fracture is transverse, as is usually the case, and the laceration of the tendinous and muscular structures around has been slight, there is little displacement; when the fracture is oblique and considerable force has been exerted, extreme displacement with overlapping of the fragments may be present. In these fractures there is great pain and loss of power in the hmb. Where there is displacement there is shortening and deformity. In all there is increased mobility and crepitus. Treatment consists in reducing any displacement which may exist, and putting the forearm up in two splints, anterior and posterior, in a position midway between supination and pronation, unless the fracture is high up, above the insertion of the pronator radii teres to the radius, when the fracture should be put up with the bones of the forearm in a position of supination, as described in speaking of fractures of the radius alone (page 437). In dealing with fractures of the bones of the forearm, the surgeon should always have present in his mind the great tendency there is in these cases to the occurrence of gangrene from compression of the vessels from too tight bandaging, and should always keep his eye on thpse cases for two or three days after the injury. This caution is the more necessar)- as these cases in hospital practice are treated as out-patients, and after the fracture is put up the patient may not attend again for some days, unless especially requested to do so. Fractures of the carpal bones are of rare occurrence, and are generally the result of severe crushing violence. They are therefore usually complicated by so much injury of other structures as to require amputation. Where this is not so, owing to their extensive ligamentous attachments, there is little displacement. The signs are extensive bruising, loss of movement, pain and crepitus on manipulation. The hand requires to be confined on a splint, and massage and early passive motion employed. Fractures of the metacarpal bones not uncommonly occur from direct violence. The fracture is generally transverse or slightly