211 THE SKULL IN RICKETS a quantity of this same spongioid material is laid down on the concavity of the curve in order to strengthen it, and this undergoes the same sclerosing process and forms a dense, hard, compact mass of bone, which fills in the concavity and forms those buttresses which are so frequently found in rickety bones (fig. 45). The bending which takes place in soft rickety bones is due partly to pressure exerted by the weight of the trunk in \yalking or crawling and partly to muscular action. Under normal condi- tions the action of the muscles produces the slight curves of the healthy bone; but in rickets these curves are exaggerated by the diseased condi- tion of the bones offering an inefficient resistance to the action of the muscles. The curvatures of rickety bones are, therefore, exaggerations of the normal curves. The liver and spleen are often very con- siderably enlarged in rickets, but the patho- logical nature of the enlargement is not very well understood ; it is believed by Dickinson to be due to an increase principally of the fibroid elements of these organs, though he says that the glandular tissue is somewhat increased also. The kidneys and the lym- phatic glands also often show a similar increase, though to a less extent. As the child grows and gets rid of the disease, these organs resume their natural size, and no trace of the enlargement is left in after life. It is necessary to describe briefly the changes in the skeleton which are induced by the deformities of the bones caused by rickets, as some of them are of vital importance in connection with the well-being of the indi- vidual in after years. The Skull becomes enlarged from the formation of the same soft, spongy bone as was noted as occurring under the periosteum in the long bones. The whole of the vault of the skull may become converted into a thick, crumbly, porous bone, in which all distinction between the compact tissue of the outer and inner tables and the diploe is lost. This imperfect bone is unable to resist pressure, and therefore wherever it is subjected to this force it becomes absorbed. This is most frequently seen in the occiput, where the bone is subjected to pressure on the inside by the brain and on the outside as the child lies in its cot or rests its head on the nurse's arm. The same change also occurs over the parietal eminences. In this way the entire thickness of the bone may be absorbed, and nothing but a membrane left between the scalp and the dura mater at the point of pressure. This condition is termed cranio-tabes. and is similar to the condition noted as occurring in hereditary syphilis (p. 197). As the child grows the spongy bone becomes sclerosed, and the enlargement of the head remains throughout life, producing a characteristic deformity: the large head and prominent forehead contrasting with a small face The fontanelles in rickets are slow in closing, the anterior one sometimes Fig. 45. —A longitudinal section of a rickety femur. (From Erichsen's ' Surgery.')