SACCULATED ANEURISM different people is an additional argument, if any were needed, for giving them up entirely. The dissecting aneurism is formed in those cases where the tissues forming the margin of an atheromatous ulcer are not matted together, and where the blood, therefore, finds its way between the coats of the vessel, so that the sac of the aneurism is formed within the wall of the vessel (fig. 93, d). These cases are very rare. It will be now necessary to consider these different varieties of aneurism a little more in detail. A fusiform aneurism is a dilatation and elongation of an artery, accompanied by degeneration and thickening of its wall. It is, as its name impHes, fusiform in shape as regards its general outline, but in many cases this fusiform shape presents irregularities or bulgings, where the arterial w-all has yielded in some places more than in others. It is charac- terised by having two openings, one of entrance and the other of exit, by which it may be at once recognised from a sacculated aneurism, which has only one opening. A fusiform aneurism is formed by all the coats of the vessel, and in its earlier stages all these coats form a perfect invest- ment for the sac. As, however, the aneurism increases in size the middle coat becomes thinned, from degeneration of the muscular fibres, and after a time gaps are found where the muscular coat is entirely wanting, and sometimes in very old and large fusiform aneurisms almost all trace of muscular tissue is lost. The inner coat is very uneven and irregular on its surface, and often presents plates of calcareous material and other evidences of atheromatous change. Here and there shreds of fibrin may be seen adhering to it, but there is no deposit of laminated fibrin, such as will be described as occurring in the sacculated aneurism. The external coat is much thickened, by the formation in it of a dense fibroid material ; this supports the pressure of the blood within the sac and prevents the increase in the size of the aneurism taking place very quickly, so that the life history of a fusiform aneurism is essentially chronic. It begins insidiously, very often giving rise to few or no symptoms ; it progresses very slowly, and may often remain stationary for a considerable time, or it may gradually increase and may eventually attain a great size and prove injurious by causing pressure on surrounding structures, and tends even- tually to destroy the life of the patient. This it may do in several different ways. It does not often burst as long as it remains distinctly fusiform, but it is no uncommon occurrence for a fusiform aneurism to develop a sacculated aneurism upon it by a yielding of its coats at one spot, and this frequently terminates the existence of the patient by burst- ing. Fusiform aneurisms of the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta are, however, liable to burst into the pericardium and destroy the patient. This appears to be due to the fact that less growth of fibrous tissue in the external coat takes place in this situation than elsewhere. Fusiform aneurisms may sometimes burst into important parts, such as one of the bronchi or the cesophagus. Death may also occur from the weight of blood in an aneurism of the aorta overpowering the heart's action and producing fatal syncope, or from the dilatation of the aorta causing incompetence of the valves and leading to fatal regurgitation. Sacculated aneurism.—A sacculated aneurism is formed by the dilatation of a part of the circumference of an artery, and may vary in size from a marble to a cocoa nut or even larger. In whichever of the two ways it is formed, it cannot increase to any appreciable extent without great