INFLAMMATION 5 the dilated blood-vessels on the terminal ends of the nerves ; there is alteration in colour, varying from a dark-red to a purple, from the presence in the vessels of blood which has parted with a very considerable amount of its oxygen, and has become much deoxygenated, and therefore of a very dark colour : there is no elevation of temperature or sensation of increased heat in the part, but, on the contrary, in many instances, particularly where the cause of the passive congestion is persistent, there is a fall in the tem- perature below the normal standard. In passive congestion the functional activity of the part is lessened, as would naturally be expected from the diminished rapidity of the circulation. Effects.—The effects of passive congestion may be either immediate or remote. The immediate effects are oedema and ecchymosis. They are both the mechanical results of the overloaded state of the vessels. As the vessels are full of blood flowing languidly through them or completely arrested in them, they endeavour to relieve themselves by either allowing the watery parts to transude through their walls into the peri-vascular spaces, and a condition of cedema is set up, or, if the vessels are diseased, they give way, and the blood is extravasated into the tissues of the part, producing ecchymosis. It would appear also to be probable, from experi- mental observations on the frog's foot, that the red corpuscles of the blood may pass through the walls of the blood-vessels, and produce ecchymosis in the peri-vascular spaces, without any rupture of the coats of the vessel. The remote effects of passive congestion are pigmentation and indura- tion. Pigmentation is the natural result of the extravasation of blood from the vessels into the tissues around. The red corpuscles are broken up and absorbed, leaving behind them some of the blood-pigment, which produces the purplish-brown colouration of the skin which is so frequently seen in the legs of patients who have been the subjects of long-continued passive con- gestion from varicose veins. Indn7-ation is the result of the growth of fibroid tissue principally around the vessels of a part which has long been the seat of passive congestion. This condition is also often met with in the legs of patients afflicted with varicose veins : the tissues are indurated and brawny, and sometimes increased in bulk, though the normal tissues are atrophied from the pressure of this new fibroid material upon them. INFLAMMATION So long as the various tissues of the body retain their vitality, they possess the property of undergoing nutritive and formative changes upon the application to them of a suitable stimulus. This fact led pathologists of former times to regard inflammation as a condition of i?!creased, though perverted, activity of the process of nutrition. The converse of this, how- ever, is the case. For, in 1858, Lord Lister arrived at the conclusion that there is a diminished functional activity in inflamed tissues, and this view has been adopted generally by pathologists. But although there is dimi- nished functional activity in inflamed tissues, it must be distinctly borne in mind that inflammation is ' not a malignant energy working only for evil'; ' it is not a disease even in itself, but is rather a curative process undertaken to defend the body from some injurious influence which has been brought to bear upon it. ' Treves, On Peritonilis, p. 6.