SPINA BIFIDA 759 posterior wall of the sac, and there is usually a dimple of the skin corre sac The nerves of the cauda eqmna and perforate in to reach the Fig. 290.—Spina cele). (From bifida (meningo-myelo- the Museum of St. Spending to its point of attachment, spread out over the surface of the intervertebral foramina. It occurs only in the lumbo-sacral region. (3) Syringo-myelocele.— This condition is very rare; two only of the 125 cases being un- doubted examples of this variety. In these cases the central canal of the cord is dilated ; and the wall of the sac consists, therefore, not only of the membranes, but of a thin layer of nervous matter, which is the attenuated spinal cord, pressed against the membranes of the sac, but separated from it by the nerves arising from the nervous layer. (4) Spina bifida occulta. In this form there is no protru- sion. It will be considered after the symptoms and treatment of the other three have been described. Symptoms.—The symptoms are those of a tumour, which is ovoid in shape, its long diameter corre- sponding with the axis of the spine. It is congenital, situated in the middle line and most usually in the lumbo-sacral region. It may vary much in size, being in some cases no larger than a plum, at others as big as the foetal head. It is usually sessile, but generally has a somewhat constricted base ; in some cases it is distinctly pedunculated. The consistence of the tumour varies. When the child is lying down it is usually soft and fluctuating, but upon putting it into the erect position the tumour becomes harder and tenser. It is also made more tense by expiratory efforts, as coughing or crying, and an impulse can be felt. It is translucent to light in the majority of cases, and in menmgo-myelocele the nerves can sometimes be seen in the sac. It can be partially emptied by pressure, and if this is done in an infant, the fontanelle bulges and the child may become drowsy : when the fluid is expressed, the margin of the opening in the bone can usually be felt. The skin over the tumour is rarely normal throughout; its summit is usually covered by a thin,_ white, glistening membrane-like tissue. Frequently it presents a longitudinal furrow or a depression ; this is indicative of the fact that the tumour is a meningo-myelocele. It is not always possible to diagnose between these three forms of spina bifida. If the tumour is covered by healthy skin and is pedunculated, it is probably meningocele; if it is covered by thin cicatricial-looking tissue, and is furrowed or dimpled, it is probably meningo-myelocele, and the nerves may be seen in the sac by transmitted light. The rare form of syringo-myelocele cannot be diagnosed. In spina bifida other deformities may be present, such as talipes or George's Hospital.