264 GENERAL DISEASES wheel, radiating from the axis. This is invested on all sides by a round- celled infiltration. Treatment.—Extirpation is the only remedy. When the whole disease can be removed by excision, this is by far the better plan ; but when this cannot be done, thorough scraping with a sharp spoon must be re.sorted to, and the surface of the wound painted with strong carbolic acid or chloride of zinc solution (gr. xl to ^j). The operation will probably require repeating. Iodide of potassium is said by some to be a specific for this disease when administered internally, but in the practice of other surgeons no good results have followed its administration. When the viscera are involved, nothing can be done beyond supporting the patient's general health. DELHI BOIL The Delhi, or Aleppo, Boil is a local ulcer endemic in certain localities in India, especially in Delhi, hence its name. It is believed to be the result of invasion by an organism, the nature of which has not been discovered, but which is supposed to have its habitat in the tank water used for washing. The sores usually occur on the exposed surfaces of the skin, especially the face, which seems to indicate that the virus may be carried to the part by winged insects. Vandyke Carter has discovered the mycelium and spores of a fungus in the tissues of the affected part, but it is by no means proved that this is the real cause of the disease. Symptoms.—After a period of incubation, the duration of which is unknown, intense itching sets in at the seat of inoculation ; this is followed by the formation of a red pimple, which enlarges and becomes button- shaped, and hence the disease is sometimes called the Delhi button ; it is of a dull red colour and is limited to the skin and subcutaneous tissues. After some time, probably weeks, serum begins to exude from it, and drying forms a scab, which on separating leaves an ulcerated surface, which spreads, and to a great extent resembles lupus; so much so, in fact, that many have considered that the disease was in reality a form of lupus. The sores, which are oval in shape, with sharp margins and unhealthy surface, may be single or multiple. They heal very slowly, and, hke lupus, give rise to considerable deformity from contraction of the scar tissue. The tendency is to recovery, especially if the patient leave the infective district; but the disease may last for months before cicatrisation takes place. Treatment.—The treatment consists in the earlier stage in destroying the papule with the actual cautery or the acid nitrate of mercury. After ulceration has taken place, the sore should be thoroughly scraped and dressed with iodoform. It is desirable if possible that the patient should leave the district, or at all events that all water used for washing should be previously boiled. MYCETOMA The Mycetoma or Madura foot, so called from its being mo.st commonly found in the district of Madras, though it is met with in all parts of India, is a chronic inflammatory disease of the foot, due to the entrance of a vegetable parasite.