TUMOURS OF THE SPINAL CORD 775 The treatment is the same as that for tertiary syphilis elsewhere conjoined with rest in bed. ' Tumours of the spine.—Tumours of the spine are generally malignant, and may be either sarcoma or carcinoma—the sarcoma occurring as a primary growth; carcinoma as secondary to cancer in other parts, and especially the breast. The symptoms are severe pain, which is constant and is unrelieved by rest; muscular spasm, from irritation of the nerves emerging from the affected part of the spine, and pain in their peripheral terminations ; paralysis, coming on at an early date; emaciation and weakness. The disease usually occurs after middle Ufe, but sarcoma is sometmies met with in young children. The presence of severe localised pam and rapid emaciation in a patient past middle life should cause a suspicion of the nature of the malady, and the presence of cancer elsewhere would confirm it. All that can be done is to relieve the patient's symptoms by morphia, in the majority of cases. In those instances where the tumour grows from the posterior part of the vertebra, it may be successfully removed. Tumours of the spinal cord may develop (i) between the dura mater and the bone: lipoma, hydatids, and sarcoma; (2) between the dura mater and the cord: gumma, sarcoma, myxoma, and fibroma • 3) in the substance of the cord: glioma, gumma, tubercle, and sarcoma (tig. 298). They give rise to pain of two kinds : fixed pain in the part and pain extending along the nerves derived from the part of the spine which IS implicated; often attended by cramp and spasm in the muscles supplied by the same nerve. This condition may be unilateral at first but soon becomes bilateral. Paralysis of the parts below the seat of disease, with loss of sensation, is present. These cases, with the exception ot the gummata, always terminate fatally. If, therefore, the administration ot iodide of potassium produces no ameHoration of the symptoms, it is justifiable to perform an exploratory laminectomy, in the hope that the turaour can be removed. Such tumours have been removed with success and the patients recovered in whole or partially from their paralysis