DISEASES OF THE TONSILS 663 volves the lower jaw, as by it portions of the bone may be removed. Having performed both Syme's and Kocher's operations, I give preference to the former. It is not to my mind so serious an operation, and does not require so long a time in its performance. It does not necessitate a preliminary tracheotomy, and the period of convalescence is much shorter. By it the whole of the floor of the mouth and the contents of the submaxillary space can be as thoroughly removed as by Kocher's operation. In the three or four cases in which I have performed this operation, I have experienced no difficulty in getting the divided bone to unite, though tardy union or non- union is said to be one of the disadvantages attending this mode of pro- ceeding. The operation is performed by making an incision from the middle of the lower lip through the soft parts of the chin as far as the hyoid bone. The bone is then drilled on either side of the symphysis, and divided between the drill-holes with a saw. The halves of the jaw are forcibly retracted, and the mucous membrane divided close to the bone, the tongue being held, by a ligature passed through it, so as to prevent its falling backwards. The muscles attached to the inner surface of the jaw are now divided on either side, and the whole of the tissues in the submaxillary triangle removed, each vessel as it is wounded being seized with clip forceps. The tongue thus freed is cut away posteriorly from its attachment with scissors. If any portion of the bone is involved, it is isolated by saw cuts in front and behind, and removed ; leaving, if possible, a bridge of bone to maintain the continuity of the jaw. In cases where the whole thickness of the jaw has not been removed, the two halves may be now wired, and the external wound sutured, a drainage tube being passed through from the mouth at the lower point of the wound. After the operation for removal of the tongue, the mouth should be washed out constantly with Condy's fluid (oi to Oj) or other antiseptic wash, and painted daily with Whitehead's varnish; rectal feeding may be necessary for a day or two, but in many cases the patient is able to take fluid food by the mouth from the first, and is often able to leave his bed on the third or fourth day. DISEASES OF THE TONSILS Acute tonsillitis.—The tonsils are liable to acute inflammation from various causes, such as exposure to cold; the inhalation of impure air, especially when contaminated with sewer gas. It is particularly liable to occur in persons who are the subjects of the rheumatic diathesis, or it may occur in the course of one of the exanthematous fevers, especially scarlet fever. It presents itself in three different forms : (i) Acute superficial tonsillitis, generally arising from exposure to cold, and consisting in a superficial redness of the whole of the fauces, soft palate and pharynx. There is a little sweUing, smarting pain, and difficulty in swallowing. There is a slight rise in the temperature, but no great amount of constitutional disturbance. All the treatment which is necessary is confinement to the house for a couple of days, a brisk purge and some chlorate ^of potash gargle or lozenges. {2) Acute follicular tonsillitis—This is a more common condition, and is especially liable to occur from the ijjhalation of