IOI4 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS lines as nsevus in other parts of the body. Other innocent tumours are the fibromata and the lipomata, but they are rarer than the angiomata. The fibromata may sometimes attain a very large size. These tumours should always be removed if possible. Malignant disease of the scrotum is usually epithelioma; but'melanotic sarcoma occasionally occurs in this situation. Epithelioma of the scrotum.—This is usually known by the name of chitnfiey sweeps cancer on account of its prevalence among chimney sweeps from the irritation produced by the lodgment of soot in the rugae of the scrotum. That the irritation of soot is capable of pro- ducing epithelioma is confirmed by the occasional occurrence of epithe- lioma about the hands of gardeners who use soot as a dressing for their plants. Epithelioma scroti may occur from the irritation produced by other irritants than soot; it is not unknown in men who work in gas and tar works. It is slow in its growth, only tardily implicating the lymphatics and spreading slowly. It is also not very prone to return, if removed thoroughly. It may be regarded, therefore, as one of the least malignant of the squamous epitheliomata. It usually begins as a small wart or tubercle, in men beyond the middle period of life. This may remain appa- rently an innocent growth for some time, and then slowly break down and ulcerate. It forms a sore which may spread in one direction and become covered with a scab in another, and which discharges a thin ichorous fluid (fig. 387). It may at last involve a considerable part of the scrotum, and may sometimes extend deeply and invade the testicle. Later on the inguinal glands become implicated, and it some- times happens that these glands are enlarged, and the seat of carcinoma germs after the excision of a primary epithelioma, where there has been no local recurrence. Butlin states that these glands may become carcinomatous in chimney sweeps, where there has been no evidence of primary disease in the scrotum. Treatment.—Free and early excision is the rule in these cases, and if the inguinal glands have not become implicated and the disease is thoroughly removed, there is a very fair prospect that no recurrence will take place. If the glands are involved, they also should be removed, but . the prospect of non-recurrence is not then so hopeful. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE PENIS Congenital defects.—There may be an entire absence of the penis, the urethra opening into the rectum or just outside the anus; or the corpora cavernosa may be absent or only very slightly developed, the Fig. 387.—Epithelioma of the scrotum from a chimney sweep. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)