541 CHARCOT'S DISEASE in Savoy, and Bath, Buxton and Harrogate in this country, are said to do good, and are often recommended. In some cases excision has been performed for osteo-arthritis. Such operations are, however, rarely called for, inasmuch as they should never be done except in those cases where the patient is seriously crippled by his disease and one joint only affected ; for it must be borne in mind that the disease is liable to recur in another joint after the affected one has been successfully removed. Probably the case in which the operation is most called for is in osteo-arthritis of the temporo-mandibular joint, seriously interfering with the process of mastication. CHARCOT'S DISEASE A form of arthritis, very similar to osteo-arthritis, but occurring in con- nection with locomotor ataxy, has been described by Charcot, and usually goes by his name or the name of Tabetic wthropathy. The disease is believed by Charcot to be due to degenerations in the nervous system pro- ducing trophic changes in the bones and other tissues of the joint. Whether this is so or not, it often commences when the tabetic symptoms are but little marked and before there are any signs of want of co-ordination, in the muscles of the limb. In the majority of cases it begins with a sudden pain- less effusion into the joint of a transparent fluid of a pale lemon colour. The fluid not only distends the joint but also any bursas which may be in the neighbourhood, and the soft tissues around. In a small proportion of cases the fluid is gradually absorbed and the joint recovers; but in the majority, changes go on in the articulation which result in its complete destruction. The joints most frequently affected are the shoulder, the hip, and the knee, and as a rule only one articulation is involved; but occasionally more than one joint is affected, usually the corresponding joint on the opposite side of the body. It affects both sexes, but is slightly more common in the female than the male. In many cases some slight strain or injury appears to be the exciting cause of the disease. Pathology.^The pathological changes found after death are very similar to those found in osteo-arthritis, except that the lesions in the bones are much more extensive and the formation of osteophytic outgrowths much less or altogether wanting. The fibrillation and wearing away of the cartilages, theerosion of the bones, arid the destruction of the ligaments are the same in the two diseases. But the erosion and wearing down of the bones are much greater in Charcot's disease than in osteo-arthritis ; so much so, that in some cases the whole of the articular surfaces may be worn away, and from this cause, as well as from the stretching and destruction of the liga- ments, dislocation is very liable to take place. It must be mentioned also, that though as a rule the formation of ossifying cartilaginous outgrowths is very limited, large masses of bone are sometimes formed in the synovial membrane, and these, when there is much effusion, give to the hand the sensation of grasping a bag of bones. Symptoms.—The surgeon is usually consulted -in these cases because a joint has become suddenly enormously swollen and tense, it may be, after a slight injury. Not only is there effusion into the joint, but also swelling of the surrounding tissues (fig. 192). This is not accompanied by pain or fever. Later on, the swelling in the soft parts disappears, but the effusion