1038 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS and dermoid cysts. They require no special description, as they are of rare occurrence. Sarcoma of the testis sometimes occurs as a primary condition independently of the sarcoma which invades the cystic disease just described It is met with in children and middle-aged men. In the former it is of the round-celled variety and runs a rapid course. In the adult it may be of the spindle-celled variety, and undergo developmental processes, and become converted almost as rapidly as it is formed into cartilage; so that the tumour is found to consist on section of cartilage surrounded only by a thin stratum of sarcomatous tissue. The cartilage in its centre undergoes myxomatous and cystic degeneration and a cavity may be formed there. The disease begins in the body of the gland, causing its enlargement, and at first shows itself as a rounded swelling, which is soft, and not to be distinguished from encephaloid disease of the testicle. Later on it may become nodulated, and, if cartilage is formed, hard but elastic. Secondary growth takes place in internal organs and in the lumbar glands. The patient complains of dragging pain, and becomes wasted and cachectic. Later on the skin of the scrotum, which has become thinned by the pres- sure of the growth, gives way and the tumour fungates and bleeds. Carcinoma of the testicle is usually of the encephaloid type. It begins in the body of the organ, infiltrating its structure and extending through its coverings to the scrotal tissues (fig. 394). These give way, and a fungous protrusion takes place which grows rapidly and bleeds freely, constituting what used to be known as fungus hcematodes. It spreads up the cord, which becomes thickened; invades the lumbar glands, and death rapidly ensues from exhaustion and hcemorrhage. Symptoms.—The patient complains of a dragging pain in one testicle, and the organ is found to be enlarged, though at first retaining its normal shape. The enlarge- ment is rapid and progressive. The veins of the scrotum become prominent, and, after a short time, the skin reddened and tense, and then adherent to the tumour. The cord can be felt to be swollen and thickened, and its constituents matted to- gether. The diagnosis rests on the fact that there is a rapidly increasing solid enlargement of the testicle, unaccompanied by any signs of inflammation. It is not easy, however, in the early stage to diagnose it from other scrotal swellings, and when- ever the surgeon meets with this condition —namely, a rapidly increasing solid swelling —an exploratory incision should at once be made, since it is only in the very earliest stage that any operative interference can be of any avail. The only treatment of malignant tumours of the testicle is the speedy removal of the organ. Castration.—The operation of castration may be required for malignant disease of the testicle, tuberculous testicle, old hsematocele, Fig. 394. —Cancer of the testicle. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)