INFLAMMA'J'ION i6 proceed to take up and digest these minute portions of dead tissue, without however, altering or changing in any way the normal appearance of the part. When this has been done, the original cells of the part proliferate and in their turn, acting as phagocytes, take up and destroy the migrated leucocytes, and then build up and repair the damaged tissue; so that in a very short time they seem to disappear, and the original normal tissue appears exactly as it was before the experiment was com- menced. So far we have described the process of inflammation and the restoration of the tissues to their normal condition without apparent change, and we have seen that this occurs only when the irritant which caused the inflammation was slight and temporary in its application. This condition of restoration is known as 'resolution.' We say that resolution has taken place, and we mean simply that there has been a return to a natural condition of health, leaving no trace in the tissues of the part to mark the process which has been going on. Should, however, the irritant which produced the inflammation be of a greater severity, so that the tissues to which it is applied are extensively damaged or, it may be, small portions killed outright, or should the irritant, instead of being momentarily applied, be more persistent, especially in those cases where the tissues are invaded by certain micro-organisms, then the migration of leucocytes is very much more abundant: instead of a few of these bodies finding their way out of the vessels, they pass out in countless numbers, and become heaped up in the inflamed tissue until the part seems incapable of holding any more. They then commence their work, and under their influence the original tissues degenerate and disintegrate, so that whereas there was, in the first instance, the original tissue of the part infiltrated with round cells—leuco- cytes—now there is nothing but these round cells, all trace of the original tissue having disappeared. Thus the connective tissues become swollen and softened, and finally disappear; bone, cartilage, adipose tissue, muscular fibre—all in the same manner disappear under the action of these migrated leucocytes (phagocytes). No matter what the tissue is or how complex the structure of the organ in which the inflammation occurs, provided the disease has lasted long enough, the special structure or tissue of that organ disappears, and its place is taken in the first instance by a number of small round cells, which are the emigrated leucocytes. The process can be best studied in a piece of muscular tissue, where it w^ill be seen that these emigrating cells penetrate through the sarcolemma into the muscular fibres, which speedily lose their striation and then become granular; gradually all trace of the muscular tissue disappears, and at last nothing remains but a mass of round cells. So that in these cases where the irritant has been more severe or applied for a long time there is an actual loss of the original tissue of the part, and the appearance in its place of a number of round cells. But, following the most recent observations on this subject, it would appear that these small round cells do not remain, nor do they undergo any further change; their life-work is completed, and now they must be regarded as foreign bodies, and means taken for their removal. The cells of the tissues in the neighbourhood which have not been killed or so severely damaged as to require removal, as soon as they have recovered from the slight damage which has been done to them by the irritant, begin to proliferate, and soon the mass of small round cells is infiltrated by larger motile cells, formed by this proliferation of the original cells of the part, which also possess the properties of phagocytosis. These, in their turn, eat up and destroj- the small