526 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES St. George's Hospital.) location of the astragalus. The dislocation is usually incomplete as regards the astragalo-calcanean joint, some portion of the articular surface of the astragalus remaining in contact with the articular facets on the. upper surface of the os calcis ; but the dislocation is complete as regards the articulation of the head of the astragalus with the navicular bone. In the dislocation backwards and outwards—the more common variety —the head of the astragalus rests on the superior surface of the navicular at its junction with the internal surface, overhanging the tubero.sity ; while the posterior border of the inferior surface of the bone is lodged in the interosseous groove on the upper surface of the os calcis. The foot is everted, so that the sole is directed more or less outwards. The head of the astragalus forms a globular swelling on the inner side of the foot, with the skin tightly stretched over it. The inner malleolus is prominent and the outer malleolus buried, the OS calcis projecting beyond it. In the dislocation backwards and in- wards, the head of the astragalus rests on the outer extremity of the dorsal surface of the navicular and the superior calcaneo-navicular ligament. There is the same appearance of the globular head of the astragalus under tense skin, but it is now situated more to the middle of the dorsum of the tarsus. The foot is inverted, the sole being directly inwards ; the outer malleo- lus is prominent, and the inner buried. These injuries are liable to be mistaken for dislocation of the astragalus, but may be recognised from it by the unaltered relation of the malleoli to the astragalus, and by the fact that there is no shortening from approximation of the OS calcis to the tibio-fibular arch, as there is in complete dis- Treatment—There is often the very greatest difficulty in effecting reduction in these cases. This is pro- bably clue in most cases to the tibiaHs anticus tendon becoming hitched round the neck of the astragalus (fig. i88), but has also been attributed to the under surface of the neck of the astragalus with its overhanging border becoming locked against the sharp posterior superior border of the navicular bone. It has also been known to be due to a splint fracture ot the under surface of the astragalus, against which the posterior inferior margin of the bone becomes wedged. , • . Reduction is to be attempted by traction. The patient having been ancEsthetised, a narrow bandage or skein of wool is fixed tighdy arouna the forepart of the foot just behind the heads of the metatarsal bones The surgeon, kneeling on the bed, places one knee in front of the lo^er end of the tibia and fibula and fastens the bandage, whilst in a stooping Fig. i88 Sub-astragaloid dislocation. The neck of the astragalus is embraced by the tendon of the tibialis anticus, which pre- vented reduction. (From the Museum of