MOLLUSCUM CONTAGIOSUM 271 The most important point in connection with the Hfe history of moles is the tendency which they have occasionally to become the seat of a sarcomatous growth. They then constitute the form of tumour already described as melaijotic sarcoma (see page 248), and this may rapidly kill the patient. When situated on some exposed part of the body, as the face, the surgeon is sometimes called upon to remove them on account of the disfigurement which they occasion. When they are small this can easily be done by two elliptical incisions, the edges of which can be sutured, and a mere linear cicatrix will remain. But when, as is often the case, the mole covers a considerable surface of the skin, this cannot be done. Two courses are then open to the surgeon. One is to excise the whole of the growth, and then cover the rawed surface by Thiersch's method of skin grafting. The result is not, however, very satisfactory, and the disfigure- ment produced by the graft is almost as great as the original deformity. The other plan is to shave off the greater part of the thickness of the skin, so as to leave only the deepest layer. By this means all the pigmented structures are removed, and still there is enough cuticular structure left to form a new skin, rather than scar tissue, so that no contraction takes place. This operation, which requires great care and nicety so as to remove enough but not too much of the skin, is best performed by a rotatory circular knife worked by electricity. Morphcea is a disease to which a second name, circumscribed scleroderma, has been most aptly applied, for it consists of an area of induration of the skin and tissues beneath, which appears like a patch of hide-bound skin, slightly raised above the surrounding integument, quite smooth on its surface and of a pearly whiteness or greyish colour. After its formation it contracts and draws in the surrounding skin, producing a puckered margin. It was first described by Dr. Addison under the name of 'true keloid,' but it has little in common with the keloid of scars, which has already been described. Its cause is unknown, and no treatment appears to be of any avail. Beyond the disfigurement which it causes, it is not a condition of much importance. Xanthelasma is a disease of the integument due to the presence of cells of irregular size and shape, which produce a raised patch of a yellowish white colour. It is found, for the most part, in patients who suffer from jaundice. It may occur in any part of the body, but appears principally to affect the skin of the upper eyelid, especially towards the inner canthus. It may occur either as tubercles or nodules, or more usually as plaques or patches, with a well-defined margin and of a yellow colour. Nothing is known about the etiology of this rare condition, but it has been thought by some that it may be due to some functional disorder or structural disease of the liver. In the way of treatment, nothing short of excision, if it should be thought expedient to interfere, is of any avail in removing the disease. Molluscum contagiosum is a chronic disease of the skin, characterised by the formation of small, rounded, umbilicated tumours which rarely exceed the size of a pea. The disease most frequently occurs in children, about the face and neck, but it is also seen in the adult, espe- cially about the genital organs and inner side of the thighs. The tumours grow slowly and appear as pinkish white nodules attached to the skin by a somewhat constricted base. On the top of each is a central pit or degression : this and their colour have caused them to be compared to a pearl shirt button. When examined microscopically, they are found to