779 George's Hospital.) WOUNDS OF THE CHEST WALL is not often broken, fracture of the spine. Fracture of the.costal cartilages is not a common injury, and when it occurs is usually produced by direct violence. The cartilage of the eighth rib is the one most frequently broken, and the fracture is almost always vertical. If there is no displacement, it may not be recognised. Where there is displacement, the internal or sternal fragment rides upon, or is in front of, the external or vertebral fragment if the fracture is near the sternum, but may be in either direction when the injury is situated near the vertebral extremity. The symptoms are persistent pain over the seat of injury, with a certain amount of swelling and bruising, and possibly an obscure sensation of crepitus. If displacement is present, the line of irregularity in the cartilage can be felt. The union is usually by bone. The treatment is the same as for broken ribs. Fracture of the sternum.—The sternum except from indirect violence in conjunction with As an independent injury it may be broken by direct violence, in gunshot wounds or stabs, but is rarely broken by blows or crushes, on account of the elasticity of the ribs and shoulder girdle, on which it is supported. By indirect violence it may be broken by over-flexion of the spine, as in a fall on the head, with impaction of the chin against the bone; or by over-extension of the spine, and is then generally complicated and obscured by a fracture of the spine itself. Cases have been re- corded in which it has been said to occur from muscular action. The fracture is usually trans- verse or slightly oblique in direction, and takes place somewhere between the middle and upper border of the gladiolus (fig. 300). Sometimes a displacement occurs between the manubrium and gladiolus, and is classified as a fracture of the bone. The manubrium is not often broken. In transverse fracture there is sometimes no displace- ment. If displacement does occur the lower frag- ment is usually displaced forwards, but may be carried backwards, behind the upper fragment. Symptoms.—There is fixed pain in the part, which is increased on movement or making a forced inspiratory effort. Crepitus can sometimes be felt by placing the hand over the injured part and making the patient take a deep inspiration. There is usually some bruising, and if displace- ment is present an abrupt prominence can be felt, with a depression above It the lower fragment is displaced forwards. In some cases the patient assumes a charactenstic attitude : the head and trunk are bent forwards and earned in a rigid and fixed manner. Treatment.—Any displacement which may exist can usually be corrected by placing the patient on his back, with a firm cushion under the chest so as to forcibly bend the body backwards; the bone will then generally recede into position, or can be pushed there. Strapping or a rib roller should then be applied. Wounds of the chest wall.—These wounds are of various kmds, but are most commonly of the punctured variety, and are due to Fig. 300.—Fracture of the sternum. (From the Museum of St.