947 NEPHRECTOMY from in front either with or without opening the peritoneal cavity ; or it may be removed from behind through an incision in the lumbar region ; or finally, it may be removed by a combination of the abdominal and lumbar incisions. It must be borne in mind that the essential point in connection with this operation is to ascertain as definitely as possible whether the other kidney is sound and in good working order or not. And though many different plans have been suggested for doing this, none of them are satisfactory except actual manipulation by the hand introduced into the abdomen. This is a strong argument in favour of abdominal over lumbar nephrectomy, or of adopting the plan advocated by Knowsley Thornton and others of making an abdominal incision first and ascertain- ing the condition of the other kidney, and then proceeding to remove the diseased one through a lumbar incision. In addition to this, the amount of room afforded for the operation by the lumbar route is not sufificient for the removal of a large kidney, and the pedicle is far more difficult to get at and manipulate. It will be sufficient if we describe the abdominal operation by an incision in the semilunar line and the lumbar operation. I. Abdominal operation by Langenbuch's incision.— This, as stated above, is the incision which should be made in cases of nephrectomy. The abdominal wall having been cleansed, an incision four inches in length is made in the semilunar line, commencing just below the costal arch, and the various layers cut through until the transversalis fascia is reached. This and the peritoneum are then opened together by a small nick with the scalpel, and divided to the full extent of the wound on a director. The hand is now introduced into the peritoneal cavity, and the opposite kidney carefully examined. If it is apparendy healthy, the operation is proceeded with. The intestines are packed out of the way by a flat sponge, and the outer layer of the meso-colon divided and the capsule of the kidney exposed. The greatest care must be exer- cised not to injure the capsule in cases in which the kidney is being removed for a rapidly growing sarcoma, or if it is full of fluid. Where, however, the disease is calculous or tuberculous pyo-nephrosis, the capsule will have to be opened and the kidney enucleated from it. If the parts about the pedicle are free from adhesions, it is better now to expose the vessels, and, passing an aneurism needle under them, to tie them before enucleation of the kidney is commenced. If this is not possible, the organ is freed from surrounding tissues and gently lifted up from its bed. The ureter is first to be isolated from the vessels and tied in two places, and divided between the ligatures. In doing this, a sponge must he arranged so that if a drop of fluid escapes at the moment of section It may be received by the sponge. The cut ends are at once to be touched with pure carbolic acid, and may then be allowed for the present to drop back. The vessels are now to be ligatured with strong carbolised silk. It is better to tie the artery and vein separately, the vein being tied first ; and in tying the ligatures they should be pushed well in towards the spine, so as to leave as much space between the ligature and the kidney as possible. If there is room, the pedicle should be clipped with a curved clamp or a pair of large Spencer Wells's clips close to the kidney, and the vessels divided with blunt-pointed scissors as near to the clamp as may be. The kidney can then be removed, and all bleeding vessels secured. If there is troublesome oozing, or the cavity has been fouled by the contents of the kidney, an opening should be made in the 3 I' 2