DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE 523 pick up both edges of the synovial membrane in each stitch, so that when they are tied the two cut edges of the membrane shall be brought into contact. Before the sutures are tied, the joint should be thoroughly irrigated with hot sterilised water, so as to wash away all blood clot. The drainage tube should be removed at the end of forty-eight hours. Care must be taken, by means of splints, to absolutely immobilise the limb after the operation. Dislocation of the head of the fibula.—This very rare accident may take place from direct blows on the upper part of the bone, and the head may be displaced either backwards or forwards. It can always be felt in its new position, and can usually be easily reduced by flexing the leg so as to relax the biceps, and by making pressure upon it. But it is exceedingly difficult to retain the bone in position, and the patient usually recovers with some permanent deformity. This does not, how- ever, appear to interfere much with his powers of progression. Dislocation of the ankle.—The ankle joint is a very powerful and strong articulation, and great force is required to produce dislocation. Nevertheless, on account of its exposure to injury, dislocation does frequently occur. The tarsus may be displaced from the tibia and fibula either in a lateral or in an antero-posterior direction. The lateral dislocations are much the more common, and on account of the manner in which the astragalus is wedged like a tenon into the mortise of the tibia and fibula, these dislocations are almost of a necessity accompanied by fracture. They are incomplete, and are not true lateral displacements; but the astragalus becomes partially displaced from the articular surfaces of the tibia and fibula, undergoing a rotation on its own horizontal axis, so that the outer or inner margin of its superior surface, according to the variet}' of the displacement, rests against the articular surface of the tibia. When the displacement is outwards the fibula is broken about three inches from its lower extremity; the internal lateral ligament is torn or the internal malleolus into which it is inserted broken off, and what has already been described as Pott's fracture is produced. If the violence applied has been greater, the interosseous tibio-fibular ligament is also torn, and the astragalus is displaced upwards as well as outwards, constituting Dupuytren's fracture. When the dislocation is inwards, which is not nearly so common as the outward dislocation, the lower end of the tibia is broken obliquely from within outwards, and the external lateral ligament torn or the external malleolus fractured. These injuries have already been described in the chapter on Injuries and Diseases of Bones (see page 458). Antero-posterior dislocation of the ankle.—The antero- posterior dislocations of the ankle are not nearly so common as the lateral dislocations. The tarsus may be displaced either backwards or forwards, the former dislocation being the more common of the two. These dislocations are produced by violence applied to the leg while the foot is fixed, and are most frequently caused by jumping from a carriage in motion, or falls from a height on to the feet : there is thus a sudden arrest or fixation of the foot while the leg is carried onwards. The dislocation backwards is almost always accompanied by fracture, though cases have been reported where no fracture has taken place. The dislocation forwards more frequently occurs without fracture. Either dislocation may be complete or incomplete.