413 UNION OF COMPOUND FRACTURE and it becomes more quickly converted into bone. As soon as the definitive callus has become bony and has firmly welded the fractured ends together, the provisional callus begins to be absorbed, and being no longer required to maintain the parts in apposition finally disappears. This is the mode of union in bones like the clavicle and ribs, which cannot be kept perfectly immobile on account of the constant movements in respiration; and also in the lower animals, where absolute immobility is impossible. In those cases where the reduction of the fracture has not been complete, but the ends of the bones partially overlap each other, callus is thrown out in the spaces left between the overlapping fragments ; the sharp margins of the bone are rounded off, and the permanent bond of union is partly this ensheathing callus, which fills up the spaces, and partly definitive callus thrown out between the bones where they are in apposition (fig. 131, c). If there has been great displace- ment, which has not been reduced, and the fractured ends are not in contact at all, then callus is thrown out between the surfaces of the bone as they lie in contact or nearly in contact with each other, and they become united with great deformity. The callus is then called mterposed callus (fig. 131, d). At the same time, in these cases a small amount of in- flammatory exudation takes place at the fractured ends, and this ossifies, so that they become coated with a thin shell of bone, which closes the medullary canal. The ends of the bones also become rounded off and smoothed (fig. 132). Union of compound fractures.—The mode in which union of a compound fracture takes place depends upon whether the parts can be rendered aseptic or not. If they can, and the skin v/ound heals by first intention, it becomes a simple fracture and unites in the manner already described. If, however, suppuration takes place, then the bone unites by a process analogous to union by second intention in wounds. There is abundant inflammatory exudation from the injured parts. This becomes converted into granulation tissue, which fills up the wound from the bottom. The deepest part of this, derived from the bone and periosteum, contains cells which become angular and assume the form of Fig. 132.—Fracture of the femur, which has united with great displacement, showing the interposed callus. (From the Museum of St. George's Flospital.)