FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS 895 buffer accident or from the patient being run over. The most common fracture is a vertical one through the obturator foramen, passmg through the horizontal ramus of the os pubis and the ascending ramus of the ischium. These fractures may sometimes be double, occurnng on both sides of the body, or may be complicated with a fracture near the sacro- iliac joint. They are frequently associated with injury to the pelvic viscera, the urethra, the bladder, and more rarely the rectum, the vagma, or the small intestine, and still more uncommonly the uterus. Symptoms.—There is the history of a severe injury, and the patient is collapsed. Great pain is complained of in the lower part of the abdomen, increased by moving or coughing. The patient is unable to stand, and if he attempts to do so, feels as if his body were falling in pieces. Upon c^rasping the two crests of the ilia and moving them on each other, crepitus will be°detected. There is rarely any deformity, but there may be some local bruising over the pubes. If any of the contained viscera have been injured, the collapse is greater, and there will be special symptoms indicating the injury. If the urethra has been lacerated, blood will trickle from the meatus ; if the bladder has been torn, there will be inability to pass water, and on introducing a catheter, merely a little bloody fluid will be with- drawn ; if the rectum or vagina has been injured, there will be discharge of blood from these passages, and the finger, if introduced, may feel the penetrating fragment of bone. Treatment.—The patient should be placed on his back on a bed with a fracture bottom, and a broad flannel roller or belt applied around his pelvis. The treatment of visceral complications will be described in the sequel. The patient should be kept quiet for eight weeks, after which he may be allowed to get about on crutches. Fracture of the acetabulum.—The acetabulum may be fractured in two situations : either a portion of the rim may be broken off; or the bottom of the cavity may be fractured in various ways, from a slight fissure to a severe comminution, so that the head of the femur is displaced into the pelvic cavity. Occasionally in young persons a separation may take place between the three constituent parts of the innominate bone, consti- tuting the Y-shaped fracture of the acetabulum. Fractures of the lip of the acetabulum are usually produced by the head of the femur being violently driven against it. The upper and back part of the rim is the portion most frequently broken off, and the head of the femur becomes displaced. The symptoms are those of dorsal dislocation. The dislocation is easily reduced, possibly with crepitus, but has a great tendency to recur, and long-continued extension is required to prevent shortening and deformity. Even with every care a certain amount of permanent displacement, and consequent lameness, is likely to result. Simple fissure across the acetabulum is not accompanied by any definite symptoms beyond pain and impairment of the movements of the joint. But where the acetabulum is extensively comminuted, the head of the bone may be driven inwards and project into the pelvic cavity. The injury is usually produced by falls on the trochanter, and simulates dislocation, as the thigh is shortened, adducted, and flexed ; crepitus may, however, be felt, and the head of the bone may be detected by the finger introduced into the rectum. The separation of the bone into its three component pieces is caused by a similar accident; the symptoms are the same, but it occurs only in young people. These accidents are usually the