HYDROCEPHALUS- '-'"^1:9 increase in the symptoms, and fresh portions of brain matter,- as indicated by new focal symptoms appearing, become involved one. after anothei-, the tumour is probably a diffused one and not amenable to opera- tion. A sudden increase in the signs, followed by stupor and coma, indicates spreading i^dema or htemorrhage in a rapidly growing malignant tumour. Operation for removal of tumours of the brain.—The exposure of the brain is to be conducted on the plan already laid down (see page 609). When the dura mater is exposed, if there is any increased intracranial tension from the presence of a tumour, it will probably bulge up into the trephine hole; and if the tumour is in the cerebral cortex, the pulsations of the brain may be absent or diminished. Under these circumstances the dura mater must be incised in the manner described above, and the surface of the brain explored; the convolutions may be noted to be flattened or an area of brain matter abnormally hard or soft. If this is not so, a needle should be driven into the brain substance in various directions and any increased resistance to its passage noted. If a tumour is found in or near the cerebral cortex, and if it is circumscribed and encapsuled, it should be enucleated. This is done by isolating it from the surrounding brain substance with Horsley's flexible platinum knife, any bleeding being arrested by sponge pressure or by the application of a fine ligature. After the removal of the tumour, a drain is to be placed in the bottom of the wound, the dura mater sutured, and the external wound closed and dressed. If the tumour cannot be removed, reUef to the intra-cranial tension is obtained by the removal of the bone and incision of the dura mater, and probably in most cases of gliomatous and sarcomatous tumour, unless found in quite their early stage, the surgeon will be well advised not to attempt more than this, as the amount of shock attending the removal of a large tumour is very great and the prospects of radical cure very small. It is now becoming more and more the custom of surgeons to attempt the removal of tumours of the brain, and, indeed, many other cerebral operations, in two stages. The first consists in opening the skull, and the second all subsequent procedures. The latter is not performed until several days after the first. By this means shock is lessened; tumours are oftened partially extruded and their removal rendered easier; and if there is any tension or cedema of the brain, there is an opportunity for it to subside before any interference with the brain substance takes place. Operation in hydrocephalus.—Cases of chronic hydrocephalus .constantly conie under the care of the surgeon with a view to relieving the pressure by withdrawing the fluid from the ventricles. This may be done either by aspiration or drainage. Aspiration can only be done in young children before the bones are consolidated, and is usually conjoined with pressure by means of an elastic bandage. It is better to remove the fluid by repeated punctures, than to remove it all at once and run the risk of setting up cerebral symptoms. The operation is most easily performed by puncturing at the outer angle of the anterior fontanelle. The skin, having been rendered aseptic, is incised with a knife to prevent any particles of Mn! u'" ^^"^^ carried into the ventricle on the point of the aspirator. Ihrough this incision the needle is to be introduced, and a moderate quantity of fluid withdrawn very slowly. A piece of gauze soaked in collodion IS sufficient to close the wound, and the elastic bandage is then applied. Draining the ventricles was first suggested by Wernicke in 1881