23S GENERAL DISEASES it also -sometimes grows from other flat bones, the scapula and the in- nominate bone. It is exceedingly dense and hard, resembling the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and on section has the appearance of ivory. Microscopically it is found to con.sist of true bony structure, but the lamellfe are not disposed with the same regularity as in ordinary compact bone, and the Haversian canals are smaller and more numerous. These tumours are rarely multiple, generally of small size, and do not pro- duce any inconvenience except from pressure on important parts. They not infrequently grow from the roof of the orbit, and they may then displace the eye, stretch the optic nerve, and produce blindness. They may be at once recognised by their flattened, mushroom shape, their intense hardness, and their fixity to one of the flat bones. Frequently these turnours after attaining certain dimensions remain stationary and no further increase in size takes place. They have been known to necrose and exfoliate. As a rule no attempt should be made to get rid of them, for on account of their hardness this is often extremely difficult. When, however, they press on important parts, as the eye, removal should be attempted. Sometimes this may be eff'ected by boring through the bone in every direction by means of a dental drill worked by electricity. By this means the connec- tion of the tumour to the bone may be gradually ground away. V. Myxoma.—Myxomatous tissue is a form of connective tissue, whose essential feature is the presence of a jelly-like material in a very delicate connective tissue stroma. The vitreous humour of the eye is the only place in the adult human body in which this gelatinous material is normally found. The myxomata resemble in appearance and structure this material, which is found in its typical form in the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord of the foetus. They are not Fig. 53.-Myxomatous tumour, a large class of tumours, for many of the cases Diagrammatic. which were formerly regarded as myxomatous tumours are in reality other tumours which have undergone mucoid degeneration, as the chondromata, the adenomata, and the sarcomata. These are more properly known under the compound names of myxo-chondromata, myxo-adenomata, and myxo-sarcomata. The myxomatous tumours usually grow from the subcutaneous and submucous tissues, and frequently assume a polypoid form. Of these the ordinary gelatinous polypus of the nose is a typical example. The tumours are round, oval or lobulated masses, inclosed in a thin capsule of connective tissue. On section they present a gelatinous appearance of a pinkish colour, sometimes stained by extravasations of blood. Upon section a quantit)- of thick, glairy fluid exudes, which contains mucin. Upon microscopic examination the growth is found to consist of large stellate cells, giving oft fine processes which freely communicate with the processes of other cells and thus form a very open network, in the interstices of which is contained the thick tenacious fluid which oozes away on section. Contained in this fluid are numerous small round cells, which are not in any way connected with the stellate cells (fig. 53). These tumours form soft, lobulated masses. which are frequently tense and elastic, and give to the fingers a sensation very like fluctuation, so that they are liable to be mistaken for cysts; or again they may be confounded with lipomata or soft fibromata. They arc