496 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES upon the evidence which can be obtained as to the aseptic condition of the instrument which produced it. If there is fair ground for assuming that the instrument was clean, the treatment must consist in perfectly cleansing the parts around, sewing up the wound if it is sufficiently large to require it dressing antiseptically, and maintaining the part at absolute rest. But if'the instrument is known to be septic—a butcher, for instance, letting his knife slip when cutting up meat, and wounding his knee-joint—the safer plan is to freely enlarge the wound, wash out the joint, and then suture the wound, bringing the synovial edges into contact. , , , If acute septic arthritis sets in after a wound of a joint, the whole joint must be freely exposed by two lateral incisions, or by a horse- shoe-shaped incision, and thoroughly irrigated. Drainage tubes must then be inserted, and the case treated with the greatest antiseptic care. In this way, especially in young persons, the integrity of the joint may be preserved. DISLOCATIONS By the term dislocation is meant the displacement of the articular surfaces of a joint from their normal relation to each other. This displace- ment may occur in three different ways as regards its cause. (i) Ihe articular surfaces may be displaced from each other by violence : traumatic dislocation (2) They may be displaced from each other as the result of some destructive change taking place in the joint or surroundmg structures, so that the bony surfaces can no longer'be retained in apposition but are displaced in consequence of muscular contraction or the weight of the limb or trunk : pathological dislocation. (3) There may be some congenital defect or malformation of the joint, so that the bony elements entering into the formation of the joint do not bear their normal relationship to each other. This is termed a congenital dislocation. TRAUMATIC DISLOCATIONS A dislocation may be either partial or complete : partial, when the articular surfaces are displaced as regards their normal position to each other, but are not completely separated ; complete, when there is an entire separation of the two surfaces from each other. A dislocation may be also simple and compound : simple, where there is no wound communicating with the joint; and ^■^'Wi!'^??^f?^, where there is. , , , Causes.—There are certain factors which must be looked upon as Predisposing causes of dislocation, and amongst these the principal are: fi) the nature of the joint; (2) the situation of the joint; (3) the age and 4 the sex of the patient, (i) The nature of the Joint.^Thxs is the most important of all the predisposing causes, and the general rule may be laid down that the greater the freedom of movement there is m a joint, the greater liaSty there will be to dislocation. The ball-and-socket joints enjoy a grea er^ange of movement than any others, and, all other things bemg f nual are in consequence more liable to become displaced. The shoulder has a greater range of movement than the hip, and one of the reasons 5 the 1 abiUty of this^rticulation to dislocation is the freedom of move- ment wSch it enjoys. (2) The situation of the joint.-Some joints are TorHx^osed to v'olencVthan others, and therefore more frequently