CARIES OF THE SPINE 763 in character with tuberculous disease in cancellous bone elsewhere (page 468). Granulation tissue is formed which gradually destroys and replaces the bone and intervertebral substance. The process may spread Fig. 292.—Diagram illustrating the manner in which the deformity takes place in caries of the spine, and the process by which it is repaired. A, Four caseating foci in the body of the vertebra. B, Further destruction and sinl^ing of the body of the vertebra above. C, Repair ; the space between the bodies of the two vertebrre and the angle in front is filled up with new bone. from bone to bone until the bodies of several vertebrae are involved; or it may be confined to one or two vertebrae; or in some cases more than one focus of disease may appear at the same time and produce carious cavities or worm-eaten surfaces in the bodies of several of the vertebrae, without any general coalescence of these cavities and extensive destruction of the bone. As the body of the vertebra is destroyed and is replaced by granulation, the weight of the head and trunk above the diseased part causes the superimposed vertebrae to sink downwards on to the healthy bone below; but as the arches and laminae of the vertebrae are not involved, there is no sinking of the vertebrae as a whole, so that the approximation of the bodies causes an inclination forwards of the spine above the disease, and the condition of angular curvature is set up. This will perhaps be better understood by a reference to the accompanying figure (fig. 292). The fate of the granulation tissue varies. In some cases where recovery takes place, the greater part of the granulation tissue which has replaced the bone is absorbed without undergoing any degenerative changes, and the form of caries known as caries sicca is said to have taken place. But all of the granulation tissue is not absorbed; some part of it, and especially that which fills in the interstices between the y\g. 293.—Caries, with ab- displaced vertebrae and also the angle which scess, of the spine. (From has been formed in front of the vertebrae the Museum of St. George's (see fig. 292, c), undergoes developmental Hospital.) processes and becomes converted into fibrous tissue, and then into bone, so that the displaced bones become welded together in their new position by osseous matter formed from the granula- tion tissue. In otloer cases the granulation tissue undergoes degenerative