I024 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Neuralgia of the testicle is an exceedingly intractable and distressing disorder. It is characterised by severe paroxysmal pain in one or both testicles, without any obvious disease of these bodies. It occurs in young men of a neurotic type, and is sometimes accompanied by great mental despondency and melancholia, which often assumes a suicidal form ; or it may occur in elderly men who are of a gouty habit. The pain is not only in the testicle, especially the epididymis, but extends up the cord into the groin, and sometimes up to the loins, and is accompanied by so much tenderness that the patient will shriek out with agony if the testicles are touched, or even from the pressure of the dress. The disease is often associated with varicocele. The treatment consists in attention to the general health. The patient should have change of air, and, if possible, sea bathing; his diet should be regulated, and the bowels kept freely open. Valerianate of zinc, quinine, or arsenic should be administered internally. Locally belladonna or atropine should be applied, and the patient should keep the testicles supported in a suspensory bandage. If a varicocele exists it should be cured by operation. When it occurs in old men who are gouty the general condition should be treated. Hydrocele.—By the term hydrocele is meant a collection of fluid in connection with the testicle or cord. Here only hydroceles in connec- tion with the testicle will be considered; those in connection with the cord will be referred to later on. The forms of hydrocele are numerous, corresponding to the condition of the tunica vaginalis and its funicular process. I. Vaginal hydrocele.—The most common form is the ordinary vaginal hydrocele, consisting in a collection of fluid in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, which is, in its normal condition, separated from the peritoneal cavity by the whole extent of the inguinal canal. Causes.—The causes of common vaginal hydrocele are very obscure. It is probably due, somehow or other, to an inflammatory condition, though it occurs without any active symptoms of inflammation. In acute orchitis an effusion of fluid into the tunica vaginalis takes place, which is some- times called acute hydrocele; this may be absorbed as the inflammation subsides, or it may merge into the chronic type. Again, in chronic inflamma- tions of the testicle, especially when due to syphilis, effusion may take place into the tunica vaginalis, constituting another cause of hydrocele. But, in addition to these two classes of cases, there are a considerable number of instances in which effusion takes place without assignable reason, generally in elderly men, and often in those who have resided in hot climates. It cannot be regarded as a passive eff"usion or dropsy, as the fluid is diff"erent in composition to the ordinary dropsical effusion, containing more albumen and fibrinogen. It is, however, not uncommonly associated with the history of some local injury, which renders the view of its inflammatory origin more probable. In recent cases the tunica vaginalis remains unaltered, but where the disease is of long standing, especially if the tunic has been irritated, it becomes thickened, roughened on its internal surface, and often covered by a number of small sessile bodies, which are generally fibrous in character, but which may occasionally have small cysts developed in them (fig. 390). The fluid contained in the sac is of a greenish straw colour, of a sp. gr. 1025 to 1030, loaded with albumen, so that it becomes solid on boiling. It often forms a small coagulum on standing owing to the presence of fibrinogen in it, so