843 VOLVULUS the same way the omentum, or the vermiform appendix, or a Fallopian tube may become adherent to the abdominal wall or some other viscus, and so form the constricting band. In other cases of internal strangulation the compression of the gut may be produced by a coil of bowel slipping through some normal or abnormal opening and becoming compressed by the free border of the opening. Among the normal openings are the foramen of Winslow, the strangled portion of gut being then herniated into the lesser bag of the peritoneum; and certain constrictions in the peritoneum leading into pouches, of which the duodeno-jejunal fossa, the inter-sigmoid fossa, a pouch in the sigmoid meso-colon, and the ileo-csecal fossae, are the prin- cipal.' Abnormal openings are usually slits or openings in the mesentery or omentum, which maybe either congenital or acquired, or in rarer cases slits in the broad ligament of the uterus or the suspensory ligament of the liver. 2. YoIyuIus.—By this term is meant a twisting of the gut on itself in such a manner that there is an obstruction to the passage of the contents of the tube. This twisting may take place in three ways. By far the most common form is for a coil of intestine to become twisted on its mesenteric axis (fig. 334, a), but in some instances it was twisted on its longitudinal axis, like a screw (fig. 334, b), and in very rare instances it has been stated that one coil of intestine was twisted round another. Volvulus may affect any part of the intestinal canal, but is most commonly met with B Fig. 334.—Diagram showing the two most common ways in which a volvulus may occur. m the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The condition in this situation is predisposed to by the shape of the flexure, which, as Mr. Treves has pomted out, forms with the upper part of the rectum a large loop or bend, hke the Greek letter O (omega), in which the ends of the loop are brought closely together. It is further induced by the meso-colon being elongated, either cpngenitally or more commonly as the result of habitual constipation. Any irregular action of the intestine or movement of the abdominal wall with the gut in this condition may tend to cause a rotation, and so produce a volvulus. As the twist tightens, the circulation is interfered with, and the ' These cases constitute what is known as post-peritoneal hernia, and will he considered in the section devoted to Hernia.