275 RODENT ULCER Scrofuloderma is a disease closely allied to lupus, but still differ- ing from it in some essential particulars. It is a disease occurring in tuberculous subjects, and characterised by the formation of a localised tuberculous focus immediately beneath the skin. This is termed a, tuberculous node or tuberculous gumma. It is fixed, and the skin over it is normal. It is not usually painful, but tender on handling. It slowly increases in size and softens, and the skin covering it becomes purple. Finally the skin gives way at one spot, and a small amount of thin curdy pus is discharged, leaving a cavity which is covered in by the thin, purple, undermined skin. This forms a tuberculous ulcer, and exactly resembles the condition which is so often seen in the necks of tuberculous children from disease in the cervical glands. The treatment consists in cutting away the undermined skin, freely scraping the floor of the ulcer, and applying iodoform ; at the same time treating the constitutional condition. Rodent Ulcer.—Anatomically rodent ulcer is a carcinoma and is locally malignant, but it differs from ordinary carcinoma in being of much slower growth ; in not being disseminated ; in not involving the lymphatics ; and in not returning if thoroughly removed. It is a disease of advanced life, rarely occurring before the age of fift)'. Nothing is known as regards its cause, but it very often commences on some pre-existing morbid condition, as a wart or a mole. It may occur in any part of the cutaneous surface, but is much more frequently found on the head and face than any other part of the body; its particular seat of election being the upper half of the face, and especially the inner angle of the eyelid, the temple, and the forehead. It always begins in the skin. Symptoms.—When it commences in healthy integument, it usually appears as a small brownish red nodule, which breaks down, ulcerates, and forms a sore ; this spreads slowly, gradually eating away and destroying everything with which it comes in contact. In this way, having destroyed the skin, it invades the tissues beneath, connective tissue, muscles, &c. If it commences at the inner angle of the eyelid, it may destroy the tarsal cartilages, invade the orbit, and destroy the eye: if it commences on the temple, it may destroy the parotid gland and the cartilage of the ear, and creep down the external auditory meatus and destroy the tympanum; and if it commences on the forehead, it may eat through the bone and expose the dura mater. When fully formed the ulcer presents a somewhat depressed base, with slightly raised, irregular, tubercular edges, which are sharply defined. The surface of the sore is of a pinkish red colour and devoid of granulations. Occasionally an attempt at cicatrisation will take place at one part of the ulcer. The ulcerative process will cease at one part of the margin of the sore ; a thin bluish film of cicatrisation will T 2 Fig. 74. — Rodent ulcer, drawing in the Museum of St, Hospital.) (From a George's