882 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS condition of the bowel. At the end of twenty-four hours liquid food, beef tea, and milk may be given, in small quantities at first, and increased as the stomach is able to bear it. The tongue, which at the time of the operation was brown and dry, will become clean and moist, and the bowels will generally act spontaneously in the course of a few days. Should, however, this not be the case, and the tongue become covered with a white creamy fur, or sickness supervene, a large common enema should be given, followed, if necessary, by a dose of castor oil. Faecal fistula and artificial anus may result from .strangulated hernia, and the two conditions occur under very different circumstances. The feecal fistula is generally caused by ulceration taking place along the line of constriction of the bowel, and is the result of the destruction of a small part of the lumen of the tube, and has therefore a tendency to undergo a natural process of cure. Artificial anus, on the other hand, is caused by gangrene of the knuckle of intestine which has been herniated, and therefore involves a considerable amount of the gut, and hence spontaneous cure does not take place. These two conditions have already been discussed (page 835). ANATOMICAL VARIETIES OF HERNIA We have now to describe briefly the various anatomical forms of hernia, and first of inguinal hernia. . , , Inguinal hernia is that form of hernia in which the protrusion takes place into the inguinal canal, and if allowed to progress, through the external abdominal ring into the scrotum. It is by far the mast common form of hernia, constituting about 84 per cent, of all cases. It is divided into two varieties, according to the position of the neck of the sac with regard to the deep epigastric artery. In those cases where the hernia comes down through the internal abdominal ring, and therefore the neck of the sac is external to the epigastric artery, we have what is called an oblique inguinal hernia. This is the more common condition of the two. In those cases where the hernia passes outwards through _ the triangle of Hesselbach, and directly through the external abdominal ring, the neck of the sac is necessarily internal to the epigastric artery, and these hernife are known as <^zW inguinal hernice. , ^ , , ,. . ^r* Oblique inguinal hernia (fig. 342).-In the oblique form of inguinal hernia, the protrusion passes out of the abdomen through the internal abdominal ring into the inguinal canal. If it is arrested there, it forms an incomplete inguinal hernia or bubonocele. If, as more commoni) happens, it traverses the whole length of the inguinal canal, and, emerging at the external abdominal ring, descends into the scrotum, it is known as a complete inguinal or scrotal hernia. There are numerous varieties of the oblique inguinal hernia, which may be considered under two heads : {a) The acquired hernia ; {b) hernia dependent upon congenital abnormalities. _ , , . me^ps a The acquired hernia is much the more common. As it passes down through The internal ring it pushes the parietal Pei^toneum covering the ring before it, and so forms the sac, which is protruded do sn c nguinal canal and through the external ring into the scrotum in fro" of the hernia, and thus forms one of its coverings (fig. 343, ?) \ ^^^^^P^^^^^^'X^k the internal ring, it acquires a covering from the mfundibuliform fascia,