1092 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS micr^)scopic characters are those of ordinary scirrhus (page 256). At the centre of the tumour the growth consists of almost pure fibrous tissue, while at the periphery are large alveolar spaces, full of epithelioid cells, with only a scanty amount of connective tissue between them. Symptoms.—In describing the symptoms of cancer of the breast, we shall first of all consider the symptoms of the ordinary or scirrhous form of the disease, and then briefly describe certain modifications of it which are occasionally met with. The first symptom which is usually noticed is that the patient discovers, often quite accidentally, that she has a lump in her breast. This has probably appeared without pain, though in some cases pain or an uneasy sensation in the breast has led to its discovery. Upon investigating the case a small hard tumour will be felt forming an intimate part of the gland structure, most frequently situated in the upper and outer part of the breast. Upon careful manipulation it will be found that its margin is not accurately defined, and that it is impossible to exactly locate the spot where the disease ceases and the healthy structures begin. If the tumour is near the surface of the breast, the skin will be seen to be dimpled, if it be tensed over the surface of the growth by the finger and thumb. This dimpling of the skin is produced by the contrac- tion of the stroma of the tumour dragging on the suspensory ligaments passing from the breast to the skin. If the tumour is more deeply seated, this dimpling is not noticeable in the early stages of the disease. If it is situated in the neighbourhood of the nipple, retraction of this part is an early symptom ; but if it is more remote, retraction of the nipple may not occur till later, or may be absent altogether. The nature of the hardness is very characteristic, and is described as of a stony character, and this well expresses it, and is espeaally perceptib e when the tumour is comparatively superficial; when it is more deeply seated, the stony hardness is obscured by the overlying gland tissue. In the early stages the pain is not as a rule great, but the patient may com- plain of a sudden stabbing pain shooting through the organ. The breast is not enlarged ; in fact, in many instances it appears to be smaller than the one on the opposite side from the contraction of the stroma of the growth. As the tumour increases, it invades the gland and is more fixed, from becoming adherent to the fascia covering the pectoral muscle. Ihe .skin is soon implicated; it becomes more and more fixed to the tumour and eventually infiltrated by the growth; it is at first thickened and brawny, and then is purplish or red, and finally gives way. As soon as the skin is affected, the pain is very acute. It is of a pecuhar lancinating character; is increased by handling the tumour or by pressure, from the corset or otherwise ; is often intermittent and of a neuralgic character radiating to the shoulder and down the arm. After the disease has existed some time, enlargement of the axillary glands will be felt; those running along the edge of the pectoralis major being first affected, and then extending, till all the glands in the axilla are involved. From these the disease may spread to the glands m the subclavian triangle of "f^^Jj In some cases the mediastinal glands may also be affected. Ukm^^^ the skin usually begins as a crack or fissure, which discharges a ht le se ous fluid, that dries and forms a scab. Under this, ulceration sets n and ^ typical scirrhous ulcer is formed. The ulcer is excavated '^"f ^""^^^^^^^^^^^^^ by an indurated margin, which often forms a very considerable ele^at.o^^ The surface of the ulcer is generally sloughy, and there >sji constant discharge of an offensive sanious fluid. While these changes are goin^