1025 TREATMENT OF HYDROCELE that if any white corpuscles chance to be present in the fluid, their dis- integration sets free the librin ferment, and coagulation takes place. Symptoms.—Vaginal hydrocele presents a smooth pyriform swelling, with its base downwards, on one side of the scrotum. It is elastic to the touch, and usually tense and uniform, but may be soft, and then fluctuation will be detected. It is translucent, except in old hydroceles where the walls of the sac are thick. It is not reducible, has no impulse on coughing, and is dull on percussion. It can be diagnosed: (i) from hernia, by feeling the cord free between the tumour and the external ring, and by its trans- lucency, irreducibility, and absence of impulse on coughing; (2) from htematocele, by its translucency, its elasticity in comparison with the solid heavy feel of a hfematocele, and by the history; (3) from solid tumours of the testicle, by the want, in the latter, of elasticity, uniformity, and translucency, by the pain, and by the rapid enlargement. Treatment.—The treatment of simple hydro- cele in the adult may be palliative or curative. In young children the fluid may be got rid of by the application of stimulating lotions, or, indeed, the hydrocele may spontaneously dis- appear. Palliative treatment. — This consists in periodically removing the fluid by tapping. It is an almost painless operation ; does not inter- fere with a patient's occupation, and involves no risk; therefore, some patients prefer to resort to this rather than undergo a radical cure, which certainly confines the patient to bed for some days;, may in some cases, at all events, be attended with great pain, and cannot be said to be entirely devoid of risk, especially in elderly men—in whom, therefore, it is often better to advise this plan of treatment. The operation is a very simple one. The position of the testicle is first ascertained, and when it is situated at the lower and back part of the scrotum, its usual position, the hydrocele is seized from behind, and the skin over the front of the tumour tensed. A point is selected at the lower part of the anterior surface, which is free from veins, and the skin having been purified, a sterilised trocar and cannula are driven into the sac in a direction almost directly upwards, and the fluid is allowed to escape. When the sac is quite emptied the cannula is withdrawn, and the little puncture sealed with a piece of gauze and collodion. A suspensory bandage is adjusted, and the patient may at once be allowed to go about. After a time the sac will refill, and the operation will require to be repeated, usually in about four to six months, or it may be longer. Eadical treatment.—Many different plans have been suggested for the radical cure of hydrocele. The principal of these are : (i) injection; (2) incision ; and (3) partial excision of the sac. (i) Injection.—This plan of treatment consists in tapping the hydrocele, and, after the fluid has been withdrawn, injecting some stimulating fluid, which will excite a certain amount of inflammation in the sac and will 3 u P"iG. 390.—Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. (From a dried specimen in the Museum of .St. George's Hospital.)