1105 TORTICOLLIS the lumbar region. Lordosi-s being a symptom, the treatment must be directed to overcoming the cause which gave rise to the condition. Torticollis or wry neck is a deformity due to the actual shorten- ing of one or more of the muscles of the neck on one side of the body. Probably in every case the sterno-mastoid is the first, as it is the principal, muscle affected, but subsequently other muscles, the trapezius, the platysma, the short muscles of the neck, and even the fascia, may be involved. In consequence of this shortening of the muscles, the head is drawn forwards and towards the shoulder of the affected side, and at the same time rotated so that the chin points to the opposite side. _ Etiology.—Many causes have been assigned for this affection. It is said to be congenital, the result of defective development of the cervical vertebrje, malpositions in the uterus, or some congenital contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. But these causes are very rare; many of those cases which are noticed,shortly after birth, and are classed as congenital, are in reality acquired, the injury which produces the condition being Fig. 409. —Wry neck. (From 'A System of Surgery,' by Holmes and Hulke.) inflicted during parturition. By far the most common cause of torticollis, in my opinion, is injury to, probably rupture of, some of the fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscle in delivering the child in breech presentations. When the body of the child is born, the accoucheur endeavours to deliver the head by traction, and knowing that time is of importance, as the cord may be compressed by the head and the child's life endangered, he pro- bably uses a little more force than he would otherwise do, and some of the fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscle give way. This is followed by an extravasation of blood into the sheath of the muscle, and when the infant is born a swelling is noticed, which used to go by the name of congenital tiwiour of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Inflammatory changes follow, and exudation takes place; this becomes organised and converted into scar tissue, which by its subsequent contraction causes actual shortening of the muscle, and so wry neck. Other causes of acquired wry neck are primary contraction of the cervical fascia, tuberculous glands in the neighbourhood of the muscle 4 R