990 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS between them and fixed in the proper position for the urethra beneath them. The infundibuliform opening is then closed by prolonging the incisions from the urethral flap around the opening and suturing the cut surfaces together over the newly made urethra. During the proceeding the bladder is kept drained by a perineal opening. In those cases of epispadias where the anterior part of the body of the penis only is involved, the condition may be remedied by a plastic operation similar to that which is performed for hypospadias, to be immediately described. Hypospadias.—This is a far more common malformation than the preceding, and consists in a cleft condition of the floor of the urethra, owing to an arrest of union in the middle line. The failure in arrest may be partial or complete, and the condi- tion may be considered under three different varieties. I. * Hypospadias of the glans petiis. — In these cases the glans penis is cleft on its under surface, and the urethra terminates at the point into which the extremity of the fraenum is usually inserted into the body of the penis. The mucous membrane of the urethra is here continuous with the skin, and the opening is often very small and valve-like. There is a depression on the glans in the position of the normal meatus. The prepuce is also cleft on its under surface, and forms a sort of hood over the glans. This condition is very com- mon. It produces no disability and requires no treatment. The hooded prepuce, if it is judged necessary, may be removed. 2. Hypospadias penis.—In these cases the penile portion of the urethra is cleft throughout its entire length, and the opening of the urethra is at the point of junction of the penis and scrotum (fig. 381). The under surface of the penis in the middle line presents a furrow lined by a moist mucous membrane, on either side of which is often more or less dense fibrous tissue, stretching from the glans to the opening of the urethra, which prevents complete erection taking place; the organ at such Fig. 381.—Hypospadias, a, orifice of urethra.