296 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES for the permanent occlusion of the vessel, but it is necessary for the firm holding of the ligature. If this is tied only sufficiently tightly to close S ^vS el and prevent the passage of blood through its cut end it wil be likely to become displaced by the impact of the blood against it, and ■c-,n —A reef knot. The left-hand figure represents the reef knot: the right-hand figure is a 'granny knot,' and has been introduced to afford a comparison between ■ the two. intermediate haemorrhage will take place. When the extremity of a wounded artery is tied sufficiendy tightly to prevent it slippmg, the internal and middle coats are ruptured at the point where the ligature encircles the vessel by the force which is applied to tighten the ligature, and the divided ^ ^ coats are separated to a slight extent from the external one, and curl up into the lumen of the tube (fig. 84, a). An internal clot now gradually forms in the vessel, and in two or three days extends as high as the first col- lateral branch. The clot is conical in shape, its base soon becomes decolourised by the infiltration of leucocytes, and adherent to the upturned middle and internal coats; its apex is still dark coloured and floating in the vessel (fig. 84, b). The changes already descnbed under the heading of Permanent Arrest of Haemorrhage now take place ; the cells of the endothelial Hning of the vessel proliferate and invade the clot, which they gradually destroy and replace, becoming developed mto a fibrous connective tissue, which becomes vascularised in the manner above described, and the vessel permanently sealed. Ihe small portion of the vessel below the ligature becomes buried in the exudation which torms outside the vessel, and is readily taken up and absorbed by the cells of the granulation tissue Treatment of wounded arteries.—The rule which should guide the surgeon in the and secure he >njured vesseL ^^^^^ ^.^^^^ ^^^^ . !}^*hTs beet^mcire'nr only partially divided, he should seeure ,. Fig. 84.—Ligature of an arteiy. A represents an artery to which a hgature has been applied tightly; then removed and the artery laid open. The internal and middle coats will be seen to have been ruptured, and to have become separated and curled up in the lumen of the tube. B shows the in- ternal clot reaching to the first collateral branch.