DISSECTING ANEURISM 321 cause and to the slowuig down of the blood current as it flows through the sac, the leucocytes adhere to its interior. Some of these disintegrate and set free their fibrin-ferment, which acting on the fibrinogen in the blood causes the formation of a layer of fibrin 011 the interior of the sac. A repetition of the process determines the concentric laminae which tend to fill up the aneurism, and eventually to cure it, if the process proceeds sufficiently far. This laminated fibrin was named by Broca active clot, and can only occur when the blood is in motion in the sac. If from any cause the circulation through an aneurism is completely arrested, the blood in the sac coagulates, and in doing so entangles in the meshes of fibrin the red corpuscles, producing an ordinary blood clot, similar to one formed when blood is withdrawn from the body and allowed to stand. This was termed passive clot by Broca. Between these two extremes are many gradations, and therefore clots of various degrees of colour may be_ produced, so that it is possible that, as is believed by some, the laminated fibrin or active clot is merely passive clot, which has been altered from the pressure to which it is exposed. These observers explain the presence of the various layers found in the interior of an aneurism in the following way. Coagulation of a certain amount of blood first takes place in some part of an aneurism which is not exposed to the full current, and therefore where there is time for the clotting process to take place. This clot is then subjected to pressure from the blood in the aneurism, and becomes flattened out and pressed against the interior of the sac. Here it becomes altered in appearance, first by the serum being - squeezed out of it, then by the red corpuscles contained in it becoming disintegrated, and it thus becomes decolourised and forms a layer, which is. in fact a lamina of colourless fibrin. ' The formation of laminated fibrin on the interior of an aneurism is a matter of the utmost importance. In the first place, it is nature's mode of curing an aneurism ; and when the surgeon takes the treatment of aneurism in hand, he endeavours to assist nature by such means as will induce ' coagulation to take place in the sac. In addition to this the clotting in ; the cavity of an aneurism strengthens its walls and prevents the too rapid riricrease of the tumour, and lessens the capacity of the sac and thus - diminishes the pressure on the parts around, for the distending force of •.the aneurism is proportional to the size of the sac. Dissecting aneurism is that form of aneurism where the sac is •"ormed within the wall of the vessel by a separation of its coats from each other. It occurs in those cases where an atheromatous ulcer has formed :on the inner coat; but in consequence of no adhesion ha vino- taken place ! between the tissues around the patch, the blood, instead of dilating the -emains of the coats on the floor of the ulcer and so forming a false sacculated aneurism, gradually burrows its way between the coats seoaratina ■hem from each other It is usually taught that the blood burrows its vay in the substance of the middle coat, which is softer and more easilv acerable than the others, and it may extend for a very considerable distance n .some cases throughout the whole length of the descending aorta It is n this vessel only that the disease has been described as occurrino-' The )lood after passing downwards for a variable distance usually burstsThrough he outer coat of the artery, and the patient dies of haemorrhage • but in arer ,nstancesMt finds its way back again into the natural channel This .ccurs when there is a softened patch of atheroma in the vessel below the )oint where the blood first found its way between the coats- whJn it Y