838 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS of St. George's Hospital.) Lateral anastomosis, in addition to these cases, may also be required for stricture, innocent or malignant, which cannot be other- wise dealt with. A portion of bowel above and below the stricture is made to communicate, so that the ftecal contents flow directly from the one to the other without passing over the strictured part of the bowel. As mentioned above (page 801), some surgeons prefer to unite two severed portions of gut by lateral rather than by end-to-end anastomosis. The operation is exactly analogous to gastro-enterostomy, and may be performed in the same way; by suture, or by Senn's plates or Murphy s button The method by suturing is probably in most cases the best, and can generally be done, for it can be carried out at a time when the patient is in a condition to bear a protracted proceeding. Halstead s method is probably the most efficient way of performing it. This method has already been described, and will easily be understood by referring to fig. 320. The methods by Senn's plates or Murphy's button are conducted exactly in the same way as in gastro-enterostomy. . , x- a Stricture of the intestine—A stricture of the intestine may be either cica- tricial or malignant. Cicatricial stricture is the result of previous ulceration, in which the scar tissue formed in the process of healing contracts and causes stenosis of the gut (fig. 330). Cicatricial stricture may therefore arise from many causes. The most common cause of stricture of the small intestine is tuberculous ulceration. Typhoid ulceration is not often followed by stricture ; probably owing to the fact that the typhoid ulcer is usually elongated in the long axis of the gut, whereas those ulcers which produce stricture are most fre- quently transverse to the gut, or extend more or less transversely around it. In the large intestine the most common form of cicatricial stricture is that caused by the dysenteric ulcer ; but syphilitic stricture of the rectum is not uncommon. Among less frequent causes ot cicatricial stricture are the contraction of ulcers formed by the impaction of foreign bodies or fteces, lesions following the separation of a gangrenous intussusception, and strangulatton of the bowel in hernia. Finally, wounds or other injuries of the bowel may lead to stricture. . • ■ , Symptoms.—When the stricture is in the small intestine, the symptoms at first are very obscure. The patient complains of pain ana discomfort, especially after taking food, and this goes on for some time until at last, owing to the narrowed portion becoming blocked by a mass of undigested food, obstruction becomes complete ; then t^^ere^^^^^^^^^^^ stipation, nausea and vomiting, but usually no ^>;"^Pf'Y^;.^ J durhig which generally be overcome by purgatives, and there is an inteival during Fig. 330.—Stricture following tuberculous ulceration of the intestine. (From the Museum