571 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP disappeared for at least three months. Those cases where the disease has been treated by confining the patient to bed for a longer period should also be supplied with a Thomas's splint for a time when they are allowed to get up. The period during which treatment must be continued varies with the case. But it may be taken as a good rule that twelve months should always be allowed to elapse from the commencement of treatment before the patient is allowed to move the joint, and sometimes the treatment will have to be carried on for two or three years. In cases of young children who are unable to walk about on crutches, a double Thomas's splint is the best appliance. This immobilises the limb and keeps it in a straight position, and still the patient can be carried about and taken out in the open air. During the whole of the time that this local treatment is being carried out, the strictest attention must be paid to the gene- ral health of the patient, so as to maintain it in as sound a condition as possible. The patient, if it can be so arranged, should live in the country, and especially at the seaside. If he is about on crutches he should be in the open air as much as pos- sible ; and if confined to bed, in the case of children, arrangements should be made to carry the bed into the open air during the summer months. The diet should be attended to, good plain nutritious food being given. The secretions must be regulated, and tonics, especially cod-liver oil and iodide of iron, administered. In those cases where in spite of treat- ment suppuration occurs, or where it has already taken place when the case first comes under treatment, the matter should be evacuated at as early a period as pos- sible by an antiseptic incision ; but opinions Fig. 208. differ very widely as to whether anything Thomas's hip spUnt applied, more than this should be done. Some surgeons adopt the expectant treatment, and simply drain the abscess, paying strict attention to maintaining its asepticity, and continuing the same absolute rest and constitutional treatment. If fresh abscesses form they must be opened in the same way. There is no doubt that, by adopting this plan of treatment, a case may occasionally recover, but the surgeon who follows it out must be prepared for many failures ; in spite of every precaution the time will come when, in many of these cases, decomposition will set in, the sinuses will become putrid, and the soft parts being riddled by them, the time when excision is likely to prove of advantage has gone by, and the case will then assume a very serious aspect. Moreover, it would appear that the results obtained after excision are as good as those obtained by the expectant treatment, and at a much less sacrifice of time ; the average duration of cases of suppuration dealt with by the expectant method, which recovered, being about four years, whereas after