6i ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE sterilised by steam before using. In a short operation one pair is sufficient, in longer operations two or three are needed. In any case, if a septic focus is opened the gloves should be changed for another pair, as soon as the parts have been sterilised. ' All instruments to be used during the operation should be subjected to boiling in water, to which a little carbonate of soda has been added, for at least five minutes some time (half an hour) before the commencement of the operation, and then transferred at once to a tray containing a i in 20 solution of carbolic acid, from which they can be taken by the surgeon as he requires them during the progress of the operation, and to which they are returned as soon as they have been used. It should be noted that in cleaning the instruments after the operation great care must be taken to thoroughly cleanse all toothed instruments, such as clip forceps, dissecting forceps and such like, by carefully brushing them so as to remove all particles of blood, greasy material, &c. Finally we have to consider the question of sponges. Certainly the ideal plan, and the one which I always adopt in private practice, is to use fresh sponges for every operation, but this is scarcely possible in hospital work. But at all events any sponge which has been used in a septic case should be at once destroyed. With regard to the others, they should be thoroughly cleansed in cold water, and then washed with soap and hot water to which carbonate of soda has been added, and kept in a jar con- taining I in 20 solution of carbolic acid, and not used again for a week. Some surgeons discard sponges altogether, and use pads of absorbent wool or Gamge'e tissue wrung out of carbolic acid solution. But they are not so absorbent, and httle particles of the wool are apt to become detached and to adhere to the surfaces of the wound. We have now to consider the various indications for the treatment of incised wounds, and these are five in number : (i) To arrest all haemorrhage ; (2) to cleanse the wound, and remove all foreign bodies ; (3) to adjust the edges of the wound ; (4) to insure complete mechanical rest; (5) to guard against putrefaction and infection. All of these indications may not be required in every wound ; thus it is not always necessary to employ drainage, and in aseptic operations no cleansing or removal of foreign bodies is required. We will take, in order to illustrate the subject, a wound of considerable size which has been caused by an accident, and therefore presumably has been inflicted some time before it comes under the surgeon's care. For in a small clean-cut wound very little treatment is necessary; after all hcemorrhage has ceased and the wound has been cleansed, the application of a pad of anti- septic gauze so applied that it approximates the edges of the cut is generally all that is necessary to insure speedy union. I. Arrest of haemorrhage.—If no vessel of any size has been injured, the bleeding will cease after a time spontaneously, or its arrest may be brought about by pressure, by exposure to air, or by the appfication of heat or cold. The haemorrhage ceases because clotting takes place in the ends of the divided vessels; this clotting being induced by the exposure of the part to the air ; by the orifices of the vessels being narrowed by the contraction and retraction of their coats in consequence of the injury which has been inflicted upon them; and by the blood flowing over a foreign surface—that is, the tissues from which the vessel has retracted—to which the leucocytes adhere and, disintegrating, set free the fibrin ferment. When any vessel of considerable size has been wounded, measures will have to be taken by the surgeon to arrest the htemorrhage, and these means will be described in the chapter on Injuries of Blood-vessels.