I072 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS accooipanied by sudden and severe attacks of pain in the abdomen, with fever. It usually results in adhesions, which glue the cyst to the abdominal wall and to the other viscera of the abdomen. These adhesions are often very difificult to detect before operation ; though they may be suspected by the history of attacks of pain, and by noting whether the tumour moves up and down during respiration. ■ If adhesions are present and are firm, the tumour and the abdominal wall move together. 2. Suppuration may take place in an ovarian cyst. This may be due to the introduction of pyogenic organisms through a puncture in tapping or aspiration; but in most cases is probably caused by adhesions having taken place between the cyst and the intestine, and to the bacillus coli communis finding its way into the cyst at the adherent spot, where possibly the coats of the bowel may have been altered in structure and thinned. In these cases there is pain and tenderness, fever and probably rigors. The abscess may burst into the rectum, vagina, or bladder, or it may point on the abdominal wall, especially at the umbilicus. 3. Rupture of the cyst may take place either as the result of trauma- tism or spontaneously. This is usually followed by death from haemor- rhage or peritonitis, though a few cases have been recorded where recovery has taken place. These are cases where the rupture has probably taken place gradually, and the contents of the sac have leaked slowly into the peritoneal cavity and been absorbed. 4. A curious compHcation of ovarian cyst which sometimes occurs, where the pedicle is long, is an axial rotation of the cyst and a twisting of the pedicle. If the twist in the pedicle is very acute and tight, complete strangulation of its vessels takes place, and gangrene and sloughing of the tumour follow. If it is less acute, the veins become occluded, while the arteries still convey blood to the tumour; a condition of extreme venous engorgement results, possibly followed by rupture of the sac. AVhen the rotation occurs slowly, the cyst may atrophy and become a solid mass. Sometimes in these latter cases, where adhesions have taken place between the sac and surrounding structures, the tumour is nourished from these sources and the pedicle disappears. The symptoms of this condition are a sudden accession of pain; alteration in the shape of the abdomen ; in the area of dullness ; in the relation of the tumour to the abdominal viscera ; with collapse and subsequent symptoms of peritonitis. Terminations of ovarian dropsy.—In the majority of cases ovarian disease if allowed to run its natural course proves fatal, either from pressure causing difficulty in taking food, and obstructing the circulation arid respiration, or exhaustion from loss of albuminous material in the fluid of the cyst. In exceptional cases spontaneous cure may occur, as in the cases alluded to above of rupture of the cyst; twisting of the pedicle ; or in cases of suppuration, in which the cyst bursts either externally or into one of the natural passages of the body. But these cases are very rare. A dermoid cyst may remain quiescent for years and cause little or no trouble. Treatment.—The only treatment for ovarian tumour is removal, when removal is practicable. The operation should be performed as soon as the disease is recognised; and when it is cystic, as it usually is, the surgeon should not wait until the tumour becomes a source of trouble to the patient or a danger to her life. Early operation should be advised for several reasons: in the first place, because it is much less dangerous, a smaller incision is required, and probably no adhesions are present, or 11