630 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS treatment con.si.sts in maintaining cleanliness as far as possible, and drain- ing. " The granulation tis.sue should be scraped away with a small curved curette, and all carious bone removed. The ethmoidal cells should be opened up with all gentleness and care, and the parts thoroughly syringed out with antiseptic fluids and drained. If the frontal sinuses are involved, which will be indicated by severe frontal headache and swelling over the forehead and inner part of the orbit, they must be opened by an incision over them, and the bone perforated with a gouge or trephine. The lining membrane of the sinus should be scraped away and the passage into the nose dilated, so as to allow of drainage through this cavity. The wound on the forehead is then to be sutured, the drainage tube being left in situ for some days. The frontal sinuses are sometimes the site of inflammation from other causes, besides that enumerated above, and sinusitis^ as it is termed, is believed by some to be a not unfrequent sequel of influenza. If under these circumstances the infundibulum becomes blocked, the sinuses be- come distended with mucus, and perhaps subsequently with pus. This causes a slowly growing swelling, accompanied by much pain, at the root of the nose, which when suppuration occurs becomes red, and the pain of a throbbing character. The characteristic seat of the pain is at the upper and inner wall of the orbit, and pressure in this situation causes greatly increased pain. The dangers of this affection are that the mischief has a tendency to extend through the inner wall of the sinus and set up cerebral mischief ; or to extend to the cavernous or other venous sinuses, producing thrombosis. The treatment consists in laying the cavity open and drain- ing it. This is done by an incision slightly above the supra-orbital arch carried down to the bone, which is then trephined or opened with a gouge. The contents are evacuated, and the infundibulum dilated, so as to allow of free drainage. The wound in some cases heals up, but not unfrequently a fistulous opening is left. Hebinger and Fehleisen therefore recommend the removal of the whole of the anterior wall, and under these circumstances the infundibulum is not reopened for fear of infection from the nose, but the cavity is stuffed and allowed to granulate up from the bottom. Polypus of the nose.—Two forms of nasal polypus have to be described : the simple nasal polypus, mucous and gelatinous in character, and the naso-pharyngeal polypus, fibrous or fibro-sarcomatous in nature. To these is sometimes added a third—the malignant polyp ; this form of disease, however, usually springs from the superior maxillaiy bone, and will be described with affections of that part. The simple nasal polypus {mucous or gelatiiwus polyp) is a soft, moist, gelatinous tumour, which usually springs from the outer wall of the nasal fossa, more especially from the middle turbinated bone or its imme- diate neighbourhood, though cases have been recorded where it has been found springing from the roof and even the septum, and from the sinuses communicating with the nasal fossee. These tumours vary much in size, and are always multiple. What usually happens is that one polyp attains a large size, and a number of smaller ones gi ow frcm the mucous membrane around. They are generally pedunculated, the pedicle in some instances being thin and attenuated, at others broad and giving origin to a lobulated mass (fig. 236). On microscopic examination the growth is found to consist of extremely delicate fibres of connective tissue, forming a network in which is contained a large amount of mucous fluid. Embedded in this are stellate cells the processes of which are continuous with the fibres, and