TREATMENT OF CONGENITAL DISLOCATION 529 Prolonged extension.—This consists in placing the child in a recum- bent position on a couch, with a weight extension to the foot, and keeping him there for a long period of time, probably two years, in the hope that by maintaining the head of the bone in or near its normal position, the capsule will be shortened, and a new socket will be formed in the position of the normal acetabulum. This plan of treatment has not proved satis- factory. Reduction by manipulation.—This can only be done in children at an early age. Probably from two to seven is the best age, but cases have been treated up to the age of fifteen. In those over four it is generall}- necessary to preface the treatment by extension, and sometimes tenotomy of contracted muscles. This plan of treatment was first introduced by Paci and modified by Lorenz. The first step in the reduction consists in bringing the head of the dislocated thigh down to the level of the aceta- bulum by extension ; the second step, in wedging the head of the femur into the> acetabulum. This is done by maintaining the extension and rotating and gradually abducting the thigh. Sometimes the reduction will be accomplished with an audible snap. In order to keep the head of the bone in its proper position, the limb is now put up in plaster of Paris, with the thigh abducted to an angle of 90° with the trunk ; for it is found that if this abduction is not maintained, redislocation at once occurs. In two or three days the child is encouraged to )valk about with the thigh in this abducted position, with tw-o or three inches added to the sole of the foot on the affected side. The plaster of/Paris is allowed to remain on three months and then removed. The abduction is now reduced to an angle of 45°, and the limb is again put up in plaster for three months. At the end of this time, if the position is good, the child is allowed to go about without any support, but with a cork sole on the affected limb to maintain slight abduction, and massage is employed. In double dislocations it is better to operate on one side first, and when this is completed, to proceed to the other. Open operation.—This was first advocated by Hoffa; but his method, which was founded on wrong principles and was very severe, has been discarded, and the method introduced by Lorenz substituted for it. The operation is performed by first dividing the pelvi-crural muscles, which are shortened; then in gouging out the acetabulum and replacing the head of the bone. The limb being extended, Lorenz first divides the adductor and hamstring muscles. Then he makes an incision about three inches long, vertically downwards from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, divides the fascia lata, sartorius, tensor vaginje femoris, and anterior fibres of the gluteus medius, and exposes the capsule. The rectus femoris is now divided, and the capsule opened. The thigh is flexed and adducted, and the cotyloid cavity enlarged with a gouge, so as to make it resemble the normal one as much as possible, taking care always to have the upper border left sharp. By a little manipulation the head of the bone can now be inserted into this new cavity. A drainage tube is introduced, the external wound closed, an antiseptic dressing applied, and-the parts fixed in an apparatus which maintains the thigh in a position of slight abduction. The operation is necessarily a severe one, and should never be resorted to until the method of reduction by manipulation has been first tried and failed. M M