looo INJURIES AND DISEASES OK SPECIAL OROANS being compressed by tlie hypertropliy of the muscular fibres and the rigid coats of the bladder. Not only do the ureters become dilated, but also the pelves and calyces of the kidneys, and this dilatation takes place at the expense of the secreting structure. . Later on, septic matter finds its way from the bladder up the ureters to the kidneys, and inflammation and suppuration occur in these organs, leading to the so-called urifiary cachexia and a fatal result. Symptoms.—In many cases of stricture the patient will first present himself complaining that he is suffering from a little gleety discharge, and on inquiry it will be found that he has a frequent desire to pass water, and some little difficulty or hesitancy in doing so ; and that there is a certain amount of pain in the perineum during the act of micturition. He may have noticed also that the stream of water is smaller than it used to be; that it is sometimes forked or spiral; that he takes longer over the act of micturition, and that after he has adjusted his dress, a few drops of urine are apt to escape. Under these circumstances a physical examination should be made, as the only means of actually establishing a diagnosis. Later on, when cystitis has been set up, the character of the urine is changed; it is alkaline, and loaded with mucus and phosphates. The stream becomes still smaller, and there is increased difficulty and delay in micturating. The desire to do so is more frequent, and the rest is disturbed by frequent calls to pass water. Pain is experienced above the pubes, especially on pressure. The digestion is impaired, the nutrition fails, and the patient becomes weak and anaemic. Finally, when the urinary cachexia becomes well marked, there are attacks of feverishness, vomiting, and diarrhoea, the appetite is lost, the tongue becomes dry and coated, there is great thirst and aching pain in the loins, and the patient succumbs to ursemic poisoning. The existence of a stricture can only be absolutely determined by a physical exploration of the urethra. This is done by means of a catheter or sound, which is passed down the urethra till it meets mth the obstruc- tion. It must be borne in mind that the meatus is the narrowest part of the urethra, and any instrument which will pass through it ought to pass along the whole canal if there is no contraction. Considerable difference of opinion exists among surgeons as to the best form of instrument to use. Formerly metal catheters or bougies were almost always used for exploration, but they are much more irritating and painful to the patient than a softer instrument, and therefore it is desirable not to employ them if the necessary information can be obtained without their use. The great advantage which they possess is that they can be more easily located, and the exact position of the point of the instrument defined in the urethra. They can also more easily be maintained aseptic. The best form of soft catheter to use is the silk web aseptic catheter with solid end. These are polished and prepared on the inner surface of the tube as well as outside, and can therefore be more easily cleaned and rendered aseptic. An instrument should first be selected which passes easily through the meatus,, and having been warmed and well lubricated should be introduced rapidly but gently down the urethra until it meets with the obstruction. By measuring off the length of the instrument in the urethra, the position of the stricture can be ascertained. li the catheter will not pass through the stricture, a smaller and smaller instrument should be tried until one is found small enough to pass through. The amount of contraction can in this way be gauged. Otis has invented a urethrometer by which the actual size of the stricture can be ascertained