the circulation. 365 PLASTIC PHLEBITIS probability recover. If minute fragments are set free, no symptoms are produced. Symptoms.—The symptoms of tlirombosis are those of obstruction of the vein; swelHng and oedema of the parts from which the vein affected derives its tributaries. The part is swollen, white and pasty, and pits deeply on pressure. The superficial veins are enlarged. If the thrombosed vein is a superficial one, it will be felt as a hard cord with enlargements cor- responding to the position of the valves. The patient usually complains of stiffness of the limb, rather than pain, though in some cases the pain may be severe and the part is always tender on handling. If the thrombus is complicated with phlebitis, there will be in addition the classical signs of inflammation and some elevation of the'temperature. The treatment will be considered with that of phlebitis. Phlebitis.—Inflammation of veins may be of two kinds, viz. : (i) Simple or plastic, and (2) Diffuse or infective. I. Plastic phlebitis may arise from many causes, (a) From injury to the coats of the vein; (d) from the formation of a throm- bus within the vein; (c) from extension from inflammation of the tissues around; (d) from gout; (e) or it may be idiopathic in its nature, in which no definite cause can be determined, though it generally attacks the veins of the lower extremity, which have been long affected with varLx. Pathology.—The first effect of the inflammation is to produce changes m the intima, which cause the blood to clot and a thrombus to form. This IS limited, usually only extending a few inches up the vessel, and shows no tendency to spread. The external and middle coats become swollen and infiltrated with round cells, the endothelial cells of the intima proliferate and invade the clot, and the vessel undergoes the same changes as occur in thrombosis ; organisation may take place and the vessel be con- verted into an impervious cord, or the inflammation may subside, the clot disintegrate, and the vein be restored to its former condition. The surround- ing tissues are usually involved and cedematous. Symptoms are those of thrombosis, plus inflammation. A hard cord is to be felt in the course of the vein, with an indistinct outhne. l"he skin over It IS red, and there is pain and tenderness on handling. The part is sen^ly hot to the touch, and there is usually a rise in temperature Treatment.—The treatment of thrombosis and plastic phlebitis is the same, consisting mainly of complete and absolute rest. The patient should be confined strictly to bed, with the limb lightly fixed to a splint, and raised above the level of the body, so as to promote the return of the venous blood. All examination or handling of the part should be interdicted, for fear of displacing a portion of the clot. Much relief may be given to the pain by the app ication of warm Goulard lotion with opium ; but there is an objection to this plan of treatment, because it requires constant renewal and handling Fig. 113.—Thrombosis of vein. a, portion of the clot, project- ing from the mouth of the vein and becoming detached ; ^, collateral branch, with arrow showing the course of