1142 AMPUTATIONS obliqu,ely across the metacarpal bone from one extremity of the first incision to the other. The flaps being- held out of the way, the bone is cleared from the soft parts, the carpo-metacarpal joint opened, and disarticulation com- pleted in the same way as in the oval amputation. On the left side the proceeding- is reversed : the dorsal incision is first made, and then the palmar flap by transfixion. Amputation through the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb.—In dealing with the thumb the endeavour of the surgeon should be always to save as much as he can. Even preserving half the metacarpal bone will leave a more useful member than removing the whole bone, and therefore amputation at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is an infinitely better operation than the one just described, and ought always to be performed when practicable. When the metacarpal bone is left the remaining fingers can be approximated to the stump, and the hand used for grasping even small objects in a way which it cannot do when the metacarpal bone is removed. Amputation at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint may be performed by a racquet-shaped incision, taking care to cany the oval incision well in front of the head of the metacarpal bone, so as to leave plenty of tissue to cover the bone. The tendency in this operation is to cut the flaps too small. Amputation through the terminal joint of the thumb is performed in the same manner as in the other fingers. Amputation of the whole finger through the metacarpo- phalangeal joint.—The manner in which these amputations are performed differs as to whether it is the middle and ring fingers or the index and little fingers which require amputating. The middle and rifigfingers are amputated by an incision which commences on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal bone, about three-quarters of an inch above its head, and is carried downwards and to one side of the joint till it gets well on to one side of the phalanx, and is continued round this till it reaches the palmar surface, and it is then made to converge to the middle line opposite the base of the first phalanx. A similar incision, commencing at the same point, is made on the opposite side of the joint. In this way two lateral flaps are formed. The incisions are made deeply, dividing the extensor tendons at their commencement, and all the soft parts down to the bone on either side of the joint. The finger is now flexed and the joint opened on its dorsal aspect, the lateral ligaments divided, and the finger disarticulated with a touch or two of the knife. The flaps should be sufficiently long to meet easily over the head of the bone. Some surgeons, instead of making lateral flaps, amputate by the oval method. The incision is commenced at the same point, but is carried straight downwards over the head of the bone and then swept circularly- round the base of the phalanx. The objection to this method is that it leaves an unsightly fold of skin on the palmar aspect when the edges of the incision are brought together. This is the usual operation which is performed ; but in the case of a lady, where strength is not required and appearance is of importance, the head of the metacarpal bone should be removed. The incision must then be commenced higher up ; and after the finger is i-emoved the head of the bone must be sliced off" with bone forceps, and the heads of the metacarpal bones on either side can be approximated, and thus the ugly gap left by the removal of the finger is done away with. The index and little fijigers are best amputated at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint by the oval method (fig. 434), the straight part of the incision being made over the dorsum of the metacarpal bone and the joint. After the finger is removed, half the head of the bone is cut off" obliquely, so as to shape it to the tapering form of the hand. Amputation through the first interphalangeal joint is not a desir- able operation, since the first phalanx, which is left, is practically useless and very much in the way, as there are no tendons inserted into it to flex it when the other fingers are flexed ; if therefore the base of the second phalanx into