TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION 37 affected is the lower extremity or the lower part of the trunk. If, however, the upper extremity is affected, perfect rest and immobility may generally be secured by some surgical appliance, and under these circumstances a strict confinement to bed need not be enforced. r . u ■ Counter-irritation is another valuable means of treating chronic inflammation, though the precise mode of its action is not very clearly understood. Formerly it used to be taught, as the name implies, that by exciting inflammation in the skin, counter-irritation leads to diminution in the vascularity of the injured tissues, and this may be and no doubt is true in some cases. But in other cases it would appear to have a directly opposite effect, it actually increases the inflammatory action in the part itself and by converting the sluggish chronic inflammation into an acuter form! and increasing the afflux of the blood and activity of the part it bnngs about the termination of the process by resolution. The application of counter- irritants brings about results varying much in their intensity according to their nature, from a mustard poultice, which produces merely a reddenmg of the skin, to potassa fusa, which causes the death of the tissues with which it is brought into contact. Formerly a very large number of counter- irritants were in use by surgeons, such as mustard, capsicum, iodine, blisters, mercury, tartar emetic, croton oil, nitrate of silver, potassa fusa, the mineral acids, the actual cautery, issues, setons, moxas, but the two now commonly in use are blisters and the actual cautery. The blister may be used either in the form of a plaister or in the form of solution which may be painted over the part with a camel-hair brush. The latter is perhaps the more cleanly and rapid way of producing vesication, but the former is rather more certain. When the plaister is used it should be applied to the part and maintained in position by a turn of bandage or a handkerchief and allowed to remain for eight or ten hours, by which time the bleb should be fully formed ; if this is not so, a light poultice may be applied to cause the blister to rise. When the plaister is removed the blister should be punctured in two or three places, to let out the serum and relieve the tension, but the cuticle which forms the bleb should on no account be removed, but allowed to separate of itself. The part should be dressed with a little boracic ointment, and it will heal in a few days. As soon as it has healed a second blister will in most cases be required, and even a third and a fourth, before a beneficial result can be obtained. This plan of applying whar are termed ' flying ' blisters is far to be preferred to the old-fashioned plan of keeping the blister 'open,' by applying savin ointment. The actual cautery may be applied in two different ways. It may be used by heating a small button-head or a spear-shaped cautery to a dull red heat and applying it with the greatest possible rapidity and in the lightest possible manner to the inflamed part. The cautery is drawn rapidly over the inflamed area in parallel lines about an inch apart and these are crossed by other paraUel lines at right angles to the first. It is only to be applied so lightly as to destroy the cuticle and leave the cutis vera uninjured. In cases of chronically inflamed joints, with great thicken- ing of the synovial membrane, before destruction of the cartilage has set in, this plan of treatment is of the greatest use. The other plan of apply- ing the cautery is to use an iron at a white heat; this is applied so that a slough of the true skin is formed through its whole thickness. The slough is then allowed to separate and the sore kept open for some weeks with savin ointment. This plan of treatment is still adopted by some surgeons