556 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES communicates with the joint. In cases of septic synovitis where the joint requires to be incised, it should be opened in front over the most prominent point of the swelHng, and a director pushed through the joint and cut down upon behind so as to ensure free drainage. The shoulder joint is very frequently the seat of osteo-arthritis, and also of Charcot's disease in cases of tabes dorsalis. Less frequently it is the seat of tuberculous disease, the affection beginning in most cases in the head of the humerus; this may lead to destruction of the joint and necessitate excision. Ankylosis is a not uncommon result of destructive changes m the shoulder joint, and seriously cripples the patient. The ankylosis always takes place with the arm in a dependent position, hanging straight by the side, and it can be only raised from this position by rotating the scapula on the wall of the chest; this seriously impedes the movements of the upper GxtrGmity. If the ankylosis is due to only slight adhesions, a good deal may be accomplished by long-continued massage and passive movements ; but these remedial agents are not so satisfactory in this joint as in others, on account of the difficulty in fixing the scapula. In those cases where the adhesions are very firm, or where bony ankylosis has taken place, if the patient is seriously crippled, excision may be resorted to in order to give him a movable joint. Excision of the shoulder joint may be performed for tuber- culous disease and in some cases of acute arthritis, especially in the acute arthritis of infants. It may also, as mentioned above, be performed in cases of rigid ankylosis of the shoul- der. For injuries, it may be required in compound comminuted fractures into the joint, especially from gun- shot wounds, and in cases of old unreduced dislocations. Possibly it might be called for in cases of simple fracture through the neck of the humerus with displacement of the head of the bone; but these cases are very rare. The patient is placed on his back, with the shoulder pro- jecting slightly beyond the edge of the table. An incision is made from the middle of the acromio-clavicular ligament directly downwards for three or four inches (fig. 196)- This incision will divide the skin and superficial structures and the anterior fibres of the deltoid muscle, but will avoid the cephalic vein, which lies a little internal in the groove between the deltoid and the pectoralis major. The incision is directly over the bicipital groove and this should be felt for with the finger, between the greater and lesser tuberosities of the humerus, and opened along its inner side. Ihe biceps tendon is now exposed, and if it has not been destroyed, should be hookea out of the way. The arm is to be rotated outwards by an assistant; tnis A r ' ! 1 1 Fig. 196.—Diagram showing the line of incision in excision of the shoulder joint. A, Tendon of the biceps; B, CephaHc vein.