483 OSTITIS DEFORMANS Symptoms,—The symptoms in the early stage are very obscure, and consist of deep-seated pain of an exceedingly persistent character, which is usually ascribed to rheumatism. Conjoined with this the patient loses strength, and becomes emaciated. It is not till some deformity of the bones from bending, or some fracture from a trivial cause takes place, that the true nature of the disease reveals itself. The urine is usually abundant and pale in colour, and contains a great excess of lime salts, probably derived from the softened bones. Patients suffering from this disease may live for years, crippled and bedridden; but a large number of the cases, occurring as they do during pregnancy, may die from difficulties in parturition, or may require the performance of Caesarian section. Treatment.—No remedy is known for this disease, and the only suggestion of any value which has been made is that in these cases the ovaries should be removed. This has been done in some recent cases with benefit, for not only has it seemed to have some effect in arresting the disease, but also it has this advantage that it prevents the possibility of pregnancy. Ostitis deformans is an inflammatory enlargement of bones, which was first described by Sir James Paget. Etiology.—The cause of the disease is entirely unknown; it does not appear to have any connection with any of those constitutional conditions inwhich bone disease is liable to occur, such as syphilis, tuberculosis, or rheumatism. It occurs equally in the male and female, and usually com- mences after middle Hfe. Pathology.—The disease attacks principally the bones of the skull, not including those of the face, and the long bones of the extremities. They show changes of an inflammatory character. The bones affected become enlarged, soft, and spongy, and their substance very vascular. The bones which have to bear weight become bent and misshapen. Their surface is roughened. On microscopic examination they are found closely to resemble the conditions of rarefying ostitis; the Haversian canals are found to be eaten out into a series of excavations, which resemble Howship's lacunre, and which are filled with an exudation material similar to that found in rarefying ostitis, and containing osteo-clasts. Symptoms.—The symptoms are very insidious. The patient nicty be noticed to assume a stooping posture, but as the disease does not appear till after middle age this is perhaps attributed to advancing years ; the stooping IS, however, attended by loss of height and elongation of the upper extremities, so that when the patient is in as erect a position as he can assume the hands reach almost to the knees. In some cases attention has been drawn to the disease by the patient noticing that his hat is always too tight for him, and that he has occasionally to get one of larger size. Upon examination it will be found that the bowed spine is fixed and cannot be straightened, that the ribs are also fixed, and the respiration is main y diaphragmatic. The girth of the bones of the extremities will be found to be increased, and those of the lower extremities variously bent and dustorted. There is usually pain complained of, especially during the earlier stages of the disease, but, unlike other inflammatory affections of bone, this is not increased at night. The disease runs a very slow course, and does not appear to affect the general health of the patient, or to shorten Ills hfe, unless some bronchial trouble is set up owing to the embarrass- ment of the respiratory movements. 1 1 2