973 SUPRA-PUBIC LITHOTOMY objection to its use is that it causes pressure on the prostatic sinuses, and produces congestion of the vessels over the bladder, and a good deal of venous h?emorrhage. In my own practice I have therefore entirely discarded the use of the bag, except in those cases where the bladder is so contracted that it will not hold eight or ten ounces of fluid. If it will do this, there has never been any difficulty in my hands in opening the bladder outside the peritoneum. Some surgeons adopt Trendelenburg's position, with the pelvis well raised, so that the intestines by gravitation seek the upper part of the abdomen ; and when the abdominal wall has been cut through, the pressure of the air pushes the peritoneum towards them. I have not found this position necessary, and it is not so convenient for the operator. The bladder is to be washed out at the commencement of the operation, and then from eight to ten ounces of boric acid solution (5 per cent.) is injected and left in. It is better to do this with a silver catheter, which is then retained in the bladder, and may be a useful guide at a later stage of the operation. The fluid is prevented from escaping by plugging the catheter and tying a piece of india-rubber tubing around the penis, sufficiently tightly to compress the urethra against the catheter. The pubes having been shaved and properly cleansed, an incision about three inches long is made in the middle line immediately above the symphysis pubis, the abdominal wall divided, and the cellular tissue between the back of the pubic bones and the bladder opened up. This often contains an . abundance of fat, and this is to be torn though with a director, keeping to the_ middle line. It is better not to use the knife in this stage of the operation, as this tissue contains a number of large veins, which will bleed freely if divided, especially if a rectal bag has been used. The anterior surface of the bladder, when it is reached, will be recognised by its muscular fibres. If there is any difficulty in finding it, by depressing the handle of the catheter in the urethra the point of the instrument c:;n be made to push the coats of the bladder upwards, when they will be easily recognised. When the bladder is reached, a needle on a handle should be passed through its coats on either side of the spot selected for the opening, and two long pieces of silk inserted and fastened temporarily. These should be held by an assistant, and they form a useful guide to the opening, which otherwise may_ become lost when the fluid is evacuated from the bladder. The bladder is punctured between these two stays, the opening being made large enough to admit the forefinger. The finger is now introduced into the bladder and the stone felt for. If the stone is large and the openmg into the bladder is not judged to be sufficient to extract the stone without bruising the edges of the opening, it must be enlarged by a blunt-pointed bistoury introduced by the side of the finger, and by cutting dovynwards towards the pubes. The stone having been felt is generally easily removed by introducing a scoop by the side of the finger and fixing the stone between the bowl of the scoop and the tip of the finger; or sometimes it m.ay more conveniently be removed with lithotomy forceps, or by the two forefingers introduced into the wound. The after treatment of the wound must vary according to circumstances. If there is no cy.stitis, the urine acid, and the walls of the bladder fairly healthy, the better plan_ is to suture the wound in the bladder, after the manner of Lembert, with buried catgut sutures, and the external wound is then closed with silkworm-gut sutures, except at its lowermost angle, where a drainage tube should be inserted ; but if the urine is ammoniacal or the walls of the bladder thickened, or there has been much difficulty in extracting the