GENERAL DISEASES 254 upon cl' micro-parasite, though this organism has never been distinctly proved to exist and to cause the disease. It is believed that if there is such a parasite, it probably belongs to a class of the fungi, the blasto- mycetfe. But this we can say with regard to the exciting cause of cancer that in a very large number of cases there is the history of some injury, as a blow, or some long-continued irritation. It is a matter of everyday experience to meet with examples of this ; where a scirrhus of the breast is attributed by the sufferer to a blow; or where a cancer of the tongue has been set up from the irritation of a jagged stump of a tooth; or an epithelioma of the lip from the constant contact of a- pipe ; or cancer of the scrotum from the irritation of soot in its rugse in chimney-sweeps, or of the penis from the collection of secretion beneath the prepuce in a case of phimosis. Varieties of Carcinoma.—As we have before stated, the forms into which carcinoma is divided are in accordance with the shapes of the epithelial cells from which they grow. Thus we have (i) the spheroidal-celled Fig. 63.—Scirrhus cancer. (From 'A System of Surgery,' by Holmes and Hulke.) carcinoma, (2)ithe columnar-celled carcinoma, and (3) the squamous-celled carcinoma. I. Spheroidal-celled carcinoma or glandular carcinoma (figs. 63 and 64) is that form of carcinoma which arises in those parts in which spheroidal or glandular epithelium is normally present, and two chief varieties are met with : (a) the hard spheroidal-celled or scirrhus, and (/?) the soft spheroidal- celled or encephaloid, but the difference between the two simply consists in the relative proportion of the cells to the stroma. In the scirrhus the amount of stroma is considerable, and the cells few in number and usually small in size, whereas in the encephaloid the stroma is small in proportion to the number of cells, which are of larger size and more rounded form. It is scarcely necessary, therefore, to make a division between these two forms except for convenience of description, and in many instances it is impossible to decide whether a given tumour belongs to the one or the other class. Moreover, the intimate relationship between the two is' evidenced by the fact that the hard form, if it recurs after removal or if it appears as a secondary growth in some distant part, may do so as the soft variety.