AMPUTATIONS which IS dn ided upon freeing the structures on the inner side of the neck of the bone, <it the laottom of a deep wound, where it is very difficult to secure Thp other big vessels—the external circumflex and the sciatic—can generally be'easil v caught and clipped as soon as divided. ' - The object in leaving the periosteum, as far as possible, in Furneauv Jordan s amputation, is in the hope that some new bone maybe formed from it Shuter, who was the first to suggest leaving the periosteum, succeeded in obtaining a firm resisting structure in the centre of the stump, which formed a fixed point from which the muscles could act, so that the patient could flex or extend, abduct or adduct his stump, and could communicate these movements to an artificial limb. Amputation of the thigh.—The thigh may be amputated by any of the methods enumerated on page 1129 ; but the one which is most frequently adopted and which gives the best results is the flap amputation through the skin and cn-cular through the muscles. The flaps are of unequal length, and may be either antero-posterior or lateral. The antero-posterior are to be preferred as with lateral flaps the bone tends to protrude at the upper angle of the wound. Means having been taken to control the htemorrhage, the surgeon stands on the right side of the limb to be amputated and makes a straight incision on either side equal in length to the diameter of the limb. The incision divides the skin and subcutaneous fat, and commences at the level at which the bone IS to be sawn. The lower ends of these incisions are joined by a trans- verse cut across the front of the thigh, made in such a manner that the angles between the transverse and vertical cuts are rounded. The knife is then passed behind the thigh, and the two vertical incisions joined by a transverse cut through the skin at their centres. The angles of this flap are also rounded. The anterior flap is then raised, consisting at first of skin and subcutaneous tissue ; but as the point at which the bone is to be divided is approached, a certain amount of muscle is included. The posterior flap is then, in like manner, dissected up, but should consist of nothing but skin and subcutaneous tissue. The muscles are divided by a circular sweep of the knife ; an assistant retracts the soft parts, and the bone is sawn through, the periosteum having first been divided lower down and retracted. Amputations immediately above the knee joint may be required in cases of disease of this articulation. The operation may be performed either through the condyles by Garden's or Gritti's method, or immediately above the condyles by Stokes's method. Garden's amputation.—The surgeon stands on the right side of the limb, and places his forefinger and thumb on the two condyloid eminences of the femur. He then enters the point of his knife close to the finger, and carries it down the side of the knee, gradually sloping it towards himself, so that it crosses the front of the limb midway between the lower border of the patella and the tubercle of the tibia and up the other side. The large anterior flap thus marked out is then dissected up to the level of the centre of the patella. The knee is forcibly flexed by an assistant; this pulls the patella down, and the knife is introduced into the joint by a transverse cut immediately above this bone. The ligaments of the joint are now divided ; as the knife passes between the bones, and di^■ides the posterior Hgament, it is turned downwards and made to cut its way out downwards and backwards, fashioning a posterior flap.' When the limb has been removed, the condyles of the femur are cleared and sawn off just below the adductor tubercle. The saw must be carried through the bone, parallel to the articular surface of the femur. Gritti's operation is similar to Garden's, except that he retains the whole of the patella with the exception of its articular surface. The long anterior flap ' This latter proceeding is a modification of Garden's operation, who cut straighi outwards through everything, without making any posterior flap. It is found, however, when this is done, on account of the action of the hamstnng mu.scles, the incision on tlie back of the ihigh is retracted so much that the covering is insufficient.