IMPERFORATE HYMEN 1049 into the rectum behind, and the bladder in front. The inguinal glands become speedily affected, and death occurs from exhaustion, induced by hiemorrhage, pain, and foul discharge. The treatment of these various forms of tumour is removal; though with regard to excision in epithelioma, the operation does not hold out much hope of relieving the patient for long, as recurrence almost always takes place at no very distant period. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE VAGINA Atresia of the genital passage is usually due to congenital deformity, and may be of various degrees and kinds. 1. There may be occlusion of the vaginal outlet in young children, owing to adhesion of the labia together. The condition is a very simple one, and the remedy is as simple ; as soon as it is discovered it should be remedied by tearing through the adhesions with a director or other blunt instrument, and placing a piece of oiled lint between the torn surfaces for a day or two, to prevent them adhering together again. 2. Imperforate hymen.—The hymen may be completely or partially closed. When completely closed the condition is often not discovered until the age of puberty, when the patient begins to develop the periodic disturbance which attends menstruation, without the accom- panying discharge of blood, which, being prevented from escaping, owing to the imperforate condition of the hymen, collects in the vaginal canal, giving rise to a condition which is \inovir\ z.?,hce7nato-kolpos{?ig. 396). The retained blood undergoes changes and becomes converted into a black treacly fluid. Sometimes the accu- mulation is so great that a distinct tumour can be felt in the hypogastric region, and fluctuation perceived by a bimanual examination, one finger being introduced into the rectum, and the other hand placed on the abdominal wall. Upon examination the hymen will be seen as a tense, convex mem- brane, occluding the vaginal passage. In some cases the amount of blood pj^_ 396.-Imperforate hymen producing retained is so great, that it distends heemato-kolpos. (From the Museum the uterus, and sometimes the Fallo- of St. George's Hospital.) pian tubes. Treatment.—The patient having been placed in the lithotomy position and the external organs of generation cleansed, a free incision is made through the hymen, and the retained blood allowed to escape. Some surgeons prefer to make the opening with a Paquelin's cautery. As soon as the fluid has ceased to flow, the vagina should be irrigated with hot corrosive sublimate solution (i in''5,ooo), until the fluid returns quite