KRASKE'S OPERATION 925 of the gut above the growth and brought out at the tip of the coccyx. By causing the knife to cut its way out, the whole of the tissues, includmg the wall of the rectum in the middle line, are divided down to the coccyx. An incision is now made in the skin all round the opening of the anus, and the gut separated from the tissues in the ischio-rectal fossa. Posteriorly the separation can be performed rapidly and without difficulty by means of a director or the point of a pair of scissors, but in front the greatest care will have to be observed in separating the urethra and prostate gland in the male and the vagina in the female. The dissection is attended by con- siderable bleeding, and each wounded vessel must be seized with clip forceps as soon as it is divided. When the lower end of the rectum has been thus separated all round to above the level of the growth, it is to be cut off with scissors, the galvano-cautery, or the ecraseur. In those cases where there is any difficulty in getting beyond the confines of the growth, more room may be obtained by separating the coccyx and last piece of the sacrum from surrounding structures, and then removing them with cutting bone forceps. No attempt should be made to bring down the cut end of the bowel and suture it to the skin, as it will not unite; the tension is so great that the stitches would certainly cut their way out very rapidly. As healing takes place, the mucous membrane becomes drawn down, and in some cases power of retention is obtained. After the operation is com- pleted, the parts should be swabbed out with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. xl to 5i) and plugged for twenty-four hours with gauze. The bowels should be kept quiet for a week. In a large percentage of cases contraction takes place, necessitating the daily introduction of a bougie. In this operation the peritoneal cavity ought not to be opened ; if it should be, a clean aseptic sponge should at once be introduced and the opening sub- sequently sutured. In those cases where the cancer springs from one side of the rectum and does not involve the whole circumference of the gut, the operation may be modified by removing only that portion of the bowel from which the growth springs, taking care of course to cut widely of the disease. The prognosis in these cases is more favourable as regards recovery from the direct effects of the operation, and also after recovery there is less tendency to contraction and the formation of stricture. As regards the question of recurrence, the prognosis is not good ; m the majority of cases operated on, a recurrence has taken place and has proved fatal. Kraske's operation—Cancer of the rectum is frequently situated so high up that it cannot be reached by the proceeding above described. The operation which was introduced by Kraske and goes by his name is intended to deal with these cases, and in addition seems to offer much better chances of effecting a radical removal of the whole of the disease, and holds out much greater prospect of success. At the same time it is an operation of considerable severity, and must not be lightly under- taken. I am of opinion, however, that Kraske's operation should always be preceded by an inguinal colotomy. In the first place, because at the time of the colotomy an opportunity can be taken, by making the incision a little larger than usual, of introducing the hand into the pelvis, and thus accurately ascertaining the extent of the disease and how far it has impli- cated neighbouring parts, and thus definitely determining whether an operation is feasible or not. The condition of the lumbar glands can also be ascertained. Secondly, a preliminary inguinal colotomy materially