941 NEPHRO-LITHOTOMY persist, the operation of nephro-lithotomy for the removal of the stone should be undertaken. It must be borne in mind that calculous pyo- nephrosis is the result of long-standing irritation of the kidney from a stone, and that this can only be prevented by the removal of the offending foreign body. Even in those cases where the calculus is quiescent and gives rise to no renal or transferred pain, it is almost as dangerous to the individual as when it gives rise to severe symptoms, and therefore its immediate removal should be recommended. Mr. Morris has laid down a very stringent rule in regard to these cases. ' When a renal calculus is suspected, it should be searched for ; when known to exist, removed, without waiting in the hope that it may become encysted or spontaneously expelled.' Nephro-lithotomy.—The patient having been placed on his sound side with the trunk well rolled over, and with a firm pillow under the flank, so as to render the loin on the affected side prominent, and the parts properly cleansed and prepared, an incision is made to expose the kidney, and this may be either oblique, vertical, or transverse. The one which I have_always adopted, and which seems to answer all requirements, is in the first instance to make an incision from just below the free extremity of the last rib backwards to the outer border of the erector spinae, almost horizon- tally, so that Its posterior extremity is at least an inch below the level of the rib. This is necessary in order to avoid the chance of wounding the pleura, which sometimes extends below the level of the rib posteriorly. If at a later stage of the operation more room is required, this can easily be obtained by converting the cut into a T-shaped one, by carrying a vertical incision downwards from the middle of the first to the crest of the ilium, or by continuing the horizontal cut forwards in the same line, but care must be observed not to wound the peritoneum. The various muscular layers are then divided, and the transversalis fascia exposed and slit up on a director. The peri-renal fat is now visible, and the wound being well opened up by retractors, the fat is separated by the fingers until the kidney is exposed, An assistant makes firm pressure on the opposite side of the abdomen, so as to push the kidney up into the wound, and the organ is systematically explored by the finger of the operator! The finger is first passed down to the pelvis, and this part carefully examined; if a stone is present, it can generally be felt as a hard irregularity in this situation. If no stone is detected, the posterior and then the anterior surface is to.be carefully palpated, and finally, a finger of one hand being introduced in front of the kidney, and a finger of the other hand behind, the kidney is carefully examined between the two. In this way a stone, if of any size, can generally be detected. If no stone is found, the kidney will have to be more freely exposed, and brought up to the surface of the wound. In order to do this, the extra incision mentioned above will have to be resorted to. This being done, and the kidney examined again between the finger and thumb without any definite result, it is to be punctured in various directions with a straight needle mounted on a handle. This is thrust into various parts of the organ, and may detect a stone by impinging against it. In my hands this method of exploration has never proved of any use, but it is right to try it before proceeding to the next means which we have for exploring the kidney. This consists in making a puncture with a tenotomy knife through the substance of the kidney into the pelvis. This puncture Mr. Lloyd recom- mends should be made at the lower end of the kidney in a direction upwards and inwards, so that the lowermost of the calyces is opened