LITHOTRITY 975 the stone in the bladder by a suitable instrument, called a lithotrite, and then washing out, by means of an evacuating bottle, the crushed fragments. This operation has recently undergone a very great modification. Until within the last twenty years, the operation consisted in crushing the stone by repeated operations which were made as short as possible, and then allowing the fragments to come away with the urine. In 1878 Bigelow revolutionised the whole operation by completing it at a single sitting, by first thoroughly crushing the -stone and then removing the fragments by means_ of evacuating tubes connected with a suction bottle. To this operation the name of litholapaxy has been given. It is performed as follows: For a few days before the operation the patient should be con- fined to bed, on a light diet, and his bowels carefully regulated. If any cystitis IS present and the urine foul, the bladder should be washed out Fig. 376.—Diagram showing one method of seizing the stone in lithotrity. (From Holmes's ' Principles and Practice of Surgery.') regularly with boric acid solution or boro-glyceride. On the morning of the operation the rectum should be emptied by an enema. The patient must be protected from cold by having the thighs and legs wrapped in pieces of blanket and the upper portion of the trunk well covered up, so that no part of the body, except what is absolutely necessary, is exposed. The patient should be laid on a hard mattress, with a firm pillow under his buttocks, so as to slightly raise the pelvis. After anesthesia has been induced, about six ounces of boric acid solution should be injected into the bladder, and the lithotrite introduced. The forms of lithotrite vary ; but the one u.sually used in this country is either Thompson's modification of Civiale's in.strument, or Bigelow's (fig. 375) with a fully fenestrated female blade. It must be made of the finest tempered steel, otherwise there will be a risk of its breaking. It is passed into the bladder with the