36 INFLAMMATION which there is pain on pressure or on moving the joint, without swelling or redness, this might easily be mistaken for a neurotic condition ; but if the sensation of heat, as conveyed to the hand placed over the joint, is compared with that of the other side of the body, it will always be found to be in some degree warmer, and this will at once establish the diagnosis. The redness of chronic inflammation is an unimportant sign; in fact, it is not present unless the part affected is superficial ; when it is present it is usually of a dusky hue, and is due rather to a condition of passive conges- tion than to the rapid circulation of an increased quantity of blood. Occasionally pigmentation of the tissues may be noticed, due to the disintegration of the coloured corpuscles which have escaped from the blood-vessels. Szvellmg is an important sign, and in some cases there is a very considerable increase in size ; but it depends here, not on the enlarge- ment of the blood-vessels and increased quantity of blood, but on the formation of new products, and may after a time disappear and be followed by an actual diminution of size, as these new products undergo contraction. Modification of function is a very constant sign of chronic inflammation ; thus " the movements of a chronically inflamed joint are restricted; the bladder when chronically inflamed is irritable, and unable to retain as much urine as in health; the secretion of secreting structures is perverted, and so in every case of chronic inflammation the functional activity of the tissue or organ inflamed will in some way or other show some departure from its normal condition. The constitutional symptoms in chronic inflammation are very vari- able. In some there are none present, whilst in others, in which they do exist, they are due to the causes which produced the inflammation rather than to the inflammation itself; that is to say, to the constitutional taint which has determined the chronic character of the inflammation. Treatment of chronic injaammation.—The treatment of chronic in- flammation can only be very briefly touched upon in this place, as the subject is a very wide one, and can be better discussed in connection mth the various examples of it as affecting diff"erent tissues and organs which we shall have to consider hereafter. The first indication, no doubt, is to discover and remove the cause. If this is due to some simple local irritation, as the presence of a foreign body, the treatment is manifest and in many instances easy. Remove the offending agent and the inflammation will cease. When, however, it arises from the irritation of some locally infective disease, as tubercle, a wider consideration is opened up, and the removal of the offending agent must depend upon a variety of circumstances which cannot be discussed in this place, but will be alluded to hereafter. When the chronic inflammation depends upon some peculiar diathesis or unhealthy condition of the system, as gout or rheumatism, the treatment will have to be directed to correcting this condition by constitutional remedies. In all cases the dietetic and hygienic management is of essential importance. The patient should be warmly clad and be kept in pure air, sea air being often the best, especially in tuberculous cases ; nourishing diet, of a light and easily digestible kind, should be ordered ; and the secretions should be regulated. . • j- • As regards the local treatment, the first and most important indication is rest, and the rest to be of any use must be absolute and complete ; no half m'easures are of much avail. In order to insure this the patient must if necessary be confined to bed, and this generally is necessary if the part