404 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES Etiology.—Fractures are always the result of force applied to the bone, but the amount of force applied may vary very much since certain predisposmg causes render fracture more liable to occur in' one case tlian another. The local or determining causes of fracture are three (I) Direct violence, where the bone gives way at the point struck These fractures are the worst with which the surgeon has to deal, as the bone is Fig. 125.—Greenstick fracture of the clavicle. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) usually crushed or broken up into small pieces, and the soft parts over the ft-acture are often much contused and torn. (2) Indirect violence, where the bone gives way at some other point than that to which the force has t)een applied. The accident is usually produced by the compression of the bone between two opposing forces, as in a fall on the point of the shoulder, when the clavicle is compressed between the weight of the body and the resistance of the ground, and first bends at its weakest point and then breaks. These fractures are therefore usually oblique. (3) Muscular action. This is not so frequent a cause as external violence, and fractures produced in this way are caused by traction and not by compression, bometimes bones may be broken across in this way, as the patella from the contraction of the quadriceps extensor; the olecranon from contraction of the triceps ; and the humerus from violent muscular action in throwing a cricket ball or a stone; in other cases bony processes into which powerful muscles are inserted may be torn off by their action. Predisposing causes of fracture.—The age of the individual has a very decided influence m determining fracture. Bones being elastic and con- taining more animal matter during early life, are less readily broken than when they have become brittle, from containing more earthy material, iii advancing years Accordinglj^ we find that after the age of five, in males, the liability to fracture steadily increases up to middle life. Before the age ot five the greatest number of fractures occur just about the time the child IS beginning to run about alone and is still unsteady on his legs : hence he is subjected to frequent falls, which may result in fracture. Sex IS also a determining influence in fracture, these injuries being much more common in the male than in the female up to the age of forty-five. This is what is naturally to be expected on account of the former being exposed to more nsk of injury than the latter. After forty-five, in consequence of the frequency of fracture of the neck of the thigh bone and of the lower end