HARE-LIP 637 nasal septum, to which it is connected behind, becomes elongated, and pushing the os incisivum forwards, this portion of bone, with the central portion of the lip, becomes attached to the under surface of the tip of the nose, entirely separated from the superior maxillary bone, and produces a most unsightly deformity (fig. 241). In these cases of bilateral alveolar hare-lip the deformity is complicated with fissure of the hard palate, which will be referred to in the sequel. As regards the causation of hare-lip very little is known, except that it is, like most other deformities, very often hereditary and transmitted from generation to generation in the same family. It is frequently associated with other deformities in the same subject. Simple hare-lip (fig. 242).—In simple hare-lip the cleft is on one side of the middle line, generally the left, and there is no other deformity. It usually extends from the nostril to the free edge of the lip. The nostril on the Fig. 241.—Double hare-lip, with protrusion of the os incisivum. affected side is broadened and depressed. The two margins of the cleft are of unequal length, so that the halves of the lip lie on different levels in the majority of cases. Treatment.—The only way of treating these cases is by an operation, which consists in rawing the edges of the cleft and bringing them together by sutures. There are several different modes of effecting this, some of which we shall describe ; but before doing so, it is necessary to consider the age at which the operation should be undertaken. This may be broadly stated as being from six weeks to six months after the birth of the child. It .should not be delayed longer, because after the first six months the infant is teething, and this may interfere with primary union of the wound. There is no necessity to operate before the age of six weeks, and it is desirable to wait until the child has become accustomed to an independent existence. With care, food can always be administered to a child, however severe a cleft palate and hare-lip it is suffering from. In simple hare-lip, when the fissure is confined to the lip, the child can generally take the breast; or if not the breast, a bottle provided with a large teat; but however extensive the cleft, I have never seen a case in which the child could not be fed by means of a spoon intro- duced into the back of the mouth, so that the milk is dropped into the pharynx. In deciding the time between these limits of six weeks and six months, the surgeon must be guided by the vitality of the child. If the child is strong and robust, and takes its food well, the sooner the operation is performed the better, especially if the fissure is a simple one. In cases where the child is feeble and presents evidence of malnutrition, or where the operation will be of a complicated nature, it is better to defer proceedings till the third or fourth month of life. As union by first intention is to be aimed at in these cases, the surgeon should always be careful to note that the general health of the Fig. 242. —Simple hare-lip-