GENERAL DISEASES characteristics of the simple, healing ulcer just described. This having, been done the patient is prepared for the operation by carefully sterilising the skin, which IS to be used for the grafts, some hours before, and then dressing it with antiseptic gauze wrung out in i in 40 carbolic lotion The most convenient situation from which to obtain the grafts is the front of the thigh; they can be more easily cut of large size in this situation than any other and should any little scarring be left, it will not matter when in this situation. After the patient has been anaesthetised, all the granulations are carefully scraped away, so that a smooth firm base is obtained for the grafts The granulationsare very vascular and bleed freely, but all haemorrhage must be entirely arrested before the grafts are applied. This can be done bv placing over the surface a piece of sterilised green protective which has been previously dipped in a normal saUne solution : this is covered with a thick layer of cotton wool and firmly bandaged on with uniform pressure In a few minutes the bleeding will be stopped. The object of the protective VI ^lU^u^- T The grafts must now be cut. The skin of the thigh IS put on the stretch both vertically and horizontally, and the surgeon shaves off as large pieces as he can with a broad razor, endeavour ing as far as possible to remove about half the thickness of the skin • these are at once transferred on the razor to the rawed surface, teased off'with a probe, and s^o arranged that they shall cover the whole surface, with their margins slightly overlapping. The proceeding is much facilitated by keep- ing the razor constantly wet with normal saline solution. When the whole surface is covered with grafts it is to be dressed by placing over them a piece of green protective which has been well soaked in carbolic acS n Snn"" Th ' '^f^"^^'^ dipped, just before it is applied, in normal saline solution. This solution is not so irritating as the carbolic acid. Over this is p aced cyanide gauze and wool, and the whole firmly bandaged If the ulcer IS on one of the extremities it is advisable to apply a splint, or place the limb between sandbags to insure perfect rest. This dressing may be left on for four or five days, and should then be removed and a fresh dressing applied • The surface from which the grafts have been taken should be dressed mth a little boracic ointment and will heal in a few days Graftiiig of the w/io/e thickness of the skin is sometimes employed, and for this the skin of the prepuce after the operation of circumcision can frequently be utilised, and is especially useful, as it is entirely devoid of fat a circumstance which is absolutely essential to the success of the operation' The proceeding does not, however, appear to be so successful as {he plan advocated by Thiersch. ^ . 2. The inflamed ulcer.-An ulcer may at any time become the seat of increased inflammation as the result probably of some septic infection, or, it may be, from some mechanical or chemical injury. There is then acute pain, heat, redness, and oedematous swelling of the surrounding skin The edges are abrupt, sharply cut and irregular. The base of the sore is unhealthy looking, without granulations, and presents a sloughy appear- ance. The discharge is thick and blood-stained. Sometimes the inflam- matory condition IS so acute, that masses of tissue are killed outright by the intensity of the process, and the surface of the sore becomes more or less covered by pieces of gangrenous tissue. In this way considerable destruc- tion of this tissue may take place, and the underlying muscles, vessels, and bones be exposed (fig. 27). To this condition the term slou^rki,,. ulcer is given, and it may be regarded as a sort of intermediate condition between ulceration and gangrene, but belongs more to the latter condition