6o8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS same cpnvolution on the opposite side has no effect. If motor aphasia, as it is called, is produced by a lesion on the side on which the centre of speech is situated, after a time the same centre on the opposite side appears to have the power of taking on the function of the damaged area. Agraphia, or the inability to write, is generally also present in cases of lesions producing motor aphasia, but the exact site of the centre for this function is not known. The functions of the other parts of the brain are not so well localised, but sufficient knowledge has been obtained in recent years to enable the surgeon to deal with head injuries and growths in the brain with much more exactness than was the case formerly; but in order to do this it is necessary that he should carefully consider the various landmarks on the surface of the skull, by which he can with a fair degree of accuracy mark out the position of the various convolutions of the cortex, in order that he may deal with them by operation. The most important parts which he has to define are the fissure of Rolando, the fissure of Sylvius, the parieto-occipital fissure and the lower margin of the cerebrum (fig. 226). The fissure of Rolando. In order to define this fissure, its upper extremity must be first found. This is situated in the sagittal suture, at a point 55 "6 per cent, of the distance between the glabella and the external occipital protuberance. For all practical purposes the plan sug- gested by Professor Thane is sufficient. He takes the middle point of the line between the glabella and external occipital protuberance, and fixes the com- mencement of the fissure at half the fissure runs downwards and forwards at an angle of 67° with the middle line for about 3I inches. Various plans have been devised for marking out the angle, but perhaps the simplest and the one most easily available is to take a square piece of writing paper, one side of which is to be applied to the middle line of the skull, so that its posterior extremity is at Thane's point; the paper is now to be folded over into a triangle, when the folded margin of the paper will form an angle of 45° with the middle line of the skull. By repeating the folding process and bisecting the angle of 45°, an angle of 67'5° is obtained, and the folded margin of the paper would now almost correspond to the fissure. Reid has devised a more exact plan for mapping out the fissure. The keystone to this is a ' base line,' which is a very convenient line from which to take measurements of the skull. It consists in drawing a straight line backwards from the lower margin of the orbit through the centre of the external auditory meatus. This reaches the middle line behind, a little below the external occipital protuberance. Two perpendicular lines are drawn from the base line to the top of the head; one (d, e, fig. 226) Fig. 226.—Diagram showing the relations of the fissures of the brain to the surface of the skull. (After Reid.) an inch behind this point. From this