"39 OF THE ARM dividinK the remaining soft tissues on the axillary aspect. As this is being done an assistant grasps the soft parts on the inner side of the joint so as to com- press the axillary artery and vein before these structures are divided. 1 his operation gives a full fleshy stump ; the posterior circumflex artery is not injured, and disarticulation can be easily accomplished. . Larrey's operation (fig. 432)--This is an amputation by the oval in- cision as in Spcnce's amputation ; but the handle of the racquet is on the outer 'side of the arm. The patient is placed in the same position as in the preceding operation, with the arm and shoulder projecting over the edge of the table • but he is turned over towards the sound side, and is fixed in this position by pillows. An assistant compresses the subclavian artery, and the arm being held in a position of abduction, the surgeon introduces a strong knife immediately below the tip of the acromion process and carries it downwards over the outer aspect of the shoulder for about three inches, and then curves it gently inwards to the anterior fold of the axilla ; from the extremity of the straight part of the cut he carries another incision, curved gently outwards, to the posterior fold of the axilla. These incisions divide everything down to the bone, including the posterior circumflex artery, which must be at once seized. The two flaps thus formed are then sepa- rated, and the bone and the outer aspect of the joint are exposed. A transverse cut is now made over the situation of the anatomical neck of the humerus, and the capsule and capsular muscles completely divided. While this is bein"- done the assistant adducts the arm and prises the head of the bone outwards, so as to render tense the parts to be divided. The knife is now passed behind the head of the bone, and carried down the inner side of the humerus close to the bone ; in its course it is followed by the fingers of the assistant, and the axillary vessels are compressed before they are divided When the knife has reached the level of the first incisions it is turned towards the surface, and the main vessels and nerves, together with the skin between the ends of the first and second incisions, cut through, and m this manner the operation is completed. , , 1 • j This operation produces an excellent stump : it can be thoroughly drained, and the haemorrhage is easily controlled during the operation ; but it is in- ferior to Spence's method, because the posterior circumflex artery is divided, and because it cannot be employed in those cases where there is any doubt as to whether the joint should be excised or amputated. Amputation by a large deltoid flap is now seldom resorted to. It used to be done by transfixion, by cutting from within outwards ; but it may also be done by fashioning the flaps and cutting from without inwards. The advantage of the transfixion operation is the celerity with which it can be performed; but there are several objections to it. (i) It requires the leverage of the humerus ; but this bone is often broken in cases requiring operation, or may break, if it is the seat of a malignant growth, during its performance. (2) It is often impossible to find enough healthy structure to fashion the large external flap. (3) It is usually attended with more loss of blood than the other operations ; and (4) in cases of malignant disease encroaching on the shoulder it is impossible to perform the operation without leaving diseased structures. The large external flap is U-shaped, and is formed by introducing the knife on the right side, just external to the coracoid process, passing in front of the capsule and making it emerge beneath the root of the acromion, and cutting downwards and outwards, so as to form a flap consisting mainly of the deltoid muscle. On the left side the knife is introduced from behind. The flap is then raised and the joint opened, the capsule and capsular muscles divided, and the knife carried through the joint fashions the internal flap by cutting downwards and inwards from within outwards. The vessels are thus divided with almost the last stroke of the knife, and are at once seized by a watchful assistant. Amputation of the arm.—The best method of performing amputation of the arm is by skin flaps, cut of unequal length, and circular through the 4 n 2