loio INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS fascia (the fascia of Colles) and the triangular ligament. It will be remem- bered that these two fascia; are continuous behind around the transversus perinfei muscle, and therefore the extravasated urine is unable to find its way backwards. Laterally both these fasciae are attached to the ascending vami of the ischia, and the descending rami of the ossa pubis, and there- fore the extravasated urine cannot find its way laterally on to the thighs. In front the triangular ligament is attached to the sub-pubic ligament, and therefore the inlet into the pelvis is closed; but the deep layer of the ])arineal fascia is continuous with the fascia of the scrotum and abdominal wall, and therefore the urine which is extravasated between these two layers of fascia must find its way forwards into the tissues of the scrotum and penis, and up on to the abdominal wall. When it reaches this latter situa- tion it is prevented from travelling downwards on to the front of the thighs by the attachment of the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen to the fascia lata at Poupart's ligament. It must be borne in mind that in these cases of extravasation of urine following retention from stricture, the extravasated fluid is by no means healthy. If the urine were healthy and aseptic, probably a greater part of it would be absorbed, and what remained' might do little harm; but in these cases it is foetid and ammoniacal, and acts as a virulent poison to the tissues into which it is extravasated, and the ravages it produces are great. The parts rapidly fall into a condition of gangrenous cellulitis, and speedy sloughing takes place. Symptoms.—A patient, the subject of stricture, gets retention and makes violent efforts to empty his bladder. During one of these efforts he experiences a sudden pain in his perineum and a sensation as if something has given way. This is followed by a relief to his pain of retention, though he has passed no water. This feeling of relief is of short duration ; tingling, followed by intense burning pain in the perineum and scrotum, rapidly supervenes, and the parts become swollen to a prodigious size, the swelling rapidly extending to the penis and up on to the abdominal wall. The skin at first is red, shiny, tense, and burning, but very soon becomes emphysematous and boggy. The discolouration assumes a dusky purple or black hue, and the skin gives way, exuding foul pultaceous sloughs, and a mixture of pus and urine of a most offensive odour. The local condition is accompanied by severe constitutional disturbance; fever of a low typhoid type, with a high temperature, a dry brown tongue, and a quick weak pulse. The patient becomes delirious with great depression and symptoms of profound toxtemia. Treatment.—The treatment consists in at once making a free outlet for the escape of the urine from the bladder. The patient should be placed in the lithotomy position, and a free incision made in the middle line of the perineum through the infiltrated tissues until the urethra is reached. This must be freely opened in its dilated part behind the stricture, and a litho- tomy tube introduced into the bladder and tied in. After this has been done, free incision must be made into all the swollen parts into which urine has been extravasated, so as to give exit to it and prevent as far as possible the destruction of the skin and subcutaneous tissues. These incisions must be carried deeply into the infiltrated tissues. When this has been done and all bleeding checked, the parts should be well sprinkled with iodoform and enveloped in hot boric fomentations or surrounded with charcoal poultices. The patient's strength must be supported by easily assimilated food, and stimulants and quinine should be given in large doses. If the