INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES disease is tiie true cirsoid aneurism there is a more or less irregular ill-defined swelling, with a strong expansile pulsation and a loud rasping bruit, and very much the same condition is found in the aneurism by anastomosis, for these two conditions cannot be distinguished from each other. They may, however, be distinguished from arterial varix by the fact that in this disease pressure on the feeding artery arrests pulsation in the swelling, whereas in the cirsoid aneurism and the aneurism by anastomosis, which are fed by many arteries, pressure on one spot will not stop the pulsation. These different forms of arterial angioma are of a dangerous character, as their natural tendency is to increase and grow- rapidly, causing thinning of the structures superficial to them, and, eventually bursting, to cause death from htemorrhage. Sometimes, however, they may remain stationary, and have been known to undergo sponta- neous cure, . n 1 • Treatment.—When they show no tendency to increase, all that is necessary is to protect them from injury. This is best done by haying a light metal cap, preferably of aluminium, moulded to the swelling, which should always be worn. If, on the other hand, the tumour shows a tendency to increase, operative interference must be under- taken. If the tumour is of no great size, and is fairly circumscribed, excision holds out the best prospects of a cure. This must be done with great caution, cutting widely of the dilated vessels, and ligaturing or clamping each artery as it is cut. Some recommend, instead of excision, that the tumour should be strangulated by a ligature ; this avoids the risk of hcemorrhage, but is not nearly so certain in effecting a cure. In cases where the disease is of considerable extent and cannot be treated by excision or strangulation, I believe that electrolysis holds out the best hope of a cure. It has been recommended to tie all the feeding arteries, but, as far as I know, the operation has never been attended with success; or to tie the main artery. If the disease is on the scalp, one or both external carotids may be tied, but the treatment is not satisfactory, as the aneurism may still be fed by the branches of the ophthalmic arter)'. Ligature of the common carotid should not be performed, as the results have been most unpromising. If the disease is in one of the limbs, the main artery, brachial or femoral, may be tied with a fair prospect ot success. Injection with perchloride of iron has also been advocated, a temporary ligature having first been placed round the tumour. Nsevus.—A nsevus is that form of angiomata in which the veins or capillaries are principally involved, and they are usually divided according to their structure into the capillary or simple and the venous or cavernous. But the most common condition is to find the two forms combined; the most superficial part of the nsevus, namely, that affecting the skin, being capillary; while the deeper part, that in the subcutaneous tissue, is venous. Little or nothing is known of the cause of njevi, except that they may be hereditary. Most n^evi are congenital, though they may not be first noticed until shortly after birth. Cases have been recorded m which they have been said to develop after an injury. They may grow in ail parts of the body, but principally in connection with the skin and suD- cutaneous tissue, or mucous membranes at the orifices of the body. The simple or capillary naevus is a common form, it is principally met with in the superficial layers of the skin, especially that ot !he face and scalp, and upper part of the chest. It is composed of a congeries of capillary vessels, greatly increased in size and number.