1075 PARAMETRITIS portion of the wound and leaving open only a sufficient extent at its lower end to allow of the "suturing of the remains of the cyst. In those cases where the adhesions are not so firm, the cyst may be drawn gradually and gently from the wound by a side-Lo-side movement. While this is being done, the assistants exert pressure on the edges of the abdominal wound to prevent the escape of the intestines from the peritoneal cavity. When the whole of the tumour has been delivered, the pedicle is to be tied, divided, and returned into the abdomen. The pedicle is un- folded and its centre found. Through this an aneurism needle armed with a loop of strong silk or whip-cord, carefully sterilised, is passed. The loop is seized and divided, and the needle withdrawn. The two pieces of cord are now interlocked and tied as tightly as possible around the two halves of the pedicle, and finally one of the strings is made to encircle the whole pedicle and tied, and both are cut off short. The pedicle is divided about half an inch beyond the ligature, and if on examination it is found to be perfectly dry, it is allowed to drop back into the pelvic cavity. The other ovary is then sought for and brought up to the surface for inspection. If this is found to be diseased, it must be removed. The next step is to clean up the peritoneal cavity. ^Vhen the operation has been simple, and no fluid from the cyst has escaped into the abdominal cavity, it is unnecessary to waste time in an elaborate ' toilet' in sponging out any small quantity of blood; but when the cystic fluid, and especially if it is purulent, has escaped into the peritoneal sac, it should be scrupulously removed. This is done by warm aseptic sponges, and must be persevered with until they return dry and colourless. The surgeon has now only to close the abdomen. When the operation has not been protracted, and the patient's condition is good, the better plan is to suture the abdominal wall in three layers : first the peritoneum is united by a continuous catgut suture ; then the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles in the same way ; and finally the integument with fishing-gut or silk sutures. When, however, time is of importance, and it is desirable on account of the patient's condition to complete the operation as soon as possible, the various layers of the abdominal wall may be sutured together, care being taken to include the peritoneum in each stitch. The question of drainage must depend mainly upon whether any septic fluid has entered the peritoneal cavity, or there is any fear of subsequent oozing of blood. The usual antiseptic dressings are applied. The patient is placed in bed, previously warmed, with her thighs slightly flexed over a pillow and enveloped in blankets. Nothing should be given by the mouth during the first twenty-four hours, except a little hot water occasionally to allay the sickness produced by the anjesthetic ; if nourishment and stimulation are judged to be necessary, they should be administered by the rectum. The urine should be drawn off" periodically. On the second day a little food may be given by the mouth ; and after the fourth day, if everything is going on satisfactorily, light solid food may be given. The wound may be dressed and the stitches removed on the tenth day. Among the causes of death are shock, peritonitis, hasmorrhage from the slipping of a badly applied ligature, intestinal obstruction, and more rarely phlebitis, embolism, and tetanus. Inflammation of the parotid glands (see page 731) and acute mania have sometimes followed the operation. Parametritis (pelvic cellulitis).—Inflammation occasionally attacks the connective tissue between the layers of the broad ligament, and this is termed paramelntis. It arises from many causes : operations about 3 z 2