1098 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS hanging by the connective-tissue surroundings, and by its weight pulls down the contents of the axilla, and so facilitates proceedings. The axillary vein is first defined and cleared by the fingers and an elevator up to the apex of the axilla, the pectoralis major being raised by an assistant with a retractor. Any vessels which are seen passing across the space must be included between two pair of forci-pressure forceps and then divided between them. It is desirable to try and save the large subscapular vessels, if possible. When the apex of the space is reached all fat and glands must be carefully removed, and then the whole axilla cleared by separating the tissues along the inner and posterior walls, so that when the proceeding is completed the axilla is cleared of all its contents but the main vessels and nerves. All vessels which have been seized with clips or are bleeding must be ligatured, and the surgeon should not be satisfied until all bleeding points, however small, are secured. The extensive wound is now well irrigated; a small incision is made in the niost dependent part of the axilla, through which a large drainage tube is inserted for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and, the arm having been brought down to the side, the edges of the skin are brought together. The plan which I usually adopt in doing this is to put in two, three, or more interrupted sutures of silkworm gut, which act as mainstays, and then sew up the whole length of the wound with a continuous horsehair suture. If there is any tension on the edges of the wound a few button sutures (fig. 15) are also inserted. The wound is dressed in the usual way, with plenty of wool, so that firm uniform pressure may be made. The wound should be dressed on the second day and the drainage tube removed. It will not then require dressing till the twelfth or fourteenth day, when the wound will be found to be healed, and the sutures may be removed. It is well to support the edges of the wound for some time longer with-strapping, so as to prevent the cicatrix, which is still soft, from giving. Some surgeons are in the habit of advocating and practising still more extensive operations in these cases. Of these Halsted's operation may be regarded as a type. He removes the whole of the skin covering the breast; the whole of the great pectoral muscle; the fascia beneath it, and the fascia in front of and behind the lesser pectoral. In order to do this he divides the lesser pectoral muscle. He also removes the loose connective tissue, the fat, and all the structures, except main vessels and nerves in the axilla, up to the clavicle, cleaning the vessels by dissection with a sharp knife. The whole of this is removed in one continuous, mass. The cavity is brought together as far as possible with a purse-string suture, and the rest of the wound allowed to heal slowly by granulation or covered with skin-grafts. The results obtained by this operation are no doubt very satisfactory as regards the non-recurrence of the disease, and it is said that,the removal of one pectoral muscle and the division of the other does not materially impair the movements of the upper extremity; but the operation is a very severe one, and is attended with a considerable amount -of shock, and it seems, at all events at present, doubt- ful whether it is right and necessary to proceed to so severe an operation in every case of cancer of the breast, or whether it is not better to reserve such extensive operations as these for cases in which the skin or the pectoral muscle is extensively involved. The matter at the present time is sub judice, and we must wait for more extensive experience before it can be finally settled-'