TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP 567 on his back, should be directed tadraw the limb up as far as he can; if the disease has proceeded far enough to produce complete rigidity, no movement will take place in the hip joint, but the anterior spine of the ilium, if the finger is placed upon it, will be felt to recede, the limb being raised by a rotation of the pelvis. If the disease has not advanced so far as to produce complete rigidity, the movements of the hip joint will be found to be limited ; the patient will not be able to flex the thigh as acutely on the abdomen as on the sound side, and if the surgeon seizes the affected limb and abducts it, it will be found that abduction cannot be carried so far as it can be on the other side. This limitation of move- ment is due to reflex muscular spasm, the irritation in the joint causing a reflex contraction in the muscles around it, and so more or less fixing the joint. This impaired power of movement constitutes the most important and the most valuable sign of hip-joint disease; for in many cases which come under the notice of the surgeon there is not absolute fixation of the joint, and it is not till this has taken place, with the limb in Fig. 205.—Diagram showing the tilting of the pelvis in flexion of the femur in hip-joint disease. a position of abduction and flexion, that the inequaUty in the length of the limbs and the lordosis is present. But the stiff", painful and impaired mobility is observable from the first, and when present should always put the surgeon on his guard. In addition to the flexion and abduction of the thigh, it will be generally noted to be somewhat everted or rotated out- wards ; so that the position of the limb in the early stage of hip-joint disease is one of abduction, flexion, and external rotation. The surgeon may also sometimes notice in these cases a certain amount of fulness in front of the joint, especially in those cases where the disease has com- menced m the synovial membrane, and where there is some elTusion within the capsule of the joint. This fulness is indicated by a partial or complete obliteration of the fold of the groin, and often by a prominence of the superficial inguinal glands, which are sometimes enlarged and stand out prominently under the skin. Another constant and important sign is flattening of the buttock. If the patient is turned over on to his face, the buttock on the affected side will not present the same rounded outline as