INCISED WOUNDS 57 occur in a wound which is left gaping and in which blood collects, pro- ^^'^Id^^Snl^^^s follows: Supposing after an operation such as amputation of the breast, a cavity is left m which blood col ects and coagulates. Inflammation is set up m the mjured tissues, ly^ph is poured out and collects" on the surface of the wound, as m union by first Sitention, and we have therefore a layer of lymph separating the clot from Se walls of the cavity. Into this lymph the emigrated leucocytes extend by means of their amoeboid movements, and passmg through the lymph e^ter the blood clot; they now proceed to exercise their peculiar func- tion and destroy the red corpuscles and probably also the leucocytes which have been entangled in the formation_ of the clot ; so that in a short time all colour has disappeared from it. The leucocytes having now accomplished their allotted duty, an emigration takes place into the remains of the clot of large plasma cells derived from the con- nective tissue cells of adjacent parts. These m their turn destroy the leucocytes and the rest of the clot, and then undergo a process of develop- ment, becoming elongated, spindle-shaped and eventually converted into fibrous tissue ; so that now the clot of blood is replaced by a mass of scar tissue, the cells of which become connected with the cells of the wall of the cavity in which it is contained, and thus union is completed. In the case of a gaping wound, epithelium grows over this new tissue, exactly in the same nianner as we have seen it do in union by first or second intention. . , r r i Scar tissue—The material which unites the surfaces of a ^^;ound together is called scar tissue or a cicatrix. It is merely a forni of fibrous connective tissue. It contains no yellow elastic fibres and is denser than ordinary connective tissue. In fact it is a tissue of less highly organised form than that which it has replaced. As Rindfleisch says : It is far from being a connective tissue of ideally high quality.' It does not possess any of the characteristic structures of the skin, such as hairs, sweat or sebaceous glands or papilla. It contains no lymphatics, at all events there are none in recent cicatrices; and very few, if any, nerve fibres. Old scars also contain very few blood-vessels. The vessels are numerous in recently formed scar tissue, but they soon become obliterated owing to its contraction, and the scar becomes dense, hard and white. Owing to the small degree of vascularity which scar tissue possesses, it is very prone to undergo degenerative processes. INCISED WOUNDS An incised wound may be defined as a clean-cut wound usually made by a sharp-edged instrument either by accident or in an operation. It must be borne in mind, however, that occasionally an incised wound may be made by a blunt instrument, especially in the skin over a subcutaneous bone; for example, a blow on the head from a life preserver, or a kick on the shin from a heavy boot, may produce a clean-cut wound, which possesses all the characteristics of an incised wound. The symptoms of a wound are three : (i) separation of the edges ; (2) hsemorrhage; (3) pain. . . . . I. Separation of the edges.—The amount of gaping in an incised wound is generally considerable, more than in a contused and lacerated one of similar extent. It varies, however, very greatly in different