636 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS marked when the facial muscles are put into action. The nutrition of tlic child is interfered with, it cannot suck, and food put into its mouth runs out again. It must be fed with a teaspoon introduced well into the back of the mouth. If the child can be fed in this way, it is wiser to defer any surgical proceeding until the infant is better able to withstand the shock of the operation and the loss of blood. The cure consists in paring the edges of the cleft and uniting them accurately with sutures : it is advisable to use one or two silver sutures as mainstays, and then accurately adjust the cutaneous and mucous surfaces with horsehair sutures. Microstoma is the converse of macrostoma, and arises from too great a fusion of the maxillary and mandibular processes. In these cases the orifice in the mouth is contracted, some- times to such an extent as barely to admit a probe. It is said that in some cases complete closure has been met with. The treatment consists in enlarging the opening on either side in the natural direction of the mouth, and then suturing the cutaneous and mucous surfaces together. Other still rarer malformations are the mandibular cleft, caused by want of fusion of the two mandibular processes, and the facial cleft, due to failure of union of the lateral nasal portion of the fronto- nasal process with the maxillary processes. The nature of these malformations is suffi- ciently indicated by the accompanying figure (fig. 240). . , Hare-lip is a congenital malformation in which the upper lip is vertically cleft Usually the cleft is on one or both sides of the median line, but a few cases have been recorded where the cleft has been in the middle line of the lip; these will be referred to later on. The ordinary lateral hare-lip is due to a want of fusion of some of the fissures in the region of the fronto-nasal process. The usual opinion is that it is due to a failure of union of the fronto-nasal process-—which it is believed forms the whole of the median portion of the lip—with the maxillary process, or processes if it is on both sides, which form the lateral portion ; but this scarcely explains the fact that in most cases the cleft corresponds in position to the interval between the lateral and central incisors. Albrecht has suggested that both the mesial and lateral portions of the fronto-nasal process assist in the formation of the lip, and that hare- lip is due to the want of fusion of these two segments of the fronto-nasal process. A simple hare-lip is where the cleft is confined to the lip, and this may be complete, when it involves the whole depth of the lip and extends into the nostril; or incomplete, when it involves only a part of the depth of the lip. It may be unilateral, when it is confined to one side, most frequently the left; or bilateral, when it invoh-es both sides. When the bony alveolus is also cleft, the term alveolar hare-lip is applied, and this may be either unilateral or bilateral. In the latter class of cases the central portion of the alveolar margin, the os incisivum, may retain Us normal position, but is more often displaced forwards and rotated, so that the margin of the alveolus projects forwards. In some instances the Fig. 240. Facial and mandibular clefts.