989 EPISPADIAS hematuria, the blood being passed unmixed with urine and at the end of micturition. It is sometimes very severe. Upon examination per rectum the prostate is found to be enlarged, hard, and nodular, and secondary deposits may be felt in the lumbar glands upon abdominal palpation. The inguinal glands are also sometimes enlarged. The disease runs a far more rapid course than senile enlargement, and is attended with emaciation. The treatment is palliative only. For the relief of retention, a soft catheter must be used with great gentleness, or drainage of the bladder may be required. Morphia suppositories appear to be the best means of relieving pain. Prostatic calculus.—Calculi occasionally form in the prostatic ducts, and may sometimes be multiple. They consist of phosphate of lime and organic matter. They are hard, of a fawn or light brown colour, smooth, and when multiple facetted. Symptoms.—The symptoms to which they give rise ver)' much resemble those of enlarged prostat,e, except that the water usually contains blood. Upon passing a metal instrument, it can sometimes be felt grating against the stone as it passes along the prostatic urethra, and this grating sensation can sometimes be more easily produced by introducing the finger into the rectum and pushing the prostate up. Sometimes in examination per rectum the stones, when multiple, can be felt to grate against each other. Occasionally a calculus from the prostate is passed per urethram, and sometimes they give rise to abscess, which is opened or bursts externally, and the stones may be discharged. Treatment.—If the calculi cause pain or inconvenience, a median perineal section should be made, and the calculi extracted through the wound. DISEASES OF THE URETHRA Malformations: Epispadias.—This congenital malformation consists in a deficiency of the upper wall of the urethra ; or, as is believed by some, a deficiency of the lower wall of the urethra with torsion of the penis. At all events, in these cases there is a groove on the dorsum of the organ which represents the urethra. This groove may extend the whole length of the penis, when the urethra is entirely absent, and the penis is usually stunted and dwarfed. This condition is frequently asso- ciated with extroversion of the bladder (page 950), but some few cases have been recorded where this has not been so. In these the cleft only implicates the glans, and perhaps the anterior portion of the body of the penis, and the urethra terminates by a slit-like orifice on the dorsum of the organ. Where there is a complete epispadias, but without extroversion, there is an infundibuliform opening into the bladder above the pubes. The penis is usually dwarfed and turned upward.s, so that the glans lies over the opening. P'or the relief of this condition Cantwell has introduced a most ingenious operation. This consists in dissecting up a flap, on either side of the open urethra, from the extremity of the glans penis as far backwards as possible into the infundibulum. These flaps are moulded into a tube upon a catheter by bringing their lateral edges together with fine sutures. The corpora cavernosa are now separated from each other with a blunt instrument, and the newly formed tube passed