TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA 221 no tumour can be perceived ; this, and the evidently neurotic condition of the patient, and the superficial nature of the pain, so that the patient flinches at the slightest touch, is generally sufficient to establish the diagnosis. Abdominal troubles are very common m hysteria. They may present themselves in many different ways. One of the most common, and especially so in the male, is a morbid condition about the action of the bowels. This possibly is a condition of hypochondriasis, but is so closely allied to hysteria that it can scarcely be differentiated from it. At one time the bowels are confined, and the patient at once fancies himself the victim of obstruction, or he takes large quantities of purgatives and gets pain in the abdomen, and in consequence suspects he has got cancer. In other cases of abdominal trouble, the symptoms of ulcer of the stomach are simulated. Again, flatulent distension of the abdomen with eructations is complained of, and causes the patient intense misery. Finally, the so-called 'phantom tumour' of the abdomen is an occasional form of hysteria. The patient complains of a swelling in some part of the abdomen, and, on examination, what feels like a fairly defined tumour, usually just to one side of the linea alba, can be felt. It is gene- rally resonant on percussion, and is due to contraction of the fibres of the rectus muscle. It entirely disappears during ansesthesia. Retention of urine.—In the female retention of urine is a not unfrequent way in which hysteria shows itself. The young woman will declare her inability to void her urine. She will express great desire to do so, and will complain of great pain in consequence of not being able to accomplish her wish. On examination, the bladder will be found to be full, forming a distinct tumour in the hypogastric region. In the great majority of cases these patients may be safely left alone, and after a time the urine will be voided. The passage of a catheter only leads to a recurrence of the evil. On the other hand, continued retention may lead to chronic cystitis or to atony, so that some little dis- crimination is required in dealing with these cases. Sexual troubles.—In the male, certain sexual troubles may be classed as hysterical. These are either fear of impotence, or dread of the evil effects of too frequent seminal emissions. They generally take their origin either in a slight varicocele or in some chronic prostatitis, which occa- sions a discharge of shreds of mucus from the urethra, and this is supposed to be semen. Treatment.—The treatment of some of these hysterical conditions is often one of the most difficult problems that the surgeon has to solve. On the one hand, if he makes light of the matter, and assures the patient that there is nothing wrong with her, he at once destroys her confidence in him, and all his efforts to regain it will be useless; but if, on the other hand, he makes too much of the disease, he only enhances in the patient's mind its importance, and thus serves to perpetuate the condition. A great deal depends, in the treatment of hysteria, upon the surgeon's suc- cess in obtaining the confidence of his patient, and in fixing in her mind the belief that he understands her malady and is able to cure it. He should therefore spare no pains to convince her that the disease is understood, and that if his directions are carried out a cure may confidently be looked forward to. This having been done, any probable cause of the disease or con- dition of bad health should be attended to. If the menstruation is