700 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS detected, and even a soft crepitation. In tliose cases where the fragments have perforated the mucous membrane, there is tickling cough, bloody expectoration, and often urgent dyspnoea. Treatment.—In those cases where there is bloody expectoration, proving that the mucous membrane has been lacerated, and any considerable amount of dyspnoea, it is always safer to perform laryngotomy at once, or, at all events to be prepared to do it at a moment's notice. Where there is no dyspnoea it is sufficient to keep the patient at perfect rest, after the dis- placement has been rectified as far as possible by manipulation. An attempt may be made to keep the fragments in apposition by carefully adjusted pads of wool or Hnt and a bandage. _ Complete rupture of the trachea.—Although this injury is rare cases have been recorded. It is generally produced by severe blows, but 'in a case recently occurring in St. George's Hospital, it was caused by a blow from a hft on the back of the head, as the patient was looking down a shaft; in this case there was also a fracture of the sternum. 1 he symptoms produced are urgent dyspnoea and great subcutaneous emphy- sema, and the cases, as a rule, rapidly prove fatal. A low tracheotomy should be immediately performed. ^ Scalds of the pharynx and glottis are usually caused among the children of the poor by the child attempting to drink boihng water from a kettle. The water does not find its way into the larynx, as it is prevented by spasm of the glottis, but it scalds the pharynx and gives rise to inflammation and oedema of the glottis, which may speedily cause death from suffocation. The child suffers from attacks of spasmodic dyspnoea, the voice is hoarse and the respiration croupy, it is unable to take food, and an examination of the mouth shows it to be covered with white patches (see page 645)- The case speedily terminates fatally unless Treatment.—In the first instance an effort should be made to subdue the inflammation by the application of leeches to the neck, followed by hot fomentations and the administration of wine of antimony (ny to ij) with tincture of aconite (m i to i) every quarter of a hour for an hour or two until some effect is produced, a-nd then at longer intervals The child should be put in a steam tent or breathe a warm moist atmosphere, it the breathing still continues laboured, scarification of the mucous membrane of the back of the fauces and upper part of the larynx should be resorted to, and often affords manifest rdief. If, however these measures fai, tracheotomy must at once be resorted to, or intubation ^ho^; ^ be P^^" formed (see page 708). In spite of this,_ the cases frequendy terminate fatally from tracheitis or broncho-pneumonia. . Foreign bodies in the air passages.-Any foreign matter gaseous, fluid, or solid, may enter the air passages but the only one. ^^e are concerned with in the present place are so id foreign bodies I hese are always carried into the air passages by inhalation ; that to say so^ne foreign substance is lodged in the mouth, and as it is carried to the teck part of the cavity in the act of swallowing, a sudden inspiration is taken and the foreign body is sucked with the air into the air passages, or el.e lodged in the rima glottidis, mechanically obstructing it . For purposes of clearness it is desirable to divide these foreign bod^ into two classes : (i) those which are large and cannot P^^^ ^^rougl tl rima, and these are generally soft, like a piece o meat '-^"d 2 the which are so small that they can pass through the nma glottidis.