236 GENERAL DISEASES femur-; or from the medullary canal, which is usually the case when they grow from the bones of the hand. The former are termed perichondroma, the Latter enchoiidroma. They may also grow from other parts, such as the parotid gland, the testicle, the breast, the thyroid body, or the subcutaneous tissue, but they are then usually associated with some other form of neo- plasm, as sarcoma, adenoma or myxoma. To the naked eye the chondromata present all the appearance of ordinary cartilage. They are often lobulated, being apparently made up of a number of bosses, and are inclosed in a fibrous envelope. Microscopic- ally they are found to consist of cells, which are round, oval, or stellate and are embedded in a hyaline matrix. Like the cells of normal cartilage they are contained in a capsule, a)id occasionally the processes of the stellate cells may be seen to com- municate with each other in the matrix. These tumours when growing from the bones of the hand are usually multiple (fig. 52), in fact it is rare to find only one bone affected; when they grow in other situations they are usually single. They occur for the most part in early life, and when consisting of carti- lage alone, unmixed with other growths, are always benign and do not recur if removed. They are circumscribed, and often deeply lobulated. They are very hard, but not as hard as bone, yielding slightly on pressure, and by this character and also by their multiplicity, in Fig. 52.—Chondromatous tumours of hand. (From a some situations they may preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) be distinguished from OS- teomata. The chondro- mata may undergo various changes. When they grow from the epiphyses of the long bones, they almost immediately ossify, and they are then known as one form of exostosis, which will be presently described. They might with more propriety be termed ossifying perichondromata. Chondromata also undergo degenerative changes. They may undergo a mucoid softening in their centre, and the tissue breaks down into a fluid, so that they form a sort of cystic tumour, Avith walls of cartilage ; to these the name of cystic chondroma used formerly to be given. They may also undergo calcifi- cation, and become converted into a calcareous mass without definite structure. Treatment.—The treatment of a chondroma is removal when it is single. This can usually be easily accomplished by laying the capsule freely open and enucleating the tumour, and in this way even two or three