4o6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES the bladder in fracture of the pelvis; (2) they may be complicated by injury to the main blood-vessels of the part or to some large nerve, as the musculo- spiraFin fracture of the humerus, or the brachial plexus in fracture of the clavicle ; (3) they may be complicated by injury of some neighbouring joint, that is to say, the fracture may extend into the joint; (4) or they may be complicated by dislocation of the fractured bone. Various names are given to different varieties of fracture according to their extent and to the nature of the separation. (1) Single fracture, where a single bone is simply broken across at a single point. To this class belong the great majority of injuries of this kind. (2) Impacted fractures, where a bone is frac- tured, and one end is driven into the other and fixed there. (3) Sprain fractures, where a thin shell of bone or a prominent process is torn off in con- sequence of a ligament or tendon inserted into it being subjected to some severe strain. Owing to its toughness the fibrous tissue will not yield, but the portion of bone into which it is inserted is torn off. (4) Multiple fract2ires.—H\io very different conditions are comprised under the head of multiple fractures. The term is most commonly applied to those cases where two or more bones are fractured from the same injury; as where the two bones of the forearm or leg are fractured, or where several ribs are broken. But it is also applied to cases where there are two or more fractures in the same bone, but where it is not broken up into a number of small pieces. In- stances where a bone is broken in two or more places, quite separate from each other, are not common, but still they sometimes do occur (figs. 126 and 127). The manner in which this accident is produced is not very clear, but it appears to be probable that it may be caused by two forces acting on the bone at the same time ; the one, it may be, producing a fracture from direct violence, and the other from indirect violence. (5) Comminuted fracture.—When the bone at the seat of injury is broken up into several small fragments it is termed a comminuted fracture. These fractures are usually caused by direct violence, are often compound, and attended with much contusion and laceration of the soft parts. (6) Incomplete fractures are those where the solution of continuity of the bones is not com- plete. The greenstick fracture is the most important variety of this class; but incomplete fractures are also found in some forms of fissure of bone, especially in the bones of the skull, where there is a crack or fissure not passing completely Fig. 126.—Multiple frac- ture of the tibia. Taken from a patient who, in attempting to get out of a train in motion, was thrown to the ground. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)