927 CHAPTER XV INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS Rupture of the kidney.—The kidney is not infrequently ruptured by direct violence, as blows or falls, buffer accidents, or from the patient being run over. The amount of laceration may vary, and the danger of the injury depends mainly upon whether the peritoneum has escaped injury or not, and whether one of the large branches of the renal artery or vein has been torn. If this is so, the injury will rapidly prove fatal. In less severe cases, a great deal depends upon whether the capsule has been torn. If it has not, haemorrhage takes place into the substance of the kidney and its capsule, but is limited to the organ, and urinary extravasation is prevented. In some of these cases the pelvis and ureter may become plugged with extravasated blood, so as to obstruct the passage of urine down the ureter. When the capsule of the kidney has been torn, extrava- sation, not only of blood but also of urine, may take place into the peri- nephritic tissue and cause suppuration, which may terminate in death from pyaemia or exhaustion. Symptoms.—The ordinary symptoms of rupture of the kidney are severe shock, accompanied by pain in the loin, shooting down to the thigh • and testicle, and blood in the urine, following an injury to the abdomen. But it must be remembered that on the one hand there may be a severe laceration of the kidney and still no blood in the urine; and on the other hand there may be an injury to the abdomen, and blood in the urine, with- out any laceration of the kidney. When there is no hccmaturia the indica- tions of the injury would be the presence of collapse and the signs of internal haemorrhage ; the presence of a swelling, which is dull on percussion in the loin, \yith perhaps some superficial bruising or indication of injury in this situation, combined with pain radiating from the loin to the testicle and thigh. When there is hsematuria the amount of blood may vary con- siderably. Clots may form in the ureter, giving rise to colicky pains and suppression of urine on the affected side; or they may form in the bladder and may be passed per urethram. If the peritoneum has been injured, signs of traumatic peritonitis may set in ; and in those cases where peri- nephntic abscess supervenes there is fever, rigors, and increased pain and swelling in the loin. Treatment—The patient must be kept strictly quiet in bed, and if there is reason to suppose that hcemorrhage in large quantities is going on, ergot of rye should be given. If pain is severe, a hypodermic injection of morphia should be administered. No food should be given by the mouth for the first twenty-four hours, and then only in small quantities. Ban- daging the abdomen sometimes gives ease and comfort to the patient. If haemorrhage is persistent and threatens life, the kidney must be cut down upon from the loin, and if necessary removed. In cases where clots form