INTERSTITIAL HERNIA 885 not come in contact with the testicle, for it is separated from it by the occlusion which has taken place. This is known as hernia of the pmi- adar process (fig. 343, v). In the female, in like manner, the process of neritoneum which accompanies the round ligament may remam patent, thou-^h it is usually obliterated at birth. If it should remam patent under rare arcumstances a hernia may descend into it, and constitute a form ot hernia analogous to the congenital hernia in the male. When, however an insruinal hernia occurs in the female—and it is the common form ot hernia found in female children-it is usually of the acquired variety Interstitial hernia.-In connection with the subject of the detec- tive development of the coverings of the testicle, must be rnentioned a form of hernia which is known as interstitial her7iia, and which is usually a variety of the congenital form (fig. 344)- In these _ cases there is a diverticulum or pouch, springing from the patent funicular process or patent canal of Nuck, which forms a sac into which the gut may find its way. The sac is situated between the layers of the abdominal panetes, and may be placed either between the external oblique muscle and the subcutaneous structures; or between the internal and external oblique; or between the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum. Two explanations have been given of the mode in which this diverticulum is produced. Some beheve congenital malformation, and that an that it is a additional sac is formed as ^ the result of some aberration in the developmental process ; but there is no evidence that this is so. It seems more probable that it is due to some tightness of the external abdominal ring, which prevents the bowel descending through it, and therefore the bowel forces its way, pushing the sac before it, in the direction in which there is least resistance. This is rendered the more probable by the fact that interstitial hernia is usually associated with undescended testicle. Symptoms.—Nothing much need be said about 344.—interstitial the signs of a complete inguinal hernia, as they have hernia. Diagram- been already described (page 864). It forms a matic. tumour in the scrotum, which Ues generally above and in front of the testicle, and is pyriform in shape. Its neck can be traced upwards into the inguinal canal, the cord generally lymg behind it, with its constituents obscured by the presence of the hernia. In many cases ot oblique hernia there is a fullness along the course of the inguinal canal, but when the hernia is of long standing the mouth of the sac becomes enlarged, and the internal ring becomes displaced downwards and inwards, so that it is situated directly behind the external ring; the hernia will then be felt to project directly backwards from the external ring, there will be no oblique fullness in the situation of the inguinal canal, and it is impos- sible to diagnose it, by examination, from a direct inguinal hernia, i he diagnosis of femoral hernia from a complete inguinal hernia is usually easy ; but in some cases of large femoral herniaa, which have a tendency to roll up over Poupart's ligament, a mistake may be made. The diagnosis can, however, be settled by placing the finger on the spine of the os pubis : the neck of the femoral hernia is external to this point ; that ot an inguinal hernia internal. It should be noted also whether the neck of