551 ANKYLOSIS far as possible, and any carious cavities in the bone are scraped, but this structure is not otherwise interfered with. The results which have been obtained have not, as far as my experience goes, been very satisfactory. It is found impossible in many cases to remove the whole of the diseased tissues, and a recurrence frequently takes place; and, moreover, in many cases the ligaments have to be so far interfered with that a very unstable joint is often the result, which in the lower extremity, at all events, is not desirable. In my own practice I have therefore abandoned this operation in the lower extremity, and always remove a thin slice of bone, whether diseased or not, and thus endeavour to obtain bony union ; or, in other words, perform excision. Cxcision as it is done in the present day consists in performing erasion, and in addition removing the articular surfaces of the bones. The manner in which the operation is performed will be described in dealing with diseases of special joints. Amputation.—In some instances amputation is the only resource. These are cases where there is extensive disease of the bones ; for in these, if excision is performed, so much bone has to be removed that a useless limb is the result; moreover, in the young the epiphysial cartilage is involved and future growth of the bone interfered with. Again, if the skin and soft tissues around the joint are extensively involved and riddled, amputation is to be preferred to excision. In determining the question of amputation versus excision the general conditions and the age of the patient have to be considered. When the patient is suffering from hectic, or lardaceous disease of the viscera ; or when he is worn out and exhausted by the disease, so that he has very little reparative power to recover from the operation, amputation should be performed. Again, amputation is generally to be preferred to excision in the very young or in those advanced in life. In infants or young children before the age of four or five, if arthrotomy fails to arrest the disease, and the child is evidently sinking from its effects, amputation holds out the best prospect of saving the child's life. And. in patients over the age of forty or forty- five excisions rarely do well, and if simpler measures fail to cure the disease, the removal of the limb is, in most cases, called for. Finally, in cases where excision has been performed and failed, and in those cases where acute septic trouble has developed, amputation is the only resource left to the surgeon. ANKYLOSIS Ankylosis, or stiffening of joints, is the result of some preceding inflammation of the structures entering into the formation of the articula- tion. It may be complete or incomplete; that is to say, there may be entire loss of all movement in the joint, or the immobility may be partial. Complete ankylosis.—In the complete ankylosis of a joint the cause of the loss of motion is the welding together of the bones entering into the formation of the articulation by bone. Hence this form of ankylosis is frequently termed bo/iy ankylosis. It may occur in two ways : (i) Where a destructive inflammation has taken place in a joint, and the various structures entering into its formation—the synovial membrane, the cartilages, the articular lamella of the bones, and the ligaments—have been destroyed and replaced by granulation tissue. After a time the process of