WOUNDS OF THE SPINE 749 the scapular muscles, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor, and some of the muscles of the arm, biceps, brachialis anticus, and deltoid. The breathing is entirely diaphragmatic, and the action of this muscle speedily becomes impaired, partly by the accumulation of gas and stagnant fteces in the intestines, and partly by the want of an opposing force to fix the lower ribs, so that when the diaphragm contracts it pulls them inwards, instead of by its contraction descending and increasing the size of the thoracic cavity. The lungs become congested and oedematous; the face suffused and purple, and the patient generally dies in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. (3) If the injury is situated in the cervico-dorsal region, above the level of the second or third dorsal vertebra, there is the same paralysis and loss of sensation of the trunk and lower extremities, but the upper extremi- ties escape or present a condition of hypersesthesia from irritation of that part of the spine from which the cords of the brachial plexus take origin. The whole of the intercostal and other muscles of inspiration are paralysed, with the exception of the diaphragm and a few accessory muscles in the neck. The muscles of expiration are all paralysed, and expiration is simply performed by the elastic recoil of the chest wall, and all forced expiratory efforts, such as coughing and sneezing, are impossible; the patient is therefore unable to expel any mucus from the lungs, and usually dies from asphyxia, partly due to this cause and partly to hypostatic pneumonia, in a few days. (4) When the cord is divided in the mid-dorsal region, the organs of respiration are not so much involved, because the upper intercostal muscles and many of the forced muscles of inspiration are not paralysed, but the action of the diaphragm is still embarrassed by the want of fixity of the lower ribs. The abdominal muscles are also paralysed, so that the forced expiratory effort of coughing is embarrassed and hindered. A low form of pneumonia is therefore very liable to be set up, which often causes death in two or three weeks. There is loss of sensation of the abdominal wall, often limited above by an hyperEesthetic zone, so that the patient complains of a sensation like a cord tied round the waist (girdle pain). There is not usually retention of urine, except during the first few days, because the micturition centre in the cord is not interfered with ; but when the bladder is full, the detrusor urinje contracts from reflex irritation, and expels the urine ; of course, without any voluntary effort or knowledge of the patient. (5) When the division of the cord is in the dorsi-lumbar region, there is complete loss of sensation and motion in all the parts supplied by the lumbar and sacral plexuses. The whole of the lower extremity, the buttock, the perineum, and the hypogastric region of the abdomen, are devoid of sensation, and all the muscles of the lower extremity, including those which pass from the pelvis to the limb, are paralysed. The sphincter ani is also paralysed, and there is incontinence of flatus and fceces. The urine is retained and overflows, but there is usually no power of expelling it, as the micturition centres are involved in the injury; the urine there- fore dribbles away as soon as the bladder becomes sufficiently full to overcome the slight mechanical resistance of the urethra, the walls of which in the natural condition of parts are in contact. The urine in these cases soon becomes ammoniacal from the introduction of bacteria, which travel down the mucus contained in the urethra, and which it is not able to expel, or they may be introduced with the catheter used to relieve the distension.