995 CONORRHCEA IN THE FEMALE {d) inflammation of Cowper's glands, going on to suppuration. It would appear to be probable that these conditions are due to pyogenic organisms, which are associated with the gonococci. a. Balanitis usually occurs in individuals who have a long and tight prepuce ; it is characterised by considerable swelling and oedema of the foreskin, and it is in these cases that inflammation of the lymphatics of the penis and {b) suppurating bubo ensues. c. Urethral abscess is due to infection of one of the lacunae of the urethra. A suppurative form of inflammation is set up, and a tense rounded swelling forms, which is very painful, and may press upon the urethra so as to occlude the passage and produce retention. It may burst into the urethra or externally. If the former, a subsequent opening usually forms externally, and a fistula is produced, which is often difficult to heal. These abscesses should therefore be opened early, when they usually heal without difficulty. d. Inflammation of Cowper's glands causes a hard, tender swelling in the perineum, which rapidly runs on to suppuration. If not opened early the matter tends to burrow laterally, being bound down by the dense perineal fascia. Inflammation of the prostate gland and of the bladder are other complications of gonorrhoea due to direct extension, which have been already described; while another complication, inflammation of the epididymis, will be considered in the chapter on Diseases of the Male Generative Organs. 2. Complications of gonorrhoea may arise from the poison being con- veyed to distant parts, as in gonorrhoeal conjunctiYitis, where the disease is believed to be set up by the direct transmission of the virus to the conjunctival sac by the hand of the patient; and in gonorrhoeal proctitis, which occurs in females from infection with the discharge which escapes from the vulva. 3. Finally, complications of gonorrhoea may arise from the absorption of the virus by the blood and its conveyance to other parts of the body. This is seen in cases of gonorrhoeal rheumatism, which has already been described (page 535), and in cases of gonorrhoeal sclerotitis, which is a rare affection, usually associated with gonorrhoeal rheumatism. Gonorrhoea in the female is a less severe affection than in the male, but at the same time is liable to be followed by dangerous consequences. The disease primarily affects the vulva and vagina, and may be confined to these parts. The urethra is implicated in only about one case in five ; but Bartolini's glands are liable to become involved, and rnay suppurate. In some cases the disease spreads to the uterus and Fallopian tubes, and purulent salpingitis may be set up. Inflammation of the ovaries and peritonitis may also be consequences of this disease. In the early stages there is swelling and redness of the vulva, and an abundant purulent discharge, with pain during micturition, and the disease is easily recognised ; later on it is almost impossible to diagnose it from leucorrhoea, but by examination with a speculum it will be found that in leucorrhoea the discharge comes from the interior of the uterus, whereas in gonorrhoea, for the most part, the uterine orifice is free from discharge, which comes from the vaginal wall. The treatment of gonorrhoea in females consists, in the acute stage, in the administration of warm hip baths, rest in bed, low diet, and the fre- quent irrigation of the vagina with an abundant weak astringent injection. 3 « 2