632 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS off. This will bring away the turbinated bone, with one or more large polypi attached to it, and in addition a whole crop of small polypi, which could not be removed without taking away the mucous membrane from which they grow. The forceps used should be long, with deeply serrated but delicate blades, which are fenestrated. It will be found that, though the bleeding is generally free for a minute or two, if the patient's head is placed in the position indicated no blood will run down the throat. To remove nasal polypi with a snare, a good light is required; a speculum is inserted and the wire loop passed round the growth, so as to encircle the base. The polypus may then be removed by the galvano-cautery, or by gradually tightening the wire and cutting it off. Naso-pharyngeal polypi are outgrowths from the thick muco- oenosteum which covers the ba.se of the skull, and forms the roof of the pharynx ; they are fibromatous at first, but in many cases tend to become sarco- matous as they grow. They are in the early stage firm, fleshy, pedunculated tumours (fig. 237), which as they in- crease extend into the nasal cavities, displacing the bones, and into the pharynx at the same time. This con- tinued growth causes various symptoms from pressure, as deafness, epiphora, (Src, and they may force their way into the orbits or any of the other surround- ing cavities, or may even absorb the base of the skull and cause pressure on the brain. The symptoms they produce are those of nasal obstruction, usually accompanied by severe epistaxis, and I have known this bleeding to go on, from the cause of it having been over- looked, until fatal consequences were threatened.. In every case of severe epistaxis accompanied by signs of nasal obstruction a careful examination of the naso-pharynx should be made, as when the growths are small and polypoid their removal can be easily undertaken, and is not, as a rule, attended by serious htemorrhage ; while after they have attained a large size and projected forwards among the cavities of the face their removal constitutes a formidable operation. Treatment,—When the tumour is small it is perfectly easy to twist it off from the mouth with a pair of suitably curved forceps, or to divide the pedicle by a galvano-ecraseur introduced through the anterior nares. In cases, however, where the growth has attained considerable dimensions, a way must be made by surgical operation through the tissues of the face to reach the base of the tumour; and many different plans have been devised to attain this end, either from below through the hard and soft palate, from above through the nose, or from the front through the upper jaw. Of these the best method and the one which is usually adopted, as giving the freest access to the tumour, is by the resection of a whole or a part of the superior maxillary bone. Adenoids of the naso-pharynx.—This disease is of very Fig. 237. —Naso-pharyngeal polypus which grew from the under surface of the body of the sphenoid bone, between the two pterygoid processes. Removed by operation. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)