352 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES severe. A tumour which pulsates may then be detected in or near the middle Une. In this an aneurismal bruit may be heard. The pressure signs are pain from pressure on the lumbar plexus or its branches, especially the genito-crural nerve; obstruction from pressure on the bowel; albuminuria, jaundice, and vomiting. The inferior vena cava is not generally pressed upon sufficiently to produce oedema of the lower extremities. The disease may be mistaken for a 'pulsating aorta,' a not uncommon con- dition in anaemic women. But the absence of any tumour, the fact that the pulsation can be stopped by the pressure of a single finger, and that it can be traced along the line of the artery, is sufficient to establish a diagnosis; and this may be confirmed by watching the case and noting that no alteration in the condition takes place. A solid mass of faeces in the transverse colon, receiving an impulse from the aorta, may be mis- taken for an aneurism ; but the doughy nature of the swelling and the want of a distensile pulsation, with its superficial position, will readily determine the nature of the case. A sarcomatous tumour growing from the bodies of the vertebrae is the disease which presents the greatest similarity to aneurism, and sometimes the diagnosis between the two is almost impossible. The amount of expansion of the tumour, the want of constancy in the pulsation, and the character of the bruit, together with the consistence of the swelling, are the principal points which the surgeon must look to in forming an opinion. After a diagnosis of aneurism has been made, it is often extremely difficult to determine whether it is the main trunk or one of its branches which is affected. The diagnosis of aneurism of one of the branches is arrived at mainly by the position of the aneurism and by its greater mobility; this is especially noticeable in aneurisms of the superior mesenteric artery, which can sometimes be displaced considerably to one or the other side. Aneurisms of the common iliac are known by their position, and by the fact that pressure symptoms affect only one side of the body. Treatment.—-There can be no question that in the treatment of abdominal aneurism a most careful and protracted course of treatment by constitutional means should first be tried. Any other plan of treat- ment holds out such a small chance of success, that it is not right to subject the patient to it until a fair and adequate trial of these measures has been adopted. By rest, by dieting combined with medicine, a certain percentage of cases have been very materially benefited. Should this fail, compression of the aorta above the aneurism should be tried, as holding out the best hope of effecting a cure. Lister's aortic tourniquet may be applied to the abdominal aorta throughout the greater part of its course. Durham applied it 'between the cartilages of the ribs,' and Hulke midway between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus. There are special risks in this proceeding—risks of contusing the viscera or the great sympathetic ganglia, or of embarrassing the action of the heart. The patient should be kept during the compression under the influence of an anaesthetic, not only on account of the pain induced, but in order to relax the abdominal muscles. This, of course, adds to the risk, as the protracted ancesthesia is in itself a source of danger. Previous to applying the tourniquet, the alimentary canal should be emptied as far as possible and the urine drawn off. Several cases of abdominal aneurism have been cured in this way. Another plan of treatment which has been adopted