730 INJURIES AN J) DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS (fig. 281). The disease may also invade the larynx by extension from the pharynx or neighbouring parts. This latter form of the disease is more rapidly fatal than tlie intrinsic variety. As the morbid growth extends, it invades all the tissues of the larynx, destroys the cartilage, and spreads to other parts. The lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood become involved, and death occurs from dyspnoea and exhaustion. _ Symptoms.—In the early stage, when the disease is confined to one side of the larynx, the symptoms are hoarseness and partial loss of voice, some interference with respiration and an irritable cough. Later on there is expectoration of blood-stained mucus, which is often very offensive; very severe pain ; increasing dyspnoea, which is occasionally spasmodic; dysphagia and rapid emaciation. The nature of the disease is verified by laryngoscopic examination, and some- times it is desirable to seize and remove a small portion of the growth with laryngeal forceps, for purposes of micro- scopic examination. Treatment.—In deciding upon what treatment shall be adopted in a case of malignant disease of the larynx, the first point to determine is whether the disease is intrinsic and confined to the larynx, or extrinsic and involving other structures. In these latter cases any radical operative measure is generally out of the question. When the disease is confined to the lar)'nx, and especially if it is unilateral, the first step should be to perform a low tracheotom3^ and when the patient has become habituated to the wearing of a tube, after taking means to prevent blood getting into the bronchi by packing a piece of sponge into the trachea above the tube, or by the use of a Hahn's tube, or Trendelen- burg's tampon cannula, to perform a thyrotomy. By this means the exact " extent and connection of the gro^\lh can be ascertained, and three courses are now open to the surgeon, (i) If the disease is limited to the soft parts, and has not invaded the cartilages, he may proceed to cut away the whole of the diseased tissues, with as wide an area of surroundmg healthy tissue as is possible. The bleeding is then arrested, and the two halves ot tne thyroid cartilage accurately adjusted and sutured. (2) If the disease 1 unilateral, but has invaded one half of the thyroid cartilage, a partial resec- tion of the larynx may be performed, and one ala of the thyroid cartua^ removed, and, if necessary, one half of the cricoid. This is done by raising the soft parts from the outer surfaces of the cartilages, and separating tne structures from their attachment to the pharynx by means ot a /aspaiu ^ The thyro-hyoid membrane is then divided with blunt-pointed scissors an the superior cornu cut through. The cricoid cartilage is dmced in i middle line, in front and behind, with cutting pliers, and the dividea Fig. 281.—Epithelioma of the larjnx. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)