REMOTE EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE FIEAD 605 emptied, a drainage tube must be inserted, otherwise the soft cerebral matter will close the opening. If pus is not found at the first exploration, several punctures may be made in different directions. Hernia cerebri.—In cases of fracture of the skull where the dura mater has been injured, and after trephining where the dura mater has been incised, a swelling is liable to appear at the seat of lesion, due to a protru- sion of the brain substance, which is called a hernia or fungus cef-ebri. It differs under different circumstances. After the operation of trephining, if the wound is maintained aseptic, it is probably due to non-inflammatory cedema. The wound of the operation may have entirely healed, when a swelling appears under it, which is soft and pulsates synchronously with the brain. The mental condition of the patient is probably not disturbed. Where, however, there is an open wound, as after a compound depressed fracture, some time after the injury, varying from days to weeks, a dark brown or blackish fungous protrusion may appear at the wound and increase rapidly (fig. 224). It consists of softened brain matter, infiltrated with inflammatory exudation and blood, and is caused by increased intra-cranial pressure pushing out the softened brain matter. This mass pulsates S)'nchronously with the brain. In some instances no brain matter is contained in the protrusion, which consists simply of extravasated blood, which has been effused on the surface of the brain. It is then known as a false hei-nia cerebri. Where this septic condition exists, a diffuse encephalitis gene- rally starts from the base of the tumour and ends in stupor, coma, and death. Treatment.—In the operation of trephining, care should be taken to prevent the occurrence of hernia cerebri by replacing the bone which has been removed^ in the manner which will be alluded to in describing the operation. Should, however, the hernia occur, it must be protected and prevented from getting larger by pressure. This is best done by moulding a cap made of sheet lead accurately to the swelling and keeping it constantly applied. If the fungous protrusion forms in an open wound, the treatment is unsatisfactory. The hernia should be shaved off level with the surface of the skull and the part dressed antiseptically, firm pressure being made to prevent, if possible, further protrusion. Remote effects of injuries of the head.—Injuries of the head must always be regarded as serious, for in addition to the immediate danger, in a considerable number of cases some morbid condition is left, after the patient has apparently recovered from the immediate effects, which may prove to be of the gravest importance. One condition has already been spoken of in dealing with concussion, as traumatic neur- asthenia ; but many other conditions, such as insanity, epilepsy, diabetes, where the injury implicates the floor of the fourth ventricle, impairment of Fig. 224.—Hernia of the brain. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)