258 GENERAL DISEASES III.. Squamous-celled carcinoma or epithelioma.—This form of carcinoma takes its origin from some part of the body where squamous or stratified epithelium exists, but it is especially prone to occur at those parts where the mucous and cutaneous surfaces meet, as the lips, the vulva in the female and the anus in both sexes. It also occurs in the mouth, on the tongue, gums, and tonsil; in the larynx, pharynx and oesophagus. Cicatrices and ulcers are also sometimes attacked with this disease. It may begin in several different ways, as a slight ulcer or fissure, as a wart or a little nodule; but in all it is characterised by the early period at which ulceration appears. In some cases this ulceration comes on so quickly and extends so rapidly that there is hardly any evidence of new growth, but generally the ulcerated surface is surrounded by a mass of indurated tissue, which is the neoplasm, and presents on section a white opaque surface, with a clearly defined margin, though there is no capsule (fig. 67). Upon microscopic examination the growth is found to consist of columns of cells, which are down-growths from the surface epithelium from which the tumour sprang (fig. 68). These cylinders of cells are not inclosed in a membrane, and have a tendency to communicate with each other in the deeper tissues forming a network. They are con- nected together by a fibrous stroma which is infiltrated with adventitious cells. When sections are made across these cylinders, the characteristic appearance of epithelioma is well shown. The section presents certain round or oval masses, not unlike a bird's nest, and they have therefore been termed ' cell nests.' In the centre are one, two, or more spherical cells, around which the squamous epithelium is flattened and arranged in a concentric manner like the layers of an onion. Similar cell nests are also found in other morbid growths, as the papillomata, and therefore they must not be regarded as absolutely pathognomonic of epithelioma. The rapidity of the growth and the malignancy of epithelioma differ, according as it grows from different parts of the body. An epithelioma of the lip, for instance, grows slowly, and if it is freely removed may never recurwhereas an fepithelioma of the tongue grows very rapidly in most cases, is very prone to return if removed, affects the lymphatic glands very early, and in most cases kills the patient in about a couple of years after its first appearance. The chief clinical differences between epithelioma and the other forms of carcinoma are, speaking generally, that it is not so liable to dissemina- tion and to form secondary growths in internal organs, and that it is not so liable to recur if freely removed. A more favourable prognosis may be given to a patient suffering from cancer of the lip as regards recurrence Fig. 67.—Epithelioma of the face. (From a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)