SECONDARY SYPHILIS frequently affected in this stage of the disease : bald patches caused by destruction of the papilloi may sometimes be seen, and, again, in other cases the opposite condition, hypertrophied papillte, causing little warty growths which are for the most part located in the centre of the tongue, just in front of the circumvallate papillae. Mucous patches are also frequently to be seen on the dorsum of the tongue. Occasionally syphilitic ulcers about the mouth and throat are exceed- ingly intractable; this may sometimes be due to excessive smoking, or to the injudicious administration of too much mercury, or, when they occur on the tongue or cheek, to the irritation of a jagged stump of a tooth; but in addition to the persistence of ulceration from these causes, cases occur in which, without any assignable reason, these ulcers may prove very intractable and slow to heal. The ulceration sometimes assumes a phagedenic form; starting, say, from the tonsil, it may invade the soft palate or the pharynx, and lead to extensive destruction of tissue. It occurs in the later stages of secondary syphilis, and is said usually to accompany the rupial eruption. 3. The eye.— Of the affections of the eye in secondary syphilis, iritis is by far the most common. Other conditions, such as choroiditis and neuro-retinitis, are very rare conditions which are said to occur in secon- dary syphilis ; if so, it is quite in the later stages, and they appear to belong more properly to the intermediate condition, which is sometimes present, between the secondary and tertiary stages. Syphilitic iritis always arises in the secondary stage of syphilis, and generally occurs betAveen three and six months after infection. It generally only attacks one eye, but the other one may suffer subsequently, in spite of successful treatment of the first. The symptoms of this affection are discolouration and irregularity of the iris, and partial or complete immobility of the pupil; a circum-corneal zone of congestion; a varying degree of photophobia, and circum-orbital pain. The discolouration of the iris is due to its infiltration by inflammatory products, and in some cases the lymph effused is deposited in little nodules on the surface of the iris, a characteristic sign of the syphilitic form of the disease. The irregularity and sluggishness of the pupil are due to adhesions, and the former is often much increased by the use of atropine. The diagnosis of the disease from the rheumatic form of iritis is made by the history of the case and the presence of other syphilitic lesions, and by the fact that in this form the congestion and photophobia are less than in the rheumatic, and. that there is no haziness of the cornea. 4. The glands.—Enlargement of the superficial lymphatic glands is of ver)' common occurrence during the stage of secondary syphilis. We have already seen that the oblique chain of glands along Poupart's ligament may become enlarged during the primaiy stage, but not only does this enlargement persist during secondary syphilis, but other glands in different parts of the body also become enlarged. Those lying along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid are the ones most frequently affected, but others, such as the sub-occipital glands, those in the anterior triangle of the neck, the gland in front of the internal epicondyle of the humerus, and the vertical chain of glands below Poupart's ligament, are also very commonly enlarged, and there seems good ground for believing that some of the deep lymphatic glands are also affected. The enlargement is never very great, but the glands can be felt forming a chain of hard, knotty tumours under the skin ; they are freely movable, separate from each