262 GENERAL DISEASES lies during life retracted into the middle of tlie head (fig. 6y). If the scolex dies these hooklets are cast off, and can usually be found in large numbers in the hydatid fluid. The fluid contained in the cysts is a clear, colourless fluid, of a low specific gravity (1004 to 1007), containing a considerable quantity of sodium chloride and no albumen, or, if any, the faintest trace. The cyst may be single, or it may contain daughter cysts, and these in their turn may inclose a third, a fourth, or even more generations. Again, daughter cysts may be formed on the outer surface of the parent cysts by a protrusion of the germinal layer through the cuticular layer of the cyst. Not uncommonly the parasite dies, when the fluid is absorbed, the cyst wall becomes shrunken, and a solid mass, which may calcify, is formed. In this way spontaneous • cure may be effected. In other cases suppuration may occur and the abscess burst externally, and cure be brought about. An hydatid cyst may rup- ture and cause the death of the patient. Symptoms. — The sym- ptoms vary with the position of the cyst. They are those of a collection of fluid in a cavity and those which are produced by pressure upon adjacent parts. A special characteristic is the so-called ' hydatid thrill,' which is, how- ever, by no means always present. It is obtained by placing the tips of the fingers of the left hand on the tumour and then tapping the middle finger; a peculiar vibratory thrill will be perceived in the other fingers. Treatment. — The treat- ment consists in removal of the whole tumour, if practicable; othenvise in exposing and laying open the tumour and evacuating its contents and subsequently draining. When the hydatid cyst is in the abdominal cavity this is most safely accomplished in two operations. The cyst is first exposed, and, if of sufficient thickness to allow of its being done without opening it, is attached to the parietal peritoneum at the margin of the wound in the abdominal wall and left there for four or five days before it is incised. If this cannot be done it must be drawn into the wound and left there, the wound being packed to insure gaping, and after adhesions have formed it must be opened. AVhen the cyst is incised the true cyst wall can generally be evacuated, as it is but loosely adherent to the ectocyst. On no account should an attempt be made to cure an abdominal hydatid by aspiration, for fear of leakage of some of the fluid into the peritoneal cavity, which might be followed by tlie gravest results. Bond has recently advocated the treatment of hydatids by opening the capsule and removing the cyst and its contents, and drojiping back the Fig. 69.—An hydatid, i. A portion of the endocyst; a, the outer, laminated layer ; b, the inner germinal layer ; c, a daughter cyst. 2. A scolex with a stalk or pedicle, the suction discs retracted. 3. A scolex with the suction discs and ring of hooklets protruded. 4. A ring of hooklets.