129 VARICOSE ULCER limb beginning some inches below the level of the sore and contmmng them upwards for some inches above. Each strip is rendered adhesive by dipping in hot carbolic lotion, and is then applied with its centre to the opposite surface to that on which the sore is, and the ends crossed over the ulcer. Each succeeding strip should overiap the one previously applied. A small hole should be cut in the strapping at the most dependent part of the sore, so as to allow the discharge to escape. The whole is then covered with a bandage. The strapping should be removed every other day, or every day if the discharge is considerable. Another plan of applying pressure is by means of Martin's bandage. The sore is covered with a piece of lint soaked in some antiseptic solution (carboHc acid lotion i in 40)—not with ointment which will destroy the bandage—and a piece of waterproof material applied over it. The limb is then evenly bandaged with a Martin's bandage, which should be perforated, to allow of the evaporation of the perspiration. The dressing should be appUed each day before the leg is put to the ground, and care should be taken not to apply it too tightly. Unna of Hamburg recommends a plan which does away with the necessity and consequent expense of Martin's bandage. After cleaning the sore and applying iodoform, he uses an ordinary bandage, which he stiffens with a paste, composed of gelatine, glycerine, oxide of zinc and water, painted over the bandage. This can easily be removed by soaking the limb in hot water, which melts the gelatine, and the dressing can be renewed every day. 6. The irritable ulcer.—Some apply this term to any ulcer which IS intensely painful, but it seems better to restrict it to one particular form of painful ulcer, which generally occurs in women, and is associated with some disorder of the uterine functions. It occurs usually in neurotic women about the period of the menopause, and its favourite seat is just behind one or other malleolus. It is generally small, with somewhat raised edges and a punched-out appearance, and is exquisitely painful, often preventing sleep at night, and wearing out the patient's strength. Treatment.—The most satisfactory treatment is to destroy the whole of the surface of the sore, and this may be done by rubbing it over with a stick of lunar caustic, or, what is better, swabbing it over with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. xl to gi). A warm boracic poultice should then be appUed till the superficial slough separates. At the same time attention must be paid to the uterine condition. 7. The eczematous ulcer is an ulcer where the surrounding skin is the seat of eczema, and it may be that the ulcer is the result of the eczema; but what is more common is that the ulcer existed first, and that the eczema is the result of the too long continued application of a warm, moist dressing. It is especially liable to occur under these circum- stances in ulcers associated with varicose veins, where the circulation in the part is defective. The skin around the ulcer presents a red, shining, glazed, or raw appearance, and there is abundant thin, acrid discharge with an alkaline reaction. The discharge is liable to dry, and forms yellowish crusts. Treatment.—All moist applications must be left off, and the part dusted with oxide of zinc or boracic acid ; or these remedies may be applied in the form of ointment. The condition is often associated with a gouty diathesis, which must be treated. The administration of a little potassio-tartrate of soda and sulphur each morning is often very beneficial. 8. The varicose ulcer is the ulcer arising from or dependent upon a varicose state of the veins of the leg (see fig. 115). It generally occurs at K