6i6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS bones „of the skull may lead to abscess, or pyjiemic abscesses may form in the brain. Abscess of the brain may be acute or chronic. The acute form occurs after compound and especially punctured fractures of the skull, and is usually associated with 'general inflammation of the brain, and cannot be diagnosed as a separate affection. It runs a very acute course, and is accompanied by intense pain in the head, with high fever and probably rio-ors. Symptoms of compression rapidly supervene, and death. ^ Chronic abscess of the brain is most frequently caused by suppuration in the middle ear, but may follow scalp wounds from a septic thrombosis spreading inwards (see page 604). The symptoms are often very obscure, and unless there is some cause, such as discharge from the ear, or an injury which may lead us to suspect the formation of matter, the condition is very liable to be overlooked, especially as the temperature in these cases is often subnormal, and rigors are by no means a constant accompaniment of the disease. Pain in the head—it may be at first general, but after a time becomes localised and fixed—is often the first sign which presents itself. This pain is greatly increased by tapping the skull over its site, and may then sometimes become agonising. Vomiting is almost always present, and may be very persistent. Optic neuritis is a variable sign. In some cases it is to be found in quite the early stage, and is usually more marked on the affected side—it then becomes a valuable sign; but in other cases it does not come on till later, or may not appear at all, so that the absence of optic neuritis must not be looked upon as negativing abscess in the brain. Occasionally epileptic seizures may occur. While these symptoms may be present in most cases, sometimes it happens that they are entirely absent, and the patient becomes comatose and dies without any symptoms, and after death an abscess is found in the brain. If the difficulties of diagnosis of cerebral abscess are great, the difficulties of locahsing it are often greater. If it should be situated in the Rolandic area, the position of the abscess can generally be made out by the presence of localised paresis or paralysis of certain groups of muscles But, as we have seen, these abscesses usually occur in connection with middle ear trouble, and are then situated in the temporo-sphenoidai lobe or the cerebellum. Of the two, abscess in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe is much the more common, and if situated in the anterior part of the lobe might give rise to loss of power in some of the muscles on the opposite side of the body, especially those of the face, and if on the left side to aphasia. On the other hand, if the abscess is in the cerebellum, some amount of want of co-ordination may have been noted in the earlier stage of the disease. The vomiting is also said to be more persistent, and the optic neuritis to develop earlier, where the abscess is in the cerebellum. The matter is not one, however, of vital importance, since, as Mr. Percy Dean has shown, both situations can be explored through the same opening in the skull. . . Treatment.—The only treatment in cases of abscess ot the brain is to trephine the bone and let out the pus. In those cases where an abscess is supposed to exist in other parts of the brain than in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or the cerebellum, the skull must be opened over that region where it is thought that the abscess is situated; but when the abscess is due to middle ear disease and is presumably either in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe or the cerebellum, the operation devised by Mr. Dean should be performed.