320 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES changes toking place in its coats, wliich result in the sac wall being formed of the external coat only, and even this undergoes such changes that after a time very little or no remains of the original tunics of the vessel exist, and the sac wall becomes practically a new formation of fibrous tissue. When the aneurism, in the first instance, is formed of all three coats of the vessel, the inner coat soon gives way, and the muscular coat undergoes fatty degeneration and disappears, and nothing is left but ^ ^ the outer coat, so that we have the same condition as where the two inner coats have been destroyed by atheroma before the formation of the aneurism. The outer coat becomes much thickened, both on its outer and inner surfaces, by a growth of new fibrous tissue; that on the outer surface being caused by a chronic periarteritis, which is set up in the sheath as a result of the pressure of surrounding parts on the sac ; that inside is formed from the organisation of clot which forms on the interior of the sac. With these two layers of new tissue the outer coat becomes incorpo- rated and gradually disappears ; at all events it becomes indistinguish- able from the new fibrous tissue which forms the envelope of the sac. The contents of a sacculated aneurism during life consist of arterial blood, with a varying amount of fibrin applied to the wall of the sac. This fibrin is of a ■ pale buff colour, and is arranged in the form of laminae, which are superimposed one on the top of another, like the layers of an onion. The amount of this laminated fibrin varies : in some instances it may completely fill the sac, and occlude the vessel opening into it, and then the aneurism is said to be cured (fig. 94); in other instances it may form a thick layer partially filling the sac, and then it will be found that the more superficial layers, and therefore the last formed, are softer and more coloured than the deeper parS n some sacculated aneurisms there may be only a small a3nt of m^^^^^^^^ decolourised fibrin dinging to the interior of the sac ^^r^mted fibrin is formed in the following way : in consequence of the chaTges whkh have taken place in the intima this structu e ^cts as a forSgn body and attracts the leucocytes, and owing to this Y\G, 94.—An iuieurism completely filled with fibrin, which has been deposited in laminK. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)