901 INFLAMMATION OF THE RECTUM INFLAMMATION OF THE RECTUM Inflammation of the rectum {proctiiis) may be a simple catarrhal inflammation, or may be septic, from the mfection of gonorrhoea. The catarrhal form may arise from several causes: from large accumu- lations of frecal matter; from the presence of foreign bodies ; from the irritation due to new growths; and in children, from the presence ot threadworms {Oxvuris vermiadaris). To a considerable extent the symptoms resemble those of dysentery, but there is an absence of the constitutional disturbance and abdominal pain of this disease. The symptoms are a sense of heat and pain about the rectum, constant tenesmus, and the passage of blood and mucus, with irritability of the bladder' and frequent desire to pass water. In some cases where the swelling of the' mucous membrane is great, there is a tendency to prolapse. . Treatment.—The treatment consists in confining the patient to bed and restricting him to a fluid diet, which leaves little solid residue. The bowels should be kept relaxed, and nothing is better for this purpose than a teaspoonful of castor oil every morning. For patients who cannot take this, one of the mineral waters may be substituted. The local treatment consists in removal of the cause. The introduction of a suppository composed of iodoform, to which a small quantity of belladonna is added, is often beneficial. Gonorrhoea! proctitis is usually the result of the inoculation from the gonorrhoeal discharge from the organs of generation in the female, but may be produced by direct infection. In these cases the mucous mem- brane becomes greatly swollen and prolapsed. There is intense burning pain, which during defsecation is almost unbearable, and profuse purulent discharge. The treatment consists in hot baths, rest in bed in the recumbent position, low diet, and saline purgatives. The pain may be relieved by the injection of laudanum in starch water; when the acute symptoms have passed off", the injection of a solution of nitrate of silver (two or three grains to the ounce) will usually cause the discharge to cease, and effect a cure. Periproctitis.—By the term periproctitis is meant inflammation of the tissues outside the mucous membrane of the rectum, and these cases usually go on to the formation of abscess. The matter may be found in four d'ifferent situations, (i) As a marginal abscess, situated in one of the cutaneous folds of the anus, superficial to the sphincter ani muscle. (2) As an intermicral abscess, situated between the muscular and mucous coats, or in the substance of the muscular coat. (3) As a peri-rectal abscess, formed in the connective tissue immediately surrounding the rectum ; and (4) as an ischio-rectal ahsce^^, where the matter forms in the loose cellular tissue of the ischio-rectal fos.sa. This latter is the most common situation in which the disease occurs. Causes.—The inflammation may arise from a variety of causes, (i) In a considerable number of cases it owes its origin to some abrasion of the mucous membrane of the rectum—e.g. from the perforation of a fish-bone— and through this abrasion the bacillus coli communis finds its way into the tissues outside the rectum and causes the inflammation. (2) In some cases the septic infection may arise from a little crack about the anus, caused by the pas.sage of a constipated motion. (3) In other cases it may