II04 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS midway between the hour of rising and going to bed. In writing, the paper-should ahvays be placed in a sloping position on the desk, so that the patient sits squarely to the table. In playing the piano the patient should be seated in a straight-backed chair, against which his back should rest. A trapeze should be erected in some easily accessible place, upon which the patient should be instructed to swing himself several times a day. Massage by an experienced rubber should be ordered every day, and the masseuse should have instructions to pay especial attention to the weak and stretched muscles. Finally, gymnastic exercises are a most efficient means of strengthening the weakened muscles. These must be carefully regulated to meet the requirements of each case, those exercises being employed which will exercise the weak muscles and counteract the deformity. Spinal jackets or supports, or even firm tightly fitting corsets, should never be allowed. They only do harm instead of good, by compressing the spinal muscles and causing them to atrophy from disuse, and therefore destroying the means by which the spine is naturally supported. Kyphosis.—This condition is simply an exaggeration of the dorsal curve, and consists in an undue arching of the spine backwards. It occurs (i) in young children, usually as a result of rickets, and in these cases the whole of the spine from the occiput to the sacrum may present one great curve, with its convexity backwards ; (2) in boys or girls from about the age of puberty to that of twenty. In these cases the cun-e usually shows itself most prominently in the upper dorsal region, and hence the name roimd-shoiildered is given to this condition. It arises from persistent habits of stooping and is therefore very common in the myopic; (3) kyphosis may occur in adults in consequence of their fol- lowing some occupation which necessitates constant stooping, as a tailor. It is also of late years of constant occurrence in bicycle riders, when it is known as kitteii-back; (4) finally, it occurs in old men from senile decay. It is in some cases accompanied by a compensatory curve in the lumbar region, which is known as lordosis. It must be carefully distinguished from the antero-posterior curvature of the spine arising from caries of the bodies of the vertebrae, which has already been described (page 765). Here there is an absence of rigidity, at all events in the early stages, and of pain and tenderness on percussion. The disease, like lateral curvature, is mainly due to loss of tone and weak- ness of the spinal muscles, and therefore the treatment is the same : atten- tion to the general health, systematic exercises, and massage. Lordosis is a curving forwards of the spine in the lumbar region produced by an exaggeration of the lumbar curve. It must be looked upon more as a symptom than a disease, and arises as a compensatory curve to restore the equilibrium when from any cause its normal curves are altered. Thus, as we have just seen, it occurs in cases of kyphosis to compensate for the exaggerated dorsal curve backwards, and also in many cases of angular curvature in the upper part of the spine. In the same way it is produced to compensate for the tilting forwards of the pelvis in cases of hip joint disease when the thigh is flexed on the pelvis, and in cases of congenital or unreduced dislocation. It is also seen in cases of pseudo- hypertrophic paralysis, from the muscles being unable to keep the body erect; and in women with large abdomens; -with uterine fibroids ; and temporarily during pregnancy, owing to the increased weight tending to cause the upper part of the spine to be thrown backwards in order to maintain the erect position, and thus producing a compensatory cun-e in