iiio INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Deformities of the lower extremity.—Coxa vara is a deformity of the hip, which has only recently attracted attention, especially in Germany. The deformity is produced by an alteration in the angle between the neck and the shaft of the thigh bone, which is sometimes reduced to a right angle or even in bad cases to an acute angle. The neck of the bone is also bent in a horizontal plane, usually convex forwards, but occasionally backwards. The head of the bone generally becomes distorted. It usually occurs in adolescents, and the alteration of shape is due to the effects of gravity on bones softened by disease. Late rickets and osteomalacia are believed to be the principal causes of the softening of the bones. Cases are also described as occurring in young children, and the alteration in the bones is then due to rickets. Symptoms.—Without any known cause, the patient is noticed to assume a waddling gait. Pain in the hip and knee is often complained of, but there is no local sw-elling or tenderness. The spine is in a condition of lordosis. On examination, the top of the trochanter is found to be above the level of N^laton's line. The limb is shortened and rotated outwards, and often slightly flexed. The movements .of ab- duction and rotation are dis- tinctly limited. The symptoms very much resemble those of congenital dislocation of the hip, from which, in some cases, it is impossible to diagnose it except by means of the Rontgen rays. Treatment.—In the early stages of the disease rest and extension, with attention to hygienic and dietetic measures, may be tried ; but where the disease is advanced and the deformity pronounced, osteo- tomy below the trochanters is the best plan of treatment. Genu valgum (knock- knee) is a very common affec- tion among the children of the poor in this country. It is practically an increase in the angle normally found between the axes of the femur and tibia, so that the inner side of the knee forms the apex of a triangle, the sides of which correspond to the femur and the tibia, and the base to a line drawn from the trochanter to the outer malleolus. It usually affects both extremities in the same subject, but is generally more pronounced on one side than the other (fig. 414) Fig. 414. — Genu valgum.