943 TUBERCULOUS KIDNEY frequently affected, whereas in the primary condition one only may be involved. In addition to this tuberculous condition, the kidney may be the seat of disseminated tuberculosis as a part of a general tuberculous con- dition ; but as this is rarely diagnosed during life, and is not in any way amenable to treatment, it need not be further alluded to. Primary tuberculous disease of the kidney begins as a deposit of grey granulations in the pelvis and calyces of the kidney. These caseate, extend, and invade the kidney substance, and set up a condition of pyo-nephrosis. The mucous and submucous lining of the pelvis of the kidney becomes thickened, and the disease often invades the ureter and extends downwards to the bladder. The tissues around the kidney may become involved, and a peri-nephritic abscess form, which may burst externally. In the form of the disease which extends upwards from the bladder, the ureter is first involved; the mucous and submucous coats become the sefit of tubercle and thickened by the formation of granulation tissue. The disease then invades the pelvis of the kidney, and its lining mem- FiG. 359.—Tuljerculous disease of the kidney. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) brane undergoes the same changes; finally the disease spreads to the kidney substance, which becomes a mass of caseous material, breaking down into curdy pus (fig. 359). The kidney or kidneys become enlarged and lobulated, and can usually be detected by examination through the abdominal wall. Symptoms.—The early symptoms of tuberculous kidney are often referred to the bladder, and the condition may be mistaken for cystitis. A patient applies complaining of great irritation of the bladder, and constant desire to pass water, with scalding during the act of micturition. The urine is examined and found to contain pus, and the case is at once put down as one of cystitis. The fact that the urme is acid and not alkaline, as it usually is in cystitis, should at once put the .surgeon on his guard, and cause him to make a little more careful examination. He will then find probably that there is a dull aching pain in the loin, not as a rule, as in stone in the kidney, radiating to the groin or testicle, and upon examination of the abdomen some enlargement of one or both kidneys may be detected,