CxONORRHGEAL SYNOVITIS 535 Treatment.—The treatment consists in laying the joint freely open and thoroughly washing away every trace of the irritating fluid by flushing with large quantities of weak antiseptic fluid or hot sterilised water. If this is done in quite the early stage of the disease, before any destructive chanQ;es have set in, it may be possible to arrest the progress of the inflammation, and the patient may recover, with the movements of the joint but little impaired. ^Vhat more generally happens' is that a con- siderable amount of contraction and thickening of the capsule is left, and the functions of the joint are very much interfered with. But in the majority of cases, in spite of the most thorough flushing of the joint, the disease goes on to total destruction of the articulation, if the patient lives ; for in many of these cases the patient succumbs to the presence of septic matter in the blood. The general treatment must be conducted on the lines laid down in speaking of the treatment of septi- caemia. 4. Gonorrhoea! synovitis.—This form of synovitis is also possibly due to an infective cause operating from within through the blood. But it differs in some respects from those cases of acute infective syno- vitis which we have just been considering. It rarely if ever runs on to suppuration ; those cases in which gonorrhceal synovitis does run on to this condition being probably pyfemia, due to the infection by pyogenic organisms. It is supposed to be brought about by the infection of the synovial membrane by gonococci (the micrococci gonorrhoea), carried from the urethra by the blood stream; but this is by no means certain, for, as far as we know, this gonococcus is aerobic and cannot be propagated in the blood; and though Petrone and Kammerer are said to have found the micro-organism in the fluid of a knee joint in a case of gonorrhceal rheumatism, this observation has not been confirmed by others. Symptoms.—The disease in the great majority of cases affects the knee, though other joints, especially the ankle and the wrist, are affected at the same time. It usually occurs in the young adult, and is much more common in the male than the female. It is said to especially attack the rheumatic or gouty subject, and generally occurs in weak anaemic men. The disease generally commences somewhat insidiously with pain in one or more joints; the pain is not usually very acute, but is constant and is worse at night. This is accompanied by swelling, due principally to infiltration of the tissues around the joint, with a small amount of effusion into it. In other cases the disease begins much more suddenly, with acute pain and considerable efiiision into the joint. Accompanying these local signs there is always a certain amount of constitutional disturbance. In the acuter cases, when there is rapid efl"usion, this is often considerable; but even in the less acute form, a slight nightly elevation of the temperature, with accelerated pulse and furred tongue, will be noted. The disease is very chronic and intractable, and is liable to terminate in permanent stiffness of the joint from fibrous adhesions taking place within it. Treatment.—The first indication in the treatment is to stop the dis- charge from the urethra; until this is done and the cause of the articular trouble is removed, there can be no prospect of cure. The disease is not usually .set up until the gonorrhoea has assumed the sub-acute or gleety stage, and the usual remedies for this should be administered. In ni\' hands the introduction of an iodoform and oil of eucalyptus bougie (gr. v of each) into the urethra every night, for five or si.\ nights, has been attended with good results. Internally the best remedies are quinine