GENERAL DISEASES 226 original scab before it, until by a repetition of this process a horny growth, someti^mes several inches in length, is formed (fig. 46), consisting of the dried sebaceous material, which has become black from exposure to the air. The treatment of these tumours consists in their removal. Occasionally they may be cured by inserting a fine probe into the occluded duct, so as to open it up, and then periodically squeezing out the contents. Generally, however, if the tumour is of any size, or at all unsightly, it is better to remove it; but if it is small, not increasing in size, and producing no disfigurement, it may safely be left, the patient being told that it may at any time begin to grow without any assignable cause, and that then it will need- removal. The mode of operating differs somewhat according to the situation of the tumour. When it is on the scalp, the sac wall is thick, and all that is necessary is to expose the tumour by an incision and shell it out with the scoop of a director. No sutures are required afterwards, as the edges of the wound fall into apposition, and all that is necessary is to cover it with a pad of antiseptic gauze, which is bandaged on and left in position for three or four days, when the wound will be found to be healed. When the tumour is situated on the face, it may require dissecting out, or, on the other hand, it may be possible to drag it out by seizing it with a pair of forceps. It should be exposed by an in- cision and an attempt made to drag it out with the forceps ; should this not succeed, it must be dissected out, care being taken to remove every particle of the cyst wall, otherwise a troublesome sinus will be left. These wounds require suturing, so as to leave as little scar as possible. 'When sebaceous tumours occur on other parts of Fig. 46.—Horny growth removed the body they generally require dissecting from the face. (From the Mu- out. semii of St. George's Hospital.) Qther examples of retention cysts occur on the mucous surfaces, originating in the same way by the retention of the natural secretion of some secreting surface. The best example of this is a nmula, which arises from the reten- tion of the secretion in one of the mucous crypts in the floor of the mouth. They will be described with diseases of that part of the body. Many cases of dropsy of the atitrum belong to the same class, and are due to the same cause—retention of the secretion in one of the mucous cr3'pts of the antral cavity. Cysts in the labia of the female from collection of the secretion in one of the glands of Bartholin, or more rarely in the male the collection of the secretion in one of Cowper's glands, give rise to a retention cyst. Finally, a third example of retention cyst may be found in the dilata- tion of some large duct of a gland, the orifice of which has become occluded and the secretion of the gland retained in the duct. A good illustration of this is the galactocele of the female breast during lactation. The orifice of one of the milk ducts becomes obliterated, and the milk which is secreted, being unable to find an exit, collects in the tube and forms a retention cystic tumour, II. Cysts of new formation.—Cysts of new formation com- prise a much larger and more important group of cystic tumours than