744 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS or injury there follows a condition of nerve exhaustion, due to excessive irritability and weakness of the brain and spinal cord, without any lesion in these structures themselves ; the other where the symptoms are probably due to chronic inflammatory changes in the cord. I, Page, who has devoted a good deal of attention to this subject, is inclined to class all cases of so-called railway spine in the first group. He believes that the condition is produced by a wrench or strain, involving the muscles, ligaments, and other extra-spinal structures, accompanied by severe shock, terror, and mental derangement, the result of the circum- stances of the accident in which the patient has been placed. As a consequence of the general violence, and also, more especially, of the alarming circumstances of the accident, a condition of nerve prostration or exhaustion (neurasthenia) is set up, which is often exaggerated by a con.siderable element of hysteria; and as an outcome of this there is nervousness, restlessness, and sleeplessness, with derangement of the circulatory and digestive organs. Moreover, the strain to the muscular and ligamentous structures of the back induces a stiffness and incapacity of the spinal muscles and ligaments, which are no longer able to support the spine, and cannot be called into action without pain. Thus a con- dition of pseudo-paralysis is set up because the patient is afraid to move his legs on account of the pain. By reason of the same muscular incapacity there may be difficulty in deftecation and micturition, or even retention of urine. In this way the symptoms which' are present in the condition known as railway spine are set up. The symptoms may come on immediately after the accident, the patient from the first lying helpless and prostrate ; but more usually they appear after a variable lapse of time, during which, though he may have been occupied in his daily work, he has never felt perfectly well or completely restored from the effects of the injury. He has found that he cannot concentrate his attention or apply himself to work, that he has had constant headache and pain in the back. The incapacity of the muscles of the back and the pain on movement cause an inability to support the weight of the body and a difficulty in moving the legs. The patient com- plains and fully believes that he is unable to walk, and fears that he is about to become paralysed, more especially if there is retention of urine, or even difficulty in micturition. This produces a condition of mental despondency, and the nervousness and depression may be extreme. The countenance is paUid, worn, and anxious looking, and the thoughts are confused, and great fatigue and exhaustion are complained of after an attempt to perform any work either mental or physical. Palpitation is complained of, and there is often irregularity of the heart's action The sleep is disturbed, and the patient dreams much, the dreams being usually of a distressing character. The patient is highly emotional, wont to burst out into fits of hysterical crying, and all these_ symptoms are aggravated by mental excitement. There are, in fact, a train of symptoms which point conclusively to a depression and lowering in tone of the nervous system. . The prognosis in these cases is generally favourable, the_ patieni usually recovering after a period of rest and change of air; but m some cases recovery does not take place, the patient drifts into a chronic ana often bedridden invalid, or he is carried off by some intercurrent disease. Treatment.—The treatment consists in the early stage in rest, Dot mental and bodily, accompanied by healthy hygienic surroundings an