266 GENERAL DISEASES entrance ...being between the toes or under the toe nails. Here she remains until her eggs reach maturity, causing inflammation and suppuration in the surrounding tissues. If the embryos become diffused into the tissues around, they may cause troublesome ulceration and the formation of sinuses. Treatment.—As soon as the insect effects an entrance, it should be removed entire with the point of a needle. If it is injured during extraction, a point of caustic should be introduced into the little opening. THE GUINEA WORM The Guinea worm {Dracunculus ; Filaria medmensis) is a nema- tode worm, peculiar to tropical climates, especially the West Coast of Africa. The ova of this worm appears to reside in the mud of tanks and ponds. Here it perforates the skin of a minute aquatic crustacean of the genus Cyclops, which acts as an intermediate host, and here it attains its full larval condition. It is then transferred, together with its host, to the stomach of man, in the water which he drinks. According to Fedschenko, the larva consists of both male and female, and impregnation takes place in the stomach, after which the male perishes and the female bores her way to the surface of the body, generally of the lower extremity. _ Here it develops into a worm of from three to six feet in length, which lies coiled up in the tissues. It is cylindrical in shape, of a white colour, and has a rounded head. Eventually a vesicle is formed, which bursts and the head protrudes. Symptoms.—The symptoms consist in the formation of an elongated swelling, not unlike a thrombosed vein, generally on the lower extremit)- This is followed by the formation of a vesicle on its summit, which bursts and discharges a fluid, which is sometimes clear and sometimes turbid. Acute, deep-seated inflammation may now be set up in the tissues around with severe constitutional disturbance. Treatment.—If possible the entire worm should be excised ; if this cannot be done, it is better to allow it to discharge itself spontaneously and not to attempt to drag it out, as is sometimes done by the natives in those countries where the disease is endemic. There is danger of the worm being torn and part being left in the tissues, when its decomposition induces severe suppuration and serious general symptoms. TRICHINA SPIRALIS The trichina spiralis is a nematode worm which has its habitat in the muscles of many of the mammalia, but especially the pig. 'When introduced into the alimentary canal of the human being it develops embryos, which find their way into the voluntary muscles, and there take up their abode. The disease generally arises from eating 'measly pork,' which has been imperfectly cooked. When introduced into the alimen- tary canal of man they develop with extraordinary rapidity, and generate a large number of embryos, which find their way through the lymph stream into the general circulation, and are carried in the blood to the muscles, where they become fixed. The embryo here develops into a worm, which assumes a roUed-up form, inclosed in a capsule formed by