PHENOMENA 7 apparently entirely upon the nature of the irritant employed to excite the inflammation. , • r .1 1 • The explanation of the cause of the dilatation of the vessels m an inflamed part has been shown by Lord Lister to be due to a temporary paralysis of their coats. He arrived at this conclusion from observations made upon the pigment cells in the web of a frogs foot. If the frogs foot is examined under the microscope it will be found to contain a large quantity of pigment cells, not only in the skin, but in the deeper tissues and especially along the blood-vessels. The protoplasm of these cells is always in active motion. At one time, if the frog is in a light room, so that there is abundant access of Ught to the frog's eye, the protoplasm contain- incr the pi^^ment granules retreats into the centre of the cells, where it becomes collected into a somewhat rounded mass and the frog becomes U<^ht in colour If now the animal is removed into a dark room, or if the liaht is shut out from the frog's eye, the pigment-bearing protoplasm, leavincr the centre of the cell, becomes diff"used throughout various ramifica- tions of the cells, which were previously not visible, and the whole tissue becomes permeated by pigment, and as a result the animal becomes dark. This phenomenon appears, therefore, to be a kind of reflex act excited by the access of light to the animal's eye. Now if an irritant is applied to the part, no change takes place in the irritated area, though changes as usual take place in surrounding parts. Supposing, for instance, that the animal is in a light room, and therefore the pigment granules are aggregated in the centre of the cell when the irritant is applied, and that then the room is darkened or the light shut out from the frog's eyes, no changes whatever will take place in the pigment granules contained in the cells in the irritated area—they will still remain stationary in the middle of the cell; whereas in the cells outside the irritated area the pigment will become cliff"used throughout the tissue. The converse of this is also true : if, at the time of the application of the irritant, the pigment is diff"used, from the light having been excluded from the animal's eyes, no collection into the centre of the cell will take place in the irritated area if light is admitted _to_ the eyes, though it will do so throughout the rest of the foot. If the irritant is a temporary one, recovery gradually takes place; after a certain lapse of time the pigment begins to move, sluggishly at first, then with more vigour, and finally no diff"erence can be observed in its movements from those which it had before the experiment was commenced. It is quite clear, therefore, that there is a temporary arrest of function or paralysis in these pigment cells as the direct result of the injury produced by the irritant ; and if in these cells, it seems probable that the same temporary paralysis would aff'ect all the cells of the part, including those of which the vessels are composed, and it seems reasonable to assume that the dilatation of the vessels is due to a temporary paralysis of them. But this explanation does not quite explain the whole of the phenomenon, for it is found that not only the vessels in the irritated area, and which alone could be affected by the irritant, are dilated, but also the vessels for some considerable area around—vessels which are quite beyond the action of the irritant, and which therefore cannot be in a condition of temporary paralysis. The dilatation in these vessels is believed to be due, as was mentioned in speaking of active congestion (see page 3), to a reflex act due to irrita- tion of the sensory nerves of the part. The cause, therefore, of the first phenomenon of inflammation—viz. dilatation of the blood-vessels—may be