245 SPINDLE-CELLED SARCOMA to a great extent on the structure of the individual sarcoma and its origin ; and it may be laid down as a broad rule that the nearer a sarcoma approaches in structure to fully formed connective tissue, the less malignant will it be. Most sarcomata grow rapidly, but this rule has exceptions, some of the tumours increase in size slowly. With regard to their consis- tence they may vary within the widest limits, from a semi-fluid growth to one having the consistency of cartilage or bone. They may be distinctly circumscribed or they may be diffuse, so that it is impossible to limit them and to exactly define the spot where the healthy structure ceases and the morbid growth begins, for it must be distinctly understood that the sarcomata are infiltrating growths, and even in those cases where they appear to be circumscribed and distinctly limited, the tissues around are deeply involved in the disease. Some of the sarcomata, especially some of those growing from bone, are so vascular that the tumour pulsates ex- pansively, and on auscultation a loud bruit may be heard. Varieties.—The shape of the cells in sarcomatous tumours naturally divides them into three divisions: (a) the round-celled; (^) the spindle-celled; and (y) the myeloid-celled; but in Fig. 55.—Round-celled sarcoma. Fig. 56.—Spindle-celled sarcoma. Diagrammatic. Diagrammatic. f(. The round-celled sarcoma (fig. 55).—The round-celled sarcomata may grow from any part of the body where there is connective tissue, but occur principally in the skin and subcutaneous tissues, in the bones and periosteum, the glands and viscera. They consist of round cells; in some tumours small and resembling leucocytes; in others of larger size; embedded in a small amount of homogeneous or fibrillated intercellular substance. They are soft, pulpy, whitish or grey, and were formerly known by the name of encephaloid cancer. They are very vascular and often present patches of extravasation where vessels have given way. They grow very rapidly, often attain a large size, and become disseminated in the internal organs. The lymphatic glands are also frequently affected. Their mahg- nancy is of a most pronounced type. ft. The spindle-celled sarcoma (fig. 56).—The spindle-celled sarcomata are found in connection with the skin and subcutaneous tissue, or growmg from fascice, especially the deeper layers of the periosteum of long bones and the bones of the face. They also occur in the breast, testicle, and eye.