9o8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the venous Ijlood is impeded, and the tributaries of the hemorrhoidal veins become turgid with blood, and this is apt to lead to their permanent dilatation. A sedentary occupation, alcoholic excess, and constipation, by leading to congestion of the liver, must also be reckoned as predisposing causes of piles. Classification and Pathology.—Hoemorrhoids are usually classified as external and internal: the former being situated outside the verge of the anus, and being covered by skin; the latter being within the gut and covered by mucous membrane. But in addition to these, there are a third group, which are situated partly within and pardy without the anus, and are covered on one face by skin and on the other by mucous membrane. These are known as the intero-external or marginal piles. The internal structure of all is, however, the same ; and except as regards their external covering, there is no essential difference in their structure. Upon making a section of a pile, it presents a sponge-like appearance, being made up of a number of cysts, varying in size and covered by a smooth endothelial lining, similar to that found in blood-vessels. These are the dilated veins. They are bound together by a varying amount of connective tissue, in which moderately large arteries ramify. In the external pile there may be simply one large cyst, which is the varicose vein, surrounded by a considerable development of subcutaneous fibro- areolar tissue j and occasionally the cyst may be* filled with clotted blood when the pile has become thrombosed. External piles form defined tumours which surround the anus. They are, under ordinary circumstances, soft, easily compressible, and can be emptied of their contents. They vary in size, and are generally, from thinning of the skin over them, of a purplish hue. During strammg they become enlarged and tense. They usually cause little inconvenience. There may be a sense of pain during defsecation, and a feeling of weight, fullness and discomfort afterwards, and probably a sensation of moisture about the part. But beyond this, the patient is hardly conscious that anything is wrong, until the pile suddenly becomes thrombosed. This is believed to be due to a phlebitis set up by the presence of the bacillus coli communis, which has effected an entrance into the pile through an abrasion produced by the passage of a hard motion, or some such cause. Then acute symptoms are set up, and the patient is said to have an ' attack of the piles.' The tumour becomes hard and exquisitely tender, and the parts around red, hot, swollen, and cedematous. Great pain is complained of, and the patient is unable to assume the sitting posture, and the act of deftecation is indescribably painful. There is considerable fever and malaise, pain in the back, a raised temperature, and a furred tongue. If the condition is allowed to go on, the inflammation terminates very often in suppuration ; the abscess points and bursts, giving exit to broken- down blood clot, and an immediate relief to the symptoms, and a spontaneous cure of the pile. It may, however, leave a marginal fistula behind. Treatment.—By far the most efficient way of treating these cases is to give the patient gas, or cocainise the part, and make an incision into the pile and turn out the clot, upon the appearance of the signs enumerated above. This will be at once followed by a relief from the pain, and a subsidence of the other symptoms. Ihe little cavity will speedily heal up from the bottom, and the pile will be per- manently cured, a little fringe or tag of skin being merely left to denote