876 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS of fluid is usually found in the sac. In the early stage this is generally a clear Serous fluid, or it may be blood-stained from the giving way of engorged vessels in the congested gut. Later on, it becomes brownish and turbid, and may be even purulent. It is often very offensive, having a distinct fsecal odour, even although the gut is not perforated. The tissues outside the sac are in the early stage unaffected, unless they have been bruised by forcible taxis, but later on they become swollen and oedematous, and after a time gangrenous. They then give way, and in this manner a natural cure may be effected with the formation of an artificial anus. When a portion of bowel has been strangulated, and the cause of the strangulation is removed, it will be found that the bowel at the seat of stricture presents a white ring where it has been nipped. Here the bowel is perfectly anfemic ; and ulceration, followed by perforation, may take place at this part, the ulceration commencing on the mucous surface and gradually extending through the muscular to the serous coat. When omentum is strangulated it becomes engorged, and of a dark red or purplish colour, and eventually black. In some cases it may become actually gangrenous, when it is ashy grey, soft, and pultaceous ; if, however, it has contracted adhesions to the sac wall, it may receive sufficient nutri- tive supply through these to maintain its vitality. Symptoms.—The first symptom of strangulated hernia is severe pain at the site of protrusion, most usually occurring during some laborious effort or severe straining, and accompanied by a sudden swelling, if the hernia is congenital and has never appeared before; or by the forcing down of the rupture larger than it has been before, if a reducible hernia already exists. In cases where there is an irreducible hernia it becomes harder and fuller. This sudden descent is usually attended with shock; the patient becomes cold and faint, and breaks out into a cold sweat; there is a feeling of nausea, and perhaps actual vomiting. This shock is not very prolonged, but the pain increases in severity and radiates over the abdomen. The sensation of sickness increases, and the patient vomits, first the contents of his stomach, then bile-stained fluid, which after a time becomes brown and offensive and finally stercoraceous. The bowels may act once, but as a rule there is absolute constipation from the first, and the patient passes neither flatus nor faeces. The abdomen becomes tense, tender, and tym- panitic. There is great constitutional depression, and the patient is speedily exhausted, so that in a few hours the strong vigorous man is utterly prostrate. The pulse is rapid and feeble ; the temperature falls; the face is pinched and the eyes sunken, and the expression is one of intense anxiety. There is great thirst, and the tongue is dry and brown. Locally, the tumour, if a hernia has existed already, is larger than usual. It is tense and hard, and extremely tender and pairiful. It is absolutely irreducible, dull on percussion, and without any impulse on coughing. . c ■ A The advent of gangrene is usually marked by a cessation of pain ana by an increase in the collapse. The patient gets hiccough, and the surface of his body becomes covered with a cold sweat. The vomiting continues, and the vomit comes up in gushes. He Hes in bed restless and utterly prostrated, and dies of toxaemia, due to the absorption ot poisonous products from the putrefying contents of his intestinal canal, or from exhaustion and acute septic peritonitis. The tuniour, when gangrene has supervened, becomes softer and the tension in it diminisnea. The skin over it is dusky red, and emphysema may be present in tne