417 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES applied to the whole circumference of the limb and the passive movements niore thoroughly carried out. In another week (twenty-one days from the commencement of the treatment) the fracture will be so far con- solidated as to allow of the patient getting up and going about on crutches. The massao-e should be continued until firm consolidation has taken place and the bone is soundly united, which will be at a much earlier period than in cases treated without massage. In fractures of the bones of tlie le^^ the union is usually perfectly strong in five or six weeks, and quite sufficient to bear the weight of the body. I have seen patients bearing the whole weight of the body on the fractured limb at the end ot torn- weeks ; and at the end of that time there is no rigidity or fixation, the patient is able to move the muscles with as much freedom as on the uninjured side. This plan of treatment is especially valuable in fractures in the neighbourhood of or involving joints. But in these cases the treat- ment has to be conducted with extreme care, as it is necessary from the first to daily remove the limb from the splint in order to perform the necessary massage. In a case, for instance, of Pott's fracture, it is necessary every day to remove the leg from the back splint before massage can be applied to the injured part, but with care and caution this may be done without disturbing the position of the fragments, and there are no cases which so well repay a little extra trouble and attention on the part of the surgeon. In addition to the advantages above alluded to in the treatment of fractures by these means, namely, a more rapid union and an avoidance of the stiffness and rigidity which attends the ordinary treatment of fracture, treatment by massage is attended by other advantages. It materially relieves pain : it has been our constant experience at St. George's Hospital to find that patients suffering intense pain from the injury are at once soothed by the application of the first massage, so that it is a matter of daily experience to find them falling asleep before the first sitting is completed. Again, it at once allays muscular spasm, which is often a complication which interferes materially with the well-being of a fracture. Under the influence of massage this spasm is relieved, and this source of danger, on account of its liability to cause displacernent of the frag- ments, removed. Two objections have been raised to this mode of treat- ment.' One of these is that the constant movement of the limb may interfere with union. In answer to this all that can be said is that so far our experience would tend to disprove this, but a more extended trial must be made before we can be in a position to express a decided opinion either the one way or the other. The other objection carries perhaps more weight. It is that a thrombus may be lodged, in these cases, in a lacerated or injured vein, and that this thrombus may be displaced by the massage and carried into the circulation, producing pulmonary embolism. This accident would probably only occur very rarely, but the possibility of its doing so indicates that the utmost gentleness should be observed for the first ten days. In some cases of oblique fracture it is sometimes impossible to maintain the fractured ends in apposition either by splints or extension ; under these circumstances it is desirable that the fracture should be exposed by an incision through the skin and the broken ends wired or screwed together. And again, in other fractures, such as transverse fracture of the patella or olecranon, where there is great separation of the fragments and difficulty in approximating them, the same treatment may be adopted. Mr. Arbuthnot Lane has advised that this operation