926 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS improves the chances of a successful result after Kraske's operation by diverting the feeces from the wound during the process of healing. Should the case prove successful, the artificial anus in the inguinal region can be closed at a subsequent operation, as has been done in one if not more instances. Kraske's operation is performed as follows : The rectum is first thoroughly cleansed by swabs on long forceps, soaked in i in 500 corrosive sublimate solution, as high up as can be reached, or by irrigation with the same fluid. The patient is then turned over to the right almost on to his face, and an incision is made in the middle line of the body from the centre of the sacrum down to the anus. This incision is carried down to the bone, and all the structures separated from the posterior surface of the sacrum as far as its lateral border, with an elevator. The attachments of the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments to the sacrum are thus exposed and are to be divided. By introducing the elevator round the margin of the sacrum on to its anterior surface, the structures on this surface are raised from the bone, including the pyriformis, the coccygeus, the sphincter and the levator ani. The coccyx is now to be removed and a portion of the lateral border of the sacrum. With a chisel and mallet a cut is to be made commencing at the left border of the bone on a level with the third posterior sacral foramen, and carried down through the fourth foramen to the left cornu of the sacrum. This will remove sufficient bone to freely expose the rectum without injuring any of the sacral nerves or opening the sacral canal. The connections of the rectum are now to be torn through and the gut isolated by the fingers; this can easily be accom- plished behind and at the sides, but in front care must be taken in separa- tin<^ it from the bladder and prostate in the male and the vagina in the female After isolation the gut must be carefully palpated to ascertain the upper limit of the disease ; if this extends to beyond the point to which it has been isolated, the recto-vesical or recto-vaginal pouch of peritoneurn must be deliberately opened and the fold at the bottom of the pouch divided across, and the meso-rectum severed to a sufficient extent to reach well above the upper limit of the disease. So far the operation has been conducted without any fear of contamination, but now the greatest care will have to be exercised. A loop of elastic tubing fixed by a clamp should be made to encircle the bowel above the point where it is intended to divide it, and the parts packed round with sponges or plugs of gauze ihe bowel is divided, and the cut ends at once wiped with gauze and dusted with iodoform. The lower part of the bowel has now to be dealt with, it the anal portion is free from disease it may be left, and the diseased portion cut away by dividing the bowel between the seat of the disease and the anus If the disease extends too low for this, the anus must be cut away. The edges of the wound in the peritoneum after careful cleansing are now to be carefully sutured. If the anal portion has been left, the upper part of the gut may be drawn down and sutured to it. If the anal portion has been removed, an attempt should be made to bring the upper part down and suture it to the opening in the perineum ; or if this is impossible or causes too much tension, it maybe brought out at the upper part ot the wound behind and fixed to the skin in this situation. The parts must now be thoroughly irrigated and the external wound closed, drainage tubes having been inserted, as union of the upper segment of the gut to tne lower often fails in a part of its extent.