TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOUS SARCOCELE 1035 and glazed, and then gives way, and a discharge of curdy pus takes place. The openings thus formed contract into fistulous tracks, which constantly discharge a small amount of puriform fluid. There are no special symptoms by which implication of the vesiculcE seminales is indicated, but the enlargement of these bodies can be felt by digital examination through the rectum, and this should always be done before the line of treatment is decided upon and a prognosis given. After the disease has extended to the bladder, pain, great irritability of the bladder, and dysuria supervene (see page 956). The prognosis of tuberculous testicle is very bad. In the majority of cases the patient dies either from general dissemination, phthisis, or extension of the disease to the bladder and kidneys. Occasionally, however, one meets with instances where the disease remains local, and after a time any caseating cavities which have formed heal up, and the patient may live to old age with a withered testicle. Treatment.—There is some difference of opinion among surgeons as to the treatment of tuberculous testicle. Some surgeons hold that as soon as the disease is recognised, the testicle should be removed ; others think that in the first instance medical treatment should be adopted if the disease is seen in the early stage, before caseation has commenced. I must confess to being of the latter opinion, certainly among the better class of patients, who can afford to carry out the medical treatment in its entirety. In spite of the removal of the testicle a large percentage of cases die, and especially in those instances where the vas deferens and vesicute seminales are involved, so that the whole of the disease cannot be extirpated, and it is an undoubted fact that a certain percentage of cases do recover when medical treatment is fully carried out. The great essen- tial in the constitutional treatment of this disease is plenty of fresh air, and especially sea air. The patient should reside at the seaside, or what, in some respects, is better, take a long sea voyage, and should be almost constantly in the open air. If he is on land, he should sleep in a well- ventilated bedroom, with the window always open day and night; if he is at sea, his cabin should also be carefully selected and well ventilated; the principal objection to a sea voyage being the small and stuffy cabin in which the patient has to pass the night. The diet should be carefully regulated; plenty of easily digestible, nourishing food should be given. Salt-water baths, or in summer sea bathing, should be recommended, and in fact everything should be done which will improve the health and hygienic surroundings of the patient. In the way of medicines, cod-liver oil, iron, especially the syrup of the iodide of iron, and other tonics should be given. Iodoform in pills two or three times a day some- times appears to do good, if it does not upset the stomach. The local treatment consists simply in supporting the testicle in a suspensory bandage. If in spite of this treatment no improvement takes place, but the tuberculous nodules begin to soften, indicating that caseation has taken place, operative interference will have to be resorted to. This may consist in either castration or erasion; of these castration holds out the best prospect of ultimate success, especially in those cases where the seminal vesicle is not enlarged and indurated ; but even where this organ is enlarged, castration should still be resorted to, as cases are occasionally met with where after removal of the testicle, and therefore the original focus of the disease, the enlargement of the vesicle gradually subsides. In operating in these case.s, as much of the vas deferens as is possible should