IOI3 CHAPTER XVI INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM Contusions of the scrotum are common, and on account of the large amount of loose connective tissue the extravasation of blood rapidly spreads through it, and the scrotum may become swollen to the size of a foetal head or even larger and be perfectly black. Still, these injuries are rarely followed by any serious consequences. They may be compli- cated with effusion of blood into the tunica vaginalis constituting hsematocele, which will be considered later; or by rupture of the urethra, with extravasation of urine and consequent sloughing. The treatment consists in supporting the testicles in a scrotal sling and applying cold evaporating lotions. Wounds of the scrotum are often extensively lacerated. Sometimes the whole scrotum may be torn off", and the testicles hang exposed or be implicated in the injury. In consequence of the retraction of the dartos in wounds of the scrotum implicating the tunica vaginaUs, the testicles may be prolapsed. They must be replaced in their natural cavity, and the wound sutured. Wounds of the scrotum are prone to rapid union. They must be treated on ordinary principles. The scrotum is sometimes cleft in cases of hypospadias (see page 990). Eczema of the scrotum is a common condition, where there is dribbling of urine from any cause, and has a tendency to spread to neighbouring parts and cause great pain and discomfort to the patient. It must be treated by removal of the cause. Parasites.—Pediculi pubis invade the scrotum, and are caused by direct contagion. They cause great itching, and can be seen by the naked eye. The treatment consists in applying some form of mercurial, of which a solution of corrosive sublimate of the strength of i in 500 is the best. (Edema of the scrotum occurs as secondary to disease of some other organ, as in cardiac, renal, or hepatic dropsy; but in addition to this a primary inflammatory oedema is liable to be set up from some local irritation as a crack or fissure in the skin, and is of importance as it is attended with great swelling, and is likely to end in rapid sloughing. The treatment consists in making free incisions to let out the eff"used fluid, applying hot fomentations, and elevating the parts by means of a scrotal sling. Elephantiasis of the scrotum {Lymph scrotum) has already been described (page 383). Non-malignant tumours of the scrotum.—Neevus is the most common form of innocent tumour of the scrotum, and is not infrequently seen in young children. It is to be treated on the same