ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE 981 Treatment. — The patient should be confined to bed and put upon a bland diet. In the early stages leeches should be applied to the perineum, and be followed by hot fomentations. A hot hip bath will often gu-e great relief. The bowels should be kept loose, to prevent any hardened masses of fjeces in the rectum pressing on the inflamed gland. If the pain is extreme it is best subdued by morphia suppositories, to which extract of belladonna may be added with advantage. If retention occurs, the bladder should be emptied by passing a medium size red-rubber catheter, or if there is any difficulty in introducing this, a black coud6 catheter should be used. Occasionally the passage of the instrument may rupture the abscess and lead to the evacuation of the pus. If, however It does not do so, and there is evidence that suppuration has set in, the patient should be placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision made in the median line of the perineum and carried deeply until the pus is reached A drainage tube must then be inserted. Chronic inflammation of the prostate gland, or chronic prostatitis—Chronic inflammation of the prostate is usually the sequel of the acute, especially when the acute disease has been set up by gonor- rhoea, and a gleet persists after the acute symptoms have subsided. It may also result from excessive sexual intercourse or masturbation, and some- times is a comphcation of stricture of the urethra. The organ is enlarged and indurated from inflammatory exudation, and this may gradually break down and form a chronic abscess in the substance of the gland. Symptoms.—The patient complains of pain and weight in the perineum, which is increased by exercise, especially riding on horseback, and by sexual intercourse. There is some irritability of the bladder, and pain in the extremity of the penis towards the end of the act of micturition. The urine contains a variable amount of glairy discharge, which is expelled with the urine last voided from the bladder, and upon examination fine threads of mucus—casts of the prostatic ducts—may be seen floating in it. To this the name o'iprostatorrhxa is given, and the condition is often mistaken by the patient for spermatorrhoea. There is usually constipation, and the passage of a solid motion is attended by pain and the discharge of mucus and threads, which is mistaken for semen. Upon examination per rectum the prostate is felt to be enlarged and tender to the touch. Treatment.—The treatment consists, in the first instance, in improving the patient's general health. Tonics, especially strychnia and iron; a carefully regulated diet; change of air, and more particularly sea-air and •sea-bathing, are indicated. The bowels must be kept freely open by laxa- tives. As regards local treatment, blisters to the perineum are recom- mended, and sometimes do good. If they fail, the injection of a solution of nitrate of silver (10 or 15 grs. to gj) to the prostatic urethra is often toUovved by the best results. This is applied by means of a catheter which IS perforated at its extremity by a number of small openings and carries a piston, to the end of which an elongated piece of sponge is attached which IS saturated with the solution. When the piston is pressed home it squeezes the solution out of the sponge through the openings in the catheter, which IS introduced into the prostatic urethra. A cold sitz bath (temperature 35°F.) every night is recommended by some in these cases. If a chronic abscess •should form, it will be detected by examination per rectum, and must be opened by an incision in the middle line of the perineum. Senile enlargement of the prostate.-This is a disease which occurs in advanced life, seldom appearing before the age of fifty or