GASTRO-ENTEROSTOMY 823 protrude faces the operator, and the hole in the plate corresponds to the wound in the gut. The two lateral sutures, which have previously been armed with a needle, are now passed through the wall of the gut by intro- ducing the needle from the mucous surface outwards near the edges of the opening. The two end sutures are allowed to hang out of the upper and lower extremity of the wound. The stomach is now similarly dealt with, and a bone plate inserted into this viscus. The two portions of peritoneum which cover the plates and which are to be brought into contact are now slightly scratched with the point of a needle and the two plates approximated to each other, so that the holes in them exactly correspond, and the two layers of peritoneum covering the plates where they are in contact along the posterior margin are united by a few interrupted sutures. The strings are now tied ; first the lateral strings farthest from the operator, then the two end strings, and finally the lateral strings nearest the operator. Two or three interrupted sutures are now inserted into the peritoneal coats Fic. 321.—Lateral anastomosis. A, diagram showing the manner of applying the purse- string suture in using Murphy's button ; B, mode of joining the two halves of the button. along the anterior margins of the plates, sewing them together, and the anastomosis is completed. Gastro-enterostomy by means of Murphy's button is the most rapid way of performing the operation, but in these cases there appears to be a particular tendency for the button to be retained in the stomach, where it may set up unpleasant symptoms and may require a subsequent gastro- tomy for its removal. It is said also that contraction of the opening occasionally takes place after the use of this appliance. The button in these cases is inserted in the following manner: a running thread is first mserted into the jejunum at the point selected for the anastomosis. A needle carrying about fifteen inches of silk is inserted through all the coats of the gut, and brought out again. This stitch should be in the long axis of the gut, and about the third of the length of the future incision; the needle is again introduced in the same line and a second stitch made, and again a third; a loop is now left in the thread,and three similar stitches are inserted parallel to the first three, but in the reverse direction,- so that after the final stitch the end of the silk is brought out close to the point where the first stitch was introduced. The two parallel rows of stitches