912 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS beyond the clamp is then cut off. The results in some cases are satisfactory, but there appears to be risk from heemorrhage. Cautery.—This consists in seizing the pile in a clamp, cutting it off, and searing the pedicle left with a cautery at a dull red heat._ The after treatment consists in giving opium if pain is severe ; this also has the effect of keeping the bowels quiet. An aperient may be given on the fourth day. The parts should be daily bathed with some antiseptic lotion, and iodoform applied. The only complication which at all frequently arises is retention of urine, which may require the use of a catheter for a few days. The ligatures usually separate in about a week or ten days. PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM Prolapse of the rectum {prolapsus ani) is a term applied to a protrusion of the rectal wall through the anal orifice. It may be partial, where there is a protrusion of the mucous membrane; and complete, where the whole thickness of the intestinal wall is extruded. Causes.—Prolapse of the rectum may arise from a variety of causes: (1) from violent and long-continued straining, such as occurs in cases of stone in the bladder, or stricture, or phimosis in children, or enlarged prostate in old age, especially if these conditions occur in weakly persons, where the muscles about the anus are in a weak and relaxed condition; (2) polypoid or hsemorrhoidal tumours of the rectum very frequently produce a certain amount of protrusion of the mucous membrane; (3) inflammatory conditions of the rectum cause the mucous membrane to become swollen by exudation into its structure, and under these circum- stances it is liable to become prolapsed; (4) any irritation, such as worms or diarrhoea in children, which leads to tenesmus and violent straining, is apt to occasion prolapse of the mucous membrane. The complete prolapse is commonly a more advanced stage of the partial condition. That is to say, after the partial condition has existed for a time, as more and more mucous membrane is prolapsed, it has a tendency to pull down the other coats and convert the condition into one of complete prolapse. The disease is principally met with in children and the aged. In children the disease rarely extends beyond the partial condition; whereas in the aged the complete form of the disease is not uncommon. Symptoms.—Partial prolapse consists of a protrusion of mucous membrane, of a red or purpUsh colour, which is thrown into folds by sulci or pleats radiating from the anal orifice. The mucous membrane forniing this ring is continuous with the skin at the margin of the anus. It at tirst is only' to be seen immediately after the act of defalcation, and can be readily returned; later on it comes down independendy of defjecation, and if allowed to remain down becomes swollen and infiltrated, and then the reduction is attended with difficulty. Strangulation may occur in cases where the prolapse is allowed to remain down for a considerable period ot time and in some cases it has sloughed off and a natural cure resulted. Complete prolapse.—When complete prolapse occurs and the whole of the coats of the rectum are involved, the protrusion is larger and in some cases attains very considerable dimensions. These cases ma> oe recognised by the fact that the sulci or grooves have a transverse Qi'-ectipn, at riiht angles to the long axis of the gut (fig. 354)- When the protrusion