386 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES symptoms are numbness and tingling pain, with which every one is familiar who has, gone to sleep with his arm under his head. This is followed by gradually increasing anaesthesia and loss of power in the muscles, which may increase until absolute insensibility and complete paralysis ensues, and this is followed by wasting and degeneration of the muscles. In other cases pain in the course of the nerve pressed upon is the prominent symptom, and neuralgia is often due to pressure. Thus sciatica may be caused by the pressure of a pelvic abscess, or a stone in the bladder, or a loaded rectum. Division.—Under the head of division of a nerve is included sub- cutaneous laceration or rupture of the nerve and section with an external wound. They never occur uncomplicated, but in many of the cases the injury to the nerve is the chief feature of the injury. Effects of division.—Upon division of a nerve, both portions retract a little. The whole of the peripheral portion, upon being separated from its nervous centre, undergoes a rapid atrophy or degeneration. The white matter of Schwann becomes broken up and assumes the appear- ance of globules; the axis cylinder splits longitudinally and assumes the appearance of fibrils. Further disintegration goes on, until these structures entirely disappear, and in a few weeks the peripheral end of the nerve becomes shrunk to half its original size and consists simply of the fibrous structures, the perineurium, endoneurium, and sheath of Schwann. In the proximal end of the divided nerve the changes at first are confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the division : the nerve at this part becomes bulbous. Examined microscopically this bulbous extremity is found to consist of minute nerve fibres, which are believed to be of new formation, embedded in a mass of fibrous tissue. As time goes on, atrophic changes take place in this portion of the nerve, and it undergoes a general atrophy and shrinking, similar to what goes on in the nerves of a stump. Changes also take place in the parts to which the nerve is distributed. The muscles supplied by the divided nerve are of course at once paralysed and speedily undergo degenerative changes. Fatty granules appear in the sarcolemma, and as these appear the muscular fibres disappear, until in a few months all trace of muscular tissue is lost and the muscle becomes shrunken, pale, and fibrous in appearance. The skin to which the divided nerve is distri- buted becomes smooth, shining, and glossy j it frequently becomes the seat of an eczematous eruption, and is prone to give way and ulcerate from slight injury; the nails become striated and brittle, and the hair falls out. The joints, especially the finger joints, when the nerves of the upper extremity are divided, become inflamed; the synovial sac distended with fluid and the capsule infiltrated with plastic efi"usion. This may lead to fibrous ankylosis and permanent crippling. The paralysed parts become cold and bloodless, and sometimes gangrene of the fingers or toes, in injury to one of the nerves of the extremities, ensues. Symptoms.—When a nerve is completely cut across there is paralysis of sensation and motion when the nerve is a compound one, or paralysis of one or other when the nerve is purely sensory or motor. The loss of sensation is at once perceived, the part feels ' numb,' but there may not be complete anaesthesia on account of the connections of nerves with each other. After the division of a nerve there is at once complete paralysis of all the muscles supplied by it. Direct excitation of the muscles shows that the faradic irritability begins to diminish from the first and is very soon entirely lost; whereas the galvanic irritability produced by the continuous current is at first increased, and does not begin