PRIMARY SYPHILIS 179 most usually found just at the entrance to the vagina on the inner surface of the nvmphte. The irritation that they produce frequently causes con- siderable swelling and redema of the loose connective tissue of the labium of the side on which the chancre is. The simple sore presents the same punched-out appearance as in the male, and is to be treated in the same way by cleanliness and the local application of iodoform. The particular point in the treatment is the application of a piece of lint or wool between the labia, so as to prevent the ulcerated surface coming in contact with the labium of the other side. SYPHILIS Syphilis is a constitutional condition due to the introduction of a specific poison, and, as we have already stated, there is very good ground for beUeving that the virus of syphilis is a micro-organism. Lustgarten has described a curved rod-shaped body, which he believes to be the bacillus of syphilis, but it has never been cultivated, and all inoculation experiments with it have failed, so that it cannot be said that the etiology of the affection has been proved, though Lustgarten found the microbes in sixteen cases of syphilis which he examined and also in a periosteal gumma in a case of congenital syphilis. They were absent in two cases of soft chancre which he also examined. Stages of syphilis.—It is customary to speak of the local phenomena resulting from the inoculation as primary syphilis, and the sore which is produced as a hat-d or Huntsriati chancre : the general symptoms which shortly follow, when the whole blood is infected, as secondary syphilis ; and certain remote symptoms, which appear at various periods after the secondary syphilis has passed away, as tertiary syphilis. Primary syphilis.—Acquired syphilis can be conveyed from one person to another only by contagion, that is by direct contact of surfaces, and is most frequently communicated by the venereal act, but it can be com- municated by direct contact when any part of the surface of the body of the recipient on which there is a slight abrasion, or where the tissues exposed to the contagion are thin and delicate, is brought into contact with the blood, secretions, or discharges of a person affected with the disease. In cases of inoculation during connection it is not necessary that there should be an abrasion ; the delicate epithelium which covers the glans penis allows of inoculation without any breach of surface, but probably no inoculation can take place through the thicker epidermis of the skin with- out some solution of its continuity. It is probable also that in most cases where the male is infected during sexual intercourse it is from some secondary lesion on the part of the female, such as a mucous tubercle or condyloma, and not from a primary sore, which generally heals very rapidly, though of course it is contagious while it lasts. After the inoculation, there is a period of incubation before the appearance of the first signs of the disease. The duration of this period is about four weeks, but it is subject to considerable variation, the first signs sometimes appearing at the end of the second week, sometimes being protracted as long as six weeks. Berkeley Hill stated that in thirty-seven cases of experimental inoculation the incubation period averaged twenty- four days, N 2