968 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS and there is frequent desire to pass water, from the irritation produced by the presence of the stone. Although all the foregoing symptoms are present and well marked; the surgeon is not justified in positively pronouncing the opinion that a stone is present without sounding the bladder. This is done by introducing a sound—a solid' steel instrument, shaped like a catheter, but shorter in the beak—into the bladder and making it strike against the stone. By this means the stone can be felt, and generally heard clicking against the sound. The patient should be laid on his back with a pillow under the pelvis, and the surgeon should stand on his right side. If the water is not clear, the bladder should be washed out with a little boric acid solution, arid a few ouncel^ afterwards left in the bladder. The sound is then passed, and by moving it in different directions it is made to strike against the stone. This will produce a sharp click, which can generally be heard by the bystanders, and will convey a rough grating sensation to the surgeon's hand, which is unmistakable. By moving the beak of the sound over the stone, an approximate idea of its size and degree of roughness may be obtained. In sounding for stone the surgeon should not be satisfied unless he can assert that he positively feels the stone ; if he only thinks that he feels it, in all probability no stone is present. In some cases a stone may be in the bladder, and still the surgeon may not detect it. It may lie behind an enlarged prostate or behind the pubes, so that the sound cannot easily reach it, or it may be contained in a sac which communicates with the bladder by a small opening. If this is the case an examination may be made with the cystoscope, or the evacuating tube used in lithotrity may be passed and the bladder distended with Bigelow's evacuating bottle. When the pressure is removed from the bottle it expands, and the fluid rushes into it from the bladder, and carries with it the stone, which strikes against the tube and produces a distinct sound. In male children a stone in the bladder may sometimes be felt by the finger introduced into the rectum. Treatment.—The treatment of vesical calculus consists in removing the stone by the operation of (i) lithotomy or (2) lithotrity. I. Lithotomy.—The operation of lithotomy consists in cutting into the bladder where it is uncovered by peritoneum, and removing the stone. The ways in which this can be done are numerous, but the two opera- tions most frequently adopted are lateral lithotomy and the supra-pubic operation. Space will not allow of doing more than describing these two operations. Lateral lithotomy.—The perineum having been shaved, if neces- sary, and suitably prepared, an enema is given an hour or two before the operation so as to empty the lower bowel; the perineum is then agam cleansed and packed. After the patient has been anaesthetised, he is drawn to the edge of the table, so that the buttocks slightly project over it, and the bladder is washed out, five or six ounces of antiseptic solution being left in. The staff is now passed and the stone felt. Various forms of staff are used by different surgeons, but the curved staff of the shape of an ordinary catheter with the groove on its convex surface is the one ordinarily adopted (fig. 372). Some surgeons use a straight staff, because they assert that with it the knife is less likely to slip out of the groove; formerly a rectangular staff was employed. Some surgeons prefer a stall with a groove on one side instead of in the centre. Whichever instrument is used the surgeon should be careful to feel the stone with it, as a sure indication that it is in the bladder, and unless this can be done the operation