569 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OK THE HIP accompanied by psoas or iliac abscess; sacro-iliac disease ; coxa vara; abscess in the neighbourhood of the joint without implicating it; lordosis due to acute rickets; congenital dislocation of the hip, and affections of the knee, on account of the pain being referred to this articulation. But careful attention to the various symptoms enumerated above ought generally to be sufficient to establish a diagnosis. The main point to pay attention to is the limitation of movement. If the limb can be as freely flexed, abducted, and everted as the one on the opposite side, there is probably no disease in the joint ; but if it is found that the thigh cannot be as completely flexed and rotated as the one on the opposite side without causing pain, especially if there is slight apparent lengthening, or muscular wasting, or lameness, then the diagnosis of hip-joint disease may be con- fidently made. Perhaps sacro-iliac disease is that condition from which it is most difificult to distinguish it, especially in those cases where the disease has commenced in the acetabulum. But it will be found that in sacro-iliac disease, if the pelvis is fixed by the hand of the surgeon, the hip joint can be moved in every direction without causing pain; while pressure upon the crests of the ilia causes pain by pressing the inflamed surfaces of the joint together. Of course, in the later stage of hip-joint disease, after real shortening has taken place, the diagnosis is easy. Fig. 206.-—Muir's inclined plane, for making extension in hip-joint disease. Treatment.—The treatment of early hip-joint disease consists in absolute rest and the removal of any abnormal position which may exist. And if the treatment is commenced in quite the early period of the case, and is continued for a sufficiently long time, the prognosis is decidedly favourable ; a large proportion of cases recovering without the formation of an abscess, and with a movable joint. This is especially so when the disease occurs in children. The two points ih the treatment—rest and correction of deformity—are best attained by the weight and pulley. The patient is placed in bed, on a firm hard mattress, and a stirrup is applied to the limb, so that its ends extend halfway up the thigh, and thus prevent any traction on the ligaments of the knee joint. To this stirrup is attached a weight by means of a cord which runs over a pulley fixed to the end of the bed. The weight need not necessarily be a very heavy one, as its constant action soon overcomes the resistance of the muscles—one of four or five pounds is generally sufficient for children of the age of eight to ten. In applying this apparatus it must be placed in the position which the limb has assumed in consequence of the disease. If the limb, as is generally the case, is in a position of flexion and abduction, it must be raised from the bed till all lordosis has disappeared, and must then be abducted until the two anterior superior spines are level, and extension