1056 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS piece., of the wall of the uterus and then accurately suture the two cut surfaces together and finally unite the cut edges of the peritoneum over the deep sutures. The operation is not, however, to be recommended. There is great difficulty in uniting the cut surfaces of the uterine wall, as the uterine muscular tissue does not lend itself readily to accurate suturing. It is better, therefore, to treat these cases in the same way as other growths which are completely embedded in the uterine wall. In cases of intra-mural growths which are presenting at and have distended the external os, an attempt may be made to remove the tumour by enuclea- tion. In this operation the capsule is divided with a knife, and then the tumour is separated from the uterine wall with the finger or an elevator, being at the same time dragged down by a volsellum, with which it is seized. In this way it is gradually enucleated. The cavity is then plugged with sponges or pledgets of wool soaked in tincture of iodine, and the vagina is constantly syringed with antiseptic solutions. The operation is a difficult and tedious one, and is often attended by a very considerable loss of blood. With the exception of these cases of single fibroids either sub-peritoneal and pedunculated or sub-mucous and presenting at the external os—that is to say, in the great m'ajority of cases—some other mode of operation will have to be adopted. There are two ways in which these cases may be treated, by Oophor- ectomy and Hysterectomy. Oophorectomy, or removal of the uterine appendages, is based on the fact that in most cases uterine fibroids cease to grow and very often dwindle when the menopause sets in; it is argued therefore that by removing the uterine appendages an artificial menopause may be established, and decrease in the size of the tumour and a cessation of the flooding take place. If this were proved to be the fact by actual experience, there is no doubt that it would be a strong argument in favour of this operation, which is attended with very little risk. But experience has shown that this operation is not to be relied upon, and that though in some cases it has been followed by a diminution of the growth and an arrest of the menorrhagia, in others no such decrease has taken place, but that the tumour has gone on growing, especially in the case of the soft fibroids, which are the ones in which there is usually the greatest loss of blood. Moreover, the removal of both ovaries is an operation to be deprecated. There is no doubt that the ovaries, like the testicles in the male, are m some way, which is not at present very well understood, necessary for the well-being of the individual, and that their removal is attended with an interference with the general equilibrium ; just as much as the removal of the thyroid gland produces marked signs of derangement of the general health. The operation of oophorectomy is likely in the future to fall more and more into disuse. t-u 1 The operation of oophorectomy is performed as follows: 1 he ab- dominal cavity is opened by a median incision, as low down as possible without injuring the bladder, and the fingers passed into the abdomen and the ovary and tube felt for, and when found seized and drawn into vie\\. When this has been done they are caught, as shown in fig. 399, by a pair of large elbow forceps A needle, armed with a silk ligature, is passed through the broad ligament immediately below the forceps ; the ligature is retained while the needle is withdrawn, leaving a loop of silk on one aspect'of the broad ligament and two free ends on the other. I he loop