685 DISEASES OF THE MEATUS Malformations.—The pinna may be congenitally aljsent, and in some cases the external auditory canal closed. In these cases no surgical interference^ is desirable, as it is generally found that when the external ear is deficient the middle or internal ear is defective as well. More- over, any operation undertaken to form an auditory canal generally proves unsuccessful, and the artificial opening closes. Occasionally accessory auricles are met with, and sometimes branchial fistute are associated with them in the situation of the visceral clefts. They may be removed. Hypertrophy, or protuberance of the auricles, is sometimes met with. The condition may be remedied by removing V-shaped portions of the skin and cartilage from the ear posteriorly, and uniting the edges of the incisions with sutures. _ Diseases of the auricle.—The auricle is sometimes the seat of skm-eruptions, especially eczma, which is often troublesome and difficult to cure, on account of the tendency there is for the secretion to accumulate in the recesses, and the difficulty there is in keeping the parts clean and dry. It occurs mostly in gouty subjects or in tuberculous children. The treatment consists in carefully cleansing and drying the ear at least twice a day, and applying boric acid ointment. This, combined with careful dietetic and medicinal treatment, will generally be followed by favourable results. Gouty deposits {tophi) are of very common occurrence in the auricle. They do not, as a rule, require any treatment. A not uncommon disease occurs in the lobule from the irritation produced by piercing it for earrings. It consists in a fibroid growth, which partakes of the nature of keloid, and like it is very apt to return if removed. It is therefore best left alone, but if unsightly or showing a tendency to increase. It may be removed by taking a V-shaped piece out of the lobule, cutting wide of the disease, and suturing the cut surfaces together. Diseases of the meatus.—Before proceeding to describe the diseases_ of the meatus, it is necessary to say a word or two on the method of examining this canal. The examination of the external meatus has for Its object the ascertaining the condition of the lining membrane of the tube, the presence of any foreign body or accumulations of wax, and the state of the membrana tympani. It is carried out by throwing a strono- light, by means of a reflector fixed to the forehead of the surgeon, down a funnel-shaped tube (a speculum), the end of which has been inserted into the orifice of the meatus. By this means, if the auricle is gently pulled upwards and backwards, so as to straighten the canal, the whole of the meatus and the membrana tympani can be seen, and any alteration in the size or calibre of the canal ; or the presence or absence of any foreign body or cerumen ; and the condition of the lining membrane and the membrana tympani, can be ascertained. In the healthy condition the membrana tympani presents a shining appearance, and on it the handle ot the malleus can be detected running downwards and backwards, while a light streak can be seen running downwards and forwards. This streak IS .said to be due to a curvature of the membrane caused by the traction ot the malleus, and is absent in those cases in which the membrane is thickened or opaque. Accumulation of wax in the external meatus is of common occurrence, and leads to deafness and many unpleasant symptoms, as tin- nitus aurium, giddmess, and even epileptiform seizures. The symptoms