OF THE LEG 1147 „rfac?S the' Stella, and makes his section of the ■=--^VtJd;;cti7'*ercle ^^e/e is ho"^ e 'a sti-ong tendency for the patella to tilt, and it has been advi ed J.atthet\;^ bones'should be wired t^ether. Others ^^-e advocated d-s-nof th^^ rniadrireos extensor Stokes, n order to overcome, this difficulty, suggestea nis SificatTorof Gi° I's operation. It consists in making the section of the femur S an iich above the Condyles, when it is found that the patella falls readily into i^s ilace and there is no tendency to tilt. Moreover, the section of the }emm at this'spot ismore the size of the cut surface of the patella than when the section is made through the condyles Amputation through the knee joint (fig. 437)-—Theie aie seveiai wayT of amputating the leg through the knee joint, but there can be little question that the method suggested by Stephen Smith is the best, and it will therefore be the only one described in this work. The surgeon, standing on the right side of the patient, makes two lateral flaps by introducing the knife an inch below the tubercle of the tibia and carrying it in a semicircular manner to the centre of the joint behind, first on one side and then on the other, in such a manner that the flaps are about three and a half inches long ; the inner one being slightly longer than the outer one. He then dissects up the flaps, consisting of skin and sub- cutaneous tissue, to the level of the articulation ; divides the ligamentum patella;, and keeping his knife close to the bone, separates the semilunar cartilages from the tibia. The flaps being well retracted, he divides the whole of the remaining structures at the level of the joint, and removes the limb. The object in presei-vmg the semi- lunar cartilages is that they may fit like a cap over the end of the femur and prevent retrac- tion. When union has taken place, the cica- trix is lodged behind in the mter-condyloid notch, and the condyles of the femur are provided with an excellent covering ; the patient bearing the weight of his body on the end of his stump, as in kneeling. , Amputation of the leg may be per- formed at anv part from immediately above the , . , , .• mXoli to a^ point a hand's breadth below the knee, which latter situation was termed by the older surgeons iAe seat of election. It may be per- foniied by the circular method, which secures the section of the bones at a ower level than by any other operation ; by flaps through the skm and circular through the muscles, with flaps of unequal length ; or by flaps on the anterior surface by section from without inwards, and on the posterior surface by transfixing the parts and cutting outwards. None of these operations require any special description : but there are two special points in connection with the section of the bones which require mention : one is to get nd of the prominent crest of the tibia from the lower end of the bone forming the stump and the other to complete the section of the fibula before that of the tibia. 1 he bones Fig. 437.—Stephen Smith's amputation through the knee.