711 CELLULITIS OF THE NECK an incision is made from a little above the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage to the sterno-clavicular joint a little in front of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The skin, platysma and deep fascia having been divided, the common carotid artery is exposed, crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle. This muscle should be divided between two ligatures, and the sterno-mastoid muscle and the vessels pulled outwards by blunt retractors, and the larynx inwards. This will expose the thyroid body, and the position of the inferior thyroid artery passing upwards and inwards to the lower border of the lateral lobe of this body should be borne in mind; also the position of the recurrent laryngeal nerve running upwards between the trachea and the oesophagus. By a little manipulation with a director the oesophagus can now be exposed, sometimes projecting over the foreign body. If there is any difficulty in distinguishing it, a probang should be passed down the mouth, which will serve as a guide to its situation. The tube is now to be opened by a clean cut on the foreign body or probang, as far back as possible to avoid the fibres of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the opening enlarged, if necessary, with blunt-pointed scissors. Great care should be taken not to bruise the edges of the wound in the oesophagus, and no attempt should be made to dilate it by stretching, as it may interfere with union. The foreign body is now seized with sequestrum forceps and extracted. If large, as a plate for false teeth, it may be advisable to cut it across and extract the halves separately, care being taken that neither half slips down into the stomach. If the foreign body has only been impacted for a short time and there is no evidence of ulceration of the mucous coat, and the wound in the gullet has not been bruised, it may be sutured with chromic gut, the sutures not being allowed to penetrate the mucous coat, and the external wound closed; but if the coats of the oesophagus are ulcerated or if they are inflamed, the wound should be left open, drained, and a hot moist antiseptic dressing applied. After the operation a soft india-rubber tube should be passed through the nose into the stomach, and by this means the patient should be fed for some days. The great danger of the operation is septictemia, from the wound becoming •sloughy and foul. When the foreign body is lodged in the lower part of the oesophagus and cannot be extracted or pushed into the stomach, it will be necessary to perform gastrotomy, and by inserting a finger throu^^h the opening, finding and dilating the cardiac orifice, and extracting the foreign body with long sequestrum forceps. DISEASES OF THE NECK Cellulitis.—Acute diffuse cellular inflammation of the neck is of common occurrence after scarlet fever or septic wounds in this situation I he tissue involved is generally that beneath the deep fascia, and there IS great danger of the inflammation spreading downwards into the thorax ihere is rapid swelling of the neck, with brawny induration and redness ot the skin ; the swelhng after a time becoming soft and fluctuating. In many cases serious pressure on the air passages or the great vessels of the neck may result. & The treatment con.sists in making incisions through the deep fascia, preferably m the middle line or along the anterior border of the sterno- ma.stoid, and opening up the cellular tissue in every direction Hot Done fomentations should then be applied.