32 INFLAMMATION high and the pulse full and strong in a young vigorous adult In many cases where the patient is old or broken down in constitution by priva- tion or dissipation an exactly opposite line of treatment is required. The principal antiphlogistics which we possess are general blood- letting and certain medicines. General blood-letting.—Venesection is not often called for in treating inflammation in surgery. Perhaps the only ca.ses in which it is required are in cases of traumatic inflammation of the brain or its membranes, in which symptoms of brain pressure are present owing to the congestion of the cerebral vessels. There are, however, other instances in which general bleeding is of great value, as, for example, in cases of injury ot the chest, where, owing to the interference with the respiration the right side of the heart becomes loaded with blood. The object in vene section IS to make a sudden impression on the circulation: the blood should always therefore be taken rapidly-that is to say, through a large opening, m a full stream, and with the patient in the erect position so as to retard the flow of blood to the brain and induce faintness General blood-letting is always performed in this country by opening a vein at the bend of the elbow, the ancient practices of bleeding from Fig. 6.—Venesectic the external jugular vein, and of performing arteriotomy by opening the anterior branch of the temporal artery, are now things of the past. The vein which IS selected at the bend of the elbow is usually the median basilic vein. There are certain anatomical reasons why this vein should be selected, and there are some reasons against its selection; but it will be ound, as a matter of practice, that it is the best plan to select the largest vein m this situation, and this is generally the median basiHc. This simple httle operation is performed in the following manner. A piece ot tape or bandage is tied round the arm above the point where the vem IS to be opened, in order to constrict the superficial veins and arrest the flow of blood through them. This causes the veins below the hgature to stand out prominently. The patient, who should be seated, IS now made to grasp something ; a strong pole resting on the ground will do very well. By this means the limb is steadied, and the forcible muscular contraction aids the venous circulation. The thumb of the surgeons left hand is now placed on the vein to be operated upon, just below the point where it is intended to open it. This will steady the vessel, and also control the bleeding at the moment of puncture nnl.T"'K, '1^' aftervvards (fig. 6). The point of the lancet is now pu.shed obhquely mto the vein, and then made to cut its way out by de-