590 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the internal auditory meatus. The symptoms may be present frorii the first, and may be very marked, when they denote laceration or contusion of the nerves; or they may not come on for some days, when they are probably due to compression of the nerves by blood clot or inflammatory exudation, and under these circumstances they usually disappear in the course of time. Fractures of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull. These fractures may involv.e the orbital plate of the frontal bone, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the lesser wing of the sphenoid (fig. 218). When the fracture involves the orbital plate of the frontal bone, the main sign is sub-conjunctival ecchymosis. The blood poured out at the seat of fracture finds its way into the orbit, and then travelling forwards appears on the front of the eye- ball under the conjunctiva. The sub- conjunctival ecchymosis in these cases extends backwards 'as far as the eye can reach, and there is usually no bruising of the upper eyelid, and in this way it can be diagnosed from the ecchymosis of an ordinary ' black eye.' There is usually in these cases a certain amount of proptosis or prominence of the eyeball from its being pushed forwards by the blood behind. In cases where the fracture of the bone has been produced by a thrust from without and is therefore compound, escape of brain matter may take place from the wound. When the fracture implicates the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, continuous and profuse bleedmg from the nose is the main symptom, and in addition to this there may be escape of cerebro-spinal fluid or brain matter from the nose. In these fractures the frontal sinuses may be opened, and if the fracture extends into the supra-orbital arch, emphysema of the areolar tissue of the scalp may be present. If the frac- ture involves the lesser wing of the sphenoid, the optic nerve and possibly the motor - oculi nerve may be in- volved, producing blindness, ptosis, mydriasis, &c., and sometimes in fractures through the cribriform plate there is loss of smell from implication of the olfactory bulb. . The .signs of fracture of the posterior fossa of the base 01 the skull are not very definite (fig. 219). There may ni some cases oe FlG. 218.—Fracture of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) Fig. 219.—Old fracture of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)