MECHANISM OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP 513 DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Dislocation of the hip.—The hip is not nearly so frequently dislocated as the other great ball-and-socket joint—the shoulder. It enjoys this immunity partly on account of the shape of the articular surfaces—a large segment of a small sphere articulating with a deep cup- shaped cavity—and partly to the strength of the ligaments and muscles by which it is surrounded. The accident usually occurs during adult life, between the ages of twenty and forty-five : rarely in children, and still more rarely in advanced life, any injury to the hip in this later period of life being attended with fracture rather than dislocation. The head of the femur may be displaced to ' any point around its socket' (Bryant). But it is customary, for purposes of description, to classify dislocations of the hip as occurring in four different directions : (i) upwards and backwards, on to the dorsum of the ilium; (2) backwards into the neighbourhood of the sciatic notch; (3) forwards and downwards, into the obturator foramen ; and (4) forwards and inwards, on to the OS pubis. As regards the relative frequency with which these varieties of dislo- cation are met with, a general idea may be obtained from 292 cases col- lected from various sources. Of these, 53-1 per cent, were dislocations on to the dorsum of the ilium; 24-3 per cent, were sciatic; 14 into the obturator foramen ; and 8'6 per cent, on to the os pubis. Mechanism of dislocations of the hip.—The manner in which a dislocation of the hip is brought about is still involved in some doubt. Most surgeons, however, believe that in the great majority of cases the primary dislocation is downwards, and that the position the head of the bone subsequently assumes—whether on to the dorsum of the ilium, into the sciatic notch, or on to the os pubis—is dependent upon the position of the limb with respect to rotation and flexion, or to the direction of the violence. It is believed that in these cases the limb is in a position of abduction at the moment of the accident. When the femur is abducted, owing to the shallowness of the lower and inner part of the cotyloid cavity the head of the femur bulges over its margin and presses upon the capsular ligament at its lower and inner part. And when it does this it presses upon the weakest part of the capsular ligament: the capsule is thick and strong behind and above, and especially in front, where it is strengthened by the ilio-femoral ligament, whilst below and internally it is comparatively thin and weak. Hence it follows that when any violence is applied while the thigh is abducted and the head of the bone is pressing on this weak part of the ligament, a rupture of it may occur, and the head of the bone be displaced primarily downwards. Mr. Henry Morris strongly maintains the opinion that the subsequent position which the head of the bone assumes is determined by the degree of flexion or extension, and of inward and outward rotation of the femur at the moment of luxation. He says that if the femur is flexed and rotated inwards, as well as abducted, at the moment of the accident, the head of the bone will be forced backwards, and either dislocation on to the dorsum or into the sciatic notch result; the sciatic dislocation requiring a greater degree of flexion and inward rotation than is required to produce the dislocation on to the dorsum ilii. But if the thigh is extended and rotated outwards, with abduction, the head of the bone will L L