67 PREVENTION OF PUTREFACTION regretting the use of one. It seems to me that it is a wise precaution to take; it can do no harm, and the worst that can be said of it is that it necessitates the dressing of the wound on the second day, when, if no drainage tube had been' used, the case would probably not have required dressing. But I am not sure that even this is an unmixed evil. I am decidedly of opinion that in many cases it adds materially to the patient's comfort to remove the soiled dressings—soiled, I mean, by the serum which has oozed into them—and readjust the bandages at the end of the first forty-eight hours. Patients always express themselves as feeling relieved and more comfortable after this first dressing. I think also it has a soothing effect on the mind. They like to be assured that everything is going on well, and this assurance carries much more weight if it is made after an actual inspection of the wound. In cases where there is any doubt about the asepticity of a wound, drainage must of course always be employed. Where, for instance, an operation has to be performed in a case where a sinus previously existed, and where therefore the surgeon cannot be perfectly sure that he has left his wound quite aseptic, a drainage tube should always be inserted. Various kinds of drainage tubes are used in surgery. The one most commonly employed is an india-rubber tube, and those made of red rubber are the strongest and most durable. Strands of horsehair were formerly much used, and the advantage claimed for them was that they could be removed gradually, hair by hair; but this was in the days when the use of drainage was not so well understood as it is at the present day, and when the drain was allowed to remain in the wound for a much longer period. Now it is believed that this gradual withdrawal is unnecessary. _ Strands of antiseptic gauze form an excellent drain, especially in abdominal surgery. Long strips of gauze can be inserted between the different viscera, and the ends brought out of the external wound. A glass tube (Keith's tube) is also an exceedingly useful form of drain in abdominal surgery, for by means of this the abdomen may be well drained from in front. The drainage tube is inserted into the bottom of the pelvic cavity—the most, dependent part—and the end is left protruding from the wound on the front of the abdominal wall. This is covered by a separate dressing from the rest of the wound, and this can be removed at stated intervals, and by means of a piece of india-rubber tubing attached to a syringe and passed down the glass tube, the fluid can be sucked up from the bottom of the pelvis, where it has probably gravitated. Decalcified bone was formerly recommended by Neuber for drainage, with the idea that it would be absorbed and would not require removal. It has not, however, been very generally adopted. It takes longer to absorb than is necessary, and appears occasionally to excite suppuration. In using an india-rubber tube means must be taken to prevent its slipping altogether into the wound, either by transfixing the end of it with a safety pin, which should lie across the wound, or by fixing it to one of the sutures. Care must also be taken not to leave too much protrud- ing from the wound, otherwise it will be bent by the dressings and kinked. The other method which the surgeon employs to prevent putrefaction or infection of a wound is to take such steps as shall prevent the introduc- tion into it of any micro-organisms from without. This may be done by the use of certain substances which are known to destroy these living organisms, and to which the term ' antiseptics' is applied. Antiseptics are not, however, absolutely essential; any means which the surgeon can employ to prevent the admission of these germs, if employed efficiently, is K 2