495 TREATMENT OF WOUNDS OF JOINTS outside the joint are involved in tlie inflammation, and the swelling becomes more globular. The skin is red and hot. As suppuration sets in, the redness becomes more dusky; oedema of the soft parts over the joint is present; the pain is of a tensive throbbing character, and there is constant starting of the limb at night. As soon as the patient drops off to sleep, the muscles are relaxed, the articular surfaces move on each other, and this is attended by an intense pain, and the patient awakes with a start and a sharp cry of pain. This prevents sleep or rest. The constitutional symptoms are very severe. The temperature is high, there is great febrile excitement, and the patient rapidly emaciates and 'goes downhill.' About the tenth day, when granulations have formed and act as a barrier to further septic absorption, the febrile symptoms often very considerably abate, and the temperature becomes lower. Later on, after the pus has discharged itself, the fever assumes a hectic type. In some cases the patient may die from pysemia, or later on from exhaustion. Treatment—In determining the treatment which should be adopted in a case of wound of a joint, much will depend upon the amount of injury which has been inflicted. In extensive injuries with much com- minution of the bone, as in those injuries produced by gunshot wounds, it may be necessary to perform primary excision. In determining this point, it should be borne in mind that injuries of the joints of the upper extremity, with perhaps the, exception of the wrist, do better after excision than injuries of the joints of the lower extremity. The size of the articulation, the age and the consritutional condition of the patient, are also points which should have due consideration. If it is not thought necessary to resort to operative interference, the treatment will depend to a great extent upon the size of the wound. If the joint is freely opened and the articular surfaces exposed, the patient should be placed under an antesthetic and a thorough cleansing of the joint instituted. The skin around the wound, and the edges of the wound itself, should be thoroughly scrubbed with a nail-brush and well sluiced with corrosive sublimate solution (i in i,ooo). The joint must be irrigated with hot corrosive subHmate (i_ in 2,000) until every parricle of foreign matter and blood clot is got rid of. In doing this, too much care cannot be bestowed; every recess must be thoroughly flushed, and if this cannot be done in consequence of the size or position of the wound it must be enlarged. After the cleansing process has been completed, a drainage tube should be inserted in the most dependent position, and unless the edges of the wound are very much ragged and torn they should be sutured. In doing this, care must be taken to bring the edges of the synovial membrane into apposition. A needle, armed with silkworm gut which has been well soaked, should be passed through the superficial parts, the capsule, and the synovial membrane on either side, and tied, and this is done until the whole wound, except the opening for the tube, is sutured. In cases where the superficial parts of the wound are much bruised, but the edges of the wound in the synovial membrane are fairly clean, it may be worth while to bring them together with a catgut suture in the hope that they will unite. After the wound is closed it must be dressed and immobilised on a splint. The temperature should be taken every four hours, and if it remains normal the tube should be withdrawn at the end of the second day. If the wound is a small punctured one, the treatment must depend