GENERAL INJURIES 8o be treated by stimulants, brandy, ammonia, and galvanism over the praicordial region. The patient should be kept in a state of constant enforced exercise as long as he can be induced to move, and artificial respiration should be resorted to when his breathing becomes oppressed. Holford has recommended the injection of ammonia into the veins (»n.v to X of liquor ammonia and tii_x to xx of water), and states that it has been followed by the most beneficial results in bites from the brown snake of Australia. Sir Joseph Fayrer states that it is useless in the bite of the cobra of India. The hypodermic injection of strychnia appears also to have been attended with beneficial results in Australia. It is supposed to be directly antagonistic to the snake poison, and therefore must be given in large doses, lo to 20 minims of the liquor strychniae, and repeated if any relapse in the symptoms is observed. The subsequent cellulitis, should the patient live long enough to develop it, must be treated on general principles by free incisions, warm fomentations, and the strength supported by milk, eggs, beef tea, soups, and stimulants frequently administered in small quantities. 2. The infective poisoned wounds.—The infective poisoned wounds are those wounds where the poison introduced multiplies amongst the tissues or in the blood, and in which, therefore, the effect produced is not in any way proportional to the amount of the poison inoculated. The smallest amount introduced on the point of a needle or lancet is sufficient to produce the gravest results, for after its introduction the infective micro-organisms contained in it increase and multiply during the period of incubation, and they or their products, circulating in the blood, infect the whole system. The principal forms of dis- ease produced by infective poisoned wounds are : (a) Hydrophobia. (^) Tetanus, {c) Glanders and Farcy, (d) Anthrax, (e) Infective dissec- tion wounds. a. Hydrophobia is a disease which depends upon the introduc- tion into the system of a specific poison through the medium of the saliva or oral mucus of a rabid animal. The exact nature of the virus is at pre- sent unknown ; no specific organisms have been discovered, nor has the poison been up to the present time isolated. The disease occurs as the result of the inoculation of the poison through an open wound, though the slightest graze may be suflficient to receive it, but it is, harmless when applied to an unbroken surface. Rabies may attack many animals, but the dog is the one which usually conveys the poison to man. Next to these, cats and wolves are more fre- quently the source of the infection, and there seems good ground for believing, from the evidence of statistics, that the bites of these animals, when rabid, are more dangerous than the bite of a mad dog. Some have attempted to prove from this circumstance that the poison is more virulent in these animals than it is in the dog. But there seems to be no good ground for this assumption. A more rational explanation of the greater danger of the bite of a rabid cat or wolf is to be found in the fact that these animals always attack some exposed part of the body, such as the face or the throat, whereas a dog usually attacks the legs, which are prob- ably covered, and therefore he bites through clothing, which wipes off the saliva from the teeth, and thus prevents its introduction into the wound. For it must be remembered that there is a very essential difference between the bite of a poisonous snake and the bite of a mad dog. In the former the poison is secreted by a gland in the temporal region and is