TALIPES EQUINUS inner ankle. Not infrequently two of these primary varieties may be found in combination. Thus we may have equino-vanis or valgus, or calcaneo-varus or valgus. Etiology.—The causes of talipes are very numerous, and may be classed under two heads, as to whether the club foot is congenital or acquired. The congenital form has been attributed to several causes. The most common one is deficiency in the amount of the liquor amnii, so that the feet are abnormally compressed by the wall of the uterus. The greater number of cases of congenital club foot are equino-varus, and it will readily be understood that in consequence of the position which the child occupies in the uterus, with the lower extremities closely flexed against the abdomen and thorax, if there is a deficiency of Uquor amnii, the feet would be maintained in a position of equino- varus during the development of the child, and the ligaments and muscles on the one side would be stretched, while those on the other would be contracted, and a permanent condition set up. This accounts for the fact that this form of talipes is usually bilateral. But it is also clear that this is not the sole cause, but that congenital club foot is also due in some cases to disordered nerve function acting on the muscles which draw the foot into its deformed position. Its frequent association with spina bifida would seem to indicate this. It is possible also that congenital club foot may in some instances be due to imperfect development of the bones of the leg or foot. Acquired talipes is due to various causes. The most common of these is infantile paralysis, where a single group of muscles is paralysed, the bones being drawn into their abnormal position by the unbalanced action of the muscles antagonistic to those paralysed. In the same way division of a nerve by accident or during an operation may produce a similar result. Division of the in- ternal popliteal nerve paralysing the flexor muscles causes calcaneo- valgus, and division of the exter- nal popliteal nerve paralyses the extensors and peronei, producing equino-varus. Among less common causes of acquired club foot are spasmodic contraction of muscles from spinal mischief; or cicatricial contraction of muscles after abscess or rupture ; or cicatricial contraction of the skin and subcutaneous tissues from burns and other lesions; or, finally, the prolonged maintenance of the foot in a faulty position, as in cases where the patient has been ^ig. 4i6.-Tahpes equmus. long confined to bed, and the pres- sure of the bed-clothes has kept the foot in an extended position. This is known as talipes decubitus. Talipes equinus (fig. 416), where the heel is drawn upwards, so that the patient walks on the metatarso-phalangeal joints and the toes,