GENERAL DISEASES 228 within the parent cyst. This form of cystic tumour is known as the cysti- gerous cystic tumour. And by similar processes to those by which these secondary cysts are formed, tertiary cysts, or cysts within the secondary cysts, may be developed. These various forms of cystic tumours will be discussed in connection with the diseases of the organs in whicli they are principally found—the ovary, breast, and testicle. III. Cysts of congenital origin.—Cysts of congenital origin include a large and diverse group of tumours, which may be considered under three different heads: {a) Cysts due to errors in development; (b) Dermoid cysts; {c) Cysts due to defects in the lymphatics. a. Cysts due to errors in development.—Among cystic tumours due to imperfection in the process of development one must include, first of all, such tumours as spina bifida, meningocele, encephalocele, &c., which arise from arrest in approximation of the two lateral parts of the embryo in the mesial line; these, however, will more appropriately be considered with diseases of the back and head. Secondly, under this category we also include those cysts which are due to an imperfection in the obliter- ation of foetal structures, which under normal circumstances become obliterated in the process of development. As an example of this may be mentioned the cystic hydrocele of the cord, which arises from a collection of fluid in an unobliterated portion of the funicular process of the tunica vaginalis. d. Dermoid cysts.—As dermoids or dermoid cysts are included those cystic tumours composed of structures which naturally belong to the skin or mucous membranes, but which occur in situations where these structures are not found under normal circum- stances. Until very recently dermoid cysts were held to include only a single group of tumours, which were formed by an involution of the epi- blast of the embryo in a manner which will be described immediately; but at the present time, mainly through the work of Bland Sutton, dermoids are arranged into three groups, which are named by him : (o) Sequestration dermoids, (jS) Tubulo- dermoids, (y) Ovarian dermoids. o. Sequestration dermoids.— These were the only class of der- moids which were formerly recog- nised, and they are formed, as stated above, by the inclusion of a portion of epiblastic tissue in the deeper layers of the blastoderm. It will be remembered that the external layer of the blastodermic membrane, the epiblast, forms the surface epithelium of the body. As the embryo is developed and coalescence of skin surfaces takes place, espe- cially in the middle line, where the opposite halves of the body wall join each other, and also in the situation of the branchial clefts, it is easy to understand that a small portion of this epiblastic tissue may be included or shut in at the point of junction, and being nipped off Fig. 47. — Head and with diagrammatic neck of an adult, lines, representing. the situation and direction of the bran- chial and other clefts. I, 2, 3, 4, first, second, third, and fourth clefts ; 5, inter- maxillary cleft; 6, fronto-orbital fissure ; 7, naso-maxillary fissure.