RETENTION FROM ENLARGED PROSTATE 985 efficient sterilisation before and after use. He should also be told to examine it occasionally for any flaw or crack, and if such is present to abandon it for a new one. Catheter fever.—Great care of the patient must be observed upon his entrance into catheter life. It is not uncommon for a patient to develop, during the first week or ten days after the commencement of the habitual use of the catheter, a condition of fever, with a diminution of the specific gravity of the urine. The urine becomes cloudy, though it may still retain its acid reaction ; a small quantity of albumen makes its appear- ance ; and when examined microscopically, it is found to contain myriads of bacteria. There is seldom any definite rigor, but a sensation of chilli- ness, followed by heat; the pulse is rapid; the tongue dry and red ; there is loss of appetite ; sometimes delirium ; and the patient becomes semi- comatose, and usually dies. This condition has been attributed (i) to repeated shocks to the nervous system, from the passage of instruments ; (2) to the suddenness with which the change is made from the natural and usual mode of micturition to the artificial one; and to removing the whole of the residual urine (to which for a long time the bladder has been habituated) at once and upon each introduction of the catheter; and (3) to infection of micro-organisms from without. The latter of these three causes is in all probability the true one. The source of these organisms is the urethra, where they exist in profusion ; and unless the most stringent measures are taken to prevent it, some of these organisms will be introduced into the bladder by means of the catheter. If the bladder is not capable of emptying itself, these organisms increase and mul- tiply in the residual urine, which forms an excellent nutrient medium for their growth, and septic cystitis is set up; whereas if the bladder is healthy and capable of emptying itself, no harm results. Every care must be taken to prevent this. Before catheterism, the glans penis and meatus should be washed with boric acid solution, and the urethra syringed out with the same. The catheters must be kept absolutely clean. Catheter fever must not be confounded with another condition, which is termed urethral fever, where a sudden rise of temperature, with a rigor followed by sweating, occurs within a few hours after the introduction of a catheter or some other operation on the urinary organs. The origin of this condition is still obscure. It is believed by some to be due to the absorption pf micro-organisms, or their products, from the urethra; but would appear more probably to be due to some interference with the circulation in the kidney, from the reflex irritation produced by the passage of an instrument. Retention from enlarged prostate.—In those cases of enlarged prostate where retention suddenly comes on, the patient must be relieved, if possible, by the passage of a catheter. And this can generally be done if the surgeon perseveres with different forms of instru- ments. In the first instance, he should resort to a Jaques catheter; and it is astonishing in how many cases this form of instrument can be passed where many other varieties have been tried and failed. It adapts itself so easily to the windings or deflections of the canal that it will often pass when a stiffer instrument will not. Too large a sized catheter should not be used, as it is desirable to draw off the water slowly, so as to allow the bladder to recover its tone and contract on the urine as it is withdrawn. No. 6 or 7 English .size is best. In those cases where there has been a gradual accumulation in the bladder, the whole of the water should not be