St. George's Hospital.) 953 ACUTE CYSTITIS bladder may be attended with dilatation or not. In those cases where there is obstruction, but the muscular coat is sufficiently strong to over- come this obstruction, no dilatation takes place; in fact, in these cases the bladder is usually contracted, because there is always a certain degree of irritabiUty, and the water is therefore passed frequently and the bladder never allowed to become normally full. But in those cases where the increased muscular power is not always sufficient to overcome the ob- struction, and where, therefore, the patient suffers at times from over-distension, dilatation with hypertrophy will be found. Occasionally it happens that after death a bladder will be found to be dilated with little, if any, hypertrophy. This con- dition is confined almost entirely to obstruction- from enlarged prostate, especially enlargement of the middle lobe, which, acting as a sort of valve, closes the orifice of the urethra and pre- vents the flow of any urine until the bladder becomes over- distended, when the stretching of the neck of the bladder renders the valve incompetent, and the water can be passed without increased muscular effort until the valve becomes again efficient. Inflammation of the bladder.—Cystitis may be acute or chronic. Acute cystitis may result from septic causes: the invasion of the bladder by septic organisms, which may be introduced through wounds, either surgical or otherwise; or may be introduced by a dirty catheter; or may find their way into the bladder from a gonorrhoea or urethritis. Inflammation of the bladder may also arise in gouty subjects from excess of uric acid, or from the presence in the urine of certain drugs, as cantharides and turpentine. The pathological changes which are to be observed are that the mucous membrane becomes swollen and uneven, and of a crimson colour; the colouration being most marked in the neighbourhood of the trigone, where it is dark crimson, approaching to black. Occasionally the mucous membrane may be ulcerated in small patches, exposing the muscular coat; and in the later stages the muscular coats may be infiltrated with inflam- matory products. Symptoms.—There is pain in the perineum and hypogastric region, the pain in the latter situation being increased by pressure. There is extreme irritability of the bladder, and a constant desire to pass water. As soon as a few drops of urine accumulate in the bladder, the patient is seized with an irresistible desire to void it, and does so by a painful and spasmodic effort; the pain towards the end of the act being sometimes agonising. Fig. 363.—Calculus lodged in a pouch or sac- culus of the bladder. (From the Museum of