438 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES of the hand. The fracture is generally transverse, or only slightly oblique in a lateral direction, but in the antero-posterior direction there is a con- siderable obliquity, the fracture passing from below upwards and back- wards. The displacement of the lower fragment is threefold: i. The lower fragment is displaced backwards and upwards; but inasmuch as the dis- placement backwards is not sufficient for the lower fragment to clear the upper, the upward displacement results in impaction. 2. It is rotated backwards through a transverse axis drawn through the line of fracture, so that its articular surface is directed backwards and downwards, instead of directly downwards. 3. The outer border of the lower fragment is di.s- placed backwards and upwards to a greater extent than the inner border. This arises from the latter border being fixed by the inferior radio-ulnar ligaments to the lower end of the ulna, and per- haps also to the greater force of the concussion being communicated to the outer border of the bone, since the main violence of the fall is received on the ball of the thumb. In consequence of this the hand is abducted to the radial side. In addition to this displacement of the lower fragment, the upper one is drawn towards the ulna and pronated by the pronator quadratus. It would appear probable that in every case of Colles' fracture the upper fragment is driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower. It may be- FlG. 147.—Colles' frac- ture of the radius, with comminution of the lower fragment. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) Fig. 148.—Figure showing the characteristic deformity in Colles' fracture. come fixed there, prbducing the impacted fracture, which is the more common condition, or it may break up the lower fragment into two or more pieces, and then no fixation takes place (fig. 147). The deformity produced is a very characteristic one. The fingers are bent on the hand in a position of pronation. On the back of the wrist is a projection, which rises above the level of the carpus and terminates abruptly above in a sudden hollow. On the palmar surface, corresponding to the projection on the dorsum, is a well-marked hollow, surmounted above by an abrupt elevation, caused by the lower end of the upper frag- ment (fig. 148). This deformity is sometimes known as the ' silver fork displacement,' from its resemblance to this article. In addition to this there is marked radial abduction of the hand, and the styloid process of the ulna stands out prominently under the skin. The hand appears to be hyper-extended at the wrist, from the direction which the articular surface has assumed. The power of pronation and supination is lost, and much pain is complained of. In the majority of cases there is no crepitus or preternatural mobility—these are the impacted cases ;