logo INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS The diagnosis of these cases from the adeno-cystoma is frequently impossible until a microscopic examination of the growth is made. The chief differential points of diagnosis are the rapidity of growth, the mobility, and the age of the patient; the adenomatous tumours generally appearing before the age of thirty-five, the sarcomatous after that age. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removal of the breast at as early a period as possible. The disease, however, shows a great tendency to recur in situ or to disseminate itself in other parts of the body. 3. Carcinoma is a very common disease, which affects the breast primarily. Most frequently one breast only, but occasionally both may be affected. Etiology.—Our knowledge of the causation of cancer of the breast is at present merely a matter of conjecture. It is far more common in the female than in the male, in the proportion of about one in the latter to a hundred in the former. It occurs more frequently in married women than in single, but then it must be remembered that the proportion of married women to single is greater. In married women it is met with oftener in those who have borne children than in those who are sterile. The condition is rare at the extremes of life, though essentially a disease of somewhat advanced life, the majority of cases occurring between the ages of thirty- five and fifty-five. Numerous causes have been assigned for this disease, among which the most common are heredity, injury, and the presence of some source of irritation. With regard to heredity as a cause of cancer there is considerable divergence of opinion. Formerly this view was much more strongly insisted upon than in the present day; but even now it cannot be doubted that certain families show, a marked predilection to develop cancer. It may be that in some of these cases the tendency to cancer is explained by the relatives living in the same house or locality ; for it has recently been abundantly proved that in certain districts cancer is much more likely to occur than in others, and that certain houses become in sonie way infected, so that individuals residing in them are prone to develop this con- dition. Injury is said to be another cause of cancer; and in exammmg patients afflicted with this disease it is exceedingly common to find that the individual gives the history of some blow or squeeze as the cause of her complaint. It is known that injury may induce malignant disease in other parts, and it is probably true also that it may be the starting pomt of the growth in the breast. The presence of some irritation from an ante- cedent condition is looked upon by many as a cause of cancer in the breast. It is an undoubted fact that irritation is a potent factor in the production of cancer elsewhere, as for example in the tongue from the irritatiori of a jagged tooth; in the lip from the constant irritation of a pipe; in the scrotum of the chimney sweep from the constant irritation of soot lodged in its rug^, &c. Many extend the same view to cancer of the breast, and believe that this disease owes its origin in many cases to the irritation produced by damaged tissues, the result of inflammatory or other con- ditions. The matter is one, however, of conjecture only, and no proof has as yet been afforded, by statistics or otherwise, as to the real truth ot the theory. . , As regards the exciting cause of cancer, recently certain bodies nave been described as having been found in connection with the epithelial cells of cancer. These are of the nature of protozoa, the lowest form 01 animal life, and are believed by some to be the direct cause of cancer.