io64 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS These cases, therefore, present no features of surgical interest. Rupture may, However, occur into the peritoneal cavity, and the case is then rapidly fatal. (2) A more common place for the ovum to be arrested is in some part of the outer two-thirds of the tube. This is tubal gestation, and is said to occur more frequently in the left tube. In these cases the fertilised ovum may be extruded through the ostium abdominale of the tube into the peritoneal cavity up to about the eighth week after impregnation, at which time the ostium becomes closed. If this does not take place and pregnancy advances, rupture of the tube is certain to occur, generally between the sixth and tenth week. (3) Sometimes the ovum is caught in the fimbrije of the tube, and this is termed tubo-ovanan gestation. In these cases a sac may be formed partly by the dilated mouth of the tube and partly by adhesions around, and the patient may go on to the full period. (4) In some cases where rupture takes place and the patient survives, the embryo which has escaped from the tube becomes enclosed in a sac or cavity formed by adhesions; but the placenta still remaining attached to the tube, the embryo may go on living and the pregnancy may go to the full term. Or, on the other hand, secondary rupture—that is to say, rupture of the newly formed sac—may take place, or after a time death of the foetus may ensue from the functions of the placenta becoming impaired. This class of cases is spoken of as abdovmial gestatio?i. In cases which go to the full period spurious pains come on at its close, which continue for some time and then disappear; the child dies, and may become mummified and quiescent and cause no further trouble; or inflammation may be set up in the sac and lead to general peritonitis and death; or the sac may suppurate and an abscess form which may open on to the abdominal wall, or into the rectum, bladder, or vagina, and the remains of the foetus may be discharged. Symptoms.—In describing the symptoms, we must describe those by which a tubal pregnancy may be recognised before rupture has taken place, and then those which occur at the time of rupture. The physical signs of tubal gestation before rupture are very much those of a tubal dropsy or a small ovarian tumour; but when in addition to this we have the signs of pregnancy, a cessation of the catamenia, morning sickness, and perhaps a fullness of the breasts, there is a strong inference that tubal gestation is present. But opportunities of meeting with such cases are not common, since the condition causes no trouble, and the patient's attention is not in any way drawn to it until rupture takes place. She may or may not believe herself to be pregnant. When the rupture takes place, which may be during some muscular exertion, as straining at stool, or lifting a weight, &c., or may occur quite independently of any muscular effort, the patient experiences a sudden pain in the lower part of the abdomen, as if some- thing had given way. This is at once followed by severe shock, with evidences of loss of blood, pallor, and blanching of the lips, faintness, jactitations and restlessness, a subnormal temperature, and a quick, weak, fluttering pulse. Accompanying these symptoms there is pain at the seat of rupture, and perhaps an area of dullness on percussion. The patient may and frequently does die in the course of a few hours. Should she survive, blood may flow from the vagina. Treatment.—In cases where a diagnosis of tubal gestation has been made before rupture has taken place, an abdominal section should be performed, and the gravid tube removed to save the patient from the