TUMOURS OF THE LARYNX tomy, so as to freely expose the whole of the laryngeal cavity. The dyspnoea in these cases is rarely sufficiently severe to require tracheotomy, but it has been proposed by some to perform this operation in the early stages of the disease, so as to give physiological rest to the larynx. 3. Syphilitic laryngitis.—Syphilis may affect the larynx either in the secondary or tertiary stage of the disease. As a secondary affection it occurs in the form of mucous tubercles, which may be seen with the laryngoscope as little rounded greyish elevations studding the mucous membrane of the upper part of the larynx. Occasionally superficial ulcers may be seen. They do not, as a rule, produce much trouble beyond hoarseness, or loss of voice. The tertiary condition consists in a gum- matous infiltration, especially about the epiglottis and aryteno-epiglot- tidean folds, or in the formation of isolated gummatous deposits. These soften and give rise to wide-spread ulceration, very often implicating the perichondrium and leading to extensive necrosis of the cartilages and complete destruction' of the epiglottis. Should the patient recover and the ulceration heal, extensive cicatricial contraction will take place, which may completely occlude the larynx. The symptoms are hoarseness, gradually going on to complete loss of voice, accompanied by dyspnoea, and when ulceration has taken place, abundant muco-purulent expectoration. In the early stages the deposit is to be recognised from that of tubercle by the history of the case, the general condition of the patient and the appear- ance of the nodulation, which in laryngeal phthisis is pale and grey in colour, and in syphilitic is usually dark red, darker than the surrounding mucous membrane. The treatment consists in dealing with the general syphilitic condition, and applying a solution of corrosive sublimate (gr. ii to §i) locally to the ulcers with a laryngeal brush. The inhalation of calomel vapour is often beneficial, especially in the secondary form. If the dyspnoea becomes urgent, tracheotomy will be required. Tumours of the larynx.—Both innocent and malignant tumours occur in the larynx. Of the former, the most common is the papilloma, and then the fibroma; but many other forms of tumour are occasionally met with, as adenoma, myxoma, chondroma, angioma, and rarely cystic tumours. The only one which requires special mention is the papilloma, not only on account of its frequent occurrence, but also on account of its tendency to assume a malignant type and degenerate into epithelioma. The papilloma occurs in wart-like masses, which usually grow from the true vocal cords. It may be pedunculated or sessile, solitary or multiple, and is found at all ages, though more commonly in patients over the age of thirty. It gives rise to hoarseness, constant cough and dyspnoea; but a diagnosis can only be made with the laryngoscope. The treatment consists in cocainising the larynx, and then seizing and twisting off the growths with laryngeal forceps. Should this fail, as it may do if the tumours are numerous and sessile, the operation of thyrotomy should be performed, the growths removed with scissors, and the bleeding points touched with nitrate of silver. The operation is only indicated when there is danger to life from dyspnoea. Malignant tumours of the larynx.—Both carcinomatous and sarcomatous tumours occur in the larynx, but the former are much the more common of the two, and are almost always of the squamous-cellecr variety. The disease usually commences near the base of the epiglottis or on the vocal cords as a papillary overgrowth. This spreads and ulcerates