173 POST-MORTEM APPEARANCES intervals, probably some weeks intervening between each rigor. A patient suffering from some local suppuration is suddenly attacked with a rigor, which is followed by a profuse sweat; during the rigor the temperature rises ; and falls during the sweating, but does not quite reach normal. This attack leaves the patient exhausted and weak, and this weakness does not pass off. He expresses himself as not feeling quite well; he feels languid, disinclined to make any exertion, and is somewhat anxious and despondent about himself. The temperature is not steady ; there is an evening rise to a degree or so above normal. This goes on for some days, it may be weeks, and then another rigor occurs. This further prostrates him, and the weak- ness increases. He begins now to emaciate. His appetite is capricious. And so the case goes on without any very definite symptoms, beyond the occasional rigor, followed by colliquative perspiration, until suddenly a joint becomes distended with fluid, or a fluctuating sweUing, generally un- attended with pain, appears in some part of the body. If this is opened, a quantity of oily, ill-formed pus escapes. In this condition the patient may linger for weeks or months, gradually becoming weaker and more emaciated, and may finally die of exhaustion, or, on the other hand, he may eventually recover with a shattered constitution, and it may be one or more anky- losed joints. The diagnosis of pyaemia, and especially the chronic form, is by no means always easy. The chief points to rely upon in coming to a correct opinion are the repeated rigors at irregular intervals, and the condition of the temperature, which in the acute form is never normal, and in the chronic form is rarely ever normal for twenty-four consecutive hours, and in both forms is exacerbated from time to time when a rigor occurs, and falls again during the sweating stage. The prognosis of pyaemia is always bad. Cases of the acute form of the disease almost always terminate fatally, and life is seldom prolonged beyond the twelfth or fourteenth day. In the chronic form of the disease, the outlook is a little more hopeful, but the majority of these also die. If they live, recovery is a very slow process, and generally leaves the patient in a shattered condition of health, and hopelessly crippled. The post-mortem appearances.—The general post-mortem appearances are pretty much the same as those found in septicaemia. The blood is fluid, and shows little tendency to coagulate; microscopically, its red corpuscles are diminished, and its white increased. The lining membrane of the heart, especially that covering the valves, may be inflamed and ulcerated. The lungs, more particularly behind, are intensely congested and full of black blood. In them may be found secondary abscesses, which will present different appearances according to their age. In the most recent ones there is merely a wedge-shaped mass of solid tissue, sinking in water, of a dark red colour, very friable, so that it is easily torn ; in a somewhat older one, the centre is broken down and contains a yellowish fluid, pro- duced by gangrenous softening; this is surrounded by a zone of dark red solid tissue which is easily torn, and this again by a zone of intensely con- gested lung tissue; in still older ones, the solid portion is all broken down, and a true abscess is formed containing pus mixed with the debris of the lung tissue. The abdominal viscera, liver, spleen, and kidneys are con- gested, and may contain secondary abscesses. When the joints are affected, the synovial membrane will be found swollen and inflamed, the cartilages more or less ulcerated, and the joint full of a thin, oily, ill-formed pus.