GENERAL DISEASES 25° are most rapid in their course, and even after removal almost certainly recur or produce secondary growths and kill the patient; whereas the niyeloid sarcomata have been known to exist for years without destroying life, and after thorough removal have little tendency to recur. In a case of myeloid tumour of the femur, for which I amputated the thigh twenty- one years ago, the patient is still alive, and has no recurrence. Treatment.—The treatment of sarcoma is removal, and the chief point to insist upon is that the removal should include a considerable area of surrounding tissue, however healthy it may appear. Thus in a sarcoma of the breast, the whole organ should be removed; in sarcoma of a bone, if it occurs in one of the extremities, the limb should be amputated ; if it is a myeloid tumour, the amputation may be performed just above the growth ; if, on the other hand, it is a periosteal sarcoma, the whole bone from which the tumour grows should be removed. It must sometimes happen that cases of malignant disease will present themselves to the surgeon which have passed the stage in which they are capable of being removed by operation, and until quite recent days these cases have been abandoned as hopeless. Within the last few years, however, the treatment of sarcomata by the subcutaneous injection of what is known as Coley's fluid, has raised a hope that something may be done for these desperate cases. This fluid consists of a mixture of the products of the growth of the streptococcus of erysipelas and the bacillus prodigiosus, sterilised by heat. It has long been known that malignant growths occasionally disappear with great rapidity after an attack of erysipelas; and when Fehleisen was investigating the etiology of erysipelas he took advantage of this circumstance to prove experimentally that the microbe which he had isolated and cultivated was the true infecting virus of this disease; for he injected some of his pure cultures into patients suflering from hopeless malignant disease, primarily with the object of proving the true infecting nature of the microbe, but secondarily with the hope of alleviating the condition. Other investigators, among whom was Coley, followed, but it was soon found that an attack of erysipelas could not by this means be obtained with any certainty, and the next step was to employ the toxine produced by the streptococcus of erysipelas without the living organism. This was done by separating the toxines by filtration, and sterilising with steam. By this means greater certainty was produced, and the dose could be regulated, the effect being proportional to the amount inoculated, and therefore the danger was diminished. The effect produced, however, by the injection of toxine was not so great as when the living cultures were used, and therefore, in order to increase its effects, Coley mixed with it the toxine of the bacillus prodigiosus, a non-pathogenic organism, which has the power of intensifying the action of the strepto- coccus of erysipelas, as well as many other pathogenic organisms. The result of this injection when successful is to produce a very serious reaction ; there is usually a rigor, with marked rise in the temperature, vomiting, headache and often diarrhoea, and the tumour begins to disappear, by a rapid form of degeneration, which has been compared to the degene- ration of the hepatic cells, which takes place in acute yellow atrophy of the liver. Coley recommends that the injections should be commenced with a very small dose, half a minim, and gradually increased until the reaction temperature reaches 103° F. to 104° F. They may be given daily when the reaction is slight, but less frequently when it is severe. It must be admitted tiiat the plan of treatment is one of considerable danger, and it is not justifi-