GENERAL INJURIES 42 Syncope must be distinguished from shock. It may be defined as a state of suspended animation, due to sudden failure of the heart's action producmg aneemia of the brain. It may occur without any injury • from' emotional causes, such as fear, grief, or joy ; from intrinsic cardiac con- ditions, such as fatty degeneration of the heart, or depression of the heart trom hunger or exhaustion ; from a hot, impure atmosphere when it appears to be caused by interference with the respiration and secondarily with the heart, from the presence of carbonic acid in the blood • and hnally, syncope may be caused by sudden loss of blood. Symptoms.—AVhen a patient is about to faint, he becomes suddenly pale, and suffers from a sense of giddiness, with singing noises in the ears and partial loss of sight. The pulse is weak, small and quick, and the respirations shallow and feeble. This is followed by a rapid disappearance of sensory impressions, the muscles become relaxed and the patient falls, completely unconscious. He now lies in a state of apparently suspended animation ; the face is deadly pale, the eyes closed, the pupils widely dilated, the pulse is imperceptible or scarcely to be felt and the respiration is indistinguishable. After a longer or shorter time the patient makes one or two slight sighing respirations. Some feeble movements are made, the colour begins to return to the face the pulse can again be felt at the wrist, and he gradually recovers consciousness In other cases of faintness, especially from disease of the heart, the syncope may terminate m death, and on post-mortem examination the heart will be found to be uncontracted, the ventricles being either full of blood or empty in those cases where the syncope is due to hsemorrhage _ Treatment.—The indications for treatment are to lay the'ijatient flat on his back in order to favour the flow of blood to the brain; to improve the action of the heart by friction over the prcTCordial region, or if a battery IS at hand, by galvanism, to apply smelling salts to the nostrils, and to give a little brandy, as soon as the patient can swallow. TRAUMATIC FEVER The term traumatic fever is applied to febrile excitement which tollows closely upon any severe injury, that is to say, occurs within the hrst week or ten days, but is not applied to those forms of fever which accompany a true infective process, such as erysipelas. This fever pre- sents Itself under two perfectly distinct forms, which it is necessary to differentiate carefully from each other. It has been incidentally mentioned in speaking of shock, that, as reaction takes place, the temperature, which during the shock was subnormal, generally rises above the normal point but speedily falls again. This slight increase of temperature, which is generally unaccompanied by any other febrile symptom, is spoken of as aseptic traumatic fever, or by Billroth, as primary traumatic fever - it would appear better, if the condition merits a name at all, to call it reactionary fever, and to confine the term traumatic fever to the other condition, which IS due to absorption from a wound of septic products which have been developed by the bacteria growing in it. This is commonly known as septic traumatic fever, or following the nomenclature of Billroth, secondary traumatic fever. In order to illustrate these two conditions, let us take a case of severe injury, such as a compound fracture of the leg. At the lime of admission