HYDROPHOBIA 8i conveyed by a duct, which either channels or grooves the fang, directly into the wound ; whereas in the mad dog the poison is contained in the saliva and oral mucus which moistens the teeth, and which may be easily wiped off in their passage through woollen clothing. As regards the causes of rabies in the dog we know nothing definitely. But there seems a very fair amount of evidence to prove that it does not originate ab initio in this animal, but that it is always the result of direct inoculation from some other rabid animal. Muzzling, and especially quarantine for a prolonged period, of all animals admitted into any given country, entirely prevents the disease from occurring, and seems to be con- clusive evidence that it cannot arise ab initio. There can be no question of the identity of the two diseases—rabies in the animal and hydrophobia in man, as far as regards the poison which produces them, for not only will the saliva of the rabid dog when inocu- lated into man produce hydrophobia, but the saliva of a hydrophobic patient when inoculated into an animal will produce rabies. Like many other poisons, the poison of hydrophobia is very uncertain in its action. Several persons may be bitten by the same rabid animal, but not all of them will develop the disease. The percentage of those bitten, who are attacked by hydrophobia, has been variously estimated. Trousseau estimated that about 50 per cent, of persons bitten by undoubtedly mad dogs took the disease, but others estimate the propor- tion as much lower. Ruffer estimates it, from a large collection of cases, at 15 per cent. The difficulty in obtaining exact statistics is very difficult, as many people are said to have been bitten by a mad dog, when they have only been bitten by 'a poor cur, who, having been worried into a bad temper, bites and foams at the mouth.' Of course these remarks as to the relative frequency of hydrophobia after bites from rabid animals refer only to those who are not subjected to prophylactic treatment. The reason why so many persons who have been bitten escape hydro- phobia is no doubt in a large measure due to the cause already alluded to, that they are bitten through their clothes and the poison is thus prevented from entering the wound. But this does not seem to be the whole expla- nation. Some persons and animals would appear to be insusceptible to the poison. Hertwig inoculated a dog nine times in three years, with virus which produced rabies in other dogs, without any effect; and cases have been recorded of veterinary surgeons and others, who have been bitten on several occasions on some uncovered part of the body, as the hand, without developing the disease. Period of Incubation.—One of the characteristic points which dis- tinguishes hydrophobia from other forms of poisoned wounds is the great uncertainty as to its period of incubation. It may roughly be stated that this is usually from six weeks to four months, but numerous cases have been recorded when either, on the one hand, the duration of the period has been less than this, or, on the other, it has greatly exceeded it. Cases have been said to occur where the disease has developed within a week of the inoculation of the virus, and again, on the other hand, two years have been said to elapse before the development of the disease. Ruffer from his collection of cases shows that death took place in 97 per cent, of the fatal cases within four months of the receipt of the injury. I think, there- fore, that it may be laid down as a broad rule that the period of incuba- tion rarely exceeds four months, but that certain undoubted exceptions to this rule have been recorded. G