448 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES fracture of the shaft of the femur. The two [jrincipal of these are the long splint and the double inclined plane. The long splint consists of a piece of wood some four inches wide, which is applied to the outer side of the body from just below the axilla to the foot, where it terminates in a foot-piece (Desault's splint); or to some five or six inches below the foot, when its extremity presents two notches (Liston's splint). The upper end of Desault's splint is notched ; the upper end of Liston's splint has two perforations. By some surgeons this is the only splint used; others in addition use three short thigh splints, one in front, one behind, and one on the inner side. There are various ways of applying the long splint. Most surgeons consider that some means by which continuous extension can be kept up is neces.sary : for my own part, for some years I have dispensed with this, and have seen no reason to regret it. The manner in which I use the long splint is as follows : the form of splint used is Desault's, which in my opinion is preferable to' Liston's, as the foot-piece serves to prevent the tendency there is for the limb to roll out- wards. The splint is placed on the outer side of the body, and the foot firmly bandaged to the foot-piece by a figure-of-8 bandage, a pad having been first placed over the back of the heel and tendo Achillis, and a second over the dorsum of the foot. When this has been done, three short splints, cut obliquely above, should be adapted to the thigh, and loosely buckled in position by two broad webbings, one placed as high as the perineum will allow, the other at the level of the upper border of the patella. The short splints are placed in front, behind, and on the inner side of the thigh, in such a manner that the highest point of the oblique border points to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Below, the splints should extend to the level of the knee joint, or a little beyond it. As soon as everything is in position an assistant grasps the foot and foot-piece of the splint, and by a steady pull makes extension until the deformity is reduced, and the limb is the same length as the opposite one ; the webbings are then tightened and buckled. The final stage of the proceeding consists in fixing the upper part of the splint to the body. In order to do this a piece of stout calico some two feet in breadth is sewn to the outer side of the spUnt, and is then carried underneath the patient, round the sound side of his trunk, and back again to the splint, to which it is firmly attached. This prevents the splint from being displaced forwards, an accident which is likely to happen if the trunk and splint are simply encircled by a rib roller. It will be found that if this plan is adopted there will be no tendency to a recurrence of the displacement, and the patient will recover with as little shortening as if continuous extension had been kept up. If the fracture is in the upper third of the femur, it is a wise precaution to supplement this treat- ment by applying a spica bandage to the hip over the top of the splints. Most surgeons, however, prefer to employ extension, and there are two principal ways of doing this, (i) One method is by means of a weight and pulley fixed to the end of the bed, and connected with a stirrup of strapping attached to the lower third of the thigh; counter extension being made by raising the foot of the bed. This is put on before the long splint is applied. (2) The other method is by the employment of a perineal band, which in my opinion is absolutely useless, for it must either be drawn so tighdy that it is sure to gall the patient, or if this is not done it will be so loose that it will be perfectly inefficient. It consists of a padded strap which is passed round the inner side of the upper part of the thigh, one end being brought up in front, and the other