OF THE TOES tendon, and is carried along the inner side of the first phalanx almost to the interphalangeal joint. It is then turned downwards on to the plantar surface, and is carried obliquely backwards and outwards to the web between the first and second toes, and is then brought upwards again on to the dorsal surface, and carried backwards and inwards to join the commencement of the incision. The flaps are dissected back from the bone until the metatarso-phalangeal joint is reached, when the ligaments are divided and the toe removed. Removal of the little toe, with its metatarsal bone, is conducted on exactly the same lines as the corresponding operation on the great toe, by a racquet-shaped incision. Amputation of the little toe through the metatarso-phalangeal joint.—This is best done by making a single dorsal and external flap. An incision is commenced on the inner side of and above the head of the metatarsal bone, and carried forwards to the web between the fourth and fifth toes which is divided, but the incision is not carried further than this into the plantar surface of the foot. The flap is dissected outwards, the point of the knife inserted into the joint from above, and disarticulation completed by dividing the lateral ligaments. The bone is then dissected out from its bed in the soft parts. Amputation of the other toes.—The phalanges of the toes rarely require amputation ; when they do, they can be removed in the same way as the corresponding parts in the hand. Amputation at the metatarso-phalangeal joint is sometimes re- quired. It should always be done by the oval method, so that the plantar surface of the foot is not opened up. An incision is made on the dorsal surface of the toe, beginning a little behind the head of the metatarsal bone, and carried forwards over the joint to the level of the web of the toes. It is then swept in a circular manner round the toe. The two flaps are dissected back, the joint is opened, its ligaments divided, and the toe removed. 4 E