1027 ENCYSTED HYDROCELE the fact that by steady pressure, or by elevating the scrotum, the sac can be emptied, but this can generally only be done very slowly and with difficulty. It is distinguished from congenital hernia by its translucency, its dullness on percussion, and by the absence of any gurgle upon reduction. The condition is of some importance, since any inflammation excited in the sac might readily spread to the peritoneal cavity. The fluid of a con- genital hydrocele is clear and colourless, containing only a trace of albumen. Treatment.—The treatment consists in attempting to cause obliteration of the funicular process by pressure. A truss should be applied so that the pad presses on the inguinal canal and the external abdominal ring. This will usually cause obliteration, and when this is done the fluid in the sac may disappear of itself, or may be got rid of by the application of chloride of ammonia or other stimulating lotion. Should this fail, the sac should be laid open, its neck ligatured, and the sac wall attached to the skin and dressed in with gauze. 3. Infantile hydrocele.—This form of hydrocele differs from the congenital in the fact that the funicular process has become shut off from the peritoneal cavity above, but remains pervious throughout the rest of its extent. It will be remembered that in the process of development after the testicle has reached the scrotum, obliteration of the funicular process commences above and below—that is, at its two extremities—and gradually spreads upwards and downwards until the whole is obliterated. In infan- tile hydrocele the obliteration takes place above, but not below, and may spread as far as the external ring, the rest of the process remaining pervious. It resembles the vaginal hydrocele in the fact that its fluid is derived from the vaginal sac, but differs from it in its shape, the collection of fluid extending up the cord and sometimes into the inguinal canal, when the obliteration downwards of the funicular process has not proceeded far. It is distinguished from congenital hydrocele by the fact that it does not diminish on pressure or on elevation of the scrotum. Treatment.—It can generally be cured in childhood by the application of the chloride of ammonia lotion. If not, it should be tapped and the lotion again applied. In the adult, incision as in ordinary hydrocele will succeed in effecting a cure. 4. Hydrocele of the funicular process.—This is a very rare form of hydrocele, and is due to closure of the funicular process at its lower end, and its non-obliteration throughout the rest of its extent. This portion becomes distended with fluid which trickles down from the peri- toneal cavity. It forms a sausage-shaped tumour, which distends the inguinal canal and upper part of the scrotum, and below it the testicle can be felt, free and unsurrounded by the swelling. The tumour is translucent, and can be made to disappear by steady, continuous pressure. It is dis- tinguished from a hernia of the funicular process (page 885) by its trans- lucency, its dullness on percussion, and by the manner of its reduction, slowly and without gurgle. It can generally be cured by reducing the swelling and applying a truss, which will cause obliteration of the process. 5. Encysted hydrocele.—This variety of hydrocele differs from those previously described, inasmuch as it is a new formation and not the collection of fluid in a pre-existing space. It occurs under two forms: (a) spermatocele or spermatic cyst ; (^) cyst of the body of the testicle. a. Spermatocele or encysted hydrocele of the epi- didymis (fig. 391) is the more common and important condition, and 3 u 2