1009 EXTRAVASATION OF URINE will succeed in doing this. If not, and the stricture is impassable, no time must be lost in relieving the patient. The best and simplest way of doing this is by aspiration above the pubes. The aspirating needle is passed directly into the bladder, immediately above the pubes, and the water slowly drawn off, care being taken to withdraw the needle before the bladder is completely emptied, lest the point of the needle should injure the coats of the bladder. After the little operation the patient should be kept quiet in bed and a morphia suppository administered. In the course of a few hours another attempt should be made to pass an instrument down the urethra, and all pressure having been removed from the posterior part of the urethra, this probably will succeed. If not, the bladder must be aspirated again when it becomes full, and the surgeon may have to do this several times before he will succeed in passing an instrument. It may happen, indeed, that he cannot succeed in getting any instrument into the bladder, and if after four or five aspirations have been resorted to he has still failed in introducing a catheter, Cock's operation should be performed. An alterna- tive operation consists in tapping the bladder above the pubes and leaving the cannula in the wound, through which the bladder is drained. Cock's operation would, however, appear to be the preferable one, for when this is performed the patient after the first few days can be up and about, and has perfect control over the escape of his urine and is able to relieve himself with much more ease and comfort than through a tube above the pubes. In both operations it is probable that after a time an instrument will be got through the stricture, and it can then be dilated or divided ; but in some few cases this may not be so, and then the permanent opening is in a much more favourable place after Cock's operation than after the supra-pubic one. Cock's operation is especially indicated in those cases where, in addition to the retention, there is a hard brawny swelling in the perineum, indicating that some slight extravasation has taken place. Abscess in perineo.—Occasionally it happens that the walls of the dilated urethra behind the stricture give way, and a small quantity of urine is extravasated into the tissues outside the urethra, but is strictly limited by inflammatory condensation around ; or the walls of the thinned pouch ulcerate and matter is formed, resulting in a small hard exquisitely painful swelling in the perineum. This is abscess in perineo. It is usually too small and deeply seated to permit of fluctuation being felt, but the presence of a stricture, and the formation of a hard exquisitely painful swelling, with feverish symptoms and perhaps a rigor, at once indicate the condition. No time should be lost in opening it by an incision in the raphe of the perineum ; for if not opened it will burrow its way to the surface, and, bursting through the skin, a long sinuous track will be formed, through which some of the urine will escape during micturition. In old standing neglected strictures there may be many openings, not only in the perineum,, but also in the penis, scrotum, buttock and groin. The treatment of these cases has already been indicated (page 1006). Extravasation of urine.—This takes place from giving way of the wall of the urethra behind the stricture. In consequence of the stricture there is an impediment to the flow of urine, and, if retention occurs, the patient makes violent efforts to empty his bladder; during one of these efforts a rent takes place in the urethra behind the stricture and the urine is driven with considerable force into the surrounding tissues. The portion of the urethra which almost always gives way is the membranous part; that is to say, that portion of the urethra which lies between the deep layer of the perineal 3 T