66 GENERAL INJURIES of complete rest, both mechanical and physiological. But the point is one of so much importance that it cannot be too frequently or too urgently insisted upon. We have seen that the continuance of an inflammation in a part is in most instances due to a condition of unrest, and there- fore every effort should be made by the surgeon to do away with this con- dition. John Hunter says : ' The first and great requisite for restoration of injured parts is rest.' Splints are frequently of use in maintaining immobihty, and they should be applied so as to allow the body to rest in the easiest position possible. Pressure is also frequently of use in pro- moting rest by keeping parts mechanically together. A large pad of cotton wool, which from its elasticity maintains equable pressure, is often of the greatest service in securing this end. 5. The prevention of putrefaction and infection in a wound.—As I have already stated, there are two ways in which we may prevent the occurrence of putrefaction in a wound, either by getting rid of all dead animal matter from it, or by preventing the ingress of the fer- ment of putrefaction into it, for the ferment is always admitted from with- out and never through the circulation. It is undoubtedly true that if we could carry out either one of these two plans perfectly and thoroughly, no putrefaction could take place : if, on the one hand, we could entirely get rid of all dead matter from the wound, there would be nothing to putrefy ; and, on the other hand, if we could successfully prevent the admis- sion of any saprophytic fungi, which are the ferments of decomposition, into the wound, any amount of dead animal matter might be present, and still no putrefaction could take place. The means which we employ to get rid of the dead animal matter is drainage. The chief putrescible matter of wounds is the serum of the blood; this for the most part collects in the wound during the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours after its infliction, so that it is during this time that drainage is most required. The serum is derived from the blood clots. As we have seen, blood coagulates in the open mouths of the cut vessels in order to- stay the haemorrhage, and also in other parts of the wound: after coagu- lation has taken place, the clots contract, and as they do so they express the serum which they contain and which if allowed to remain in the wound might be the source of decomposition; for serum under these cir- cumstances must be regarded as dead and highly putrescible animal matter. The serum which collects in a wound during the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours may be the result of inflammatory effusion, and this is particularly likely to be so in those cases where carbolic acid lotion has been used for washing out or irrigating a wound. This antiseptic drug causes irritation to the surfaces of the wound, and a very considerable amount of serum to be exuded. We therefore employ drainage tubes in certain wounds and operations to carry away this serum. It is not in every case that drainage appears to be necessary, though until recently its importance was much insisted upon in carrying out the aseptic or antiseptic treatment of wounds. In those cases where by pressure tlie entire surfaces of a wound can be brought into apposition, so that no cavity remains, there is no occasion to drain, as there is no space where the serum can collect; but where a large baggy cavity is left, which cannot be sub- jected to pressure, as in a stump after amputation, a drainage tube is of the greatest importance. I think on the whole drainage is not practised as frequently as it should be. In my own personal experience I have more than once regretted not using a tube; I cannot say that I ever remember