SEPTICy*:MIA 167 stacre, and its duration varies-. Probably one of the causes of tins varymg period of incubation is due to the way in which the microbes effect an entrance into the blood, whether directly throtigh the blood or mdirectly through the lymph stream. Thirdly, the poison is distinctly infective. We have seen that in animals who have died of septicaemia, the blood is teeming with micro-organisms ; now if a drop of this blood is inoculated into another animal it may produce the same train of symptoms ; whereas the blood of an animal dead of sapr^mia is quite innocuous, and when injected into a second produces no effect. ■ „ i It must be mentioned that these facts have been elicited prmcipally by experiments on the lower animals; for in the human subject saprsimia and septicemia are frequently present together in the same subject. As the source of the virus is some decomposing material, and this decomposing material is very frequently a putrid wound, the chemical products of putre- faction producing saprtemia are often absorbed into the blood at the same time as the micro-organisms producing septicemia are circulating and multiplying in the same fluid. As regards the duration of the incubation period in man, nothing definite can be stated. As we have just said, septicemia is generally complicated with saprsemia, and an absolutely uncomplicated case of the former disease rarely occurs, so that there are not sufficient data on which to form an accurate opinion. It is generally believed that about six or eight hours represent the average duration of the incubation period. We now pass on to discuss another most important point in connection with this subject, which has been abundantly proved by experiments on the lower animals ; and that is, that inoculations do not always succeed. If, for instance, a minute quantity of some putrid material, not sufficient to produce any noticeable symptoms of sapremia, is inoculated into a given number of animals, in the majority no ill effects will be produced, whilst the minority will die in a few hours with symptoms of septicaemia. Koch, for instance, injected one drop of some putrid meat infusion under the skin of the back of some mice. In about two-thirds of them no apparently ill effects followed; whilst in the remaining third, about twenty-four hours after the inoculation, certain symptoms were set up which terminated in death in a few hours. It is clear, therefore, that something more is necessary than the introduction of the virus into the blood, and this is, favourable conditions under which it can grow; that is to say, a condition in the recipient of the poison favourable to its development. We have seen that in saprtemia, when the putrid material—the manu- factory of the poison, if we may so term it—is removed, marked improve- ment follows, and, in an uncomplicated case, recovery is the result. This is not so in septicemia. The tendency here is towards an increase of the symptoms and the death of the patient, and no amelioration in the symptoms is produced by removing the part which has been inoculated, so that it is clear that the manufacture of the virus does not take place at the .seat of inoculation. Symptoms.—Clinically we divide septicemia into two main classes, acute and chronic, and in describing the symptoms it is necessary to dis- tinguish the one from the other. Acute Septicaemia—In the acute form of septicemia the general symptoms are usually preceded by some local changes at the seat of inoculation, owing to the fact that the case is not one of pure septi- cemia, but is mixed up with a certain amount of sapremic complication.