CHOICE OF OPERATION 977 extremity. The former should be used, if it can be passed, as the frag- ments find their way out through it more easily; but the curved tubes will be found more easy to introduce. After the tube has been passed, the evacuating bottle (fig. 375) is attached to it, having first been filled with hot boric acid solution. The bottle is then compressed, and the fluid driven into the bladder ; upon relaxing the compression, the fluid returns to the bottle, carrymg with it the fragments of stone, which sink into the glass receptacle attached to the apparatus. The alternate compression and relaxation are continued until no more fragments appear. Occasionally it will happen that, though no more fragments appear, every time the water returns to the bottle the impact of a piece of stone against the metal tube is felt. This will indicate that there is a fragment of stope in the bladder which is too large to pass through the evacuator. The lithotrite must then be reintroduced, and the fragment or fragments crushed. When, after washing out, no debris appears in the bottle, and no rattle can be felt against the tube, the operation must be regarded as com- pleted. The patient should be wrapped up in blankets and arranged com- fortably in bed, with hot-water botdes about him. Usually a subcutaneous injection of morphia, or a morphia suppository, is desirable. He should have nothing but fluid nourishment for a few days. If there is irritability of the bladder, a mixture containing bicarbonate of potash and tincture of hyoscyamus will be found of use. In dealing with very large hard stones in adult males, Dolbeau practises lithotrity through a perineal wound. A median perineal cystotomy is first performed and an opening made sufficiently large to admit the index finger. Through this incision a giant lithotrite is passed, the combined blades of which correspond in size to the index finger, and with which a mulberry calculus weighing from four to six ounces can be speedily crushed. The fragments are removed in the ordinary way with the cannula and evacuating syringe. After the stone has been withdrawn, the finger can be introduced in order to ascertain that every fragment has been removed. Choice of operation.—There can be no question that in the hands of a competent surgeon the operation of litholapaxy is the ideal operation for stone in the bladder, and the rule may be laid down that lithotrity should be performed whenever feasible. Perhaps the only objection that can be raised to such a rule is that there is no doubt that this operation is oftener followed by a recurrence of the stone than Uthotomy. in spite of the greatest care and caution on the part of the surgeon, it constantly happens that a small fragment gets lodged in some fold of the mucous membrane of the bladder, and on this another stone is built up ; but in these days, with our improved methods of operating, in the hands of surgeons who have become skilled in the necessary manipulations, these recurrences are not nearly so common as they used to be. In laying down this rule, that litholapaxy is the operation which should be preferred for stone in the bladder, we must bear in mind that there are very many cases in which it is contra-indicated. In considering these contra-indications, we have to determine the condition of the stone and the state of the urinary organs. ^Vith regard to the stone, it may he said at once that when it is encysted it is an absolute bar to the operation of lithotrity. As regards its size, considerable difference of opinion exists. In the old days of lithotrity, the rule used to be that no attempt should be made to crush a stone which was more than an