PERIOSTITIS 461 Fracture of the metatarsal bones and phalanges is almost always produced by direct violence ; very often by severe crushing force, which produces such laceration as to necessitate amputation. When a single bone is broken there may not be much displacement, but when two or three are broken there is often considerable deformity. When no displacement exists all that is required is to place the foot on a light splint and keep it quiet; if displacement exists it must be remedied by extension and manipulation, otherwise the bones will unite in a faulty position and be the source of much discomfort and annoyance to the patient. DISEASES OF BONES Bone consists essentially of ordinary connective tissue. This connective tissue is arranged differently in different parts. On the surface of the bone it is arranged as a membrane, the periosteum, which supplies nourishment to the bone and in early life assists in its formation and growth ; in the bone proper it is for the most part impregnated with earthy salts, but a certain amount of connective tissue remains unimpregnated in the Haver- sian canals, and is directly continuous with the periosteum on the one hand, and with the connective tissue filling the central canal on the other. This latter tissue consists of a vascular medulla, serving not only to supply nutrition to the bone, but also probably assisting in elaborating the blood. In inflammation of bone it is this connective tissue which is the seat of the process, and the same changes take place in it as occur in inflammation of other structures. The inflammation may com- mence in any of the parts above mentioned—the periosteum, the bone proper, or the medullary tissue, and hence we have periostitis, ostitis, and endostitis or osteo-myelitis. In all, however, the inflammation owes its existence and continuance to the connective tissue, whether covering the surface of the bone as periosteum, or carried along with the vessels in the Haversian systems, or massed together in the central canal of the bone. In consequence of the intimate connection which there is between these different parts of the same structure, inflammation in one very quickly extends to another, and we cannot long have inflammation of one without the others becoming affected ; and ostitis, periostitis, and endostitis are soon all present in the same case. For the convenience of description it is necessary to describe these three conditions separately from each other, but the student must bear in mind that though these three diseases are described as distinct conditions, he will rarely, hereafter, in practice find the one condition without one or both of the others being present. PERIOSTITIS Inflammation of the periosteum may be either local or diffuse. The local form may be either acute or chronic. Acute local or simple periostitis is when inflammation attacks a limited area of periosteum and shows no tendency to spread beyond it. It is most usually the result of an injury, as a blow, but may also be set up by an extension of inflammation from surrounding parts, as, for example, a periostitis of the jaw set up by an alveolar abscess. It is also the result