MALPOSITION OF THE TESTIS I02I in whole or in part, are absent. Or both parts may be developed, but they may not be connected together. It must be borne in mind that these two portions are developed from separate structures in the embryo. Retained testicle.—The testicle developed in the lumbar region may be arrested or delayed in any part of its transit to the scrotum. It may be retained in the abdomen; or it may be arrested at the internal abdominal ring, or in the inguinal canal; or it may just pass outside the external ring without finding its way to the bottom of the scrotum. Many causes have been assigned for this condition, but it cannot be said that our knowledge on this subject is very exact, though it would appear that in many cases it is due to the absence or abnormal position of one or more of the attachments of the gubernaculum testis, which undoubtedly governs the descent of this body. In other cases it would seem to be due to shortness of the vas deferens or vessels of the cord. Intra-uterine peritonitis has also been regarded as a cause. When the testicle is retained in the abdomen, it gives rise to no symptoms other than the absence of the gland from the scrotum, but when it is retained in the inguinal canal it is subjected to pressure, and may become inflamed and painful, and the inflammation may extend to the peritoneum, producing general peritonitis. It is probable that the testicle when first formed is normal, but it undergoes degenerative changes, and becomes functionally useless, so that a man, in whom both testicles are retained (anorchism) is sterile, though he is not impotent. The absence of one testicle is termed monorchism. When the testicle is retained in the inguinal canal it is often complicated with a congenital hernia, the funicular process of peritoneum not being obliterated. Malposition of the testis.—The testicle may descend through the inguinal canal, but may miss the scrotum and become misplaced, and assume some abnormal position. This is kno^vTl as ectopia of the testis. There are two principal positions in which the testicle may be found : (i) Ectopia perinealis is where the testicle slips down between the scrotum and thigh and becomes located in the perineum. Here it is subjected to great pressure, especially during sitting, and is a source of great pain and discomfort to the patient. In other cases the testicle, upon emerging at the external ring, slips downwards and outwards over the spine of the OS pubis, and becomes located over the situation of the saphenous opening. (2) Cases have also been described in which the testicle has been said to find its way out of the abdomen through the femoral ring, and to pass down the crural canal to present at the saphenous opening. And to these the name ectopia cruralis has been given, but it is exceedingly doubtful whether such a condition ever exists. Whether the testicle is retained in the inguinal canal or is ectopic, it is exposed to injury and pressure, and is liable to be attacked by in- flammation, or to become atrophied, and later on in life to be the seat of malignant disease. In both retention and malposition the scrotum is not fully developed. Treatment.—When a testicle is retained or malplaced, unless it is in the abdominal cavity, when it may be safely left alone, the surgeon should consider the feasibility of transplanting it into the scrotum and fixing it there. If this cannot be done, seeing that it is a source of pain and discomfort, that it is functionally useless, and that there is a risk of malignant disease attacking it later on in life, the better plan is to proceed to the removal of the organ.