899 MALFORMATIONS OF THE RECTUM of the hind gut—may be fully developed. Under these circumstances, there will be no appearance of anus; but upon making the child cry, a soft bulging swelling will be seen and felt in the situation of the anus. In these cases, the child having been placed in the lithotomy position, an incision is to be made at the proper site of the anus, and the tissues divided until the meconium is evacuated. The mucous membrane of the bowel is then to be drawn down, and attached all round to the margins of the external incision. In these cases, after the operation there will be for some time entire want of control of the fjeces, but the power of retaining them is acquired after a time. 3. The rectum may be undeveloped in whole or in part, and this may be either with or without the formation of an anus (fig. 350). Any degree of want of development of rectum may be present: the colon may terminate in any part of its descending portion, and there may be no attempt whatever to form a rectum; or, on the other hand, the rectum may be developed in its upper part, and may terminate one, two, or more inches from the anus. In those cases, which are uncommon, where the rectum is deficient in its development, but the anus is fully formed, no bulging would be felt upon the introduction of the finger into the anus, nor would it be seen upon examina- tion with a speculum. Probably it is right in these cases to make an exploratory puncture through the anus, in the hope of reaching the me- conium ; but if this fails, the only resource is Colo- Fig. 350.—Figure showing the termination of the tomy. In the majority rectum in a blind pouch the size of a goose's egg. of cases where the lower (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) part of the rectum is undeveloped, there is also an absence of the anus. In these cases an incision is first to be made at the site of the anus, and the parts carefully dissected upwards and backwards along the concavity of the sacrum, taking care to keep strictly in the middle line. This dissection may be carried to the depth of an inch and a half or two inches, and the bulging end of the hind gut carefully sought for; if it is found, it must be opened, and the edges of the opening brought down and attached to the external incision, if possible ; if not, a pewter tube must be inserted and kept constantly there, as otherwise the channel which has been made will contract into a narrow fistulous track. When the gut cannot be found, the only resource is colotomy. Of the two operations, the inguinal is to be preferred on account of the difficulties of the lumbar operation, from the smallness of the space between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, and from the fact that the descending colon is in these cases often displaced or not developed. If the lumbar operation is decided upon, it would seem to be better to perform it on the right side. The operation is necessarily followed by a 3 M 2