Syo INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS and umbilical hernia. It will be impossible to do more than briefly allude to the different modes of operating, and to describe in full the plan which I usually adopt as being the one which in my hands has given the most satisfactory results. Until about eighteen years ago there were practically two ways of operating for the radical cure of hernia—Wiitzer's and Wood's—and neither of these plans is now employed. Wiitzer's method consisted in forcing a boxwood plug into the inguinal canal and fixing it there. Wood's plan consisted in invaginating the dartos of the scrotum into the inguinal canal, and attaching it there with an ingenious but complicated subcutaneous suture. In the year 1880, Spanton, of Hanley, introduced a new method of operation. He freed the sac through an incision, and by means of a needle shaped like a corkscrew pierced the sac and the walls of the inguinal canal in many places, thus bringing them together and narrowing the calibre of the canal. The needle was left in position from a week to a fortnight. About the same time Annandale and others suggested a. plan which has been largely adopted and variously modified. It consists in ex- posing the sac and freeing it from surrounding structures ; the neck is then ligatured and the sac removed, and the pillars of the external abdominal ring sewn together, sufficient room being left for the passage of the cord at its lowest part. Some of the various modifications of this operation are as follows : Mitchell Banks employs strong silver wire to close the ring, which remains there permanently, and in some cases includes the conjoined tendon with the inner pillar. Stokes, of Dublin, opens the neck of the sac, and then inserts carbolised sutures through the opened neck and through the tissues close to the abdominal ring. He then closes the ring with silver wire. Ball, of Dublin, after isolating the sac, twists it into a cord, so as more effectually to close the portion of the sac contained in the canal, and then ties it with a catgut suture. Hardie, of Manchester, advocates passing the ligature not only around the neck of the sac, but around the infundibuliform fascia as well. In these operations the sac is removed ; but many surgeons prefer to retain the sac and deal with it in different ways. Macewen invaginates the sac (which he has plaited into a number of folds by a piece of silk passed through it several times) into the canal, and fixes it to the abdominal ring ; he then closes the inguinal canal by suturing the con- joined tendon to Poupart's ligament. Kocher isolates the sac up to the internal abdominal ring ; he then makes an opening through the abdo- minal muscles above and external to the ring, and through this opej^i^S the detached sac is drawn ; it is then twisted into a cord, and fixed by sutures in front of the canal. Treves performs a somewhat similar opera- tion, but removes part of the sac, twists the remainder into a cord, and passing it beneath the conjoined tendon, brings it out through an opening "^ar the middle line and fixes it with sutures. He then closes the canal. In both these operations the main object is to alter the direction of the neck of the sac and bring it out through a new opening. Stanmore Bishop turns the sac inside out, invaginates it, and fixes it across the internal orifice of the inguinal canal in such a manner that the wrinkling up of the sac produces a 'boss exactly over the internal ring.' W. H. Bennett performs a similar operation, but fixes his boss away from the ring. Many other proceedmgs, too numerous to mention, have also been practised by different surgeons, but a more radical measure than any appears to be the plan recommenaeo by Bassini, or a somewhat similar operation by Halstead, and which consists in making a new inguinal canal.