946, INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS or from exhaustion. The disease usually attacks only one kidney, but the results of the removal of the organ have proved most discouragmg. Papillomata are very occasionally found growing from the Immg membrane of the pelvis of the kidney and forming a growth very similar to the villous tumour met with in the bladder. They give rise to profuse hfematuria, with pain in the loin, and in some cases the growth may block the entrance into the ureter and set up a condition of hydro-nephrosis. The treatment consists in incising the kidney and scraping away the growth, if the condition can be diagnosed. _ . r Rhabdo-myomata are tumours of interest only on account ot the fact that they are growths which are supposed in part to consist of striped muscular fibre; but it is very doubtful whether the cells which present cross striation, and which are believed to be muscular tissue, are not really the fusiform cells of the sarcomatous element of the tumour. In other respects they possess the characters of sarcoma. Carcinoma of the kidney as a primary growth is rare, but it occurs as secondary to carcinoma elsewhere. It presents the same chnical characters as the sarcoma—a rapidly growing tumour in the situation ot the kidney with often great irritability of the bladder. When the lymphatic glands become secondarily enlarged, those glands are affected which. are in the immediate neighbourhood of the termination of the spermatic veins and these vessels may be pressed upon and produce great turgescence ot the veins of the cord in the scrotum. The diagnosis of a renal tumour from other tumours, especially ot tne liver and spleen, is by no means always an easy matter. The tumour is best explored by a bimanual examination, when it will be felt to be more or less of the shape of the kidney, with a rounded outer surface, and perhaps a notch on its inner border. The greatest bulging in front will be on a level with or above the umbilicus, and as a rule it does not extend down into the pelvis The colon is in front of the kidney, and unless displaced by the great size of the tumour, may give a more or less resonant note. Upon examination behind, there is dullness on percussion, which remains unaltered whatever the patient's position ; and the dullness of the kidney is continuous with the dullness over the spine—that is to say, there is never any inter- mediate area of resonance between the two. The tumour moves very sUshtlv with the movements of respiration, not nearly so much as do tne liver and spleen. On the right side an area of resonance may frequently be detected between the dullness of the tumour and the dull note produced bv percussing over the region of the liver. , . Before leaving the subject of tumours of the kidney, it is necessary to mention that tumours are occasionally found growing apparently from tne surface of the kidney, but which are not tumours of the kidney propen They are really tumours, probably of an adenomatous nature, growing trom accessory supra-renal capsules. _ . . Nephrectomy .-The kidney may require removal in cases ^iiDer^ culous disease ; in calculous pyo-nephritis ; in hydro-nephrosis ; after inpry, in some cases of movable kidney where nephrorrhaphy has failed i may be, in some cases of malignant growth in the kidney, where the disease is recognised quite early, though the results of operation up to the presen time are far from promising. nHnnted Many different incisions and modes of proceeding have been adopted for removing the kidney. It may be removed from in front e ^her ^^^^^^ incision in the linea alba or in the linea semilunaris; it may be remov