INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES thus gradually increases in size ; the cavity of the bursa remaining as a slit in" the centre of the thickened walls. In this condition the circum- scribed swelling is hard and solid, firm and non-elastic. It is not usually painful, but causes considerable inconvenience. The only treatment is to dissect it out. Tuberculous bursitis.—Tuberculous disease may affect bur.S£E much in the same wa)' that it affects the sheaths of tendons : either in the form of a thickening of its walls, with an effusion and the presence of melon-seed bodies ; or as a tuberculous infiltration of its walls going on to caseation and eventually to the formation of chronic abscess. The treat- ment of this condition is removal of the bursa; or if this cannot be done, in freely laying open the cavity and scraping away all the tuberculous material. Syphilitic bursitis.—Occasionally effusion occurs in the secon- dary stage of syphilis in the subcutaneous burste. It is generally sym- metrical. The most common syphilitic change is, however, in the tertiary stage, when gummatous tumours form in their walls. They soften, involve and destroy the skin, and give exit to yellow sloughs. Gouty bursitis.—Deposits of urate of soda occasionally take place in the walls of bursee, especially in that over the olecranon. This may excite suppuration, and a discharge of pus mixed with chalky material takes place. Bursee synoYiae.—The burste synoviee from a pathological point of view are of two kinds : those which communicate with the interior of a joint, and those which do not. With regard to those which are not con- nected with joints, little requires to be said, as in their pathological changes they are idenrical with those of the subcutaneous bursse. One or two of especial importance may be alluded to. The bursa beneath the ligamentum patellae, between it and the head of the tibia, is sometimes enlarged. This gives rise to pain, often very great from its becoming nipped between the articular surfaces of the knee joint when the leg is extended, and inability to completely straighten the leg. The bursa beneath the tendo Achillis may become enlarged and cause a swelling on either side of the tendon and materially interfere with walking. There are also three burscC in relation with the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, which are sometimes enlarged and require mention : (i. The one most frequently enlarged is the infra-hyoid, which lies over the thyro-hyoid membrane, between the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the attachment of the membrane to the hyoid bone; (2) another, the supra-hyoid, which lies between the genio-hyoid and the genio-' hyo-glossus muscle; (3) and a third, the ante-hyoid, which lies in front of the pomum Adami. Bursas which are connected with joints.—When these bursaj become enlarged, the enlargement is not due to any external irrita- tion, but to an increase of fluid in the joint, which finds its way into and distends the sac; as a consequence of this the bursje do not undergo the same thickening of their coats which is found in the subcutaneous bursse subjected to irritation. They are merely dilated sacs. The bursje in the ham are most frequently the seat of this condition, and especially the bursa under the semi-membranosus tendon. But other bursje are also occasionally met with under the same conditions : for example, the sub- deltoid bursa, beneath the deltoid muscle ; the bursa beneath the psoas tendon, &:c. Taking the bursa under the semi-membranosus as a type,