237 IVORY EXOSTOSIS of these tumours may be removed when they occur on the hand; but when the growths are very numerous, as was the case in the patient from whom fig. 52 was taken, amputation is the only resource available to free the patient of a useless and burdensome member. IV. Osteoma.—Though bony tumours are not unknown in soft parts, as in ossified sarcomata or ossified muscle, the term osteoma or exostosis is confined to those bony tumours which grow from bone, and two forms only are properly spoken of as belonging to this class : (i) the cancellous or spongy exostosis, and (2) the ivory exostosis. The cancellous exostosis is that form of tumour which has already been alluded to as an ossifying perichondroma. They are situated almost invariably in the neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage of a long bone, especially the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the humerus, and the terminal phalanx of the great toe. They consist of a mass of bony tissue, exactly resembling in structure ordinary cancellous bone, encapsuled by a thin stratum of hyaline cartilage, which ossifies as rapidly as it is formed. As this stratum ossifies on its inner surface, a fresh growth of cartilage takes place on its outer surface, and in this way the tumour increases. The process goes on until the epiphysis becomes joined to the shaft of the bone, and when the epiphysial cartilage disappears all further deposition of cartilage on the surface of the tumour ceases and its growth is arrested. In many instances a bursa is developed over the surface of the tumour, between it and the overlying skin, as the result of pressure. These tumours grow slowly and cause no pain ; so much is this the case that very frequently their presence is not discovered until they have attained some size, and then only by accident. They may be sessile or pedunculated. The diagnosis of one of these tumours is remarkably easy, in fact they can scarcely be mistaken for anything else. An exceedingly hard tumour, distinctly circumscribed, growing slowly in the neighbourhood of an epiphysial cartilage of a long bone and firmly connected to the bone, can only be a cancellous exostosis. Treatment.—As a rule these tumours are best left alone, and should not be interfered with unless they cause any inconvenience. As we have seen, they cease to grow when complete ossification of the bone from which they originate has taken place, and the patient can be confidently assured that this will be so. But in some cases they cause pain and inconvenience. For instance, when they grow from the inner side of the lower end of the femur—a favourite situation—they may interfere with the action of the inner hamstring muscles, and under these circumstances they should be removed. Sub-ungual exostosis.—The exostosis which grows from the ungual phalanx of the great toe requires special mention. It is known as the sub-ungual exostosis and springs from the upper surface of the phalanx, and as it grows pushes the nail upwards and backwards. As it increases in size it projects beyond the nail and causes pain and inconvenience in walking. The treatment is removal, and this must be done very thoroughly, for if any trace of its cartilaginous envelope is left, the condition is sure to recur. It is advisable, therefore, to gouge away the surface of bone from which the tumour springs. Some surgeons recommend that the whole of the ungual phalanx should be removed, but this is not necessary. Ivory exostosis.—The ivory exostosis grows generally from the membrane-formed bones, i.e. the bones of the skull and the lower jaw;