ADENOMA composed of a delicate sac-wall, lined with endothelial cells, which are similar to those found in lymphatic vessels. They are supposed to be formed by the dilatation of lymph spaces, the surrounding connective tissues being pressed together and thickened. They usually contain a clear, straw-coloured fluid, but sometimes a brownish, turbid mucoid material. They grow slowly, and give rise to no pain or inconvenience. When situated superficially they may form a fluctuating swelling under the skin, but usually they are situated more deeply in the substance of the breast, when their diagnosis may be rendered more obscure, and be only possible by an exploratory puncture. They never contain any intracystic- growths, and cause no discharge from the nipple. Treatment.—If the wall of the cyst is thin, they may sometimes be cured by a simple tapping ; that is to say, the fluid does not re-accumulate ; but, as a rule, they require an incision, washing out the cavity with a solution of chloride of zinc, and packing with gauze. If the sac wall is very thick, the cyst must be dissected out. c. Parasitic cysts.—Hydatid cysts have been described as occur- ring in the breast, but they are very rare. The symptoms are those of other cysts in the breast, and probably the diagnosis cannot be made until the fluid is evacuated. They are slow in growth, and not usually attended by pain or inconvenience. The treatment consists in incision and removal of the cyst or evacuation of its contents, followed by antiseptic draining. Dermoid cysts have been said to occur in the breast, but it is very doubtful whether most of the cases have not been galactoceles caused by the rupture of a duct (page 1084) or atheromatous tumours. Solid tumours of the breast.—The usual varieties of solid tumour found in the breast may be classed under the heads of (i) adenoma, (2) sarcoma, and (3) carcinoma. The rarer forms of growth occurring in this organ, lipoma, chondroma, osteoma, and angioma, require no separate consideration, as they differ very little from similar growths in other parts. I. Adenoma.—The adenomatous tumours are characterised histo- logically by a resemblance to ordinary glandular breast tissue, and clinically by their innocent nature and their tendency to occur during the period of life when the breast is capable of performing its natural function. They are all characterised by containing spaces or cavities lined by cubical epithelium ; but the cavities are less regular in shape, and their epithelium is less uniform in .arrangement than in normal breast structure. They may be small and microscopic, or they may be large and may contain, or be filled with, intra-cystic growths. They are surrounded and held together by con- nective tissue, which may vary in amount, sometimes being so great as almost to obscure and obliterate the spaces, which then exist as slit-like cavities, the walls of which are in apposition. To tumours fulfilling these characteristics the prefix adeno is applied, and under this head we shall have to consider four different varieties of tumour, viz. {a) the pure adenoma ; {b) the adeno-fibroma ; (<r) the adeno- sarcoma ; and {d) the adeno-cystoma or cysto-adenoma. a. Pure adenoma.—The pure adenoma, composed of well-formed glandular acini, without excess of connective tissue around, is very lui- common. It consists of ordinary gland tissue, in which the relative proportions of gknd substance and interstitial tissue are the same as in the healthy mamma. The adenomata form rounded or oval masses, of slow growth, freely movable, and resemble in their clinical characters