777 St. George's Hospital.) be compound, either externally through the FRACTURE OF RIBS very fragile, and under these circumstances they break with the slightest violence. The middle series of ribs, the fifth to the eighth, are the ones most commonly broken. The first, and to a certain extent the second, are protected by the clavicle, and are not often broken as an uncomplicated injury; though a sufficient number of cases of fracture of the first rib alone have been recorded of late years to prove that this injury does occasionally occur. _ The two floating ribs are not often broken, but fracture may take place in these ribs, and is often attended with considerable displacement. One rib only may be broken; more commonly the fracture is multiple, and two, three, or more ribs are fractured (fig. 299). In some cases of severe injury, as from a buffer accident, almost all the ribs on one side may be fractured, and in the worst cases the ribs on both sides may be broken. Causes.—The ribs are most frequently broken by indirect violence, as in cases of violent blows on the front of the chest, or from a carriage wheel passing across it. The fracture usually takes place in the posterior third, some little distance in front of the angle : the rib first bends under the compressing force and then gives way at its weakest part, being broken outwards. Fracture of the ribs may also occur from direct violence, the bone breaking at the point struck. These fractures generally occur on the front of the chest, and the bone is broken inwards. There is usually more displacement in these fractures than in those caused by indirect violence. Finally, cases have been recorded where fracture of the ribs has been caused by muscular action, during violent expiratory efforts, such as coughing, sneezing, or during parturition. It would seem probable in most of these instances that the rib had been previously weakened by disease, either in cases of general paralysis of the insane, or where a rarefying ostitis has taken place, as sometimes occurs in young people. Complications—Fracture of the ribs may skin, though this is not very common except in fractures from stabs or gunshot injuries, or internally through the pleura in those cases where the fracture is compound internally through the pleura, the lung may be mjured, either slightly wounded or severely lacerated. In other cases the pericardium and the heart may be injured When the lower ribs are fractured, the diaphragm may be pierced, and some of the abdommal viscera, the liver, the spleen, the stomach, or the intestine may be injured. Finally, in some cases of fractured ribs, the intercostal vessels may be torn, and considerable extravasarion of blood take place. Symptoms.—There is a curious fact about fracture of the ribs—that the patient will often tell the surgeon that he was conscious of an-audible Fig. 299.—Fracture of several ribs, with displacement. (From the Museum of