Toi8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Hospital.) continued irritation. Thus in a large prepuce and the glans. It is especially prone to occur in gouty subjects, and some individuals are particularly liable to be affected. It begins with intense itching, and in the course of a few hours a number of papules appear on an erythematous patch; these soon become vesicles and then pustules, which leave minute ulcers. They heal in the course of a week from the commencement of the attack. Treatment.—In the majority of cases all that is necessary is to administer a purge and keep the parts dusted with a powder consisting of equal parts of oxide of zinc and starch ; but if the patient is gouty and has had repeated attacks, the constitutional condition must be treated and the diet carefully regulated. Papillomata.—-Warts on the penis are not uncommon, and may be produced by the irritation of dirt, retained secretions, or discharges; or they may be syphilitic. They usually arise from the furrow behind the corona, but may also grow from the inner surface of the prepuce and the glans. They may be very numerous, so that.the end of the penis may be entirely obscured by them, and present the appearance of a red, vascular, nodulated mass, which secretes a foul discharge (fig. 388). The treatment consists in removing them with scissors, and touching the ' rawed surfaces with solution of cliloride of zinc, or glacial acetic acid. In the early stage, where only one or two warts exist, they may be destroyed with the acid nitrate of mercury, but care must be taken to thoroughly eradicate them, as they will speedily return and spread if any portion of the growth is left behind. Malignant disease of the penis is almost always of the squamous epi- thelial type, though some few cases of sarcoma have been recorded. Like squamous epithelioma elsewhere, the great cause of the disease is long- majority of cases it occurs in individuals who are the subject of phimosis, and in whom the secretion of the glands around the corona is retained and becomes a source of irritation; but gouty balanitis, the _ presence of a urinary fistula, warts, or any chronic irritation, may be an iniportant factor in the production of the disease. Cancer of the penis is not a very common disease in comparison with carcinoma of many other organs. It usually occurs in late middle life or old age, and begins either as a papule or wart, which usually springs from the sulcus behind the glans. When it begins as a papule or tubercle, it appears first as a hard, reddish mass, which speedily ulcerates and discharges a foetid sanious fluid. In those cases where there is phimosis, this cannot be seen, and the earliest symptoms are swelling about the end of the penis, followed by a foul discharge, which later on becomes blood-stained. Upon examination a Fig. 388.—Papillomata of the penis. (From the Museum of St. George's