1143 OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY which the flexor siiblimis digitorum is inserted cannot be preserved, amputation should be done at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. ^, . . , ^ ^. Amputation of the terminal phalanx (fig. 435) —This is best pei- formed by a long palmar flap cut from the pulp of the finger. The hand is pronated, and the surgeon, holding the terminal phalanx between his hnger and thumb, defines the joint between the second and third phalanges. 1 his is best done by flexing the terminal phalanx to a right angle with the rest oj the finger, and drawing a straight line down the lateral surface of the second Fig 435.—Amputation of the thumb at the terminal joint. intemode, midway between its dorsal and palmar surface. This line, continued on, will mark the position of the joint. The operator commences his incision well on the lateral aspect of the joint and carries it over the dorsum to the lateral aspect of the other side. This incision should divide the lateral ligaments and open the joint on its dorsal aspect. The knife is now earned through the jomt, and as soon as it has traversed it the cutting edge is turned towards the operator, and a flap fomied from the pulp of the finger by cutting towards its tip. AMPUTATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY Amputation through the hip joint is the most formidable of all the amputations. It is done most frequently for advanced hip-jomt disease, especially in those cases where excision has failed. It is also occasionally performed in cases of sarcoma of the femur. Primary amputation for injury, such as extensive gunshot wound of the thigh, or compound comminuted fracture of the femur, with great laceration of the soft parts, is not a successlul operation ; and in all probability the patient would have a bet er chance of life by arresting hEemorrhage, thoroughly cleansing the parts and keeping them as aseptic as possible, and later on doing a secondary amputation if necessary^ The operation of amputation at the hip joint was formerly always performed by the flap operation by transfixion, a long anterior and short posterior flap being made. This operation was attended by a great loss of blood, and was in many cases immediately fatal. It has now been practically abandoned and the operation known as Furneaux Jordan's, or some modification of it, is usually practised. All of these operations are based on the racquet- shaped principle. Haemorrhage is one of the most serious dangers which has to be encountered, and various measures have been suggested and employed in order to control it. When the operation is performed by Furneaux Jordan's method, no plan of controlling the haemorrhage is so successful as that introduced by Jordan Lloyd. Some surgeons, however,