19 CAUSES injurious effect. Supposing, for instance, that the irritant which has pro- duced the inflammation is so severe that some of the tissues undergo disintegration before they can be replaced by leucocytes, we shall have, when the process of liquefaction takes place, a fluid in which are pus cells,, the dead leucocytes, and also shreds of broken-down tissue, which have not been taken up by the leucocytes before they died, and therefore a combination of the suppurative and gangrenous processes. To sum up then the results of inflammation : we have (i) resolution; that is, the return of the part to its original condition without any alteration, or destruction of tissue. (2) Retrogression; or the formation of a new structure of a less complex nature than the original tissue. (3) Suppuration, or the formation of pus, a degenerative process, which occurs where the inflammation is persistent. (4) Ulceration ; a process analogous to sup- puration, but occurring on a free surface, so that the pus cells lind a ready escape. (5) Gangrene, or death of the inflamed part en masse, generally the result of the tissues being invaded by micro-organisms, which generate chemical products that kill the tissues ; but also sometimes caused by the intensity of the inflammation, and the arrest of the circulation from the stasis and pressure of the migrated organisms. Causes of Inflammation.—The causes of inflammation, like those of most other morbid conditions, may be considered under the two heads of excifino; causes and predisposing causes. I. Exciting Causes.—There is no doubt that the most important and the most common of all external injurious influences which cause inflammation is the invasion of the tissues by pathogenic micro-organisms, and there are some pathologists who hold that this is the only cause of inflammation, and that no injury alone is competent to produce inflammation without the intervention of these micro-organisms. These pathologists teach that repair and inflammation are not only 'not identical, but that they are incompatible. That repair is a constructive physiological process, and resembles closely that of development and growth. But that inflamma- tion is a destructive pathological process, brought about entirely by micro-organisms introduced from without, and that if it attacks a wound in the process of repair, it at first checks this repair, and later on brings about disorganising changes; and that when a part repairs after it has been the seat'of inflammation, it does so only when the inflammatory process has been arrested.' ' The whole subject hmges upon the one point of what we mean by inflammation. If we adopt the definition of Burdon Sanderson, that inflammation is 'the response of living tissues to injury,' the whole argument falls to the ground, and we must admit that any and every injury is followed by inflammation. But irrespective of this, it seems to me that abundant evidence can be deduced to prove that inflammation may be induced without the concurrence of micro- organisms; an inflammation, it is true, which differs from that excited by these bodies, since it neither tends to spread to contiguous parts beyond the area of injury, nor does it infect distant parts by the circulation. It will therefore be convenient to consider the exciting causes of in- flammation, which are usually spoken of as irritants, under the three following heads: (i) Direct injury ; (2) The chemical products of putre- faction ; (3) Infective micro-organisms. I. Direct Injury.—Under the head of direct injury must be included many different causes, some mechanical, some chemical, and some ' Hunterian Oration, Bryant, 1893. 0 2