1136 AMPUTATIONS Neuralgia of stumps.—In all cases the divided ends of the nervch becomt more or less bulbous ; but occasionally a considerable enlargement forms in connection with them, and when suljjected to pressure they are exceedingly painful. Sometimes an ascending neuritis extends to the nerve roots, and even to the spinal cord, and the stump becomes the seat of intense pain and convulsive twitchings. In these cases the bulbous ends of the nerves should be excised, and if there is any neuritis the proximal ends should be well stretched. • SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS The necessary limitations of space prevent me from doing more than describing in the briefest possible manner the amputations which are most frequently performed in removing different parts of the limbs, and many well-recognised and useful plans will have to be omitted altogether. But if the surgeon will bear in mind the broad principles of the three operations, by the circular, flap, and oval methods, which have been described above, and will take care always to secure sufficient covering for the ends of the bone, he cannot go far wrong in amputating by any mode he may think fit. And', indeed, in some cases of amputation for primary injur)' he is obliged to discard all rules and fashion his flaps as best he can from the uninjured tissues which have been left. Removal of the upper extremity, including the scapula and the greater part of the clavicle {Interscapido-thoracic amputatw7i).~ This operation is performed chiefly for growths which cannot be removed by an amputation at the shoulder joint. It has been recently done in several instances in cases of cancer of the breast, where the disease has recurred in the axilla and has caused great oedema of the arm and excessive pain from pressure on the main vessels and nerves. It is usually done by what is known as Berger's method. As an essential preliminary to the operation, the subclavian artery and vein are ligatured. The patient is brought to the edge of the table, so that the scapular region projects beyond it, and an incision is made down to the bone, over the clavicle, from the stemo-mastoid insertion to the acromio-clavicular joint. The clavicle is then isolated at the inner extremity of the incision, and a broad director being placed beneath it to protect the vessels, it is sawn through in this situation. Its outer end is then seized with lion forceps, and raised so as to free it from subjacent parts, and it is again cut through just internal to the coraco-clavicular ligaments. The middle third of the bone is thus removed, and the subclavius muscle will be exposed. It is divided at the inner end of the section of the bone, and turned outwards, thus exposing the subclavian vessels. These are isolated, tied in two places, and divided between the ligatures, the artery, if possible, being tied first. The suprascapular artery and vein should also be secured at this stage of the operation, and also the cephalic vein, if it can be seen. The amputation is now proceeded with. The arm being abducted so that the surgeon can stand between it and the trunk, an incision is made through the skin and subcutaneous tissues from the middle of the first incision to the point of junction of the anterior fold of the axilla to the arm. This incision is curved outwards so that it passes outside the tip of the coracoid process and down over the anterior border of the deltoid, external to the bicipital groove (fig. 431). It is then carried across the base of the axilla close to the arm, and downwards and backwards along the posterior fold of the axilla to the apex of the scapula. The flap of skin having been dissected inwards, the pectoralis major and minor are divided. The shoulder now falls away from the body, and the axillary space is freely exposed, and the cords of the brachial plexus are divided at the same level as the subclavian \essels. The cervico-dorsal flajj is now made by rolling the patient over towards his