SIMPLE ULCER ^25 iSive organism may be introduced into a >vound and set up ulceration, U&t may be divided for purposes of description into two classes : (,) ?hose whrhCdue to some'cause which interferes w Ike Xease! syphilis, tuberculosis, &c., of which they are an outward Nottnfective ulcers.-The non-infective ulcers are divided by Pag^°rthfee diffeL^^ (x) The simple ulcer, which .s the type o The disease - (2) Ulcers depending on constitutional causes; (s) Ulcers depending on local conditions. It will be sufficient if we consider the prfndm? varkties of ulcers met with, without any attempt at classification ^ X The simple or healing ulcer arises from loss of substance due to accident, or to some pre-existing, but now past, condition. It [s 'enerany round or oval in shape, regular in outline, the edges are iehth shelving and present an opaque white zone of newly formed Sfde mi within which is a second zone of a bluish colour where the epide m s is in process of formation. The surface of the sore is slight y pressed and covered with small red granulations, which do not easily bleed. The tissues around are slightly hypersemic Treatmeiit.-The treatment of a simple ulcer should aim more at pio- tect^on and avoidance of irritation than anything else, and should therefore be as simple as possible. The sore may be covered with boracic acid oint- men spread on muslin, or with a piece of hnt soaked in boracic acid Ind covered with oil silk: a layer of sahcylic wool - tlj^e^pp ed and the whole bandaged, so as to make uniform pressure. The dressing must be reappUed at least once a day. . . Where the ulcer is large, and especially where it is on the lower extremity, skin grafting should always be resorted to, so as to obtain a sound scar which will not bieak down again directly the patient begins to walk and'which will not show the same tendency to contract as the scar formed enSrely by the cicatrisation of granulations. The first method of skm grafting was introduced by Reverdin of Geneva, and consisted of transplant- ing into the granulations small pieces of little more than epidermis, cut from some other part of the body. Here they form little islands of epiderma tissue from which cicatrisation spreads. Therefore this process goes on not only from the margin of the sore, as it would do under ordinary circumstances, but also from the points of grafting on its surface. The healing process is therefore much hastened. This mode of proceeding has now almost entirely been superseded by Thiersch's plan, which aims at transplanting much larger and thicker pieces of skin, which produce a souncier scai-^ with less Tendency to contract. By M. Thiersch's method at l^f ^t hal t^^^^ thickness of the skin is transplanted in as large pieces as can be obtained, and the whole surface of the sore is covered. 1 he mode of proceeding i.s as follows : The condition of the ulcer must first be attended to ; it must be rendered perfectly aseptic, and must be treated until it possesses the