998 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS permits of the introduction of an instrument; while an impeniieahle is one in which the surgeon is unable to pass an instrument. In the true sense of the word, no stricture of the urethra where the mucous membrane remains intact is impermeable; a passage always exists, though it may not be possible to introduce an instru- ment through it. In strictures, however, which result from traumatic causes, where the mucous membrane has been lacerated, and in those which result from ulceration of the mucous membrane, the canal may be entirely closed, and the patient compelled to pass his water through a fistulous opening communicating with the urethra behind the stricture. The locality in which a stricture is found varies considerably, but it is much more com- mon in front of the triangular ligament than behind it. Strictures never occur in the pro- static urethra, and only rarely in the membranous portion. In the opinion of many surgeons, the most common situation for a stricture is in the bulbous portion of the canal, but Berkeley Hill and Otis state that in their opinion they are more frequently found in the penile division of the urethra. There seems to be an anatomical explanation for the fact that stricture is very common in the bulbous portion of the urethra ; for here the sub-mucous tissue is much more abundant than in any other part of the canal, and being abundant, soft, and vascular, a large amount of lymph is effused into it, which by its subsequent contraction causes the stricture. Consequences.—The consequences of a stricture are very serious, and it may be said that a neglected stricture will almost certainly cause the death of a patient, if he only lives long enough for the patho- logical changes which follow in its train to take place. These changes are slow but sure, and occur in the urethra behind the stricture, in the bladder, the ureters, and the kidneys. The urethra behind the stricture becomes dilated, on account of the tension to which it is exposed during the act of micturition (fig. 383). Its walls become thinned and inelastic, and the mucous membrane of an ashy grey colour. The dilatation may be so great as to form a distinct pouch,"in which phosphatic deposits niay collect, or the walls of which may ulcerate and an abscess form, which slowly reaches the surface and bursts or is opened, and a perineal_ fistula i5 established. In cases where retention occurs, the dilated portion of the urethra behind the stricture may suddenly give way and extravasation result. The muscular coat of the bladder becomes hypertrophied, from the ■increased force which is required to expel the urine through the narrowed urethra. There is always a certain amount of cystitis, and the walls ot the bladder become unyielding and inelastic, and its cavity diminished, on account of the irritability from the cystitis, which never allows the bladder to become distended to its normal capacity. From the tension to which the organ is subjected during the act of micturition, the mucous membrane is bulged out in places between the muscular fasciculi, ana Fig. 382.—Bridle stricture of the urethra. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)