THE OVAL METHOD 1131 The first part of the operation is by the flap method. The flaps, consistmg of skin -ind siXcutaneous tissue, are cut from without mwards ; they are rectangu- Hr"n shVpe Sr^^^ corners, and are of unequal length, the anterior bemg tie lonoer^vo- h rds the diameter of the limb ; the posterior the shorter, being half tf length of the anterior. By this means the anterior flap is made to CO er he end of the bone, and the cicatri.x lies behind it and ,s m no danger of Sntmc fn'^adhesions to it ; and, moreover, the wound being in the mos depen- S pSoirmore efi-.cient drainage is secured. After these rectangular flaps have bee formed and dissected up, the rest of the operation is performed by Ae circular method : one sweep of the knife divides the superficial muscles, and a second sweep the deeper ones at a slightly higher level, and the bone is then '''''An^thei^modification of the flap operation which requires mention is known as Tcalis amputation. It consists in raising up a long antenor rectangu ai flao which must be square, and equal in length and breadth to half the circum- ference of the limb at the point where the division of the bone is intended to be made The flap must consist of all the tissues down to the bone. The posterior Fig. 429.—Flap amputation of the thigh by transfixion. flap is also rectangular, but is only one-fourth the length of the anterior ; it includes all the soft parts down to the bone, including the large vessels and nerves. The advantages claimed for this operation are : (i) a complete cover- ing for the bone, containing the large vessels and nerves, so that sloughing is not likely to take place ; (2) freedom from tension ; and (3) a dependent posi- tion of the wound. But it infringes one of the fundamental rules of amputa- tion, in sacrificing more tissue than is absolutely necessary, on account of the length of the anterior flap. . ^, • , j r 3. The oval or racquet-shaped method (fig. 427, c).—This method ot amputation is mainly applicable to removal of the whole limb at the hip or shoulder joint. It is also used in amputation of the fingers and toes. It may be regarded as a modification of the circular amputation. It consists in a circular or oval incision through the skin, some little distance below the joint where disarticulation is going to be performed, and a longitudinal incision from the point where the circle is completed, on one side of the limb, over the joint, to facilitate its exposure. The angles where the circular and longitudinal incisions meet are rounded off, so as to give the whole incision somewhat the shape of a racquet.