388 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES no attempt has been made to unite the divided nerve at the time of the injury, ^or where primary union has failed. It is better in these cases to render the limb bloodless by Esmarch's method, and then make an incision m the long axis of the nerve and seek for the ends above and below the place of division. Having been found, they are to be traced downwards mto the scar tissue and freed from it. They are then refreshed by removing as little as possible of the ends of the nerve and suturing in the same way as in cases of recent wound. If it is impossible to approximate the divided ends without making undue tension upon them, the bulbous proximal end of the nerve can be split, as shown in figure 122, and a portion of it turned do wn and sutured to the lower end of the nerve. In those cases where the gap between the divided ends is still greater, or where a portion of nerve has been removed, as, for example, in removing a tumour, in which the nerve is embedded, recourse must be had to nerve grafting. A nerve from one of the lower animals which has just been killed, or from a recently amputated limb, corresponding as far as possible in size to the injured nerve must be carefully stitched in position. This operation has now been performed on several occasions, and with sufficient success to justify its repetition. DISEASES Neuritis is much mixed up with neuralgia, and indeed is one of the causes of it; but still it is a very definite affection, and requires to be con- sidered independently of it. It may affect many nerves, and is then depen- dent on some abnormal condition of the blood induced by rheumatism, chronic alcoholism, diabetes, &c.; it is then known as 'multiple neuritis' and more properly falls under the care of the physician. As a surgical affection it is more frequently seen as affecting a single nerve or group of nerves, the result of traumatism or it may be exposure to cold. There is increased vascularity of the nerve, and in chronic cases thickening of the epineurium and perineurium, with degeneration of the nerve fibres from pressure. These changes have a tendency to spread up the nerve and implicate the spinal cord. The symptoms are intense pain and tenderness along the course of the nerve, with numbness, and tingling in its peripheral branches. Accompanying this is sometimes spasmodic contraction of the muscles supphed by the affected nerve. Later on there may be antesthesia and paralysis. Treatment.—The part should be kept at perfect rest and blisters applied along the course of the nerve. The administration of small doses of per- chloride of mercury is often attended with much benefit. If there is any gouty or rheumatic tendency this must be treated, and sometimes it is necessary to administer opiates, the subcutaneous injection of morphia being the best form, in order to relieve the pain. Neuralgia may be defined as pain, of an intermittent character, referred to the course of one of the sensory or mixed nerves, generally without local signs of inflammation or disease. Causes.—Neuralgia may be caused (i) by neuritis, due to injury or exposure to cold; (2) by irritation of a nerve trunk (page 385); (3) by peripheral irritation, as facial neuralgia due to a carious tooth ; and (4) by disease of the central nervous system. Symptoms.—The pain of neuralgia is usually localised, and is situated in the course of a nerve or of several nerves. The pain is often agonising