628 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Treatment.—The treatment of this condition consists in attention to the general health, residence in a dry climate, and the washing out of the nasal cavity three or four times a day with a lotion containing biborate of soda, bicarbonate of soda, and chlorate of potass. The washing out is best done by means of a ball syringe with an india-rubber nozzle, which com- pletely fills the nostril. Should this not succeed, linear scarification with the galvano-cautery under cocaine will almost always effect a cure. It should be mentioned that the application of cocaine causes shrinking of the growth and relief for a time, but it is not permanent. Ozaena.—By the term ozcena we mean a peculiar foetid discharge from the nostril. Formerly the term was applied to any foul discharge such as may occur in syphilitic or tuberculous disease of the nose, but the word is now given to a definite form of disease which is the result of definite changes in the mucous membrane ; while the terms syphilitic and tiibet'culous ozasna may be used for those cases where the offensive dis- charge is the result of changes induced by these constitutional diseases. The changes in the mucous membrane which cause true ozsena are of an atrophic character. There is an increase in the fibrous element of the mucous membrane, which encroaches on and obliterates the blood-vessels ; and from malnutrition the gland tissue and epithelium undergo fatty deepen eration. In consequence of this there is a diminution of the secretion, and what there is dries and forms crusts on the surface and undergoes decomposition. A particular organism, the bacillus fxtidus oz^nce, has been constantly found to be present, but it has not yet been proved that this is the originator of the malady. The cause of the disease is unknown ; it usually occurs in young and delicate children, especially among the poor, and has been attributed to injury, to tuberculous disease, inherited syphilis, and is said by some to follow the exanthematous fevers, but nothing is known with certainty as to its etiology. One charactenstic which has been noticed is that it almost always occurs in individuals with wide nostrils and flattened noses. The offensive odour, which has been likened to the smell of bugs, is generally the first thing which attracts attention. Upon examination of the nares it will be found that the mucous membrane is covered with greenish adherent crusts. If these are separated, the surface beneath will be seen to be dry and pale, and to have entirely lost its vascular velvety appearance. There is usually little bleeding on removal of the crusts. The sense of smell is very often partially or completely lost, but in some instances the patient may be conscious of the disgusting odour. Treatment.—The treatment of ozoena consists mainly in getting rid ot the putrefying secretion and keeping the nasal cavities clean. This \yill do much to ameliorate the condition and render the patient inoffensive to those around, but it is doubtful whether, when the disease is thoroughly established and the mucous membrane has undergone the atrophic chan'^es mentioned above, a complete cure can ever be obtained. The plan of treatment consists in well irrigating the nares, night and morning, with warm water, or water to which a little salt has been added, in order to render it less irritating. This is best done by means of the syphon douche described above (page 626), care being taken not to raise the recep- tacle to too great a height, otherwise the fluid may be forced up the Eustachian tubes. By this means the stinking crusts will be loosened and washed away. When the cavities are cleared some antiseptic remedy should be applied to the exposed surfaces. The best mode of applying