565 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP many cases, if the morbid process, starting at or near the centre of the bone, spreads evenly in every direction, the head may be completely separated from the neck, and, lying loose in the cavity, may form a sequestrum. ^Vhen the disease begins in the acetabulum, and also in those cases where the acetabulum becomes secondarily affected from disease commencing in other parts, perforation may take place, with the result that abscess is formed within the bony pelvic cavity. The caseous material is, however, prevented from getting into the true pelvis by the pelvic fascia, which becomes thickened. It usually tracks upwards and bursts in the groin just above the level of Poupart's ligament. As the disease progresses and involves all the tissues of the joint, the constant pressure of the head of the bone against the upper and posterior part of the acetabular margin causes absorption of it, and the bone is drawn slowly upwards and backwards and is in this way displaced from its natural position. As the acetabular cavity in this way becomes enlarged, a new rim of bone is developed around the head of the bone, forming, as it were. Fig. 203.—Advanced disease of the hip joint, showing the changes in the bones which have taken place. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) a new margin to the acetabulum. This condition is sometimes spoken of as a ' wandering acetabulum,' since the new rim, after its formation, is gradu- ally absorbed and a fresh rim deposited beyond. The consequent altera- tion in the position of the head of the bone is frequently called dislocation, but it is not a true dislocation, for the head of the bone does not leave the acetabular cavity. The condition is one rather of enlargement of this cavity, and an alteration of the position of the bone in consequence thereof. As the disea.se advances and all the structures of the joint are mvolved, the cartilages and ligaments become destroyed, the head of the femur and the acetabulum carious, and the remains of the joint filled with curdy pus (fig. 203). The abscess u.sually perforates the capsule behind, and then tracks forwards beneath the gluteus minimus to its anterior border, and passing beneath the tensor vaginre femoris, appears as a fluctuating •swelling on the upper and outer part of the thigh, a little below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium.