983 SYMPTOMS OF ENLARGED PROSTATE enucleated. When the glandular tissue is the part hypertrophied a circumscribed tumour analogous to the fibro-adenoma -of the breast is formed. These tumours may be single or multiple, and are frequently associated with some general enlargement of the prostate. In consequence of the increase in size of the prostate, changes take place in the shape of the prostatic urethra : it is elongated, and when the enlarge- ment principally implicates the lateral lobes it is compressed laterally and forms a narrow chink; when the middle lobe is affected, a rounded bar may extend across the orifice of the urethra, which forms an important barrier to the patient emptying his bladder. When one lateral lobe is affected, or a circumscribed tumour forms in one of them, the urethra is deflected to the opposite side. Under any of these circumstances obstruc- tion is the result, but in some rare instances incontinence is ^present from a widening out of the urethral orifice, from a growing backwards of the middle lobe into the bladder, so that the urethra is stretched, and the urine escapes by the sides of the middle lobe. The results of enlargement of the prostate upon the other urinary organs are as follows : the bladder may be contracted with hypertrophy ; dilated with hypertrophy; or dilated without hypertrophy (see page 952). The most common change is hypertrophy with dilatation and sacculation, and the dilatation especially effects the posterior wall of the bladder, which becomes expanded into a sac-like pouch, forming a reservoir behind the prostate, in which the urine collects, and from which it cannot be expelled. The ureters become dilated; the pelvis and calyces of the kidneys enlarged, and the secreting structure absorbed, and a condition of chronic interstitial nephritis set up. Symptoms.—The symptoms in the early stage come on insidiously; there is perhaps first of all a certain amount of hesitation at the commence- ment of the act of micturition, and the patient finds that he has to strain for a few seconds before the urine flows. When it does flow, it will be noticed that it does not come in a forcible, but an inert stream, which, though it may be of a fair size, seems to flow away, and the last few drops pass with- out control. There may be at first no increased frequency, but after a time the patient notices that the calls to make water are more frequent than they used to be ; and this is especially noticeable at night, when he finds that he has to rise once or twice or oftener to empty his bladder. As the case progresses, the pouch behind the prostate forms, and the bladder is not completely emptied. There is now a feeling of weight a.nd dis- comfort in the perineum, and the patient does not get complete relief from passing water. The urine which is retained in the pouch decomposes, and the water becomes altered in character. At first it is neutral, and a cloud of mucus will be seen floating in it; then it becomes fcetid, ammoniacal, and contains pus or muco-pus. Cystitis is now set up; the irritability of the bladder is greatly increased ; and pain is experienced on making pressure in the hypogastric region. From the straining, prolapse of the rectum or an inguinal hernia may be caused, or piles may make their appearance. In some cases the obstruction may be so great that the bladder may become distended, and then the urine may dribble away. In other cases sudden retention may come on, even before the enlargement of the prostate has been suspected. This is usually due to a sudden attack of congestion of the enlarged organ, from exposure to cold or from over- indulgence in alcohol. After the urine has become decomposed and cystitis is set up, the patient's health begins to fail, from the night's rest becoming