GENERAL DISEASES i6o must be cut away with a pair of sharp-pointed scissors, following the course which the pus has taken. The finger should then be en- veloped in a hot boracic dressing, and will soon get well. II. Paronychia cellulosa.—This is a niuch more painful con- dition than the last, and affects the fat and areolar tissue of the ter- minal phalanx. This also, in all probability, in every case arises from the introduction of septic matter through a small wound, though in many cases the wound cannot be detected. The end of the finger becomes swollen and red, and there is intense throbbing pain in the part, which often prevents the patient from sleeping. The disease is usually confined to the terminal phalanx, but lymphangitis and enlargement of the nearest set of lymphatic glands may be a consequence of the condition. The constitutional disturbance in these cases is often very great. The temperature is high, and partly from the pain, and partly from the want of sleep, the patient very rapidly gets into a depressed condition, with a feeble and rapid pulse, and sometimes even delirium. The ravages of the disease, though localised to the particular part, are very often extensive; thus, especially in those in whom the cuticle is very thick, the pus burrows through the whole of the areolar tissue of the pulp, which eventually sloughs; or the inflammation may extend to the periosteum of the ungual phalanx, which becomes destroyed and the bone perishes; or the inflammation may extend to the tendon of the deep flexor, and this may slough. Treatment.—The only treatment for this condition is an early and free incision, and the sooner it is made the better; if before the occurrence of suppuration, it will be to the patient's advantage, as the disease is often cut short and no suppuration occurs if a timely incision is made._ In addition to this the patient is saved much pain and suffering by this proceeding. The incision should be made deeply in the middle line of the pulp of the finger through the whole of the inflamed tissues. The patient should then soak his finger in a hot boracic bath for some time, and hot boracic dressings should subsequently be applied. The hot boracic bath may advantageously be repeated once or twice a day, and the arm should be carried in a sling with the hand at a higher level than the elbow. The other two forms of whitlow are usually the direct consequences of paronychia cellulosa; but as they are beHeved to occur occasionally independently of this condition, it is necessary to allude to them under distinct headings. III. Paronychia tendinosa.—In these cases the sheath of the flexor tendons is involved, and it is therefore sometimes known under the name of thecal abscess. It may arise from a puncture of the sheath and the direct introduction of some septic matter into it, but it is most fre- quently the consequence of the extension of a septic inflammation from the pulp of the finger into the sheath. The importance of this form of whitlow arises from the fact that the septic organisms, having effected an entrance into the sheath of the tendons, may spread up it and produce extensive ravages. A moment's consideration of the anatomy of these structures will at once show that whitlow of the thumb and litde finger, involving the sheaths of the flexor tendons, is a more formidable affection than the same disease in the other three fingers. The sheath of the flexor longus poUicis and of the flexor tendons of the little finger are continuous with the two great synovial sheaths which pass under the annular ligament (fig. 36), and therefore inflammation aff"ecting the sheaths of the tendons