BURNS AND SCALDS 105 The destroyed tissues separate by ulceration, leaving behind a granulating surface with large florid granulations, which bleed easily; heal slowly ; and form a thin, unhealthy cicatrix, which is prone to break down and ulcerate. In these cases the cicatrix has a great tendency to contract because it consists of fibrous scar tissue, instead of, as in the third degree, elastic connective tissue. i i j r The essential point of difference, therefore, between burns and scalds of the third and fourth degree, and one which it is important to bear in mind, is that in those of the third degree there is no contraction, whilst in those of the fourth there is, with resulting deformity. Another pomt of difference may be noted. Burns of the third degree heal readily ; those of the fourth degree slowly. The former heal rapidly because a certain amount of epithelium is left undestroyed in the hair follicles and between the papillae, from which cicatrisation starts. 5. In fifth degree the whole of the subcutaneous tissue down to the deep fascia, and sometimes even this, is destroyed. 6. In the sixth degree there is charring of the whole hmb. In these last two degrees there are the same local changes as those which took place in burns of the fourth degree ; namely, separation of the dead tissue by a process of ulceration, leaving a granulating surface covered with large, florid granulations ; a slow process of cicatrisation ; the formation of a lowly organised cicatrix, which has a tendency to contract and produce deformity. Constitutional elFects.—The constitutional effects of burns depend upon the extent and perhaps to a certain degree upon the situation, rather than upon the depth. A superficial burn over a considerable portion of the body produces far graver constitutional effects than a very deep burn, or even complete charring of a small portion, say a hand or a foot. It is usually stated that if one-third of the body is burnt or scalded, even to the second degree, the patient rarely recovers, and we cannot be surprised at this when we remember what an important excretory and respiratory organ the skin is. Patients do, however, sometimes recover after the most extensive burns. I have had recently under my care in St. George's Hospital a man who was scalded to the second and third degrees by falling into a vat of hot water, as high as the level of the nipples, and who recovered. The constitutional symptoms were of the gravest type, and for some days he was violently maniacal. The situation of the burn is also said to have some effect on the constitutional condition : burns and scalds of the upper part of the body, the head, face, neck, and chest, are regarded as more serious than those of the extremities or abdomen. _ The age of the patient has also some bearing in the same direction. Children, who unfortunately are often burnt, suffer very severely, and in old people the collapse which follows is often very severe and frequently fatal. The con.stitutional effects of burns may be conveniently considered under three heads : (i) stage of collapse or shock; (2) stage of reaction ; (3) stage of exhaustion. (i) Stage of collapse.—Directly after the receipt of the injury the patient becomes faint and collapsed, is often attacked by rigors if an adult, or by convulsions if a child. The surface of the body becomes bedewed with a cold and clammy sweat. Generally severe pain is com- plained of, and this is especially great in burns of the second and third degree, where the nerve endings are exposed and injured, but not destroyed. Sometimes, however, no pain is complained of, though the