LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN 347 the opposite side, and the shoulder is drawn down by an assistant as much as possible. The surgeon now draws down the skin of the neck over the chest with his left hand, and makes an incision three inches in length over the middle third of the clavicle. The skin is then released, and the incision will now lie above the bone. The object of this manreuvre is to avoid wounding the external jugular vein ; as this vein perforates the deep fascia, it cannot be drawn down with the skin and superficial tissue, and therefore escapes injury. The deep fascia is to be incised on a director to the extent of the skin wound. In doing this great care must be exercised not to wound the external jugular vein, and if the deep fascia cannot be freely incised without endangering the vein, it IS better to at once divide it between two ligatures. The loose cellular tissue of the subclavian triangle, in which is a plexus of veins, is to be scratched through with a director till the margin of the scalenus anticus is exposed. In case any large veins are in the way they should be drawn aside or divided between two ligatures, as it much facilitates the further steps of the operation to keep the parts as free of blood as possible. Occasionally the supra-scapular or transversalis colli arteries may be exposed, and - should be scrupulously ; preserved and on no .1 account ligatured and divided, as they are of importance in establish- ing the collateral circu- . lation after ligature of the subclavian. After the outer edge of the scalenus anticus has been exposed, it is traced down to its in- sertion into the first rib, and the artery will be found immediately above and behind the scalene tubercle, into which the muscle is inserted. Above and behind the arte J IS the cord of the brachial plexus, formed by the eighth cervical and first dorsal nerves, which often forms an important guicle to the vessel bu vviuch at the same time must not be misUen fo? it, an accident not un fnX fU^T' ^-^^^^^-^^ ^ P^l^-tion from the a tery. ■But If the operator adopts the precaution recommended in speaking of digature of the common carotid, of compressing the vessel betvvee?hl ^ orefinger and the hgature before tying it he cin .satisfy himself by the absence of pulsation m the vessels below that the artery is included in ■ he 1 gature and at the same time he may make certain that notl Lg bu tlTP' ff '"^'"ded. In passing the needle the surgeon mus iepart from the usual rule in ligaturing arttries, of inserting it bftween the Fig to;.—Ligature of the third portion of the subclavian artery, i, Subclavian artery; 2, Brachial plexus ; 3, Omo-hyoid muscle.