FEMORAL HERNIA S87 Direct inguinal hernia is far less common than the oblique. In these cases the hernia protrudes directly through the external abdo- minal ring ; the sac being formed by that portion of the peritoneum which Unes Hessdbach's triangle, a space bounded externally by the epigastric artery, internally by the outer border of the rectus muscle, and below by Poupart's ligament. Direct hernia, in the male at all events, is always of theacqufred type. Two varieties of this hernia are described : one where the hernia leaves the abdomen to the inner side of the obliterated hypogastric artery; the other, where it emerges to the outer side of this structure. This makes a slight difference in the coverings of these tvvo forms In the one to the outer side of the obliterated artery there are the same coverings as the ordinary oblique hernia; whereas the one to the inner side, which is the more common of the two, has the conjoined tendon as a covering, instead of the cremasteric muscle and fascia. This is a matter of very little importance; the essential point to bear in mmd is that one form of direct hernia is in close relation with the epigastric artery, and therefore, in dividing the stricture in a strangulated inguinal hernia, the incision should always be made directly upwards, that is to say, parallel to the artery. Under these circumstances the epigastric vessels, whether the hernia is oblique or direct, cannot be wounded. . Femoral hernia—Femoral hernia occurs more commonly in the female than in the male, although it is by no means rare in men. It most usually occurs between the ages of twenty and forty, and is uncommon in female children. It is never of the congenital form, but is always acquired The hernia passes out through the crural ring and descends vertically through the crural canal, and then bends forwards through the saphenous opening to appear under the skin. It is in close relation on its outer side with the femoral vein, from which it is separated by a thin septum; the spermatic cord or the round ligament passes above and internal to_ the femoral ring but is superficial to it; while the epigastric vessels skirt its upper and outer marein The pubic branch of the obturator artery passes round the ■ ring in its passage to anastomose with the pubic branch of the epigastric, and varies considerably in size. In one case out of three and. a half the obturator artery arises from the deep epigastric, and m some of these cases curves inwards along the free margin of Gimbernat's ligament to reach the obturator foramen; under these circumstances it is m danger of being wounded in dividing the stricture. In the majority of cases, however, in which the obturator artery has this anomalous origin, it skirts round the external iliac vein, on the outer side of the ring, and is then in no danger of being wounded. A femoral hernia, after emerging from the saphenous opening, has the following coverings : skin and subcutaneous tissue, cribriform fascia, anterior layer of the femoral sheath, septum crurale, sub-serous areolar tissue, and peritoneum. A femoral hernia is usually small, and, after it has emerged through the saphenous opening, has a tendency to pass obhquely upwards and outwards along the hne of Poupart's hgament; and it is under these circumstances that it is liable to be mistaken for an inguinal hernia. Femoral hernia most frequently consists of intestme, and generally ileum ; it is very liable to become strangulated, but is not otten irreducible. Omental hernia is not nearly so common in the femoral region as in the inguinal; when it does occur, the omentum is very liable to contract adhesions, and the hernia to become irreducible. . Symptoms —The signs of a femoral hernia are the ordinary signs ot hernia- a reducible swelling, with an impulse on coughing, in the groin to