CONTU-SEI) AND LACERATED WOUNDS V Many other antiseptics are constantly employed by surgeons, which are too numerous to do more than mention in this worlc. Many of these are most powerful antiseptics, and some have then- special uses. Thus lodme is an efficient, non-irritating antiseptic, and is especially useful in washing out foul abscess cavities. Permanganate of potash (Condy's fluid) is a powerful disinfectant, and has no toxic effects. It is useful as a gargle in slou.^hing within- the cavity of the mouth. Chloride of zmc is chiefly useful in washing out putrefying sinuses. In solution of the strength of 40 grains ' to'the ounce it is constantly employed to caseating tuberculous glands after they have been scraped to get rid of any particles of tuberculous tissue which have been left by the spoon. Other antiseptics in use are Creolin ; Turpentine, in the form of Terebene ; Peroxide of Hydrogen ; and Salol. With all these antiseptic agents at our command, no doubt opinions must diff"er as to which is the best. My own feeling is that carbolic acid solution should be used for the instruments; corrosive subhmate for the sponges, the hands of the surgeon and his assistant, and also for irrigation of the wound : that the most satisfactory dressing is the double cyanide gauze, which before use should be wrung out of carbolic acid lotion (i in 40) and applied over the wound and for a very considerable area around; and that this should be covered with a thick layer of salicylic wool, which should extend considerably beyond the gauze on every side, and then that the whole should be firmly bandaged on with a considerable degree of pressure, which may be safely employed over the thick layer of wool. CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS Contused and lacerated wounds should be considered together, because in both, the edges of the wound are usually tprn and irregular, and the tissues around infiltrated with blood, and because in both, as a rule, there is a certain amount of death of the injured tissues, varying in extent in different wounds, which must separate before the process of repair can commence. In the contused wound the soft parts in the neighbourhood are subcutaneously lacerated and infiltrated with blood, and the extent of this infiltration varies with the size of the missile which inflicted the injury and the force with which it was applied. This form of wound is usually inflicted with a blunt instrument, such as a Hfe preserver ; a heavy stick; a spent ball or a fragment of shell on the battle-field. In the lacerated wound, on the other hand, the injury is produced rather by a tearing or biting process ; lacerations by machinery, the bites of large animals or the horn of a bull act in this way, and tear more than bruise the tissues. In these wounds the edges are irregular, and the irregularity varies with the degree of elasticity of the tissues torn, and with the nature of the violence which inflicted the injury. The re.sult produced by the varied elasticity of the tissues is well exempli- fied when a limb is torn off by machinery. The skin, which is very elastic, is very irregularly torn, in some parts being stripped off higher than the other structures, in others remaining as long tags, by which the limb may still remain attached to the trunk, all the other structures being torn. The tendons of the muscles are very resistant and not easily torn ; they consequendy give way along their line of attachment to the muscle, and may sometimes be seen on the separated limb hanging out some inches longer than the other structures : the bellies of the muscles are torn across,