1112 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS those which are reheved of the pressure grow quickly, and an apparent elon- gation of the internal condyle takes place from deficient growth on the outer side and increased growth on the inner side of the epiphysial line Symptoms.—The signs of knock-knee are sufficiently oljvious. When the patient is a child, he is noticed to be unsteady in his gait, and to be constantly falling. When he is watched while walking or running, it will be noticed that the knees have a tendency to cross, and that occa- sionally he knocks them together, and this causes a fall. "When laid flat on a couch and the knees made to touch each other, the two malleoli will be found to be widely separated, and the interval between them will be the measure of the deformity. There is a marked projection on the inner side of the knee of the inner condyle and the inner tuberosity of the tibia. The patella is usually displaced outwards. When the legs are flexed on the thighs the deformity disappears ; the two malleoH will now be almost in contact, and the axes of the tibice parallel to each other. The projection of the internal condyle has also disappeared. This is due to the alteration in the relation of the articular surface of the tibia to the condyles of the femur, the tuberosities of the tibia being now in contact with the posterior surfaces of the condyles, instead of their inferior surfaces. Treatment.—In young children, up to the age of five or six, when the deformity is not very great, cases of genu valgum may be cured without operation. This is especially true of the children of the wealthier classes, who are in a position to afford the necessary instruments, and will devote the requi- site time and attention to the treatment. In these cases the general treatment for rickets must be adopted (page 213). Massage, passive motion to straighten the constantly employed, and day and should be worn to correct the deformity. The day instrument consists in a long outside steel support, which is fixed into a socket in the heel of the boot below and to a pelvic band above, with a hinge joint at the hip, knee, and ankle, and a metal band, straps, and buckles round the thigh and leg. A knee-cap is adjusted over the inner condyle, which is buckled with sufficient tightness over the steel support on the outer side of the knee (fig. 415). At night long splints firmly bandaged over the knee may be substituted for this. When the patient is older, and the amount of deformity is greater, operative interference is neces- sary. The operations in ordinary use are of two kinds—osteotomy and osteoclasia. Osteotomy is the one usually employed, and consists either in a transverse section of the femur above the epiphysial line, known as Macetveii's operaimi, or an oblique section into the knee joint separating the internal condyle {Ogstoirs operaiio7i). Macewen's operation, or some modification of it, is now almost universally employed, as yielding better results than Ogston's. Macewen recommends that the section should be made with an osteotome—that is to say, with a chisel bevelled on both sides—and that the incision should be made from the inner side at a point a finger's breadth above the top of and attempts by bones, should be night instruments Fig. 415.—Mechanical appliance for the treatment of genu valgum.