TREATMENT OF FRACTURED PATELLA 453 this accident usually takes place—and there is loss of power in the limb. The separation of the fragments will be readily detected, and if the patient is seen before the joint becomes filled with fluid a distinct de- pression will be visible where the prominence of the patella normally exists. If however, the patient is not seen for some little time, there will be found to be great swelling from effusion into the joint. This consists at first of blood and subsequently of altered synovial fluid, the result of inflamma- tory changes in the synovial membrane. The separation of the fragments will be found to be increased on bending the knee. Generally there is no crepitus, but where the eff"usion into the knee is not great the upper frag- ment may be pushed down to the lower, and then crepitus will be elicited. . The mode of union in transverse fracture produced by muscular action is probably always by fibrous tissue, and this is due to two factors firstly, the impossibility of keeping the fractured ends of bone absolutely in contact; and secondly, because the fibrous structures over the bone are irregularly torn and shreds of tissue become interposed between the fractured ends. In many cases the fibrous aponeurosis is torn at a different level to the fracture, and the end becomes tucked in between the broken surfaces. This fibrous union is at first very pliable and extensible, but becomes firmer and more resisting after a time (fig. 159). So that if care is taken not to allow the patient to bend the knee and so stretch this fibrous union until it has become firm and resisting, a very perfect result may be ob- tained, and the result is as good, as regards the patient's powers of pro- gression, as if bony union had taken place. But the process of consolida- tion of this fibrous union is a very slow one, and it is usually estimated that twelve months must elapse before the union can be regarded as quite inextensible, during the whole of which time the patient must go about in an apparatus which keeps the knee extended and fixed. Treatment.—The treatment of fractured patella from muscular action is very various, and many plans have been and are adopted for its cure. During the last fifteen or twenty years it has materially altered, since the establishment of the antiseptic treatment of wounds. And I must confess that with increased knowledge of and confidence in antiseptic measures my own views of the proper treatment of these cases have considerably changed. There are two ways of treating transverse fracture of the patella—one by employing diff"erent forms of retentive apparatus, which aim at bringing the fragments into as close apposition as possible and retaining them there, and by this means securing a fibrous union ; and the other by operative interference, in order to obtain bony union. Treatment by retentive apparatus consists in the first instance in get- ting rid of the effusion into the joint, which prevents the fragments being approximated. This may be done by aspiration, and this is probably the best, as it certainly is the quickest way of doing this ; by pressure from a Martin's bandage, or by the application of ice or evaporating lotions. This having been done, the fragments can be approximated, and may be retained in position by two pieces of strapping, placed one above and the other below the patella and crossed behind the joint. The limb may then be put up in an immovable apparatus of plaster of Paris or whatever material the surgeon prefers, or the limb may be put upon a single inclined plane, or a back splint with a foot-piece raised on pillows. Many other plans have been adopted to retain the fragments in apposition. Malgaigne's hooks were formerly much employed, but have now, I believe, fallen