732 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS operations on or injuries of the abdominal and pelvic viscera, though it does not appear to be frequent in similar conditions of other parts of the body. No explanation has at present been afforded of this, though formerly it was regarded as pysemic. Stephen Paget, who has carefully studied this condition, has proved, however, that this is not so, at all events in the majority of cases. The inflammation is very liable to run on to suppura- tion. The swelling of the parotid is accompanied by a slight amount of fever, and comes on at very variable periods after the injury which has given rise to it. 3. Suppurative parotitis.—Inflammation of the parotid gland running on to suppuration may arise in the course of scarlet fever, measles, smallpox, or typhoid fever ; or it may occur during septictemia after child- birth, or in the course of pyemia. This is a much more serious condition, since, on account of the pus being confined by the dense fascia covering the gland, it has a tendency to burrow in all directions, and the constitu- tional symptoms are very severe. The treatment of these two forms of parotitis is in the early stage the same as the treatment of mumps; but as soon as there is the slightest indication that pus is forming, a free incision into the gland should be made. This must be done with care to avoid wounding the facial nerve, the incision being made parallel to this structure. Tumours of the parotid gland may be innocent or malignant. The innocent tumour, the so-called parotid tumour, is one of considerable interest, as it is really a mixed tumour,. being made up of several forms of growth. It usually consists of fibrous tissue, cartilage, and myxo- matous tissue, and to this is sometimes added a cer- tain amount of adenomatous tissue, resembling the struc- ture of a racemose gland. In some of these tumours the cartilaginous element largely predominates, and then it often undergoes a mucoid softening and forms a cyst or cysts in the growth, which contains a glairy fluid. These tumours generally commence in the superficial part of the gland, and at first small and growing slowly, they later on grow more rapidly, and attain a very considerable size (fig. 282). They are firm, elastic to the feel, some- what lobulated or bossy on the surface, freely movable on the parts beneatii, and the skin is stretched and thinned over them, but not adherent to them. When they have attained a considerable size they may become softer, ana fluctuation may be perceptible, indicating the presence of a cyst or c}sc . They as a rule cause no pain, but mastication may be interfered witn. ^ The treatment consists in removing the tumour. This is S'^"''^'^ comparatively easy matter when it has not attained a large size, oui ) sometimes be attended with considerable difficulty when the 1"^°'^^' 'j^ sent prolongations inwards among the deeper parts. Ihe main st ^ to avoid is the facial nerve. This is usually situated on the deeper aspc Fig. 2S2.—Tumour of the parotid. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)