INTERNAL PILES its original site. If the patient object to this slight operation he should be confined to bed, on a light unstimulating diet; a gentle laxative should be given, and hot fomentations applied to the part. A good plan is to smear the pile with equal parts of extract of belladonna and glycerine, and then apply a hot fomentation. In the course of a few days the inflamma- tion will either subside, leaving a thickened mass of tissue, which may again become inflamed at a later date ; or suppuration may occur, when the pile will be permanently cured. Internal piles (fig. 353) are situated within the verge of the anus, and are covered with mucous membrane. They present the appearance of fleshy masses, with a broad base, of a dark reddish or purpHsh colour, which may at times be seen protruding from the anal orifice. They are sometimes ulcerated on their surface. Symptoms.—The most im- portant, because the most fre- quent and often alarming sym- ptom, is bleeding during or after defecation, so that the terms bleeding and internal piles are regarded as almost synonymous. The bleeding is at first induced by the passage of the hardened motion over the vascular mucous membrane, but after a time it occurs indepen- dently of defcccation, and may often amount to a very consider- able loss. There is pain, not very great unless the pile be- comes strangulated, and con- sisting more of an uneasy sensa- tion, as of the presence of some foreign body in the rectum, than actual pain. There is, also, often an aching, reflex pain in the back. Tenesmus is sometimes present, and a glairy mucous discharge. During the act of deftecation the pile or piles are often extruded from the anus; they are then tightly nipped by the sphincter and become strangulated; the pain becomes very severe, but is relieved by reducing the pile. In some cases the strangiilation may be so complete that the pile sloughs, and in this way a spontaneous cure may be brought about, though usually it is incomplete, only a portion of the pile being destroyed. In other cases inflammation may be set up in the pile, from some abrasion permitting the entrance of the bacillus coli communis, and in these cases a spon- taneous cure may result. Treatment.—The treatment of internal piles may be either palliative or curative. It is not every case of internal piles which requires operation, and in many, by palliative treatment, a complete relief from the trouble may be obtained. The palliative treatment consists in the first instance in ascertaining and removing, if possible, any cause which has given rise to the piles. If there is any hepatic obstruction or ftecal accumulation it must be Fk;. 353.—Internal piles. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)