984 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS broken, and from septic absorption; the kidneys become involved, and urasmic symptoms set in, and a fatal termination ensues. The diagnosis of enlarged prostate is not difficult. When an elderly man comes complaining of some difficulty in commencing the act of micturition; of having to get up two or three times during the night to pass water, and in whom the stream is propelled with little force, the inference is that the prostate is enlarged, and this is at once confirmed by an examination of the rectum, when the increase in the size of the organ can be felt. The next point to ascertain is whether he is capable of completely emptying his bladder; and this is to be done by requesting him to pass water, and immediately afterwards passing a soft catheter; the amount of urine he is unable to pass will be drawn off by the catheter. Treatment,—The treatment of enlarged prostate must depend upon whether the patient is able to empty his bladder or not. If he can, there is no necessity for him to resort to the habitual use of the catheter, and the treatment must consist in strict attention to diet, in avoidance of all alcoholic excesses or sexual excitement, and in keeping the digestive functions in regular order. In the great majority of cases, however, when a patient applies for advice with enlarged prostate, it will be found that he is unable to completely empty his bladder; possibly an ounce or a couple of ounces of urine will be found to be retained. Under these circumstances, he should be advised at once to enter upon the so-called ' cathe- ter life.' This consists in passing an instrument once a day, to draw off the residual urine and prevent its decomposition. The great thing to fear in the.se cases is that the water which is retained in the bladder should decompose and set up cystitis, and this can only be prevented by regularly emptying the bladder mechanically. The best time to select for the operation is bedtime. The patient then gets some hours' sleep before the bladder accumulates sufficient water to compel him to rise to void it. The patient should be taught to pass an instru- ment for himself, and this is not always an easy thing to do. The best form of instrument for the patient's own personal use is the Jaques red-rubber catheter, because with this he can do no harm, and, moreover, it is often the form of instrument which will most easily find its way along a deflected urethra. But occasionally this instrument cannot be passed, and then a coude catheter may be tried. This form of instrument is made with about an inch at the end bent upwards at an obtuse angle, and is especially useful in cases where the middle lobe of the prostate is enlarged, or where there is a bar across the neck of the bladder (fig. 380). In other cases the silk-web catheter may be found the most easy of introduction. In no instance should a silver or metal catheter be entrusted to the patient for introduction on his own person. The patient should be strictly enjoined to preserve the instrument absolutely clean, and instructions should be given as to its Fig. 380. A coude catheter.