DISEASE OF THE WRIST JOINT 559 attached to the internal condyle, and divides the internal lateral ligament. During this proceeding the ulnar nerve will probably not be seen, as it is em- bedded in the inflamed tissues around, but its presence must be constantly in the mind of the operator, and he must keep close to the bone. When the internal condyle has been freed, the same proceeding is gone through with regard to the external condyle. The end of the humerus is now pro- truded through the wound by flexing the forearm until it touches the arm, and the articular surface is separated with a saw. No more than the arti- cular surface should be removed, and the shaft of the bone should not be encroached upon. If any carious cavities exist on the sawn surface, it is better to scrape them out rather than remove more bone. The bones of the forearm are now forced out through the wound, cleared from sur- rounding structures, and the cartilage-covered surfaces sawn off. Here also the section of the bones must not be carried too low so as to interfere with the insertions of the brachialis anticus and biceps. After the articular surfaces have been removed, the whole of the pulpy synovial membrane and granulation tissue must be dissected or scraped away; any sinuses which may exist must be thoroughly scraped, and the parts well douched with an antiseptic solution. A drainage tube is inserted in the most dependent position, and the wound sutured and dressed. No splint is necessary, and the most comfortable position for the patient is the extended one, the arm being laid on a pillow and supported on either side by a sandbag. At the end of the second day the drainage tube should be removed and the forearm may now be flexed on the arm. Each succeeding day the position should be altered,* and at the end of ten days, if all goes well, the wound will probably be healed and passive motion may be commenced. The object of the operation is to obtain a strong false joint, with movement in every direction ; the passive motions must therefore be systematically and thoroughly carried out, and the forearm not only flexed and extended but also pronated and supinated. If the operation is carried out on the lines indicated above and too much bone is not removed, there is no dan<^er of undue mobility; but sometimes in cases of extensive injury, where a^large amount of bone has to be removed, a flail-Hke joint results. The patient may be allowed to get up at the end of the second week and go about carrying his arm in a splint. The wrist joint.—The wrist joint is not often the seat of simple synovitis from traumatism, on account of the great mobility of the hand allowing It to escape the effects of any severe injury. But it is not infre- quently the seat of rheumatic and gonorrhoeal synovitis and also of septic synovitis in cases of pyaemia. In cases of suppurative synovitis the disease IS ot special importance, because the inflammation tends to spread to the carpal joints and cause their destruction. When the synovial sac is distended with fluid, there is general fullness bo h on the palmar and dorsal surfaces of the wrist, but especially the latter. Ihe swelling bulges upwards between the tendons and partially aisp aces them. In cases of suppurative arthritis, incisions must be made parallel to the tendons and without opening their sheaths. Chronic inflammation of the wrist is generally tuberculous, the disease in most cases commencing in the synovial membrane. It is more common in the adult than in children, and is particularly liable to occur in senile tuberculosis. It often leads to infection of" the synovial sheaths of neighbouring tendons, or extends to the synovial sacs of the carpal ioints and leads to destruction of the carpal bones.