I052 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Leucorrhcea in children.—There is a special form of leucorrhoea in children which requires mention, as it is liable to be mistaken by the mother and others for gonorrhoea. It usually occurs in children of a tuberculous type and appears to be excited very often by want of attention to cleanliness, but also as a sequel to the eruptive fevers, or during denti- tion. The labia become swollen and red, and the parts are painful and tender ; the child cries out when it passes its water, and walks with difficulty and with a straddling gait, keeping its thighs well apart. There is an abundant purulent, or muco-purulent, discharge. The treatment consists in strict cleanliness and frequent douching of the parts with a weak antiseptic lotion (boric acid, Condy, &c.). Between the douchings the parts should be protected by boric acid ointment spread on lint, a piece being inserted between the labia to keep them apart. The child should sit in a hot bath night and morning. The bowels must be kept freely open, the diet regulated, and cod-liver oil given internally. Vaginismus.—This term is applied to a painful, uncontrollable spasm of the muscles about the orifice of the vagina when sexual congress is attempted. The spasm is so great, and is attended by so much pain, that sexual intercourse is rendered impossible. Causes.—In many cases a cause for the condition may be found in the existence of a small fissure or ulcer on the vulva, or a urethral caruncle; in other cases it is due to an hyperassthetic condition of the remains of the ruptured hymen, and from this cause is very common in newly married women. In many cases no obvious cause can be found. In the treatment of this affection careful search must be made for any of the above-mentioned causes, and they must be dealt with. If an ulcer is present it must be touched with lunar caustic and all attempts at inter- course interdicted until it is healed. If a caruncle is present it should be removed ; or if any remains of the hymen seem to be particularly sensitive, they should be excised. Occasionally piles may be present, and if so should be removed, as it is stated that they may give rise to this condition. If none of these causes are found, stretching of the parts under an anaesthetic will often effect a cure; or the local application of cocaine before an attempted coitus will sometimes deaden the sensibility so as to allow of its consummation, and after a time the condition of spasm will cease to occur as the parts become habituated to the act. Tumours of the vagina are very rare. The only ones which require special mention are cysts, which may arise either from obstructed mucous follicles or from the persistent terminal end of Gartner's duct. They belong to the class of retention cysts and very seldom give any trouble or inconvenience, as they rarely attain a greater size than a hazel nut. They may generally be cured by excising a part of the wall of the cyst with scissors, and destroying the remainder with caustic. Small fibromatous and sarcomatous tumours are also stated to occur in the vagina, but they are very rare. Squamous epithelioma occurs in the vagina, but it is almost always the result of an extension of the disease from the vulva or from the cervix ; as a primary disease it is very rare, but not unknown. It presents the ordinary characters of epithelioma : an excavated ulcer, with indurated edges, which discharges a foul, and oftentimes bloody, matter. It is accompanied by much pain and early implication of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. It is only in the very early stage that complete removal can be attempted; later on the treatment must be simply palliative.