LIGATURE OF ARTERIES 293 union of the wound. The plan of acupressure was introduced to obviate this, but now that arteries are tied with an aseptic absorbable ligature this mode of arresting htemorrhage has fallen into disuse. 8. Flexion is another plan of treating hcEinorrhage, which is probably never employed in the present day. It is applicable mainly to wounds of vessels in the forearm and hand, or the leg and foot, and consists in forcibly flexing the elbow or knee joint until the pulsation in the vessels below is arrested. The process is, however, by no means certain in its results, and is extremely painful and irksome to the patient, so that cases can scarcely ever arise in which it can be desirable to resort to it. 9. Torsion.—-There can be no question that torsion of an artery is a most efficient way of controlling haemorrhage, and as reliable as ligaturing it. The advantage which it possesses over the ligature is that it does not leave any foreign body in the wound; but in these days of aseptic absorbable ligatures, which are cut off short, this does not count for much, whilst its disadvantages are that it requires more skill and practice than the ligature, and in unskilful hands is more likely to fail. The plan consists in seizing the vessel with a pair of specially constructed forceps (fig. 81) with broad, bluntly serrated ends, and a catch, and then twisting them round in the long axis of the vessel some six or eight times. The result of this is that the internal and middle coats are torn through at the first twist just above the point where the forceps grasp the vessel; the tough ex- ternal coat is then twisted round in the form of a screw, and as it twists it the two internal coats are separated from it and twisted up into the lumen of the vessel, where they form a conical plug which completely occludes it (fig. 82); so that even if the end of the artery which is grasped by the forceps is completely twisted off, no bleeding will ensue. It is better, however, not to continue twisting until the end of the artery comes away, as this in itself forms a further protection and prevents the spiral coil from untwisting itself, as it is sometimes Fig. 82. apt to do if the vessel has been insufficiently twisted. Artery closed by torsion. Two precautions require to be observed in per- forming this little operation. One is that the artery alone must be seized; if the surrounding tissues are grasped in the forceps with the artery, the proceeding is likely to fail, and here it is that the inexperienced hand, especially in dealing with the smaller arteries, is likely to find difficulty. The other precaution is that the whole artery must be seized, and that one blade of the forceps must not be introduced into the open end of the vessel. The operation is applicable to arteries in which the internal and middle coats are diseased; but if the vessel is adherent to its sheath, so that it cannot be separated from it and twisted within it, the proceeding is likely to fail. 10. Ligature is the most frequently employed and is the most reliable way of controlling htemorrhage. It is usually applied to the cut end of the vessel in an open wound, but it is also justifiable, in certain cases, to tie the artery at some distance above the wound—as in wounds of the palmar arch. In the first place we shall consider the application of a ligature to the cut end of a vessel in an open wound, and then consider ligature of an artery in its continuity.