1114 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS often^considerable rotation of the leg. In the adult, genu recurvatum is the result of paralysis of the popliteus and the flexor muscles of the leg, or of some nervous disorder, as ataxia. AVhen the above-named muscles'are paralysed, the femur falls forward on the tibia, and the line of gravity is carried in front of the knee joint; the posterior ligaments become stretched and after a time yield, aiid over-extension of the leg takes place. Genu recurvatum may also occur as the result of rupture of the posterior liga- ment of the knee joint. The treatment of the congenital form consists in attempting to overcome the deformity at the earliest possible period by manipulations and careful splinting. If this cannot be done, an attempt may be made when the child is two or three years old to overcome the resistance, which would appear to be the contracted capsule and ligaments, by division of these structures. In those cases of genu recurvatum which occur in adult life as the result of disease, no special treatment will probably be deemed advisable. Bowed legs.—In speaking of rickets it has been mentioned that the tibia and fibula are frequently much bent and distorted. The distortion consists usually in a bowing forwards and outwards of the lower third of the bones, and is a most common condition among the children of the poor in this country. In young children the treatment consists in the application of well-padded wooden splints on either side of the limb. These splints should extend from the knee to well below the level of the foot, so as to keep the child entirely off its legs. This, combined with general treatment, will probably effect a cure. But if the deformity is at all excessive, I am usually in the habit of commencing treatment by placing the child under an anaesthetic and forcibly straightening the bones as far as possible. This can usually be done without fracturing them, as the bones are very soft; but even if they are broken no harm will have been done, and the limb can be put up in a straight position. Later in life, when the bones have become fixed in their distorted position, and all active symptoms of rickets have disappeared, a cuneiform osteotomy will have to be performed. The bone is exposed by an aseptic incision, the periosteum divided and turned back, and a wedge-shaped piece taken out of the most prominent part of the tibia, the apex of the wedge corresponding to the concave surface of the bone. The size of the wedge must depend upon the amount of deformity. The fibula must then be divided and the limb straightened. The periosteum is replaced over the line of section, and may be secured in position by a catgut suture; the wound is closed and dressed, and put up in a pair of Croft's plaster of Paris splints. Talipes or club foot.—By the term talipes or club foot is meant any deformity of the foot caused by an unnatural contraction of muscles, ligaments, or fascite, whereby the normal relations of the tarsal bones to each other and to the bones of the leg are altered. Four primary varieties of this deformity are described : (i) Talipes equinus, where the heel is raised and cannot be brought to the ground, and where, in the extreme condition, the patient walks on the distal ends of his metatarsal bones; (2) talipes calcaneus, in which the toes are raised, so that the patient walks on the point of the heel; (3) talipes varus, where the inner side of the foot is raised and the anterior part turned inwards, so that the patient walks on the outer border of the posterior half of the foot; (4) talipes valgus, in which the outer edge of the foot is drawn upwards and everted, and the patient walks on the inner border of the foot and the