8S4 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS abdomen becomes distended, coils of intestine are visible through the abdominal wall when it is thin, and can sometimes be seen in motion. In the later stages the pain becomes mare continuous and severe, and the vomiting persistent,'and the patient dies, worn out with pain, vomiting, and inability to take food, and poisoned by absorption of the noxious matter from the decomposing contents of his intestinal canal. In some cases, death is hastened by the giving way of the gut above the seat of obstruction. Chronic obstruction is a disease rather of adult life than of childhood. . The symptoms are usually very obscure in the early stages, the onset being gradual, and the course varying considerably in different cases. When the obstruction is due to malignant disease, a tumour can sometimes be felt before much distension has supervened, but later on this is not possible. When it arises from faecal accumulation, a tumour can usually be felt. It is generally movable, firm, and doughy, and the fingers can be indented in it, though in other cases it is harder and firmer, and no impress can be made on it; it is then somewhat nodulated. A point in the diagnosis between a tumour due to malignant disease and ffecal accumulation is that the latter is usually tender on manipulation, probably from the accompanying inflammation, or it may be from the presence of a stercoral ulcer; whereas in malignant disease there is no pam on pressure. When the obstruction is due to a tumour growing from the wall of the gut the weight of the tumour often produces invagination, and a condition of 'chronic intussusception is set up. The patient complains of a paroxysmal pain of a colicky character, but it is not very severe. The pain may be accompanied by vomiting, or vomiting may be entirely absent. When present, it is increased by food, and consists merely of the rejection of the contents of the stomach. If food is withheld, the vomiting, in most cases ceases; at all events, it is rarely stercoraceous. The bowels are irre-^ular; sometimes there is constipation ; more often there is d^rrhcea, with passage of blood-stained mucus, accompanied by tenesmus. There is usually not much distension of the abdomen, and on examination it is found to be flaccid and free from tenderness. A tumour can in many cases be felt through the abdominal wall, or by examination per anum. The attack may at last culminate in complete obstruction, or the patient may die of exhaustion and wasting before this comes on ; or the case may be brought to a fatal termination from peritonitis, from perforation ot tne gut above the obstruction. Sloughing of the mtussusceptum is almost unknown in chronic intussusception. . Treatment of chronic obstruction.—The treatment of chronic obstruc- tien must vary according to the seat of the obstruction and to its cause When the obstruction is in the large intestine, and is due, as it most frequently is, to a malignant or cicatricial stricture, colotomy is usuau) indicated. Of course the ideal operation would be to perform laparotoni) , excise the strictured portion of gut, and do an end-to-end a^^^^tomosi^ ; this is hardly practicable in a case of complete obstruction, ^Ulere it {fas existed for a long period of time, and the bowel above - d,stend^^^ with enormous quantities of decomposing fsecal /^f ^^^.f f ing half poisoned by absorption of noxious material from this decon posi o ma s^ t is wisJr, therefore, in most cases, to establish ah arnficial ain^^^^^ and leave the more radical operation for a future penod -hen t i auu.^ will be in a better condition for its performance. When f -^l^ '"' in the most common position, in the upper part of the rectum o