6oo INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS of symptoms is due to severe contusion or bruising of the brain, with or without laceration. Again, on the other hand, the symptoms of con- tusion and laceration are intimately mixed up with compression. If a patient after an injury to the head suffers from concussion, which merges into compression, we have evidence of extravasation of blood somewhere into the cranial cavity. If there has been an interval of consciousness between the concussion and the compression, it is probably outside the dura mater; if there has been no interval of consciousness, it is inside the dura mater, and is due either to extravasation on the surface of the brain or to laceration of the brain substance. The diagnosis between these two conditions has already been alluded to. The most important sign of laceration of the brain is convulsions. A violent attack of convulsions occurring within twelve hours of an injury to the head is pathognomonic of laceration, but convulsions or even rigidity or paralysis of groups of muscles coming on within the fifth day after the receipt of the injury points strongly in this direction. Of course, these convulsions are only present when the lesion implicates the cortical motor area. When this area is not implicated the only symptoms would be gradually increasing insensibility; but this might also be caused by diffuse extravasation on to the surface of the brain, which might take place without laceration. When the convulsions are accompanied by gradually increasing paralysis, the paralysis having been found to spread after each convulsion, the laceration is probably extensive and the case a serious one; but in those cases when the fits are not accompanied by gradually increasing paralysis, and the patient recovers consciousness between them, they will probably cease after a time and the patient recover. Treatment.—The treatment of laceration of the brain without any external wound consists in keeping the patient absolutely quiet, applymg • ice to the head, and administering a purgative in the early stage. If there is any depressed bone it must of course be elevated, but otherwise the symptoms are not as a rule sufficiently definite to enable the surgeon to localise the situation of the injury. After paralysis is set up, it may be possible to indicate the seat of the lesion, and then trephining should be resorted to over the injured area. When the convulsions become more violent and the paralysis increases, and the patient more and more insen- sible, the question of operative interference is a very serious one. The increase in the symptoms may be due to inflammation around the extra- vasation, and this will be indicated by heat of the head and a rise in the temperature, and probably under these circumstances no good would be done by trephining. The treatment should rather consist in shaving the head, and applying leeches and afterwards ice; in freely purging the patient, and keeping him on a low diet, principally milk. Bromide of potassium in full doses sometimes has the effect of lessening the convul- sions. In those cases where the increase of the symptoms is not attended by any signs of inflammation, it is probably due to spreading oedema, and under these circumstances trephining should be resorted to if the mischief can be localised, as the reUef of pressure, by removing the blood clot and exuded fluid, may be the means of arresting the further progress of the disease. , . 2 Bruising and laceration of the brain with an external wound.—Wounds of the brain or its membranes may be produced by fragments of bone being driven into it in cases of compound depressed fracture ; by stabs or sabre cuts ; by thrusts through the orbit