FRACTURE OF BOTH BONES OF THE LEG 457 of the fini^er and thumb, and perhaps crepitus may be felt. The injury is of importlxnce as it is liable to lead to permanent lameness, as^ a certain amount of lateral movement is often permitted in the astragalus from faulty union of the process, so that this bone is not tightly gripped between the two malleoli. i i i i <■ The treatment of all these fractures is the same. They should be put up in side and back splints until all swelling has subsided, and then be encased in some immovable apparatus and the patient allowed to get up. _ Fracture of the fibula.—The upper two-thirds of the fibula is seldom fractured ; when it is, the fracture is produced by direct violence. There is often no displacement, and the bone being surrounded by a mass of muscles, the diagnosis is often difficult. There is a fixed pam, increased on movement, with possibly crepitus. A linear ecchymosis appearing over the site of the fracture some few days after the accident is characteristic of the injury. When fracture occurs in the lower third of the bone, it is ^•enerally the result of indirect violence, and may be caused by twisting the foot either inwards or outwards. These fractures are more easily diagnosed than those higher up, because any irregularity of the bone can more readily be detected. There is pain, increased by pressing on the part or by moving the bone, and generally crepitus can be elicited. Treatment.—If there is no swelling or bruising these fractures may at once be put up in an immovable apparatus and the patient allowed to go about on crutches. If there is swelling it is better to confine the limb in a roll-junk for a few days until it has subsided and then put it up. _ Fracture of both bones of the leg is a very common injury and may be produced either by direct or indirect violence. When caused by direct violence, the fracture may be at any part and is generally trans- verse ; when caused by indirect violence, the tibia first gives way at its weakest part, the junction of the middle and lower third, and then the fibula at its weakest part, on a higher level than the fracture in the tibia. These fractures are oblique in direction and most usually run downwards, forwards and inwards, but may vary in this respect according to the direction in which the force was applied. The displacement in the transverse fracture, especially when it occurs high up, is usually not great, but in the oblique fracture there is often very considerable displacement, and the direction in which it takes place depends to a great extent on the direction of the line of fracture. In the more common fracture, where the line runs downwards, forwards and inwards, the lower fragment is drawn upwards, backwards and outwards, behind the upper, by the muscles of the calf, while the sharp end of the upper fragment projects under the skin in front and often perforates it, producing a compound fracture (fig. i6i). When the line of fracture is in the opposite direction, the lower fragment is displaced in front of the upper, but is still drawn upwards by the calf muscles. In both fractures the lower fragment is rotated outwards by the weight of the foot. The diagnosis of these fractures can be easily made, since the irregularity in the outline of the bones can at once be detected by running the finger down the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, and combined with this are the ordinary signs of fracture. Treatment.—The deformity is first to be reduced by flexing the leg on the thigh and having it held in this position by an assistant, so that the muscles of the calf may be relaxed, and making traction from the foot and manipulating the bones into position. The apparatus for maintaining