200 GENERAL DISEASES CHAPTER V TUBERCULOSIS Tuberculosis is an infective disease due to the action of a specific micro-organism—the tubercle bacillus—which results in the formation of minute structures called ' tubercle.' This material may remain local, spreading and infecting the tissues locally, or it may become disseminated, producing widespread tuberculous deposits in the various tissues and organs. The former of these two conditions, local tuberculosis, is the form of disease which the surgeon has more especially to deal with, but he should also be fully alive to the constitutional condition, general tuberculosis, since frequently, cases of the local form, which he may be called upon to treat, terminate in this general infection. It will be convenient first to consider tubercle; its structure, and the changes it undergoes. Tubercle.—The term ' tubercle ' has been variously applied. For- merly it was the name given to certain cheesy masses, which are now known to be secondary states of the original condition, produced by fatty degenera- tion. Then it was applied to certain greyish white semitranslucent bodies, of about the size of a millet seed, which were also sometimes called ' grey granulations' or ' miliary tubercles.' Subsequently by microscopic examina- tion it was found that these grey miliary tubercles were made up of an aggregation of smaller nodules, too small to be seen by the naked eye, but possessed of a certain definite structure. To these bodies the term tubercle is now, in its strictest sense, only applied. The miliary tubercle or grey granu- lation, made up of a collection of tubercles, is a greyish white, translucent body, with a well-defined outline, generally surrounded by a zone of hyper- cemia, of firm consistence, and usually about the size of a millet seed. It is non-vascular, and is a characteristic feature of the disease. Sometimes these grey granulations are aggregated together into larger masses, and then, though the granulations are themselves non-vascular, vessels may be seen between them, running in the remains of the normal tissue of the part, which lies between the individual circumscribed deposits. In examining these miliary masses, it will be found that they are generally arranged along the course of the smaller blood-vessels with which they are closely connected. In fact, it is believed by some that the deposit first takes place in the outer coat of these blood-vessels. Microscopic characters of tubercle.—When examined under the micro- scope, an individual tubercle in its complete condition is seen to be made up as follows: In the centre is a large giant cell, that is, a large multi- nucleated cell, with well-marked branching processes ; around this, between the branching processes of the giant cell, is a zone of ' epithelioid cells ;' cells which resemble young squamous epithelium, and outside this is a zone