197 INHERITED SYPHILIS IN LATER LIFE The mucous membranes.—The mucous membrane of the nose and mouth is constantly affected in congenital syphilis. In fact, a congestive swelling of the mucous membrane of the nose is one of the earliest and most characteristic signs of the disease, and the peculiar snuffling noise in breathing which it causes has given the popular name to the disease as a whole, ' The snuffles.' The breathing in this condition is obstructed sometimes to such an extent that the infant is unable to suck, as it can only breathe when the mouth is open. The mucous membrane of the mouth may be affected with a stomatitis, a general, diffused inflammation of the mucous membrane, which is popularly known by the name of ' thrush ;' or mucous patches may appear on it, similar to the condylomata on the moist skin, and like them exceedingly infective. The bones.—The bones are frequently and variously affected in congenital syphilis. Some of these changes consist in atrophy of the pre-existing structures; others in development of new tissue. The condition of atrophy shows itself principally as cranio-tabes, which is not, however, necessarily a syphilitic affection, but may occur also in other diseases, as rickets. It consists of a thinning of the bones of the skull in patches. The condition generally occurs in those parts where the head is subjected to pressure, as the occipital and less frequently the parietal region. The bone may become so thinned that it feels like parchment under the finger, or the osseous tissue may be entirely removed, leaving only a layer of mem- brane. The hypertrophic condition consists in the depo-sit of new bone on the outer surface of the skull, at points most remote from the centre of ossification. It most frequently occurs at the anterior fontanelle in the two parietal bones and the two segments of the frontal bone ; here new bosses of bone may be heaped up to such an extent as to give the skull in this situa- tion the appearance of a ' hot cross bun ;' the lines of the sutures representing the cross. The same thickening also occurs along the line of the sagittal suture. Another condition of the bones met with in congenital syphilis is the so-called syphilitic epiphysitis. It is really a disease of the ossifying tissue at the end of the shaft, named by Parrot the chondro-calcareous layer. This becomes thickened and infiltrated with small round cells, which destroy and replace the natural tissue of the part and cause separation of the epiphysis from the shaft. There is thickening and tenderness about the joint, and the limb hangs powerless, being in a condition which Parrot termed pseudo-paralysis. The looseness of the epiphysis can generally be detected, and some fine crepitus is usually present. The viscera in congenital syphilis are liable to become involved, a diffuse infiltration of small round cells taking place in them, causing enlargement of the organs. In syphilitic children born dead, or in those who die shortly after birth, the spleen, the liver, and in some cases the lungs, may be found to be extensively diseased. Manifestations of inherited syphilis in later life.—The prmcipal manifestations of congenital syphilis in later life are to be found in the condition of the teeth, the eyes, the nose, and the bones, but in addition to these there are some others of perhaps less frequent occurrence, which will have to be alluded to after the principal ones have been described. The condition of the teeth in hereditary syphilis depends upon the stomatitis, and therefore, if this affection has been absent during the early period of the disease, the characteristic condition of the teeth is also absent.