INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES 5IO Symptoms.—In both dislocations there is marked deformity about the joint, which has the appearance of being wider than natural. In the dislocation outwards the head of the radius can be felt projecting beyond the external condyle of the humerus, and in the dislocation inwards there is a marked and elongated projection obscuring the internal condyle, caused by the internal border of the olecranon process. In this dislocation, evidence of injury to the ulnar nerve is very likely to be present. In both dislocations the relation of the olecranon to the condyles is altered, but the orbicular ligament remaining intact the relations of the head of the radius to the olecranon are unaltered. Dislocation of the ulna alone is described as a classical mjury, and is said to occur backwards. As this must necessitate rupture of the orbicular ligament and probably also the oblique ligament and upper part of the interosseous membrane, and as moreover there is nothing to retam the head of the radius in its place, it is very doubtful whether such an injury ever occurs. At all events it must be an ex- ceedingly rare form of injury, and probably could not be diagnosed from displacement of both bones backwards. It is a matter of very little moment, as the treatment of both injuries is the same. Treatment.—In all the above-mentioned dislocations reduction- is effected in the same way. The patient is seated on a chair, and the surgeon, with his foot on the chair, places his knee in the bend of the elbow and presses against the lower end of the humerus, at the same time grasping and fixing the bones of the forearm a little above the wrist. After this pressure has been maintained for some short time, he slowly and forcibly flexes the forearm on the arm. By this means he disengages the interlocking bony prominences and effects reduction. It rarely happens that reduction can be effected after a longer period than five or six weeks ; and if the dislocation cannot be reduced, excision of the joint will probably give the patient a more useful arm, since if the dislocation is allowed to remain unreduced, great impairment of the joint and disability of movement are likely to ensue, whereas an excision, carefully planned and executed, is generally followed by most satisfactory results. Dislocation of the head of the radius.—The head of the radius may be dislocated from the humerus and ulna, either forwards, backwards, or outwards, in cases where the orbicular ligament is torn. 1 he accidents all appear to originate very much in the same way, by falls on the hand when the forearm is flexed, and the nature of the displacement appears to depend upon the direction in which the force is applied. Dislocation forwards.-This is probably the most common form of displacement. The head of the bone rests on the front of the humerus just above the capitellum. The forearm is flexed and fixed midNva) between supination and pronation, and the patient i.s unable to ttex nis Fig. 184.—Dislocation of the radius backwards. (From the Museum of St. George's Hos- pital. )