WOUNDS 49 any tendency to diminish, it is better to at_ once freely incise it, turn out the fluid blood and clots and insert a drainage tube In these days of aseptic surgery, with proper precautions, there is no risk m doing this, and therefore there is no object gained in losing time in waiting for absorption, which may probably never take place. In former days such a practice as this would have been regarded as fraught with danger. , , , , . Blood cysts.—In some cases of hematoma where the blood is not absorbed and is allowed to remain, a sort of cyst is formed which is termed a blood cyst. The process appears to be somewhat as follows : a slow process of coagulation takes place and the fibrin thus formed becomes deposited as a thin layer on the tissues surrounding the cavity ihis forms a framework, into which large plasma cells, derived from the con- nective tissue corpuscles, emigrate, and undergoing development become converted into fibrous tissue, which gradually absorbs the blood pigments ; so that eventually we have a cyst, consisting of a well-formed fibrous wall and containing clear serum. This cyst may remain indefinitely. Such structures are occasionally found in the sub-dural space of the cranium, and as was first pointed out by Sir Prescott Hewett were originally extra- vasations of blood in this situation. T.J Subcutaneous wounds.—It would appear to be expedient under the heading of contusions to consider subcutaneous wounds, since in their behaviour they partake far more of the character of a bruise than they do of an open wound. They are wounds in which a very considerable extent of tissue is divided through a mere puncture in the skm, which is _ imm.e- diately closed, so that they enjoy to a great extent the characteristics of a bruise : viz. that there is a subcutaneous solution of continuity to which air, and any impurities it may carry, is not admitted. They are generally made by the surgeon, and were formerly in much more common use than they are in the present day. Nowadays when a surgeon employs strict asepticity in his operations there is not the risk from open wounds that there used to be, and there is not the same necessity for resorting to such measures as subcutaneous surgery. It need hardly be said that the open method of performing an operation possesses its advantages, as the surgeon can be much more exact in its performance, simply dividing what is necessary and no more than is necessary. A subcutaneous operation, such as tenotomv, consists in introducing a very narrow knife through a mere puncture in the skin, then by turning the cutting edge of the knife against the structure to be divided and depressing the hand a free sweep of the tissues is made, forming a subcutaneous wound : on the withdrawal of the knife the wound is immediately closed by a compress to prevent the ad- mission of air. The small external wound heals at once, and the tissues beneath behave as a subcutaneous laceration or bruise. WOUNDS Wounds may be defined as solutions of continuity, dividing the skin and thus permitting the admission of air to the injured tissues. There are many different kinds of wound, and for purposes of description they may be divided as follows : i. Incised wounds, where the injury is produced by a sharp cutting instrument ; where the length bears a considerable proportion to the breadth and the edges are clean cut. 2 Contused and lacerated wounds, where the edges are torn and ragged and the