COMPLICATIONS OF OVARIAN TUMOURS 1071 flanks are resonant and the dullness is in front, its limits being sharply marked. In ascites the wave of fluid may be felt not only where the sound is dull on percussion, but also beyond the line of dullness. This is not so in ovarian disease, where the sensation of fluctuation is distinctly limited to the cyst. The history of the case and the evidence of any disease of the liver, heart, or kidneys may also aid in the diagnosis, since these diseases are the cause of ascites ; though, of course, it is quite possible that a patient suffering from disease of these viscera may be the subject of ovarian dropsy. In cases of doubt further information may be obtained by withdrawing a small quantity of the fluid by means of an exploring syringe. There is no difficulty in distinguishing the thick, glairy, gum-like fluid of an ordinary ovarian cyst from the thin, greenish serum of ascites. But the fluid of a unilocular cyst of the broad ligament somewhat resembles ascitic fluid. If this fluid, being allowed to stand, deposits a small coagulum spontaneously, the chances are in favour of its being ascitic. If on microscopic examination cylindrical epithelium is found, the probabilities are in favour of its being an ovarian cyst. 2. Ovarian dropsy has been mistaken for pregnancy, or, what is worse, pregnancy has been mistaken for ovarian disease. Of course, in many cases this cannot occur; when, for instance, the patient is beyond the child- bearing age, or the tumour has been known to exist for a longer period than nine months. Whenever the patient is of the child-bearing age, the possibility of pregnancy must not be forgotten, and it must be borne in mind at the same time that pregnancy may be present in a case of ovarian disease. The most important evidence can be obtained by vaginal exami- nation, when it can be generally ascertained that the uterus and tumour are one. The condition of the os uteri and the presence of ' ballottement' will also assist in the diagnosis. After the sixth month the movements of the fcetus may be felt, and the sound of the fcetal heart may be heard. The condition of the breasts should also be ascertained. 3. Another source of error is mistaking a softened fibroid tumour of the uterus for an ovarian cyst. In these cases the uterine sound is of great assistance in arriving at a diagnosis, but it should never be introduced until all doubt as to the existence of pregnancy has been set at rest. With the sound in fibroid tumour it will probably be found that the uterine cavity is elongated, and that the tumour moves with alterations in the position of the sound. Under these circumstances, it is either uterine or else an ovarian cyst which has become closely connected with the uterus. 4. The diagnosis from large cysts of the kidney or hydro-nephrosis is sometimes difficult. These tumours generally present more in one flank than ovarian tumours, and this flank is very markedly dull on per- cussion. The dullness rarely, however, extends far beyond the middle line in front, towards the opposite side of the abdomen. In cases of disease of the kidney, the colon which lies in front is generally pushed forwards, and may be detected by a resonant note in front of the tumour. It is impossible in the limits of this work to discuss the differential diagnosis of all the various conditions for which an ovarian tumour may be mistaken ; a careful examination will generally prevent any error being made, though, in cases of doubt, an exploratory incision may be necessary before an accurate diagnosis can be arrived at. Complications of ovarian tumours.—i. The wall of an ovarian cyst, or rather the peritoneum covering it, may become inflamed. This is