OVARIOTOMY 1073 there are any they are more easily dealt with; secondly, because the patient is saved from the risks which always attend ovarian cysts, inflamma- tion, rupture or twisting of the pedicle ; and thirdly, because the patient is in a better condition to submit to the operation than if she waits until, by its size and pressure, the tumour produces those secondary effects which have been alluded to above. It does not seem worth while to allude to the medical treatment, since no drug or course of medicinal treatment can have any effect on ovarian tumours ; or to those plans of treatment which were resorted to by the older surgeons, before MacDowell of Kentucky first performed ovariotomy in 1809, or when ovariotomy was in its infancy ; such plans of treatment as tapping, tapping and pressure, tapping and the injection of iodine, tapping through the vagina or rectum, or tapping with drainage. All these operations, with perhaps the exception of simple tapping in certain cases, are now discarded. No doubt the so-called success which formerly was said to follow, was due to the fact that in some cases the disease was spontaneously undergoing periods of arrest which were mistaken for cure. With regard to simple tapping or aspiration, there are some cases where it may have to be resorted to: as (i) for diagnostic purposes; (2) when the patient or her friends will not consent to the major operation ; and (3) where there is organic disease elsewhere, which forbids any great surgical proceeding. In the two latter cases it is done simply as a palliative measure. Some surgeons still advocate tapping in the hyaline parovarian cysts, and it is an undoubted fact that some of these cysts can be cured by this method. But it would appear that the operation is almost, if not quite, as dangerous as extirpation; it may not result in cure, but, on the other hand, may lead to adhesions which Avill complicate any future operation. And furthermore it is impossible to diagnose the hyaline from the papillary parovarian cyst, and tapping in this latter condition is always extremely dangerous, from the risk there is of causing invasion of the peritoneum by the papillary growths. It would seem preferable, therefore, in these cases to resort to the operation of ovariotomy in order to effect a certain cure. Ovariotomy.—It is advisable for some few days before the operation to confine the patient to bed, on an easily digestible and nutritious diet. The bowels should during this time be acted upon by a mild aperient daily, and a warm bath may be given every night. The day before the operation the pubic hair should be removed, and the abdominal wall properly cleansed and sterilised. On the morning of the operation the rectum should be emptied by an enema, and a catheter should be passed just before the patient is placed on the operating table, to insure that the bladder is empty. The patient should be warmly clad, the lower extremities being wrapped in small blankets and the upper part of the body well covered. The patient should be placed on a hot-water pillow, and the temperature of the operating room should not be below 65° F. The best anaesthetic in the majority of cases is ether, but the aneesthetist should be prepared to give a little chloroform if the muscles are rigid and will not relax. When anaesthesia is complete, and the abdomen again cleansed and surrounded by macintoshes covered by towels wrung out in some antiseptic solution, an incision is made in the linea alba below the umbilicus, about four or five inches in length, and the peritoneum exposed. Before it is opened, all bleeding from vessels in the abdominal wall is to be arrested. When this is done, the peritoneum is opened by seizing it at the 3 z