576 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES on cither side of tlie ligamentum pateUte, and pulling downwards the lower half of tlTfe patella, he can clear away all the pulpy tissue from between the ligament and the front of the tibia. In this manner every particle of diseased tissue which is visible having been removed, attention is directed to the articular surfaces. The patella is first examined, and if, as is generally the case, only its articular surface is superficially eroded, a thin section should be cut from this; if it is extensively diseased the two halves should be removed. The section of the femur is then made, the knee is fully flexed, the femur held steady, and the saw applied to the front of the condyles so as to remove their lower halves and no more, for fear of injuring the epiphysial cartilage. The section of the bone should be made parallel to the articular surface, and as the section is being carried through the thickness of the bone, the saw should be slanted slightly upwards, so as to remove a little more behind than in front. When the bones are brought together this will cause the limb to assume a slight degree of flexion, which is the most desirable position for progression; an absolutely extended limb causing the heel to catch in the ground during walking. The upper end of the tibia is now to be removed. It is protruded from the wound by an assistant and held steady, while a thin slice, never more than half an inch in thickness, is sawn off. Care must be taken on nearing the posterior border of the bone to avoid wounding the popliteal artery. After the bones have been sawn, the cut surfaces must be carefully examined and any carious tissue must be gouged away, no further sections of the bones being made. The back of the joint now requires to be taken in hand. This is the most difficult part of the operation, for Fig 211 -Diagram showing not only is it difficult to reach all the recesses the lines of incision, by the and folds of the synovial membrane in this transverse and horse-shoe situation, but in addition the operator is in methods, in excision of the (^{q^q proximity to the popliteal artery, so that '^•^ee. j^yg^ taken not to cut too deeply and injure this vessel. With care, however, every particle of diseased tissue can be removed, and the surgeon should not be satisfied till this is done. The exposed surfaces should now be thoroughly douched to wash away any debris of tissue, the halves of the patella drilled and united with chromic gut. The bones are now placed in accurate apposition, the surface of the femur against which the patella rests having been first freshened so as to secure bony ankylosis. In the majority o cases I believe it is of advantage to peg the two bones together. A small incision is made on the inner and outer surfaces of the tibia, just below the tuberosities, down to the bone, and long ivory pegs, which have been well boiled, are driven through the tibia into the femur in an oblique direction, so that they cross each other in their course : the ends are cut off close to the bone and buried. The external wound is now closed with sutures, no drainage tubes, as a rule, being required, and dressed. After the operation