135 SENILE GANGRENE and the patient develop fever of an asthemc type, with low muttering de mum,and this may hasten the end. The I^^^'^Vk ThlTnt very slowly; one toe after another becomes involved becoming black dry and mummified, and the disease may creep on to the foot and extend as for as the ankle joint, a favourite site for a u.e of demarcation to take p ace, corresponding to the point of bifurcation of the posterior tibial a ter;. When arrest takes place, supposing the patient survives ong enough for it to occur, separation of the gangrenous parts commences (fig 30), and eventually the dead parts may drop off, leaving a ragged '''Treatment-An important point in the treatment of senile gan- grene is to render the part as aseptic as possible and keep it so i he foot should first be thoroughly cleaned by washing with soft soap rubbed with turpentine to get rid of any greasy material, and then wel sluiced ^dth corrosive sublimate solution. Much of the patient's welfare de- pends upon this being thoroughly done, for if the parts are allowed to Fig -Do' gangrene of the foot from an embolic plug m the pophteal artery. The gangrenous parts are in process of separation. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) remain septic, irritative fever from septic absorption will be set up and the case assume a much graver aspect. After the foot has been well cleansed, it must be dressed with antiseptic dressings. Subsequent dressings must be done with as much care as in the dressing ot an ordinary operation wound. In fact, the same antiseptic rules are to be as rigidly carried out in these cases as in any others. Opium is of the greatest service in the treatment of senile gangrene; it not only relieves the pain, but it allays the nervous irritability and enables the patient to bear the en- forced rest. It must be given with care, so as not to upset the digestive organs, and a small dose two or three times a day will often be found more beneficial than one larger dose once a day, say at night In order to enable the patient to take the opium, the diet must be carefully regulated. A nutritious, somewhat generous diet is required, but it must be given with discrimination ; easily digestible articles of food must be selected, and the stomach not overloaded, but nourishment given in small quantities at fre- quent intervals. Soups, beef tea, fish, poultry or game, with perhaps a little