774 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS maintained. It remains to be seen whether the deformity will return, or whether, as seems more probable, it will recur. It would be premature, at the present time, to give a decided opinion as to the value of this proceeding. Osteo-arthritis of the spine (^Spondylitis deformajis^—Ttivi disease occurs most frequently after middle life, and is more common in the male than the female. Pathology.—The disease consists in an absorption of the mtervertebral discs and the formation of bony outgrowths from the vertebral bodies, which by their interlocking, together with ossification of the anterior and posterior common ligaments, causes complete ankylosis of the spine (fig. 297). The joints between the articular processes become involved later on "in the disease, and undergo the same changes as are found in osteo- arthritis of other joints. The symptoms are pain, which is worse at night FiG. 297.—Osteo-arthritis of the spine. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) Fig. 298.—Sarcomatous tumour of the cord. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) and in damp weather; marked kyphosis and stooping ; impaired mobility, especially in a lateral direction; and occasionally a grating on moyenie"^- The respiration may be auected, and where the disease is far advancea may be entirely diaphragmatic, and pulmonary troubles may ensue. The treatment must be conducted on the ordinary principles wmu guide the surgeon in the treatment of the same disease elsewner . Residence in a dry climate is strongly indicated. ^cnnallv Syphilitic disease of the spine.-Gummata are occas onauy met with beneath the periosteum, covering the bodies of the verteor^ leading to caries and necrosis of the bone. When they occur on t^^ posterior surface of the bodies they may lead to pressure on the coro paralysis. Ordinarily they occur in front and give rise J? J "JL by resembling tuberculous caries, from which they can only be diagnoseu the history and coexistence of other syphilitic lesions.