8y6 INJURIES AND DISEAvSES OF SPECIAL ORGANS result of very extreme violence, and are often associated with other lesions, and terminate fatally. The treatment should consist in making an effort to free the head of the bone, and then applying a long splint and making extension. Fracture of the tuber ischii has occasionally been caused by falls from a height on to the buttocks. The diagnosis can usually be made by grasping the tuberosity and moving it from side to side, when crepitus will be felt. Fracture of the sacrum.^—The sacrum is not frequently fractured; when it is, the fracture is commonly transverse, at the lower part of the bone, and is produced by direct violence. It is often complicated by injury to the nerves of the sacral plexus, and incontinence of faeces and loss of power over the bladder are common symptoms. The lower fragment is usually displaced forwards, and may press upon the rectum and cause obstruction. The irregularity of the outline of the sacrum, and the displaced lower frag- ment felt by introducing the finger into the rectum, establish the diagnosis. The treatment consists in replacing the fragment and keeping the patient quiet in bed until union has taken place. If there is any tendency for the displacement to recur, Hamilton recommends that the patient should be given opium and carefully dieted, so that constipation may be induced and the loaded rectum may press on the fragment and help to keep it in its Fractures of the coccyx.—The coccyx may be broken by blows or kicks. There is great pain in sitting, walking, or in defaecation. By introducing the finger into the rectum, the displaced portion of bone will be felt, and crepitus will be detected on moving it. The treatment consists in replacing the fragment and keeping the patient in the recumbent position until union has taken place. The bowels should be restrained from acting for as long as possible. DISEASES OF THE PELVIS Disease of the sacro-iliac joint—The sacro-iliac joint may be the seat of a pyemic affection or of tuberculous disease. Of the former condition it is not necessary to say anything ; the disease runs the course of pyfemic affections of joints, and if the abscess is opened and drained it will probably heal eventually, if the patient survives the general condition. Tuberculous disease of the sacro-iHac joint is a by no means uncommon affection. It occurs most frequently in young adults, under the age of thirty, but is also occasionally met with in children. It usually commences as a tuberculous ostitis, especially attacking that portion of the ilium which forms the posterior border of the joint. It runs the ordinary course of tuberculous affections of joints, and terminates in complete destruction of the articulation and the formation of a chronic abscess. Symptoms—The symptoms of this affection vary considerably. In some cases the formation of a soft fluctuating sweUing over the joint may be the first sign which attracts attention, preceded, it may be, by a certain amount of aching pain after exertion. In other cases the .symptoms are much more marked. The patient complains of constant aching pain, worse at night, and increased by walking, standing, or by making any violent expiratory effort. This pain is accompanied by a feeling of ^veakness and a sensation that he is unable to support the body on the affected leg,