LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY 349 and the longus colli is to be defined. In doing this important structures have to be avoided, the phrenic nerve lying on the scalenus anticus, the internal jugular, vertebral and inferior thyroid veins, and the pleura inter- nally : in addition to these, on the left side the thoracic duct is endangered, as it crosses the artery from within outwards to terminate in the left sub- clavian vein. The interspace between the two muscles having been defined, the anterior tubercle on the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is to be sought for, and the artery will be felt pulsating immediately below this. The vessel must be cleared in this situation and the needle passed from without inwards. Contraction of the pupil on the side operated upon ver>' frequently follows the tightening of the ligature from interference with the sympathetic, and by some surgeons is looked for as an indication that the artery has been tied. Idiopathic aneurisms of the arteries below the axilla are exceedingly rare, and when they do occur are almost always the result of cardiac disease and embolism ; on the other hand, the traumatic form of the disease is of frequent occurrence, especially occurring in the radial artery just above the wrist, where the vessel is superficial and exposed to injury from punctured wounds. The arteries of the upper extremity, however, frequently require liga- ture for wounds, either at the point wounded or in some instances as in wounds of the palmar arch, above the injured spot. ' Ligature of the axillary artery is scarcely ever required as a formal operation, as the only cases in which ligature is called for are those of wound of the vessel, and in these cases it is better and simpler to adopt the plan, originally recommended by Guthrie, of dividing the great pectoral muscle across and freely exposing the axilla. This is to be done by making an incision from the centre of the clavicle to the middle of the anterior fold of the axilla, and cutting through the superficial structures and the great pectora muscle. The artery may then be tied either above or below the pectorahs minor, and if necessary this muscle may also be divided and the artery tied beneath it. Afterwards the divided muscular fibres are united by buried sutUres, and the arm kept fixed to the side until union has taken place. In the_ rare instances in which ligature of the first part of the axillary artery IS called for, in cases other than wounds, the operation niay be done by a curved incision, with its convexity downwards, from the ip of the comcoid process to about an inch internal to the sterno-clavicu- lar joint, dividing the clavicular origin of the pectoralis major. But in these cases, on account of the depth of the artery, it is far preferable to tie the third part of the subclavian artery. Ligature of the third part of the axillary artery may be required for aneurism of the brachial high up. It has also been ed for subclavian aneurism both with a view of curing the aneurism hv n distal hgature and also as a preliminary to amputation of he shoJider joint The operation IS performed by raising the arm and rotating it slight y o u hree incheVbS'shoulc^l" 'T'''' '''' P^'^^^^"^^' '^"^ ^ incislonibout be mile in t rilne o i! ^^"^^ " Otherwise the incision should tLZr. . " f I- , ''"^'■y unction of the anterior third with olds'TraX te°'r' ''T' ""'T^'^ '""^ anterior and posterio o as or tne axilla. The skin and superficial fascia are to be d vided in this incision; and when the deep fascia is exposed, it is to be ^ened carefLilly, and divided on a director, so as to avo d the axillarv vpfn which hes immediately beneath and'will now be posed Ti e' ve n'