746 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Treatment.—The treatment consists in tlie enforcement of absolute rest, preferably in the prone position, and the administration of mercury in small doses for a considerable period. The best form in which to administer this drug is the perchloride, and iodide of potassium may sometimes be advantageously given with it, so as to convert it into the biniodide. Counter irritation in the form of blisters, or, what is perhaps better, light touches with the actual cautery once or twice a week, is indicated. Later on the use of strychnia and galvanism, with massage to the limbs and douching with warm sea water, are beneficial, and the patient should be encouraged to take gentle exercise. The general health must be attended to and improved in every possible way, and change of air, especially to the seaside, may be advised. Spinal haemorrhage.—In addition to the cases which have been already alluded to, in which there may have been minute haemorrhages into the cord, there are cases in which severe haemorrhage may take place into the cord or its membranes as the result of injury without any serious damage to the spinal column. It is somewhat difficult to understand how such a serious injury as extravasation into the substance of the cord should occur without lesion to the bones, but it seems most probable that it is due to a sudden and acute bending of the cord at the time of injur>', because the favourite seat for these extravasations is about the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, where the amount of flexion is very considerable, and where the cervical curve with its convexity forwards is greatest. In those cases where the haemorrhage takes place outside the cord into the mem- branes, the origin of the haemorrhage is generally pretty definite. It usually comes from ruptured Ugamenta subflava or from a limited fracture of the bones. I. Meningeal haemorrhage.—This is much the more common condition of the two, the blood being extravasated usually between the bone and the dura mater, but occasionally finding its way between the other membranes. Symptoms.—In these cases the symptoms do not usually come on untU after the lapse of an appreciable period from the time of the injury, the blood being slowly poured out and taking some time before it has accumu- lated in sufficient quantities to produce any definite pressure on the cord. There is a fixed pain in the back at the seat of injury, and, m addition to this, pain along the course of the nerves coming off from the part of the spine injured, since they are pressed upon by the extravasated blood. Inis is accompanied by hyperfesthesia or per^'erted sensation m. the parts sup plied by these nerves. Thus, for instance, where the injur)' has been m the dorsal region, a girdle pain around the thorax or abdomen may be complained of. There is also cramp or spasm in the muscles supplied by these compressed nerves, followed it may be by paresis or paralysis, it ttie amount of extravasation has been considerable, there may be numbness and loss of power in the parts below the seat of injur)' from direct Pressure on the cord; and in some cases an ascending paralysis is set up trom accumulation of blood in the spinal canal, collecting from below upwaro^, until death results from pressure on the upper cervical region ot tt^^ cor . Conjoined with these symptoms there is an entire absence ot any leu condition, by which it must be diagnosed from spinal meningitis, to it bears a considerable resemblance. ^i^g 2. Intra-spinal haemorrhage.-In those f^es where htemorrhage takes place into the substance of the spmal coid, rne •