51 UNION BY FIRST INTENTION reo-ard these cases of so-called ' immediate union' as cases in whicn the inflammation is slight and in which the exudation is small and perhaps only to be recognised by microscopic examination. Direct experiment supports this conclusion. If a very small incision is made in the cornea of a rabbit with the sharpest knife, and is prevented from gaping by at once closintx the eye, it will be found to have healed in a few hours and no trace of the wound will be visible to the naked eye ; but if the animal is killed and sections cut across the wound, the intermediary substance may be demonstrated by microscopic examination. 2. Union by first intention.—This mode of union, which was described by Hunter as unign by adhesive inflammation, is an inflamma- tory process, attended by the pouring out of exudation to a limited extent, which glues the edges of the wound together and eventually becomes organised and converted into a scar, which remains as a perma- nent bond of union. It is the simplest process by which a wound can unite and is not attended by the formation of pus. It is the mode of union tvithout suppura- tion. It is this mode of union which the surgeon aims at attaining, and which in these days he usually does succeed in obtaining, when he has to deal with a recent wound, such as is made in an operation. In order to study the process, it will be con- venient to take a small clean cut wound, in which no blood-vessel of any size has been injured; for if a vessel of any mag- nitude has been divided, artificial means will have to be taken to arrest the haemorrhage, and this would complicate the description of the process. The wound therefore is small and the bleeding ceases spontaneously, the edges of the wound being brought together by one of the surgical means iii vogue. The first point to consider is the manner in which the haemorrhage spontaneously ceases. The blood coagulates in the vessels up to the first collateral branch given off from the injured vessel j that is, to the next point of intersection of the capillary network. The coagulation is due to several causes : in the first instance the mechanical injury which has been done to the coats of the vessel causes them to contract and so diminishes the lumen of the tube through which the blood is flowing and therefore neces.sarily retards the circulation; secondly, the blood which escapes from the wounded vessel is exposed to the air and brought in contact with foreign substances, that is to say, substances which are not the lining membrane of vessels, which, as we have already seen, resists the tendency, which the corpuscles possess, to adhere to anything with which they come in contact. The corpuscles therefore adhere to the tissues around the Fig. 8.—Diagram showing mode of union of wounds without suppuration. First stage : The severed vessels at the margin of the wound are filled with clot; the vessels beyond are dilated, and crowded with cor- puscles.