COLUMNAR-CELLED CARCINOMA 257 forming a fungating mass, which often bleeds furiously and causes the death of the patient from haemorrhage. II. Columnar-celled carcinoma (fig. 66). The columnar-celled car- cinoma is a rarer disease than the glandular carcinoma. It originates from those structures where columnar epithelium is found, and occurs in connection with those mucous surfaces which are covered with this form of epithelium; the two most common places being the intestinal canal, especially the rectum, and the uterus. It also occasionally occurs in the antrum and air passages, in the larger milk ducts, and the gall bladder. These tumours are described by some as a variety of epitheUoma; but as there is an absence of cell nests, which is one of the characteristics of this form of tumour, and as they exactly resemble the glandular forms of carcinoma in consisting of closely packed cylinders of epithelial cells, it is better to class them in a distinct and separate group. Fig. 66.—Columnar-celled carcinoma of the rectum. (From 'A System of Surgery,' by Holmes and Hulke.) These tumours produce an indurated mass in the wall of the organ in which they grow, and when this is a canal, as the rectum, they produce a diminution in the lumen of the tube. They, like the other forms of carcinomata, infiltrate the neighbouring structures and speedily ulcerate on their surface, forming a foul excavated crater-like cavity. When examined microscopically they are found to be composed of cylinders or tubes, lined with columnar epithelium, bound together in an alveolar stroma, which is more or less infiltrated with round cells, as in the other forms of carcinomata. As a rule they grow slowly, and are not so malignant as the other varieties. They do not affect the lymphatic glands so speedily or so frequendy as the squamous carcinomata, and they are not so apt to form secondary growths as the spheroidal variety of the disease. The secondarj^ growths maintain the form of the primary growth, so that a secondary cancerous nodule of the rectum is found to be made up of the same columns of columnar cells which are present in the primary disease. S