742 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the "pain is most acute. It is greatly increased by any attempt at movement; and the patient keeps his back rigid. There is usually swelling and there may be some bruising, but this does not, as a rule, occur till later. In investigating a case of sprained spine, care must be taken to ascertain that the spinal cord is not involved, and this will be indicated by some modification of sensation in the parts below, such as a feeling of ' pins and needles' or numbness, with or without paresis or paralysis. An important indication, and one which should never be lightly disregarded, is any interference in the power of the bladder to expel its contents. Treatment.—In treating sprains of the back, the first indication is to keep the patient absolutely quiet in bed, until the pain and symptoms of active mischief have subsided. As soon as this is so, and the patient can move in bed, massage should be regularly employed. If this is thoroughly done, the painful fixed spine which occasionally follows these injuries will generally be avoided. The patient should be allowed to move about, and should be encouraged to flex and extend his spine. The treatment of those cases which are complicated with injury to the cord will be con- sidered later on, since the treatment must of course be directed to this graver lesion. Traumatic lumbago.—After a severe lumbar strain, the patient for some time may complain of great pain in the loins, especially on moving. This is accompanied by stiffness and rigidity, so that he carries his back in an unbending attitude; and superadded to these symptoms there may be difficulty in walking and interference with the natural acts of defcEcation and micturition, and he presents a condition of pseudo- paralysis, which is simply due to stiffness and incapacity of the spinal muscles, so that they cannot act without pain and are unable to give support to the spine. This condition is known traumatic lumbago, and may be mistaken for some injury to the cord itself The treatment consists in systematic massage to the muscles of the back; the apphcation of dry heat, by ironing the back every day with a heated flat iron, and en- couraging the patient to move about and exercise his muscles. Sometimes considerable and immediate relief may be obtained by forcibly extending the spinal muscles under an anaesthetic. The thighs are first flexed to their fullest extent on the abdomen, and then the shoulders are raised from the bed, and the chest and head doubled forwards. Or the buttocks and low^r part of the trunk may be raised, the shoulders being allowed to rest on the bed. This proceeding is most appHcable to those cases where adhesions are beUeved to exist, matting together the muscles and soft structures of the spine. Concussion of the spinal cord—In rare instances a severe injury to the back is accompanied by a temporary interference with the functions of the cord, the symptoms coming on immediately on the receipt of the injury, and having a tendency to pass off rapidly and terminate in complete recovery. These cases are strictly analogous to cases of con- cussion of the brain, and should be regarded as cases of true concussion oi the cord. They are extremely rare, but undoubtedly do occur. The symptoms are as follows. After a severe injury to ti back, as a blow from a heavy weight falling upon it, or a violent t^MSt _^ wrench, the patient falls to the ground and is unable to rise. 1 g loss of power, more or less complete in the muscles supplied by ne coming off below the seat of injury, and a feeling of numbness in