713 DERMOID CYSTS OF THE NECK are the glandular tumours ; these may be associated with tuberculosis or syphilis, or be secondary to a malignant affection in the neighbourhood, or a primary sarcoma of the glands of the neck may be found. The neck is also a common situation for lymphoma and lymphadenoma. Finally, solid tumours are sometimes developed in the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle. These may be either gummatous or what has been termed the coiigeniial tumour of the sterno-tnastoid, but which is really an inflamma- tory induration, the result of some injury to the muscle during delivery, generally in a breech presentation (see Torticollis). In addition to this general enumeration of the solid tumours which occur in the neck, tumours of the thyroid body and parotid gland must also be mentioned. These will be considered later on with the diseases of these parts. Cystic tumours of the neck.—The varieties of cysts met with in the neck are several, and some of these require special mention. They are as follows : 1. Cystic hygroma.—The cystic hygromata have already been described (page 231). They occur in other situations than the neck, though this is probably the place where they are most commonly found. They are apparently situated in the subcutaneous tissue, but very frequently are connected with the deeper parts by processes which render their removal impossible. They form tumours of irregular outline and may sometimes attain a very considerable bulk, and produce great deformity or serious symptoms from pressure on important parts. They often undergo in the process of time diminution in size, apparently as the result of attacks of spontaneous inflammation. Treatment.—Attempts have sometimes been made to remove them, and if they are small and have apparently no deep attachments such attempts are justifiable. In the majority of cases, however, the wiser course to pursue is to tap and inject iodine, in the hope that a gradual diminution may take place. 2. Unilocular cyst. {Hydi-ocek of the neck.)—These tumours are often congenital. Their origin is uncertain : they have been supposed by some to be due to a collection of fluid in an imperfecdy closed branchial cleft; by others, to dilatation of some of the lymph spaces. They are usually situated in the posterior triangle, and consist of a very thin-walled cyst containing a serous fluid. They form smooth, firm, tense tumours, which sometimes feel almost solid. The treatment consists in tapping and injecting iodine. 3. Blood cysts (Jucmatocele of the neck) are of two kinds : (i) where an effusion of blood takes place into a hydrocele of the neck. This is usually the result of tapping; the support of the contained fluid having been removed, the vessels of the wall of the cyst give way and blood is effused into the cavity. (2) The second is a very rare condition. It consists of a thiii-walled cyst, containing pure blood, and is believed to originate from a dilatation of one of the large veins in the neck. In some cases they can be partially emptied by pressure, showing that the communication with the vein still exists. Under these circumstances the vessel with which they communicate must be ligatured above and below the opening, and the cyst may then be dissected out. When the communication has been cut off, they may be tapped and injected with perchloride of iron. 4- Dermoid cysts.—Dermoid cysts may be found in the neck, either in the middle line or in the situation of one of the branchial clefts. The