io82 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL 0RC;ANS and less easily outlined than in cancer, and that the rest of the breast is knotty and hard, and that probably the other breast will be in the same condition. A further point is that on pressing the breast against the wall of the chest, the sensation of a definite tumour is not felt. And thirdly, in inflammation there is no dimpling of the skin or adhe.sion of it to the sur- face of the swelling in the majority of cases. This condition has, however, been observed in isolated instances. The disease may remain stationary for years, without causing the patient any serious disability, or it may disappear, or become markedly better, under treatment. In many cases, however, it progresses and terminates either in a general cystic formation, or in complete atrophy of the glandular tissue. On the other hand, it is probable that it may become carcinoma- tous (vide supra). Treatment.—The treatment of chronic mastitis consists in the local appli- cation of mercury and pressure, and the internal administration of the iodides with tonics A piece of lint sufficiently large to cover the whole breast, with a hole cut in it for the nipple, is spread with oleate of mercury or blue ointment, and placed over the breast, which is then carefully strapped by long strips of strapping, which are applied from just above the spine of the scapula on the side opposite to the affected breast, over the clavicle, under the diseased breast, across the axilla, and round to the back again. These straps are applied so as to partly overlap each other until the neces- sary suj^port is given to the breast. Cross strips are then applied across the front of the chest to compress the upper part of the breast. Internally iodide of potassium should be given, and this should be combined -with iron (the ammonio-citrate or potassio-tartrate), as these patients are almost always ancemic. If improvement follows these means they should be persevered with ; but if no improvement is noted, and the tumour is a source of annoyance and anxiety to the patient, from a dread of cancer, as is so often the case, the lobule should be removed, or if the whole breast is affected, amputation should be performed, especially if the patient is approaching, or has passed, the menopause. Chronic abscess of the breast.—This is a condition of con- siderable importance, since it is likely to be, and occasionally has been, mistaken for scirrhus. It consists of a small collection of pus situated in a lobule of the breast and surrounded by a layer of dense indurated tissue, in which remains of gland tissue can be detected. These abscesses usually arise in connection with pregnancy ; very often after abortion or miscarriage. They are also said to occur sometimes after mastitis in young girls. There seems very good reason to believe that they may be also sometimes tuberculous. They form a hard, solid lump in the breast, implicating the gland structure, from which they cannot be separated. They are not very defined. There is often some dimpling of the skin and retraction of the nipple. They may be the seat of some pain and are often tender to the touch. In these respects they resemble a scirrhous tumour. They may generally be distinguished from it by noting that the hardness is not so stony ; that the centre is not so hard as the circumference, and that a sensation of elasticity, or even deep fluctuation, may be felt. Moreover, the skin over them is sometimes cedematous, and at all events does not present the pigskin appearance of scirrhus. If any doubt exists it can be at once solved by the introduction of an exploring syringe. Treatment.—The treatment consists in laying open the cavity, scraping