1017 HERPES OF THE PENIS pass his water without disturbing the dressing. This may be left on till the fourth or fifth day, when it will probably have become loose, and can be removed by inserting the blade of a pair of scissors under it and slitting it up. Paraphimosis is the strangulation of the glans penis by a prepuce which has been forcibly drawn back and cannot be replaced. It occurs in individuals who have naturally a tight foreskin, and this being withdrawn causes compression of the vessels supplying the glans, and consequent congestion and swelling, which prevents it being replaced in its normal position. Great oedema of the prepuce results, and if not relieved the constriction may be so great as to cause ulceration or even sloughing. The treatment consists in seizing the penis between the fore and middle finger of each hand, pressing the blood out of the glans with the thumbs, and then dragging the foreskin forwards by means of the fingers, at the same time that the glans is pushed backwards by the thumbs. If this fails, the constricting band—that is, the free border of the prepuce—must be divided, when reduction can be effected. Preputial calculi.—In cases of phimosis the collections of smegma may become impregnated with lime salts and form concretions, which may remain lodged under the foreskin. They are usually soft and composed of epithelium, lime salts, and cholesterine. In a case mentioned by South there were over two hundred of these small calculi; and among the natives of the Solomon Islands, where congenital phimosis is almost universal, the condition is not uncommon. Balanitis and posthitis.—By the term bala?ntts is meant an inflammation of the glans penis ; and by posthitis, an inflammation of the mucous surface of the prepuce. The two conditions generally co-exist, and the name balano-posthitis is then given to it. It arises in its acute form from gonorrhoea and non-infecting sores, and in a more chronic form from the accumulation of smegma under a tight foreskin. It also occurs in the gouty, caused by over-acidity of the urine. The prepuce becomes swollen, red, and infiltrated; the glans and inner surface of the prepuce red, glazed, and superficially excoriated. There is a sensation of smarting or burning, and pain on passing water. There is a purulent or muco-purulent discharge, and the glands in the groin often become enlarged and suppurate. Treatment.—In the simpler cases the constant syringing of the parts with a weak boracic solution, with regulation of the bowels and attention to the diet, may effect a cure; but in severe cases, or after repeated attacks, circumcision should be performed, especially as the disease, in elderly men at all events, may terminate in epithelioma. After circumcision attention to cleanliness will seldom fail to cure the condition. Chronic inflammation of the corpora cavernosa.—This is a condition which is probably due to a gouty state, though the cause and pathology of the disease is not clearly understood. Pain is complained of in the penis, and when an erection takes place the pain is very considerable; the erection is imperfect, and the penis very often bent to one side. Upon examination of the organ, one or more hard nodules can be felt in the substance of the corpora cavernosa, which are tender on pressure. The disease is believed to partake of the character of gouty phlebitis, and the nodules to be due to thrombosis of the venous spaces of the erectile tissue. The treatment consists in combating the gouty condition, and in applying lead lotion and later on mercurial ointment to the penis. Herpes is a common affection of the penis, and attacks both the