FRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE 753 laround, and crepitus may be detected, but it is not wise to make any pro- 1 longed effort to elicit it. Accompanying these signs there is no evidence ' of any lesion of the spinal cord, or there may be a partial loss of power |i .land sensation in the parts below owing to concussion of the cord, which i' ; passes off in a day or two. Treatment.—In treating these cases no attempt should be made to J :reduce the deformity, since the effort to do so might produce such a change tin the position of the bones as might lead to crushing of the cord. In X)ther respects the case is to be treated exactly in the same way as fracture »f any other bone, by keeping the parts at rest and immobile until union ihas taken place. This may be best done by placing the patient in a sspinal jacket. A piece of poroplastic felt is to be shaped to the jsize of the patient, and having been heated and softened, he is gently rraised, the felt slipped under him and then rapidly moulded to his body. VWhen hard it can be retained in position by two or more webbings passed ' -round the trunk. If preferred the jacket may be made of leather softened ■ in vinegar and water, but it is not so firm as the felt. In this jacket the patient should be confined to bed for at least a couple of months, and L imay then be allowed to sit up for a short time, still wearing the jacket, pi IThere will of course always be some deformity. Fracture-dislocation with injury to the cord.—In the :^reat majority of cases in which fracture-dislocation takes place, the cord •is injured by the displaced bone, and then, in addition to the signs which have been enumerated above, and which are due to the fracture and dis- olacement of the bones, there are certain general symptoms which are Jependent upon the injury which the cord has received. These are as bllows : There is complete paralysis of motion and sensation in all the larts supplied with nerves derived from the cord below the seat of lesion, ilie amount of paralysis and loss of sensation will depend, therefore, upon he situation in which the fracture has occurred, and by considering the evel of the body to which the anesthesia extends and the parts which are paralysed, the exact seat of the fracture can be defined. In some cases j|l.here is hypersesthesia in the part just above those in which sensation is ost, depending either on irritation of the nerves as they leave the cord, or jf the cord itself just above the disintegrated part. The reflexes are often f iltered; those corresponding to the portion of the cord crushed are com- )letely lost. Thus a fracture of the dorsi-lvmbar spine may be attended . vith entire absence of knee jerk; but the 'reflexes corresponding with || iortions of the spinal cord in the neighbourhood may be present or absent, t is said that when the fracture is due to indirect violence the reflexes ire usually present; but when it is due to direct violence they are jften absent, because there is also concussion of the spine. Later on in he progress of the case the reflexes, whether present or absent in the •ariier period, are present and much exaggerated, except those the centres )f which are situated in the portion of th'e cord which has been destroyed.' I his is owing to the myelitis which has been set up. At the lower part of he lumbar region, where there is no special cord, but merely a leash of I'-rves, the cauda equina, some of the nerves may be torn, while others cape, so that the paralysis of the lower limbs may be confined to rtain muscles, and the loss of sensation be only partial. There is iralysis of the sphincter ani, and the faeces are passed involuntarily and ■ithout the knowledge of the patient. This is especially so where the lacture is low down in the dorsi-lumbar region, because the peristaltic 3 c .1