52 GENERAL INJURIES open mouth of the vessel and to the vessel itself. Some of the leucocytes disintegrate, fibrin ferment is set free, and a coagulum is formed at the orifice of the wounded vessel, and extends up the vessel to the first col- lateral branch derived from it, through which the blood circulates (fig. 8). Inflammation, the result of the injury which has been done, is now set up, with all its attendant phenomena. There is first of all dilatation of the vessels of the part beyond the point where they are closed by the clots which have formed ; this is followed by stasis, and then diapedesis sets in, and a rapid emigration of the leucocytes, with some red corpuscles, takes place through the walls of the vessels, attended by an abundant exudation of the watery parts of the blood. The parts .around the wound are now infiltrated with inflammatory exudation, which readily finds its way to the surface of the wound by the open lymph spaces and there coagulates. The surface of the wound thus becomes covered over with a layer of transparent, glassy-like material, which is lymph. This material possesses a considerable amount of adhesiveness, and the two surfaces of the wound being covered with this adhesive material stick together with a certain degree of firmness, and the first stage in the process, ' temporary union,' is accomplished. If the injury has been momentary, and no source of irritation is pre- sent in the wound, the exudation does not last long, but soon stops, and only a thin layer of ' glaze' covers the surfaces of the wound, After coagulation has taken place, serum is expressed from the clot and escapes from the wound. The clot at first consists of small round cells—emigrated leucocytes—en- tangled in the meshes of the coagulated fibrin, but after a time larger cells, derived from the fixed connective tissue cells of the part, appear (fig. g). The function of the leucocytes appears to be to remove the coagulated blood and any portions of damaged tissue which may exist; and having performed this office, they are destroyed by the larger plasma cells which now take their place. The next step in the process is the development of blood-vessels. These are formed by the budding out of pouches from the uninjured vessels in the neighbourhood, which penetrate into the plastic exudation, and coming into contact with other pouches coalesce and form a loop. From these, secondary pouches are given off, which in their turn form loops, and so on until the whole exudation is permeated with blood-vessels. The connecting medium which has now been formed consists of round plasma cells, larger than the leucocytes, between which ramify thin walled capillaries. This is called gratiulation tissue, and the final change is the conversion of this granula- tion ti.ssue into fibrous or scar tissue. The round cells of the ti.ssue elongate and become spindle-shaped, then further elongation takes place, Fig. 9.—Diagram showing mode of union of wounds without suppuration. Second stage ; The edges of the wound are now glued together by lymph, consisting of small round cells. The tissue on either side of the wound has been represented as normal, for the sake of clearness ; it is really also infiltrated with inflam- matory exudation.