CHOLECYSTENTEROSTOMY introduced through the gall bladder; but if this is impossible, or if they are situated in the common duct, other measures will have to be adopted, which will be considered immediately. Supposing that the bile ducts are free—and this may be proved by filling the gall bladder with warm sterilised water and seeing whether it escapes through the ducts, or by passing a No. i gum elastic catheter down the ducts—the edges of the wound in the gall bladder are united to the parietal layer of the peritoneum and aponeurotic layer, but not to the whole thickness of the abdominal wall, in order to avoid all chance of a fistula forming ; and a non-perforated drainage tube having been inserted, the rest of the abdominal wall is closed. The tube should be removed in from four days to a week, when the discharge froni it consists only of a small quantity of mucus and bile, and has become sterile and free from organisms. Latterly there has been a tendency on the part of surgeons to close the opening in the gall bladder at once, by separately suturing its different coats and returning it into the cavity with- out fixing it to the abdominal wall, and then closing the abdomen. This should only be done when there is abundant evidence that the ducts are clear, and the gall bladder and ducts are apparently normal and not in- flamed. It may be also advantageously done in cases where the gall bladder is contracted and cannot be brought up to the surface. The opening in the gall bladder must then be closed in situ by long slender needles on handles; or the parietal peritoneum must be tucked down and united to the edges of the wound in the gall bladder, so as to form a continuous tube of peritoneum, and shutting off the open gall bladder from the general peritoneal cavity. Mr. Mayo Robson and Mr. Barker recom- mend shutting off the general peritoneal cavity by utilising the free border of the great omentum; this is sutured to the wound in the gall bladder and to the parietal peritoneum, thus forming a sort of funnel-shaped tube of peritoneum, in which a drainage tube is inserted. 2. Choledochotomy, cholelithotrity, &c.—When the gall stone is mipacted in the cystic or common duct, and it is found impracticable to remove it by the means mentioned above, several plans of treatment may be resorted to. In the first instance, an attempt may be made to crush the stone with the finger and thumb through the walls of the duct; or padded forceps have been used, but there is danger with this instru- ment of seriously damaging the duct. Secondly, needling the concretion through the wall of the duct has been tried, but this plan is not advisable, on account of the danger of almost unavoidable damage to the duct and the risk of infection. If, therefore, the calculus cannot be crushed by the fingers, the safest plan is to incise the duct over the stone and remove it, subsequently suturing the opening in the duct. The incision in the duct should be closed by sutures in two layers ; first the muscular and fibrous coats, then the serous membrane ; and the operation is best done with a rectangular cleft palate needle. When the stone is lodged in the diverticulum of Vater, close to the duodenum, if it cannot be pressed into this tube, it may be reached by an opening in this portion of the bowel. 3- Cholecystenterostomy.—When the patency of the common duct cannot be restored, either on account of the inability to remove the impacted calculus, or on account of the stricture to which the calculus has given rise, an artificial communication should be made between the gall bladder and the intestine, preferably the duodenum, though the jejunum or even the colon may be utilised. The operation is best