TREATMENT OF ACUTE INTUSSUSCEPTION 851 an exceedingly severe measure, and attended by a very high rate of mortahty, it is desirable to consider whether other means cannot be adopted for the relief of these cases. After a considerable experience of intussuscep- tion, I have come to the conclusion that there is a certain percentage of cases which may be relieved without operation, and that the proceeding by which relief can be obtained, if carefully appHed, does no harm, and does not occupy any very considerable period of time; and that therefore it is right to try these measures first, before resorting to what, on all hands, is admitted to be a very formidable operation. I look upon the treatment of intussusception as being very much the same as that for strangulated hernia. If we have to deal with a strangulated hernia which has not been long strangulated, and in which there is therefore presumably not very extensive changes in the gut, we administer an anaesthetic, apply taxis, and failing to reduce the hernia by this means, we proceed to operate. If, on the other hand, the strangulation has existed for some time, and there are evidences of local changes having taken place in the part, we operate at once, without having previously applied taxis. I would apply very much the same plan of treatment to an intussusception. In a recent case, where the invagination has not existed more than twenty-four or at most forty-eight hours, I would endeavour, by mechanical means which we may liken to taxis, to reduce the intussusception, and failing this_ I would at once proceed to operate. In those cases, however, where the invagination has existed for a longer time, I would operate at once, without attempting to overcome it by other means. The mechanical methods that we have at our disposal for the relief of intussusception are: i. inflation of the bowel with air; 2. the injection of fluid; 3. massage. 1. Inflation of the boiml with air.—The child is to be swathed in wool, so as to preserve its warmth, and anaesthetised. An enema pipe is intro- duced into the rectum and connected by india-rubber tubing to a Lund's inflator or a pair of bellows, and the pipe packed around the anus with wool to prevent the escape of air. The child is inverted, and air slowly forced into the bowel. The surgeon's hand is placed over the tumour, if one can be felt, and if the operation is successful he will suddenly feel the tumour disappear, and the air, which up to now has been confined to the colon, become diffused over the whole abdomen. The plan of treatment is, of course, inapplicable to the enteric form of intussusception. 2. The introduction of fluid into the bowel.—Great care must be exercised in doing this, lest any injury be done to the weakened coats of the bowel. The fluid should be introduced by irrigation, and the reservoir containing it should not be elevated more than three feet above the child's nates. The amount of fluid used for a child of one year or under should not be more than a pint and a half. The best fluid to use is a normal saline solution at a temperature of 100° F. The introduction is to be made in the same way as in inflation with air, with the child inverted, and the fluid should be retained for a few minutes and then allowed to escape. An examination of the abdomen is then to be made, to ascertain if the tumour has dis- appeared ; if not, it is probably wiser not to renew the attempt. 3. Massage.—Attempts have been made by massage in the course ot the colon to reduce an intussusception. I have never succeeded in reducing one by this means, though I have tried many times; but I have succeeded in reducing an intussusception in a thin child by kneading it back; first seizing the gut between the forefinger and thumb immediately below 3 I 2