617 CHRONIC xVBSCESS OF THE BRAIN The skin over the mastoid region having being incised by a horseshoe- shaped incision, and the bone exposed by turning down the flap, the pin of an average-sized trephine is introduced an inch and a quarter behind and a quarter of an inch above the centre of the external auditory meatus, and a crown of bone removed (fig. 231). This will expose a part of the lateral sinus, and the dura mater just above it. By slightly enlarging the opening in an upward direction with gouge forceps, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe can be explored without difficulty. Should no pus be found here, the opening must be enlarged in a similar manner downwards and backwards. Fig. 231. —Diagram ot adult skull, showing the various points for trephining. The horizontal measurements are taken along Reid's base line rr, from the centre of the external auditory meatus; the vertical measurements are taken by drawing hnes at right angles to the base line. A, the sigmoid portion of the lateral smus, a point ^ in. along the base line from the centre of external auditory meatus ; B, the transverse part of the sinus, a point i in. from external auditory meatus and | in. above base line ; c, the mastoid antrum, the point of meetmg of two_lines—one drawn along the upper margin of the meatus parallel with the base line, the other along the posterior margin of the meatus at right angles to the base line ; D, for cerebral abscess (temporo-sphenoidal), a line drawn f in. upwards through the posterior margin of the meatus at right angles to the base line ; E, for cerebellar abscess, in. behind centre of external auditory meatus and | in. below base line ; F, for anterior branch of middle meningeal artery, li in. from external angular process of frontal bone, and same distance above upper margin of zygoma ; g, for posterior branch of middle meningeal artery, if in. from external angular process of frontal bone and _i in. above upper margin of zygoma ; H, for tapping the lateral ventricle, a point li in. above centre of external auditory meatus. (From Treves's ' System of Surgery.') This will expose the whole of the lateral sinus and the dura mater below it, and by mcismg the membrane in this situation the cerebellum can be explored without difficulty. It will be seen also that by the same operation the lateral sinus is exposed freely, and can be examined in cases of lateral smus thrombosis. When the suspected area of the encephalon is laid bare, an exploring needle should be introduced directly into the brain, and if the presence of pus is ascertained, the opening should be enlarged and the pus evacuated. The cavity may then be gently syringed out, and a drainage tube inserted for a few days.