935 HYDRO-NEPHROSIS inflammation ; the former preceding the latter, which goes on to sup- puration. The pelvis and calyces of the kidney are dilated; the lining mem- brane is injected and swollen, and secretes a muco-purulent or puru- lent fluid : to this succeed ulceration, and the formation of scattered abscesses in the renal tissue. The inflammation may extend through the kidney to the peri-nephritic tissue, and a urinary abscess in the loin may be the result. Symptoms.—When a patient, the subject of stricture, enlarged prostate, stone in the bladder, or any other disease which causes cystitis and a foetid condition of the urine,, develops symptoms of fever, with possibly rigors ; a hot, burning, pungent skin; a dry, furred, fissured tongue; headache, nausea, and vomiting, followed by drowsiness and rapid emaciation, there is very little room to doubt that he is the subject of this condition. There is usually pain and tenderness over the aff"ected kidney. The urine varies. It is usually more or less blood)', and is in a state of decomposition, and contains pus ; but whether the pus comes from the kidney or bladder cannot in general be ascertained, for the acid urine secreted by the kidney is neutralised by changes which take place in the bladder. These cases usually prove fatal; but if the cause which gave rise to the condition can be speedily removed, recovery may take place. The treatment is much the same as for interstitial nephritis, but is, as a rule, of little avail. Cicatricial kidney is a form of granular kidney, which occurs in cases of recovery from either of the preceding conditions, either 'simple interstitial nephritis or suppurative pyelo-nephritis. It is produced by the cicatrisation of the inflammatory infiltration, and causes the kidney to become small and granular on the surface. c. Hydro-nephrosis is a term ap plied to cases of dilatation of the kidney from over-distension with urine, the result of some mechanical obstruction. It would seem probable that in a large number of these cases the primary cause in the pro- duction of the dilatation is hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the bladder, no matter what may be the cause of this hypertrophy. When the muscular coat is thickened, there is obstruction at the orifice of the ureter, from ■ its oblique direction through this coat, and hence there is distension of the ureters and pelves of the kidneys which causes their dilatation (fig. 357). Hydro- nephrosis may, however, occur as a con- genital condition. In a large number of these cases it is due to an imperforate urethra, and the child is either born dead or dies shordy after birth. It may also be due to twisdngs or abnormalides of the ureter, and then may only affect one kidney. In hydro-nephrosis, the pelvis and calyces are dilated at the expense of the kidney structure. Upon laying the kidney open, the pyramids are found to Fig. 357.—Dilatation of the ureter and pelvis of the kidney, from blocking of the ureter by a calculus. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) 9