BITES OK SNAKES 79 the eyelid, this swelling is sometimes very considerable. The pam is said to be more severe when the sting and poison sac are left in the wound. Under ordinary circumstances the pain and swelling usually subside in the course of a few days, and no further untoward circumstances are experienced. . . . . Treatment.—The only treatment which is necessary is the application of some alkaline lotion. A little weak solution of liquor ammoniEE, or sal volatile, will at once relieve the pain, and afterwards, if there is any swelling, a compress soaked in Goulard water, applied for a few hours, is all that is necessary. Where there is collapse from a multiplicity of stings, stimulants are required. c. Bites of Snakes.—In this country the bites of snakes are fortu- nately rare. The common snakes are perfectly harmless, and as a rule the bite of the adder or viper is rarely fatal. It may produce as immediate symptoms a certain amount of collapse, with nausea and vomiting, but these symptoms usually pass off under appropriate treatment; or it may cause a sharp attack of diffuse cellulitis, which in the debilitated may prove fatal. In tropical climates the bites of venomous snakes produce the most serious and rapidly fatal consequences. When the poison is introduced into the system through a bite or puncture, symptoms of severe shock to the nervous system set in almost at once, or within a very short period of time, especially if the bite implicates a large vein. The patient is faint and the surface covered with a cold clammy sweat; there is tremor of the muscles and great depression, the individual lying in a semi-unconscious or almost insensible condition from which he can with difficulty be roused ; sometimes there is delirium. There is often vomiting, loss of sight and hearing; a feeble intermittent pulse ; and apparent difficulty in breathing. The temperature is subnormal. Where the bite has been inflicted by the most venomous species these symptoms increase in severity, the patient drifts into a condition of coma and dies. Should, however, the bite be inflicted by a less venomous variety the patient may survive this condition of collapse. Severe and lancinating pain is now complained of in the injured part, which swells and becomes livid. The swelling spreads ; phlyctenulte filled with sanious fluid form on its surface ; and a condition resembling diffuse cellulitis of a most intense type is set up in the tissues around the wound. This is accompanied by general prostration, involuntary evacuations, and increasing depression, and the patient dies of toxemia and exhaustion ; or, on the other hand, the symptoms after a time may lessen in severity and the patient gradually recover. Treatment—The treatment must be local and general. The local treatment consists in the immediate application of a bandage or ligature to the limb above the wounded part, and this should be applied so tightly as to arrest the circulation and prevent, if possible, the introduction of the virus into the general circulation. As soon as this has been done, the injured parts should be thoroughly and freely excised. If the bite is on a finger probably the safest and surest method is to amputate the finger, but at all events the excision should be carried wide of the injured tissues. This is a far more effectual plan than cauterising the part, as is sometimes recommended; and a better plan, because less painful, than that of making a paste with gunpowder and then setting fire to it and allowing it to burn out the part. The permanganate of potash, if it can be obtained, should, after the excision, be freely applied to the raw surface ; this is said to destroy the snake poison by oxidation. The general symptoms of collapse must