GENERAL DISEASES 220 individual, and she may be either apparently in a condition of perfect health, plump and ruddy, or, on the other hand, wan and emaciated, with an anxious expression and a sallow face, still there is usually some evidence of her being of a neurotic type. She may belong to a neurotic family, or she may be emotional or irritable or morbidly sensitive. In addition to this there is often evidence to be obtained of her having suffered from globus hystericus or from hysterical headache, which consists of a gnawing pain, localised to one spot, generally over one eyebrow or on the top of the head near the sagittal suture. The pain has been likened to a nail being driven into the head, and is therefore known under the name of clavus hystericus. Hysterical spine.—This is a form of disease which simulates Pott's disease of the spine. A patient will complain of a fixed intense pain in the back, with a sense of constriction round the belly. Pains in the lower limbs may be complained of, with weakness or perhaps inability to walk or stand. There may be difficulty in voiding the urine. In spite of this, the patient may be apparently in perfect health, without any wasting or. defect in nutrition. Upon examining the spine, though severe pain is complained of on touching it, this pain is not always felt at the same spot, and is greater upon touching it lightly than when deep pressure is made. No pressure is elicited by jarring the spine as in making the patient jump off a stool to the ground. On causing the patient to flex her spine, the painful vertebra is found to move freely on the others. Hysterical joint.—Perhaps the most difficult class of hysterical cases with which the surgeon has to deal as regards diagnosis are hysterical affections of the joints. This is, no doubt, due mainly to the fact that in these cases the joint is fixed and immovable, and that there is often considerable puffy swelling, caused by local applications which have pre- viously been applied. The patient complains of great pain in the articula- tion, and any attempt to move the joint elicits a cry of agony ; but in the majority of cases it will be found that the limb is fixed in the extended position, which would not be the case if there were any actual disease, and there are no sudden startings of the limb at night. Under the influence of an anassthetic the joint moves freely and smoothly. In many cases the absence of any heat about the joint is an important indica- tion. If the hand is laid on a joint the seat of some chronic inflam- matory chsease, a sensible increase of heat will be perceptible; but in cases of hysterical disease the joint is usually of the same temperature as other parts of the body. But this is not quite true of all cases ; for in some hysterical joints a considerable amount of heat is sometimes present at one part of the day, generally in the evening. Another point in the diagnosis is the fact that pressure of the two articular surfaces together is not attended by any increase of pain. Supposing the knee joint is the one affected, pressure on the heel will not cause the patient to give any evidence of increased pain. Hysterical breast.—A young woman will complain of great pain in her breast, and state that even the pressure of her clothes is insup- portable. On examination the breast will be found to be larger than the other, and the skin over it tense. The gland tissue has an irregular, knotty feel, and one lobule may be especially prominent and particularly painful, exciting fears in the patient's mind of cancer. It will be found, however, that if the palm of the hand is placed flat on the supposed lump.