SAPR^MIA was a perfectly clear fluid free from any organised body. And further than this, the symptoms set in immediately after the introduction of the poison, and therefore there was not time for the organisms, if there had been any, to incubate ; and finally the severity of the symptoms was directly proportional to the amount of the dose, which is not the case in infective conditions. Finally, it should be stated that in these experiments no micro-organisms could be found in the blood, and if the blood of an animal killed in this way was injected into the blood stream of another animal, no effect was produced. It is quite clear, therefore, that this is not an infective process, but that saprtemia is due to the introduction of a chemical poison ; just in the same way as the hypodermic injection of strychnia or any other toxic agent, if injected in sufficient quantities, produces poisoning. But at the same time it must be borne in mind that bacteria are concerned in the process, for though, as we have endeavoured to show, they are not concerned in producing the symptoms, they are necessary for the produc- tion of the poison which does so, for without their aid putrefaction cannot be set up. Symptoms.—The two most prominent sets of symptoms of sapraemia are those produced by disturbance of the nervous system and derangement of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane. Soon after decomposition sets in and its products are absorbed by the blood, the patient begins to feel ill, and complains of headache and loss of appetite ; there are alter- nating heats and chills, and possibly there may be a rigor. The tempera- ture will be found to be above normal, registering 102° or 103° F. Then disturbance of the digestive organs sets in; there is nausea, and the patient may reject his food ; this is followed by diarrhoea, at first feculent, and then consisting of mucus and sometimes blood. The vomiting now becomes constant and the patient refuses food, complaining that everything he takes makes him feel sick. The tongue is covered at first with a white creamy fur, but after a time tends to become brown and dry. The skin is clammy, and often there is profuse sweating. The urine is deficient in quantity and loaded with lithates. If the patient lives he becomes anaemic. In fatal cases delirium sets in and passes on to coma. In very acute cases, where the amount of poison absorbed is large, the symptoms much resemble those which are produced by the experiment on the lower animals, alluded to above. There is great collapse from the first; twitching of the muscles, followed by great muscular exhaustion; restlessness, constant diarrhoea soon becoming bloody, dyspnoea, delirium, loss of consciousness, and death. The symptoms in cases of saprcemia vary within certain limits, according to the difference in the kind of putrefaction set up, since the nature of the ptomaines formed varies in different varieties of decom- position. The great and characteristic difference between the symptoms of saprcemia and septicfemia is the difference in their behaviour under treat- ment. In sapraemia, if the putrefactive focus is removed, the symptoms begin to subside at once ; but this is not so with septictemia. Pathology.—The post-mortem appearances present nothing charac- teristic ; they are, in fact, merely those which we expect to meet with in cases of blood poisoning, and are identical with what has already been described as the post-mortem appearances of animals killed by the injec- tion into their blood of sepsin; the same fluid or semi-coagulated blood, the same blood-stained endocardium and intima of the blood-vessels, and the