SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY Displacement of the kidney.—Abnormalities in the position of the kidney may be (a) simple congenital displacement; (/j) movable kidney ; (r) floating kidne)'. a. Simple congenital displacement usually affects the left kidney,_ and it is generally displaced downwards on to the left sacro- iliac joint, or on to the promontory of the sacrum. In these cases the descending colon is also displaced to the right, so that the rectum begins on the right side of the body ; and the renal artery, or, if there are two, one of them comes off from the aorta close to the bifurcation of this vessel. This displacement may give rise to difficulty in child-bearing, or it may be pnistaken for an abdominal tumour. In the majority of cases the condition is not suspected during life, and is only discovered post mortem, or it may be detected accidentally on vaginal or rectal examination. Movable kidney is where the kidney is mobile in the tissues by which it is surrounded, either moving in its capsule, or else moving with the capsule in the peri-nephritic tissue. It is an acquired condition, and is more common in the female than in the male. c. Floating kidney is supposed to be a congenital condition, arising from the peritoneum almost completely enveloping the kidney, and then passing backwards to the spine as a double layer, forming a meso- nephron. Some doubts have, however, been expressed as to the real exist- ence of this condition. The symptoms of these two latter conditions may be considered together. They consist of a painful dragging sensation in the loin which is increased by exertion and relieved by rest. Occasionally there may be severe paroxysmal pain, resembling renal colic. Accompanying this there • is vomiting, flatulence, and general gastric disturbance. Upon examination a movable tumour can be felt, which has the outline and size of the kidney. This is best perceived with the patient in the erect position. The treatment consists in adapting a specially shaped pad and abdominal belt, which will retain the kidney in its normal position and support it. This is generally all that is necessary ; but where it does not prove sufficient to relieve the pain and other symptoms, the operation of nephrorrhaphy must be resorted to. _ There are several ways of performing this operation. Perhaps the simplest, and at the same time as efficacious as any, is the plan advocated by Mr. Morris. The kidney is exposed in the loin by the usual incision, and is attached to the cut edges of the transversalis fascia and the aponeu- rosis of the transversalis muscle by three sutures dipped deeply into the posterior surface of the organ, and running for from three-quarters of an inch to an inch in its substance. Mr. Morris employs fine silk for his suture. Tuffier and others recommend that the proper capsule of the kidney should be stripped off the posterior surface, and the portion, thus rawed, united to the abdominal parietes; and Vulliet suggests taking a long slender slip of the tendon of the erector spinje. This is isolated, passed through the muscular tissue of the abdominal wall, and then beneath the capsule of the kidney, and finally back again through the muscular mass, to be attached to the erector spinse; it thus forms a sling for the kidney. ^iseases of the kidney secondary to diseases of the other urinary organs.-—Diseases of the lower urinary organs, such as long-standing stricture, enlargement of the prostate, or disease of the bladder, may cause serious organic changes in the kidney, viz. (a) acute