HYSTERIA IN ITS RELATION TO SURGERY 219 tion of the fit may vary from a few minutes to several hours, and there may be a succession of fits, extending over several days, the patient remaining in a drowsy state between the attacks. The diagnosis of these fits is generally easy. Epilepsy is the disease with which they are most likely to be mistaken, and it should be borne in mind that there are cases in which epilepsy and hysteria appear to be mixed up together; but the partial insensibility, the absence of any indications of impeded respiration, and the age and sex of the individual, pretty clearly indicate the nature of the disease. Treatment,—During the hysterical fit the less done in the way of treat- ment the better. The patient's dress, corsets, &c., should be loosened, so as to give free play to her respiratory muscles, and she should be protected from doing any harm to herself by her convulsive movements. After she has lapsed into the semi-conscious condition she should be allowed to remain so until she recovers naturally, and no efforts should be made to rouse her from it by cold douching, slapping her forehead with a wet towel, and so on. There is no doubt that in this way patients can as a rule be speedily roused from their semi-insensibility, but there is no object in doing it, they will come round in time if left to themselves, and the pro- ceeding seems to do more harm than good. Hysteria in its relation to Surgery.—It would be impossible to mention all the complaints which hysteria may simulate, for there is scarcely a disease which it does not at some time mimic, and we can only mention the most common ones which it most frequently imitates. Before doing so, however, it will be desirable to review briefly the diagnosis between organic and hysterical affections in general, and this depends mainly on the following points : (i) The pain in hysteria is intermittent, not periodic as in neuralgia. At one minute the patient -will be complaining of the most intense pain, and at another, especially if her attention is withdrawn from the part by engaging her in conversation which interests her, she will forget her pain, and talk and laugh freely, quite forgetful that a few minutes before she was writhing in agony. Again, the pain is out of all proportion to any local changes in the part affected and often varies in its situation. If the patient is asked to indicate the exact spot where the pain is situated with one finger, she will readily point to one particular jDart, and five or ten minutes after, if asked the same question, she will point to another. (2) The tenderness of hysteria is superficial and partakes more of the character of an hyperaesthesia rather than a deep-seated pain, though the part supposed to be affected may be deeply seated. The slightest touch with the finger will often elicit a cry of agony, while if the patient's atten- tion is engaged considerable pressure may be made on the same spot without causing any evidence of pain. (3) The course of the disease is also a point which should be taken into consideration by the surgeon, and will often be of value to him in arriving at a correct diagnosis. A patient may have suffered from an hysterical affection say of a joint or the spine for some long time, and still there will be no indication of any gross lesion in the part, though it is true there may be and often is a litde swelling. But it is beyond the range of probability that organic disease in these parts could have existed for some time, possibly for years, without producing changes which would be apparent to the most casual observation. (4) The general condition of the patient should also be taken into consideration. Though there is nothing distinctive about the hysterical