SPERMATORRHOEA J 043 and greatly increased by defsecation and micturition. There may be seminal emissions and priapism. The enlarged vesicle, or vesicles, can be felt by rectal examination. The treatment consists in treating the cause, attention to the general health, sea-water bathing, cold douching, and tonics. Tuberculous disease is rare as a primary affection, but very common as a sequel to tuberculous disease of the testicle. On rectal examination the vesicle or vesicles can be felt to be enlarged, and extending upwards and outwards from the back of the prostate. When the tubercu- lous material caseates and breaks down it may burst either into the bladder or rectum, or not uncommonly into both, causing a recto-vesical fistula. When the disease is primary the vesicle should be scraped out, or removed by a semilunar incision in the perineum, just in front of the anus, and the dissection carried upwards between the rectum and prostatp. When the disease is secondary to tuberculosis of the testicle, the treatment can be only palliative. Spermatorrhoea.—By thtterm spermatorrhcea is meant a discharge of semen without sexual desire or excitement. The patient's condition is often regarded as being the direct result of the seminal loss, rather than a hypochondriacal condition, which has been set up by an irritable state of the sexual organs, causing frequent emissions. The term is often much abused, and is constantly applied to discharge of mucus—urethral, pro- static, or vesical—or to a gleety discharge from the urethra. Causes.—The causes which may give rise to this condition are several: habits of self-abuse, balanitis, phimosis, varicocele, haemorrhoids, fissure of the anus, the irritation of worms, constipation, and dyspepsia. Symptoms.—Spermatorrhoea begins with nocturnal emissions, at first with, and after a time without, erotic sensations. The patient becomes weak and irritable. Then emissions take place in the daytime, from friction of the trousers, or whilst straining at stool. If sexual intercourse is attempted, emission takes place almost immediately, and the patient fancies himself to be impotent; he broods over the subject, and mental disquietude is the .consequence. As a result of this condition his digestion becomes impaired, he suffers from flatulency, heartburn, oppression of breathing, and constipation, with aching pains in the loins, and at last he develops hypochondriasis, which may drift into a condition of melancholia. The disease is characterised by 'sexual irritability, mental uneasiness, dyspepsia, and hypochondriasis ' (Gascoyen). Treatment.—The first point in the treatment is to ascertain the cause, and endeavour to remove it. If it is due to habits of self-abuse, these must be at once given up, otherwise treatment will be of no avail. If there is a varicocele, a tight foreskin, or piles, they must be operated on, and any cause which it may be judged might have given rise to the con- dition removed. After this the main treatment must be directed to the patient's general health. He should abandon all sedentary habits, and live a healthy outdoor life, and keep his mind occupied. He should sleep on a hard bed and rise early, as soon as he wakes. He should take cold baths, or, if possible, have sea bathing. His diet should be nourishing, but unstimulating, and he should take no supper or late meal. His bowels should be educated to act last thing before retiring to rest. As regards medicine, the brofnides are sometimes of use, and the administration of the liquid extract of black willow in drachm doses, as recommended by the late Mr. Berkeley Hill, is often attended with great benefit. The local 3x2