951 EXTROVERSION OF THE BLADDER spadias, or absence of the upper wall of the urethra; the penis, the body of which is rudimentary, but surmounted by a well-developed glans, is marked by a groove on its dorsal aspect, into the back of which the semen is discharged in adult life. The symphysis pubis is deficient, the bones of the two sides being merely connected by a fibrous band, which connects together the two superior rami of the pubic bones. The sacrum is somewhat convex from side to side, and this has a tendency to evert or throw outwards the innominate bones, and gives the child an unsteady and waddling gait. The testicles are often retained, and the scrotum undeveloped. If the testicles find their way into the inguinal canal, or even into the scrotum, the case is further complicated by the formation of a congenital hernia. Symptoms.—Extroversion of the bladder shows itself as a florid, oval or circular swelling in the hypogastric region, which expands during coughing or straining. Its surface is very sensitive and bleeds readily, and on it may be seen two little projections, which are the orifices of the ureters, from which the urine can be seen exuding drop by drop. The results of this deformity are that the patient has no power of retaining the urine, which, constantly dribbling over the skin, is a potent source of irritation and annoyance. The mucous membrane of the posterior wall of the bladder is exposed to friction from the clothes &c., and being very sensitive is a constant source of pain, and, from its vascularity, frequently bleeds. The patient, if a male, is sterile. The disease may occur in either sex, but is much more common in the male than in the female; in the latter the disease does not render the patient sterile. The affection is not incompatible with long life, and some of the subjects of it are strong and otherwise healthy, but more frequently are weakly and stunted, and often succumb to a suppurative pyelo-nephritis, from septic inflammation spread- ing up the ureters. Treatment.—Many ingenious operations have been suggested for the remedy of this distressing deformity, but up to the present time none of these have proved very satisfactory. Space cannot be afforded to do more than indicate some of the main features of these operations. The earliest attempts to effect a cure were by trying to divert the course of the urine into the rectum. This was first attempted by Sir John Simon, who endeavoured to establish a fistulous communication between the ureter and the rectum; and later on by Lloyd, who passed a skein of silk through the bladder into the rectum ; and by other surgeons, who have made a puncture from the bladder and then introduced a soft metal or india-rubber tube. In some cases a fistulous opening may be established; but the operation is not devoid of danger, as the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum in these cases often descends nearly to the anus, and is in great danger of being wounded. Subsequently, efforts were made by Wood, Holmes, and others by plastic operations, which consisted in transplanting flaps from neigh- bouring parts, to cover over the herniated mucous surface, and thus, at all events, .save the patient from the constant friction from his clothes. It was hoped, moreover, that these transplanted flaps might be closed in at their margins, and that then, by establishing a fistulous communication between the bladder and rectum, the urine might find its way into the bowel and be passed per anum. One insuperable difficulty has always, however, attended these efforts, and that is, that the hairs which grow from the skin surface, which has been made to form the anterior wall of the new bladder, become incrusted with phosphates and form large calculous