GENERAL DISEASES i66 same congested condition of. . the lungs and gastro-intestmal mucous membrane, with enlarged and diffluent spleen. Treatment.—The treatment of saprcemia is generally easy, and in some cases eminently satisfactory. It consists merely in thoroughly clearing away all putrid matter, and cleansing the part with a strong antiseptic solution (corrosive sublimate i in i,ooo, or carbolic acid i in 20). This, with free drainao-e, is all that is required in a simple uncomplicated case; the symptoms will rapidly subside and the patient recover. But it must be borne in mind that this condition is not unfrequently complicated with some infective mischief, and that symptoms of pyaemia may show them- selves in a few days. Too confident a prognosis should not, therefore, be eiven in the first instance. _ SaprEemia is often followed by considerable debility, partly the result of nerve exhaustion and partly the result of the ansemia which is set up, and therefore tonics, especially a combination of iron and quinine, with change of air and good nourishing food, are indicated after the patient's recovery from the more immediate symptoms of the disease. SEPTICEMIA Septiceemia is due to the introduction of an infective \nus, probably pyogenic micro-organisms, into the blood. These organisms are in the majority of cases introduced through a wound, and their source has been some putrid substance, such as the corpse of a person recently dead of some septic disease. It seems probable that they may find an entrance either directly by the blood-vessels or indirectly through the lymph stream. In addition to this there are certain grounds for believing that these micro-organisms may occasionally effect an entrance into the blood by absorption through the alimentary canal or respiratory tract, though the cases in which this occurs are rare. • r • The reasons for believing that septicemia is due to an infective micro- organism circulating in the blood, and not, like saprsemia, due to the absorp- tion of the chemical products of these organisms, are very conclusive. If we compare the two diseases we shall find the greatest diff"erences, and there are certain facts in septicEemia which "can only be explained by assuming that some living organism by some means or other eff'ects an entrance into the blood and there grows and multiplies. In the first place the minutest quantity of the poison, on the point of a lancet or a needle, introduced under the skin is sufficient to produce the death of an animal, and if the animal is examined after death the blood will be found swarming with micro-organisms, which must have been derived from the fe^y introduced on the point of the instrument. Therefore, unlike saprtemia, the _ effect produced is not proportional to the dose. Secondly, in septicaemia, the effect of the poison does not show itself immediately after its introduction. If a small amount of some putrid material from the body of a person who has died from some septic disease is introduced under the skin of an animal, there is at first no re.sult; the animal runs about and feeds as if it were perfectly well, and it is only after the lapse of a certain, though variable, period of time that symptoms of poisoning begin to show them- selves. There is, in fact, a latent period, or, more properiy speaking, a period in which there are no external manifestations, and during which the organisms are multiplying in the system. This is called the u/ru/xr/ion