288 INIURIES AND DISEASES OE SPECIAE TISSUES passage of the blood over the roughened internal surface of the sheath from which the artery has retracted assists in promoting the coagulation of the blood. We have already noticed, in speaking of stasis in inflamma- tion, that there is an inherent tendency in the leucocytes to adhere to any foreign substance with which they are brought in contact; that is to say, any substance other than the healthy lining membrane of a vessel. When, therefore, they leave a wounded artery and flow over the roughened sheath a foreign substance—they tend to adhere to it, and after adhesion has taken place they disintegrate and thus set free the fibrin ferment they contain. This ferment, acting on the fibrinogen of the blood flowing from the vessel causes coagulation, and successive layers of clot are formed on the internal surface of the sheath until an external coagulum is formed. This, then, constitutes the temporary natural arrest of haemorrhage from a divided artery, and after it has taken place the process of permanent occlusion commences. The manner in which permanent occlusion of the arterj' is brought about is identical with the process of healing by blood clot, which has already been described (see page 56). The clot, which, as we have seen, played an important part in the temporary arrest of the hjemorrhage, plays a very secondary role in the permanent arrest, merely acting as a scaff"olding on which the permanent plug is built up, and at the same time no doubt acting as a pabulum for the cells from which this _ permanent plug is developed. The first change which takes place is that the temporary clot, like all other clots after formation, contracts, and serum exudes from it. The internal clot becomes more closely applied to the inner surface of the artery from the contraction of the coats of the vessel upon it; the greater part of the external clot disappears, probably washed away by the serous exudation from the wound; what remains becomes infiltrated with leucocytes, which wander into it from the vasa vasorum of the injured artery and its sheath, in which inflammatory processes have been set up as the result of the injury. Probably these leucocytes take no part in the construction of the new material which is to seal the vessel, but merely act here, as elsewhere, as scavengers. In a short time, withm twenty hours according to Ballance and Edmunds, rapid proliferation of the endothelial cells of the lining membrane takes place, and probably of the other connective cells of the wall of the artery. The plasma cells permeate the clot, entering it by minute fissures or channels, which are formed in the clot in its process of contraction. These cells rapidly multiply, and undergo development into fibre cells and cicatricial tissue, and as they do so, absorb and replace the clot which, up to now, has been forming a supporting framework for them. So that what was clot is now connective tissue, which has become vascularised by the formation of channels in the fissures of the clot, which are lined with endothelial cells, and connected with the vasa vasoiiim of the vessel. While this 'has been going on, the muscle fibre cells in the wall of the artery have gradually disappeared, and nothing remains but a fibrous cord, formed partly of the remains of the coats of the vessel, and partly of the newly formed fibrous tissue, and this may finally become lost in the cica- tricial tissue of the external wound. The changes above described take place both in the proximal and distal ends of a divided artery, but the clot formed in the distal end is usually small, and the various changes which terminate in complete occlusion go on more slowly and less perfectly than in the proximal end; this may probably be due to the fact that the