8i2 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS in theSe abscesses is usually extremely offensive and has a fsecal odour. If opened antiseptically they frequently heal up from the bottom, unless they should chance to communicate with the intestine, when a faecal fistula will form. Treatment.—The treatment in the early stage consists in perfect rest; the application of belladonna and glycerine to the inflamed part, followed by a hot fomentation; the administration of an enema to empty the lower bowel, and keeping the patient on a fluid diet. Sometimes the applica- tion of half a dozen leeches is followed by a speedy subsidence of the pain and a relief to the other symptoms. Should there be evidence of suppuration, or should the symptoms persist and the temperature keep up, an incision by the most direct route should be made, any pus which is found should be evacuated, and the abscess cavity drained. No serious attempt at this time should be made to deal with the original lesion which caused the inflammation, since the eff'orts to do so might break down the barrier of lymph, and cause general contamination of the peritoneal cavity. It is better in most instances to wait until the abscess has been thoroughly drained before doing so. Moreover, in a considerable percentage of cases the abscess will heal up without any further trouble. Chronic peritonitis, except it is of the tuberculous variety, rarely requires the aid of the surgeon, and the subject may be dismissed in a few words. It may involve the peritoneum generally, or may be localised to a limited area. It may be the sequel of an acute attack; it may be associated with ascites, especially after repeated tapping; it may arise from morbid growths of the peritoneum, or it may occur in some cases of appendicitis or pelvic peritonitis. The pathological changes are subject to considerable variety. It may be attended with thickening of the serous membrane, or the formation of adhesions between the viscera and the walls of the cavity, or of one viscus with another ; or in many cases effusion of some kind is present; this may be serum, or serum containing shreds of flocculent lymph, or sero-purulent fluid or pus. The symptoms present much diversity. There is usually pain, or a sensation of dragging, tightness, or fullness, and this is increased by movement. There is often more or less tenderness on pressure. Con- stipation is frequently present, and may be very obstinate. The appetite may be impaired, and dyspeptic symptoms are complained of, especially colicky pains after food. General symptoms of slight febrile disturbance exist in most cases. If effusion is present, there will be evidence of fluid in the peritoneal cavity. Chronic peritonitis rarely calls for treatment on the part of the surgeon, though in cases where there is persistent pain and dragging in one spot, with other evidence of chronic peritonitis, it may be justifiable to open the abdomen with the view of dividing adhesions. Tuberculous peritonitis.—Tuberculous peritonitis may occur at any age, but is most common in children after the first year of bfe, that is to say, after weaning. It may occur as a primary affection, but is more often secondary to tubercle elsewhere, either caseatmg mesenteric glanas or tuberculous ulceration of the intestine; or in some cases it may spreaa through the diaphragm from the pleura, or the source of infection ma) be some tuberculous condition of the female generative organs. J^everai forms of the disease may occur. In acute cases the peritoneum become studded all over with miliary deposits, and it forms part of a ^ondit on acute miliary tuberculosis, and rapidly proves fatal. Independent ot this, tuberculous peritonitis in its chronic form presents three varieties.