FRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE 755 determined whether any attempt should be made to overcome it. In cases where the paralysis is complete, it would appear that there is very little to be gained by making any attempt at reduction, as the cord is in all probability crushed and irretrievably damaged ; but where the paralysis is incomplete, it may be right to attempt to reduce the deformity, especially in fractures of the dorsi-lumbar region. In fractures of the lower cervical and upper dorsal region the attempt is scarcely ever justifiable or likely to succeed. It must be remembered that the attempt cannot be made with- out running the risk of doing further mischief to the cord, and the proceed- ings must therefore be conducted with the greatest possible care. I have seen a dislocation between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra com- pletely reduced by four dressers making gradual and steady extension from the shoulders and legs of the patient, but without any relief to the man's symptoms. Another consideration which will have to occupy the surgeon's mind at this period of the case is whether any attempt should be made to relieve pressure by performing the operation of laminectomy. Considerable differ- ence of opinion appears to exist among surgeons as to the desirability and value of this operation in these cases. The true state of the case appears to be as follows : where the cord is completely crushed and divided, there is no prospect of being able to do any good by the operation, and it is therefore unjustifiable and will probably only tend to hasten the patient's death; but where the paralysis is incomplete or unsymmetrical, and there is reason therefore to believe that a portion of the cord is still intact, it may be possible, by performing a laminectomy, to relieve pressure and preserve a part ot the cord, which has so far escaped, from subsequent destruc- tion. Under these circumstances the operation would appear to be justifiable ; though it must be remembered that it is of a very serious nature, requiring a long and deep incision through a mass of muscles, and thus exhausting the patient's strength, when the object of the surgeon should be to support it as much as possible. The subsequent treatment must be conducted with a view to combating the two main dangers of life : the tendency to the formation of bedsores, and the supervention of cystitis. With regard to the former, much will depend upon skilful nursing; though even the most careful nurse can- not always prevent the formation of bedsores in these cases, for they may form not only on parts exposed to pressure, but also in places where there seems to be no pressure exerted, especially over prominences of bone, e.g. the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the malleoli, probably from_ the fact that these parts have been deprived of their nervou.s influence. _ Still, much may be done by careful nursing, for urine and faeces left in the bed, or any ruck in the sheet, or breadcrumbs irritate the skm and tend to produce sores. Scrupulous cleanHness is therefore necessary. Frequent slight changes in position are desirable in' order to relieve pressure, and this may be done by gently rolling the patient to one side or the other and propping him up with pillows. But as this necessitates a little movement and might tend to alter the position of the injured parts, it is desirable to give support to the spine by moulding 1 eather or poro-plastic jacket to the back. Every precaution should be laken to prevent the supervention of cystitis. The bladder must be emptied ^ every SIX or eight hours with a Jaques' catheter; no metal instrument or instrument with a stylet should be used, as the urethra is insensible to IJain, and damage may easily be done to it by a rigid instrument. Great 3 c 2