298 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES not to separate the sheath from the artery to a greater extent than is absolutely necessary to pass the aneurism needle for the vasa yasorum which supply the coats oi the vessel are derived from the vessels of the ^leath, andif these are torn through to any great extent the supply of blood to the vessel may be interfered with, and the isolated part slough. At the same time the small circle which has to be separated must be done fo thoroughly S not to include any portion of the sheath in the ligature. Having completed this stage of the operation, the hgature has to be rnssed This is done by means of an aneurism needle ;-a curved needle on a handle with a blunt extremity. This needle is insinuated round the artery between it and the sheath, by an undulatory movement, the edge of the opening in the sheath being held on the stretch with forceps S 87 and 88). The needle should always be passed from the most mportant structure which lies near it, and this is usually the vein The rule i?to pass the needle first between the artery and vein and then around he vessel away from the vein. To this rule, as we shall see hereafter. Fig. 87.—Passing the needle : First stage. (From Erichsen's ' Surgery.') Fig. 88.—Passing the needle : Second stage. (From Erichsen's 'Surger)\') there is an exception in ligature of the third portion of the subclavian artery Having passed the needle, it is to be threaded and withdrawn : the Ugature now encircles the vessel. There are two cautions to be obser^^d n the performance of the operation : one is, that the coats of tbe vessel a e never to be seized with the forceps in passing the ligature fe^/ °f ^rt^^^ ing them ; and the second is, to avoid in uring any sma 1 branch coming off from the artery, and if this is accidentally done, to tie it at once, otherw^e oozine of blood may take place into the sheath, which may become widely senTrated from the vessel and gangrene of it may ensue. When the ligature has been passed! the cord should be tensed, and the vessel compressed between it and the finger of the operator, in order to ascertain that the circulation is i?estd inThe vessels beyond. This having been proved to be the case, and the surgeon being satisfied that he has included "oj^ing but the ar eiy m his ligSure, it is to be tied by a reef knot, and the ends cut off, and the " Xtt p^JoTuted by the ligature of an artery in its continuity depind upt U.e'amount o/tightne^s with which the hgature is applied.