86o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS incision, through McBurney's spot and parallel with Poupart's ligament; others make the incision parallel to the right semilunar line, but external to it, and when the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are reached, separate the fibres of these muscles, which run in the reverse direction to the external incision. By this means they hope to prevent the occur- rence of a ventral hernia, which sometimes follows the operation from yielding of the cicatrix. Personally, I prefer an incision in the right semilunar line, and this is the one I have always adopted.' When the peritoneum is reached, it must be opened with caution, for coils of intestine may be adherent to its under surface. The first object to be sought for is the cfficum, which will be recognised by the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres. The anterior band should be traced downwards, and will be found to lead to the appendix, which will probably be bound down by adhesions, and these will have to be separated or broken down. When found, sponges are to be carefully packed all round it, and the appendix entirely freed, if necessary with a few touches of the scalpel. The mesentery of the appendix is transfixed and tied in one or two parts with fine silk, and then divided with scissors up to the csecum. At about three-quarters of an inch from the c^cum the serous and muscular coats of the appendix are divided by a circular sweep with a sharp knife, leaving the mucous coat undivided. The two outer coats are then stripped back towards the Ccccum with a director, and the tube of mucous membrane tied close to the bowel with a catgut ligature, and cut through. The outer coats are then turned in over the stump, and the serous surfaces stitched together, so as to sequestrate the end of the tube. After the appendix has been removed, the cavity is washed out, a drainage tube in- serted for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and the rest of the w^ound closed. In some cases the tissues are so infiltrated and matted together that this proceeding is not possible; I have then found that the best plan is to tie the vermiform appendix close to the caecum, cut it off, and then sequestrate the stump by burying it in the csecum and bringing the serous coat on either side into apposition by two or three Lembert's sutures. HERNIA The word hernia in its widest sense means the protrusion of any viscus' from its natural cavity, but when used alone it is far more commonly intended to apply to the protrusion of one of the abdominal viscera through the parietes of the abdomen ; when employed to denote the protrusion of other viscera, it is supplemented by the name of the viscus which protrudes; thus we speak of hernia of the brain, of the lung, or of the testis. Furthermore, it is implied that the protruded viscus is covered by integument; we do not speak of a perforating wound of the abdomen, in which a portion of gut protrudes, as a hernia. ' Battle recommends the following procedure in order to avoid a subsequent ventral hernia. He divides the superficial structures an inch internal to the right semilunar line, and opens the sheath of the rectus. He then separates the rectus from the posterior layer of the sheath with his finger, and retracts it inwards and divides the posterior laver of the sheath and peritoneum in the same line as the external incision. Alter in appendix is removed, he sutures the posterior layer of the rectus and peritoneum vviin o' row of sutures; then allows the rectus muscle to return to its natural position, and ^iiui the anterior layer of the sheath and the superficial structures with separate rows ol stitcn .