290 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES muscular coat of the vessel, but to do this it must be of a temperature of at least F- and preferably a little higher than this, somewhere between 120° and 140°. If it is more than this it will char the tissues and prevent primary union; if it is less it will be worse than useless, as it encourages the bleeding, and washes away any coagula which may have already been formed in the vessels. The application of sublimate solution (i in 4,000) or carbolic acid solution (i in 40) at this temperature will be found a most efficient means of checking the general oozing in a large operation wound, such as excision of the breast, or amputation of one of the extremities. It is also exceedingly useful in stopping bleeding from very vascular parts, as the face, the genital organs, and inflamed bone. Irrigation with hot water is also serviceable m arresting haemor- rhage from bleeding cavities, as the uterus, &c. _ , u, ^ - Styptics are chemical substances which, acting on the blood, cause its coagulation. They can only be of use in arresting haemorrhage when they cause coagulation of the blood in the mouth of the injured vessel when in fact they bring about a process identical to what has already been described as ' temporary arrest' of hfemorrhage. If> there- fore they merely coagulate the blood lying on the surface of the wound, they do very little good, as bleeding can take place from the unsealed vessels under the clot thus formed. In order, therefore, to obtain arrest of hemorrhage by means of styptics, they must be applied mth care. Ihe wound should be first thoroughly dried, and all coagula removed, l^irm pressure with a sponge should be maintained over the bleedmg pomt, and a piece of lint soaked with the styptic immediately placed on the part as soon as the sponge is removed, and held there for a minute or two until coagulation in the vessel has taken place. The principal styptics used in surgery are perchloride of iron, nitrate of silver, alum, tannin, gallic acid, matico leaves, and turpentine. Of these, perchloride of iron 111 the form of the strong liquor is the most efficient. The objection to their use is that they are apt to cause destruction of the tissues with which they are brought into contact, and thus interfere with union by the first mtentipn. Their use is, therefore, almost limited to bleeding from mucous cav-ities, where less stringent measures have failed to arrest the haemorrhage. They are however, of especial use in bleeding from fungatmg malignant tumours,' and are the most efficient agents we possess for arresting hsemorrhage of this kind. • j -n 4 Actual cautery is a most powerful hfemostatic, and arrest haemorrhage from an artery the size of the anterior or posterior tibial, but it is little used in the present day, as it burns the tissues and causes a slough, which prevents primary union and renders the patient hable to secondary haemorrhage upon its separation. It acts by charrmg the end of the artery and forming an eschar over its mouth, and also causes the vessel to contract and fold upon itself, and thus to plug the lumen of the tube and arrest the flow of blood. It may be used either as a cauter)' iron which can be heated in the fire to a dull red heat, or by means ot Paquelin's cautery, which is perhaps the most convenient and handy torm to use or by means of the galvano-cautery. Whichever form is used, it should not be applied until the dull red colour is changing to black, ^yhen it should be placed accurately on the bleeding spot and held in apposition for a few moments. If a greater heat is used it burns .tl^e tissues ..t^^^^^^ charring them, and does not act as an haemostatic. This plan of checking hemorrhage is principally of use in bleeding from soft spongy tissues