477 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE more quickly in the young than in the middle-aged or old, and it separates more quickly in the upper extremity than the lower. The extent of the necrosis will also influence the period at which separation will have taken place, and it will generally be found that in superficial or peripheral necrosis exfoliation will take place more rapidly than separation of a central or total necrosis. Other indications of the complete separation of the frag- ments will be afforded by probing. The sequestrum may be felt to move its position when the probe is introduced; or if there are two sinuses and a probe is passed down each and alternate pressure made, a sort of see-saw movement will be communicated to the necrosed bone if it is loose. Treatment.—As soon as the surgeon is satisfied that separation of the sequestrum has taken place, it should be removed. In many instances this is a comparatively simple proceeding. In cases of peripheral necrosis, for instance, it may be merely necessary to enlarge the sinus in the soft parts, and with a pair of sequestrum forceps withdraw the piece of dead bone; or in pases of a tubular sequestrum, the result of osteo-myelitis after amputation, the dead bone can readily be extracted. But where the necrosed portion of bone is invaginated in a cavity surrounded by new bone (fig. 165), this will have to be cut away before the sequestrum can be removed. This is to be done by making an incision and freely exposing the invaginating bone with its cloacae, and enlarging these by cutting away the new bone between them. Generally it is advisable to select two sinuses near the middle of the necrosed portion, if this is of considerable extent, and by joining these, by cutting away the invaginating bone between them' to expose the sequestrum near its centre. This can now be cut in half, and the two pieces removed through the same opening. The surgeon must be careful to leave no dead bone behind in the cavity. The wound, having been carefully flushed to remove blood clot and debris, is to be packed with antiseptic gauze and dressed. The cavity will take some time to fill up, during which time the patient's strength must be supported. Care rnust be taken to prevent the accumulation of discharge in this cavity, otherwise it will decompose and become foul and produce serious con- stitutional disturbance. Quiet necrosis (necrosis without suppuration).—In some cases of necrosis no suppuration occurs. This form of necrosis would appear to be due to arrest of the circulation from choking of the Haversian canals in osteo-plastic ostitis, in cases where no pyogenic organisms are present. The symptoms are those of chronic enlargement of the bone, accompanied by pain, and there is great resemblance to malignant tumour of bone, from which It cannot frequently be distinguished without an exploratory incision. The possible occurrence of this disease should be present in the mind of the surgeon in dealing with supposed malignant tumours of bone; and if there IS the slightest doubt, an exploratory incision should be made before resorting to amputation. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE Tuberculous disease may affect either the periosteum, the bone, or the medullary tissue. Tuberculous periostitis consists in a deposit of tubercle in the deeper layers of the periosteum. It here sets up inflammation, and the inflammatory products caseate and form a chronic abscess. The subjacent