489 PULSATINCi TUMOURS OF BONE nature of the operation must vary according to the variety of the disease which is present. If the disease is myeloid, all that is necessary is to remove the portion of bone from which the tumour grows. In the upper extremity this can often be done by excising a portion of the bone and not removing the whole. Thus in a central sarcoma of the upper end of the humerus, the head of the bone and if necessary a small portion of the shaft may be removed, and a very useful member left; or in myeloid tumour of the lower jaw it is usually sufficient to remove half or even less than half of the bone. But when the disease occurs in the lower extremity, it is probably better to amputate just above the growth, for the lirnb which would be left after such an extensive excision of bone as Avould be necessary would scarcely be available for purposes of progression. If the disease is.peripheral, or central of any other kind than myeloid, the whole bone from which the disease springs should be removed. Perhaps there is one exception to this rule ; in peripheral sarcoma of the lower end of the femur, if this rule were followed out, amputation at the hip joint would _ have to be performed; but the mortality after this operation is so high that it is judged better to amputate a little below the trochanters provided that plenty of room can be obtained for fashioning the flaps in tissues free from any infiltration. Secondary sarcoma of bone is occasionally met with, perhaps most frequently in cases of melanotic sarcoma, though it is occasionally found in cases of other forms of sarcomatous tumour. It is most commonly central, and may lead to fracture. No operative interference is, as a rule, permissible in these cases on account of the general infection of the system. Carcinoma of bone is ahvays secondary, and as such is by no means uncommon. Cancer of the breast most frequently gives rise to this condition, and it is usually endosteal in character and gives rise to per- sistent pain, and is often followed by fracture. ^Epithelioma of bone, due to direct extension from epithelioma of the soft parts in the neighbourhood, is also not uncommon. This condition we find in the tibia, as the direct extension of the disease from an old ulcer of the leg which has become epitheliomatous; or in the lower jaw in cases of cancer of the lip or tongue. Another form of secondary cancer of bone follows cancer of the thyroid body ; the chief characteristic of this form is its great vascularity, which causes it to pulsate strongly. Pulsating tumours of bone.—The term osteo-aneurism was formerly applied to all tumours of bone which pulsated. It is now known that the great majority of these are very vascular sarcomata, which pulsate on account of the large number of new vessels or channels which they contain. In addition to these there are, however, two other classes of cases of pulsating tumour of bone, the exact pathology of which is still uncertain, (i) In one of these there is a vascular erectile tumour, practically identical with what has already been described as aneurism by anastomosis, which grows in the interior of bone, most frequently within the flat bones of the skull, and consists of a collection of dilated vessels massed together in a hollow cavity formed in the bone. The shell of bone forming the wall of this cavity is very thin, so that egg-shell crackling may be detected, and after a time the bone is often completely absorbed on one side, so that the tumour grows into the soft parts. These tumours have a distinct pulsation, and after they have perforated the bone they present the symptoms of aneurism by