119 HECTIC to admit a couple of fingers, and all the matter which ^^all un o^t s allowed to do so. Barker's flushing gouge (fig. 25), which is hollow, and through which the cavity can be flushed while it is being scraped, should be intro- duced, and the whole of the interior of the abscess thoroughly and systematically scraped. While this is being done a stream of sterilised water at a temperature of 105° b. is made to flow through the gouge, which carries away the debris as fast as it is detached. After the scraping process is completed, it is washed out with a weak solution of corrosive sublimate and its walls well scrubbed with dry carbolic gauze, which is stiffer and rougher than cyanide gauze, and therefore better adapted for the purpose. The gauze is introduced in a loosely folded mass, the size of a walnut, on a pair of long clip forceps. When this has been completed, it is as well to flush the cavity with a little more corrosive sublimate solution, and then dry it and pack it with sponges to which pieces of silk have been attached, so that they can be easily withdrawn. Sutures are now introduced, but not tied. After they are all in their place, the sponges are to be removed, half an ounce to an ounce of 10 per cent, iodoform emulsion injected, and the sutures quickly tied and a dressing applied with plenty of wool and a firm bandage, so that as much pressure as possible may be made on the part. In a very considerable number of these cases the wound unites by the first intention, no reaccumulation of fluid takes place, and the case is cured; but in a certain percentage of cases, though the wound heals by the first intention, a reaccumulation of the fluid takes place. The cavity then requires reopening, and the whole proceeding has to be repeated, and this may have to be done three or four times before a cure is effected. In some cases where probably there is some active mischief still going on, the wound does not heal, or if it does, breaks down again and begins to discharge. These cases must be treated by drain- age ; washing out the cavity daily with some antiseptic solution ; of which I give preference to a solution of tincture of iodine (3i to Oj) and antiseptic dressing. The discharge may after a time cease and the wound _ do well, but they are unpromising cases and may terminate in hectic and lardaceous disease. Fig. 25.—Barker's flushing gouge. HECTIC AND LARDACEOUS DEGENERATION Hectic is a chronic form of septicaemia, produced by the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction. It therefore cannot occur until an abscess is opened and the bacteria of decomposition are adrnitted, and it generally occurs when the drainage is deficient, so that pus is retained in a cavity under a slight degree of pressure. It is a chronic process.