734 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS chronically enlarged. The calculus can usually be felt through the mucous membrane of the mouth, or by passing a probe down the duct. It may be easily removed by an incision through the mucous membrane. Salivary calcuU are much more commonly found in the duct of the submaxillary gland. DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND Atrophy of the thyroid gland may occur and may result in an almost entire destruction of the gland structure ; this is the cause of a remarkable disease named myxoedema, and is identical with the condition termed cachexia strumipriva, which is produced when the whole of the thyroid gland is excised in cases of goitre, or when the gland is removed experi- mentally in monkeys. The condition closely resembles the cretinoid state, and it is more than probable that the three conditions, myxoedema, cachexia strumipriva, and cretinism, are due to loss of function of the thyroid body; the latter of these diseases occurring from conditions present during intra-uterine life. The cause of this atrophy of the thyroid is unknown. It occurs almost invariably in women during the adult period of life. Myxoedema.—It is necessary to allude briefly to the symptoms of this condition, though the disease falls more properly under the care of the physician. It is characterised, as Dr. Ord expresses it, by an ' unwieldy state of mind and body,' and is due to the tissues of the body being invaded by a jelly-like mucus. The body, and the face especially, is swollen, the skin being waxydooking and anaemic, but not pitting on pressure. The skin is also dry, harsh, and roughened, and there is rarely any perspiration. The intellect is in a torpid state, but is not impaired; the patient thinks slowly, speaks slowly, and all the movements are slow and languid, the muscles being apparently toneless and torpid. The heat of the body is always below normal, ranging often as low as 94° F. There is, as a rule, no organic disease of any of the viscera to be discovered in the early stages of the condition ; but later on the urine becomes albuminous, and the mind becomes unhinged, hallucinations or delusions set in, and the patient sinks gradually into a comatose state and dies. The treatment consists in the administration of thyroid gland as a food, or medicinally in the form of an extract. Cretinism is a condition of idiocy arising from hereditary causes, associated with imperfect development and deformity of the whole body, and closely resembles myxoedema. Goitre or Bronchocele.—Enlargement of the thyroid body, when it is not due to inflammatory causes, is known under the name of goitre or bronchocele, and presents itself under several different varieties. Causes.—The etiology of bronchocele is still uncertain, and the disease has been attributed to several different causes. It was believed formedy to be due to the water that the patient drank, and water containing large quantities of lime or water produced by melted snow have both been stated to be the cause of the disease. This has now been proved not to be so. Again, air and locality have been regarded as factors in its production ; especially those localities where there is little sunshine, as in valleys, in mountainous districts which run north and south, and into which the sun does not easily penetrate ; or cellars or kitchens in narrow courts ot larg towns, where also there is little sunshine. The most recent theory is that 11