354 INJURIES AND -DISEASES OF SPECIAT. TISSUES transperitoneal route for divers reasons : (i) the o[jLruLi(jii is easier and occupies less time; (2) the danger of the operation is not increased by opening the peritoneal cavity; (3) any portion of the vessels can be liga- tured according to the exigencies of the case; and (4) accidents which have happened in adopting the older measures are avoided. The modified method of Abernethy.—The patient should be prepared for two or three days before the operation, by being ke])t in bed, on a regulated diet, with aperients, so that the intestinal canal shall be as empty as possible. An incision should now be made from an inch above and internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium in a curved direction, with its convexity outwards and downwards, to a point one inch and a half above the middle of Poupart's ligament. The super- ficial structures having beendivided, the external oblique muscle is ex- posed, and should be in- cised to a similar extent as the external wound by cutting between the fibres instead of across them, so as to minimise as much as possible the risks of ventral hernia. The internal oblique and transversalis are then carefully divided, and the transversalis fascia is ex- FlG. 109.—Ligature of the external iliac artery by the posed.^ This fascia IS to modified Abernethy's method. i, anterior crural be seized in a pair of nerve ; 2, external iliac artery ; 3, external iliac vein, forceps close to the inner extremity of the wound, where there is more subperitoneal tissue and less risk of wounding the peritoneum, and a slight opening made in it by cutting with the knife held horizontally. A broad hernia director is then introduced through the opening, and the peritoneum pushed away from the fascia as it is passed onwards in the line of the external incision. If care is not taken in doing this, the peritoneum is liable to overlap the end of the director and to be wounded in incising the fascia. When the transversalis fascia has been thoroughly divided throughout the whole extent of the wound, the peri- toneum must be gently separated from the iliac fossa with the fingers, and with the whole of the tissues on the inner side of the wound held out of the way with a broad curved spatula. The artery is now to be sought for at the brim of the pelvis, and will here be felt pulsating. The tissues around it must be carefully cleared away; a matter some- times of considerable difficulty, as the glands which surround it are often ■enlarged and more or less matted together. When the sheath is exposed it must be opened, and the needle passed from within outwards, avoiding