421 IMPERFECT UNION conditions are very uncommon, and require no more than a passing notice. N^cJosS aS which was often a frequent sequel of compound fracture (IVr 1-4), now only occurs occasionally, where a snTall portion of bone has been completely separated from the periosteum, and therefore having been cut off from its blood supply perishes from inanition. Occasionally, it may happen that a compound fracture may become septic. It must then be treated, in accordance with the general treatment ot septic wounds, by free incisions and careful drainage to prevent the retention of any infective material, and by the application of hot antiseptic fomenta- tions, changed frequently. In cases where acute spreading gangrene shows itself high amputation must be^e^sorted to, and probably the same treat- ment may be resorted to where acute tetanus, septiccemia and pyeemia are present. In more advanced conditions, when the patient becomes worn out by prolonged suppuration, secondary amputation is sometimes necessary. , Defects in the process of union ot fractures.—Delayed union.—By the term delayed union IS meant that condition in which the fracture does not unite as rapidly as it ought: where at the end of six or eight weeks, when under ordinary circumstances sufficient union ought to have taken place to prevent any movement at the seat of frac- ture nevertheless a certain amount of yielding or movement of one fractured end or the other is nerceptible. This is by no means an uncommon • r condition, and frequently arises from constitutional F';^/34^^^33^ ^[ causes, of which the most common is mal-assiniila- ^.^.^ ^^^^^ ^ tion. If the urine of such a patient is examined, it will be found to be alkaline and to deposit a copious precipitate of phosphates on boiling. This is no doubt due to the fact that the patient, being confined to bed and being deprived of his customary exercise, does not assimilate his food properly. Regulation of his diet, especially confining him to fish diet, with the internal administration of the mineral acids, will generally effect a speedy union. In other cases delayed union appears to arise from constitutional debility, and tonics, change of air, &c., are indi- cated. Syphilis is also said to be a cause of delayed union, and if there is any evidence of a syphilitic history in such a case the proper anti-syphilitic treatment should be adopted. Finally, it appears that sometimes union of a fracture is delayed by ' meddlesome surgery' : by constant readjustment of the splints, by frequent testing of the bones to see how the union is going on, a condition of unrest is kept up which naturally interferes with the proper union of the fracture. Imperfect union—This condition is sometimes classed as non- union, but this it clearly is not, as union to a certain extent has taken placethe fault being that the union has not gone on to its complete condition. These are cases where the union is fibrous in its nature, where callus has been thrown out and has become converted into fibrous pound fracture. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)