133 CAUSES OF GANGRENE VARIETIES OF GANGRENE Various forms of gangrene are met with and will have to be described. These are best classified by arranging them accordmg to the cause which has given rise to the gangrene. ■ „ ^oc*- Causes of Gangrene.-The immediate cause of gangrene is the arrest or deficient supply of blood to a part, and this may be brought about in many different ways, which may be considered under three divisions : I. Local causes. 2. General causes. 3. Specific causes. _ I The local causes of gangrene are (a) injuries, either mechanical or chemical; (^) heat and cold ; (c) arrest of the circulation ; (d) the intensity of an inflammation ; and {e) the loss of nerve power. (a) Under the head of injuries as a cause of gangrene we have, hrst, gangrene due to crushing. . , r ^u- ■ We have already had an opportunity of seeing an example ot this, in speaking of contused and lacerated wounds, in which it was stated that small fragments of tissue at the edges of the wound were so contused and crushed by the injury that they were no longer capable of living; they had had their vitality destroyed. It may be that these particles of tissue may be very small, but this is undoubtedly as much gangrene as if a whole hmb were crushed between two millstones, and had its vitality crushed out of it; or, in other words, were so injured by the violence done to them that they were no longer capable of carrying on the functions of living tissues. In these cases merely the parts which are injured die, and there is no tendency on the part of the gangrene to spread. It must not be confounded with those cases of gangrene which arise from injury to the main vessels of the limb, when the arrest in the circulation comes about in another way. In these latter cases the gangrene commences m the part of the hmb farthest from the heart and not at the seat of injury, and may spread some considerable distance up the limb, but rarely as high as the point where the vessels have been torn. The gangrene in those cases where it has been produced by crushing is of the moist kind, and is followed by putrefaction, with its attendant symptoms, unless care is taken to render and maintain the part aseptic. Another form of mechanical violence which may produce gangrene is pressure, too severe or applied for too long a time. I have seen the whole thumb become gangrenous from the application of a Martin's bandage too tighdy and too long retained on the part. So again the continued pressure of a spHnt, especially over a prominent process of bone ; or even the pressure of the patient's body on the bed, if long continued on the same part, may produce gangrene. This latter variety is known as bedsore. In these cases also the gangrene is of the moist kind. Chemical agencies combining with the animal matter and forming new compounds may produce gangrene. A good illustration of this is the effect of potassa fusa on the tissues in making an issue, where the skin is destroyed by the desiccating action of the caustic and forms a slough. {b) Heat and cold, as we have already seen (p. 104), kill the tissues and produce gangrene. {c) Arrest of the circulation.—Under this heading are included those cases where suspension in the capillaries is due to arrest in the arterial or