478 INJURIES ANi:) DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES bone is generally involved, and becomes softened and worm-eaten. In these- cases there is a localised swelling of an indolent nature, tender on pressure, but causing little pain. It slowly softens and can eventually be felt to fluctuate. If an incision is made curdy pus is evacuated and the surface of the bone will be felt, on probing, to be roughened and easily broken down. Tuberculous ostitis.—Tuberculous disease of bone affects the cancellous tissue, and has already been described under the head of caries. It begins as a small hard nodule of tubercle in the red marrow of cancel- lous tissue. This sets up inflammatory changes, and the part becomes infiltrated with round cells, which replace the bony tissue and then undergo fatty degeneration and caseation, and caries is set up. The symptoms are those of caries as detailed above (page 469). The disease may attack the growing tissue of bone in the neighbouthood of the epiphysial cartilage, and is then known under the name of tuberculous epiphysitis. When this cartilage is situated within the capsule, as in the upper end of the femur, the joint becomes involved secondarily and may undergo complete destruc- tion. This is probably the most frequent way in which tuberculous disease of the hip joint is set up. It will be referred to more in detail in connection with diseases of joints. Tuberculous osteo-myelitis.—Tubercle may be deposited in the marrow of the shafts of the long bones, and set up a condition of tuber- culous osteo-myelitis. It is most frequently met with in the metacarpal bones and the phalanges of the fingers, when it is known as tuberculous dactylitis. The bone becomes expanded and forms a casing to a mass of cheesy material in its centre. The expansion takes place by a deposit of new bone under the periosteum, while a process of rarefactive ostitis goes on in the interior. Eventually, however, the shell of bone becomes perforated, and the superficial soft structures become involved in the disease. Frequently the whole or a portion of the shaft of the bone necroses. Symptoms.—The affected bone slowly enlarges, with a varymg amount of pain and disability. This continues for some time, and then the skin becomes of a dusky red hue, the swelling increases more rapidly, and finally softens at one spot and gives way, discharging curdy pus. On probing, exposed and softened bone will be felt. The neighbouring jomts are frequently involved in the disease. Treatment.—In the early stage the part should be kept strictly at rest and constitutional treatment adopted; change to the seaside: careful attention to diet and hygiene; and cod liver oil administered internally. As soon as the surgeon is satisfied that caseation has taken place, an incision should be made down to the bone, which should be laid open with a small gouge and the cavity in its interior freely exposed. This must be thoroughly scraped' out with a sharp spoon, irrigated to wash away all debris, and, having been sprinkled with crystals of iodoform, packed with antiseptic gauze and dressed. If this is done thoroughly and early, the cavity may fill up from the bottom and the case be brought to an end; but if the disease is allowed to go on until the soft parts over the bone become implicated, or if the whole of the caseated material is not removed, sinuses will form, the greater part or the whole of the bone will be destroyed, and the patient recover with great deformity of the finger. In some cases amputation will have to be resorted to.