364 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES adherent to the inner surface of the vein. 'I'his is known as the coloured thromhiis. When, on the other hand, the coagulating process takes place gradually, as in cases where some alteration in the lining membrane of the vein causes the leucocytes to adhere to it, the resulting thrombus is greyish white ; it is laminated in structure and is adherent to the lining membrane of the vein. This is known as the colourless thrombus. In the majority of cases, however, the clots are of a mottled appearance; a part, that first formed, being decolourised, and the rest, subsequently formed around it, of the coloured variety. These are known as tnixed thrombi. The fate of the thrombus.—The changes which may take place in a thrombus are several, and depend in a great measure upon the cau.ses which led to its formation and the circumstances under which it is placed. The changes are as follows : (i) Organisatum. Here the changes are very much the same as those described as occurring in an artery (page 288). There is a proliferation of the cells of the endothelial lining of the vein. These proliferated cells invade the clot, replace it and form a connective tissue, which becomes vascular and occludes the vessel. (2) Canalisation. This is a further change in the plug formed in the process of organisation ; by its shrinking and cleavage a space may be left in the clot, which may enlarge and form a continuous channel, and the circulation through the vessel may be restored. This channel may be situated in the centre of the clot, or at one side, when the remains of the clot or the fibrous tissue that has replaced it will appear as a thickened patch on one side of the vein. (3) Disuitegration. The clot may soften, disintegrate, and be washed away in minute particles into the circulation. The clot begins to soften and liquefy in its centre, and the process gradually extends through the whole mass until it becomes converted into a creamy fluid which resembles pus, but is not pus. Microscopically it consists of granular debris and a few white corpuscles, which have escaped disintegra- tion. These are carried into the blood stream, and some of the granular debris may be arrested in the capillary circulation, but if aseptic and unirritating give rise to no symptoms and cause no inflammation. When the clot is infective or septic phlebitis of the wall of the vein exists, the disintegrated clot consists of granular debris, pus cells, and micrococci. W^hen these are carried into the blood stream and become lodged in the capillaries of the lungs or elsewhere, they form infective emboli and give rise to secondary abscesses (see page 170). (4) Calcifica- tion. Small portions of the clot may remain in the pouches behind the valves of a varicose vein, and may become converted into fibrinous masses, which ultimately undergo calcification. These are termed phleboliths. (5) Embolism. A large portion of the clot may become separated off from the rest, and may be carried into the blood stream and impacted in the pulmonary artery or one of its branches, constituting pulmonary ejnbolisni. This often arises from a portion of the extremity of the clot which may project over the mouth of the first collateral branch becoming detached by the current of the blood (fig. 113), or it may be caused by careless handling or the movements of the patient. If the clot is of large size so as to entirely block the main pulmonary vessel, instantaneous death is the result ; if it is smaller so as to become lodged in one of the large branches of the pulmonary artery, sudden pain with intense dyspnoea is complained of. This is followed by haemoptysis and the signs of a local consolidation of the lung. If the clot is aseptic the patient will in all