176 GENERAL DISEASES sexual intercourse, and the infecting virus of syphilis, which there is very good ground for believing is a small bacillus, is inti-oduced into the recipient mixed up with the many varieties of micro-organism which frequent the male and female genital organs, or it may be with the specific virus of the soft sore, if there is one. Consequently it is extremely difficult to determine the relationship between the hard (infecting) and the soft (non-infecting) sore. These difficulties are further increased by the fact that the two conditions often occur in the same sore, and that the sore which in the first instance presents all the characters of a soft sore, after a time becomes indurated and is followed by the appearance of constitu- tional syphilis. The fact that we may get two varieties of sores, so different in their results, has led to different theories, which have been keenly debated. Some pathologists hold that the two conditions are produced by two wholly different poisons, and that the one disease can reproduce itself, and no other, though they admit that the two diseases may exist in the same person. Others again believe that there is one poison, and that the soft sore is produced by the contagious products of peculiar forms of inflammation occurring in syphilitic sores, which do not contain, at the moment, the specific virus of syphilis, or in which the specific virus is prevented from developing by the inflammation which has been set up by the other contagious products, or in which, it may be, the recipient is proof against specific contagion, and therefore no constitutional symptoms can arise. Again, there are others that believe that the soft sore has nothing to do with syphilis at all. Without entering into any controversy on this subject, which would serve no good purpose in this place, I shall content myself with adopting the last of these views, and consider the two diseases as entirely separate and distinct from each other. LOCAL CONTAGIOUS CHANCRE The local contagious chancre, soft or non-infecting sore {chancroid of the French writers), is almost always situated on the genitals. This is easily accounted for, as it is merely the discharge from the sore which is contagious, whereas in the infecting chancre not only is the discharge from the sore contagious, but also that from secondary sores, or the secretions from the mouth or even the blood, so that other parts of the body where there is a slight abrasion of the skin may be infected from these sources. The soft sore is always produced by inoculation with the discharge from another sore; and if the discharge from this sore is inoculated into another part of the same person a second sore will be pro- duced ; again from this second sore a third may be produced, and so on through a regular series. Each sore thus produced will, however, be rather smaller and less characteristic than the one from which it was inoculated, until at last the virus has become so attenuated that it is no longer capable of producing a sore. But the patient is not by this rendered immune to the poison, for if some fresh virus is obtained from a new source the same series of experiments may be repeated. The soft sore presents three principal varieties : (i) The simple sore. (2) The phagedEcnic sore ; and (3) The sloughing sore. I. The simple sore may appear at any time after connection, most commonly within a day or two. It may begin either in an abrasion or