TREATMENT OF BRONCHOCELE 737 gested that Graves's disease may be due to excessive absorption of the secretion of the thyroid gland in those cases where it is enlarged. The disease occurs almost exclusively in women, and' usually between the ages of twenty and thirty. It is most frequently met with in the neurotic individual, and is often preceded by menstrual disturbance and anaemia. The disease usually commences with palpitation, accompanied by a sensation of fullness about the eyes and throat. The thyroid becomes enlarged, and the eyes prominent as if they were starting out of the head. The palpitation is increased by emotion or exertion, and at these times the prominence of the eyes is most marked and they become lustrous. The symptoms are often increased during the menstrual period. The course of the disease varies considerably, but in many cases has a ten- dency to decline and finally disappear, but during this time the patient runs the risk of being carried off by some organic cardiac lesion, by asthenia, or by some intercurrent disease. The treatment of an ordinary case of solid bronchocele should be conducted in the first instance on general principles. Change of air to a warm, dry, sunshiny district is desirable, and the general health should be attended to. If the patient is antemic, as he so often is, iron in combination with strychnine will often be found to have a remarkable effect in reducing the swelling. If there is no ansemia, iodide of potassium is usually of great service, and under its use some cases of bronchocele will entirely disappear. Locally, applications of iodine seem to produce the best results, either iodine paint or the iodide of lead ointment In India the biniodide of mercury ointment (gr. xvi ad gi) has been largely employed \vith success. It is rubbed into the neck, and the patient then exposed to the rays of the sun. It may be employed in this country by rubbing it in and then ex-posing the neck to a hot fire. In those cases where, in spite of treatment, the bronchocele continues to grow, and especially where there are symptoms of commencing tracheal pressure, some further measures are required. Various plans have at different times been advocated for the treatment of these cases : the injection of irritants, such as tincture of iodine or perchloride of iron, into the tumour j the passage of setons through the gland substance, and ligature of the thyroid arteries, need only to be mentioned to be condemned. The risks of such operations are consider- able, and the results very uncertain. There are two modes by which these cases may be treated by operative interference : (i) by division or excision ot the isthnius ; and (2) by partial extirpation of the gland. 1. DiYision of the isthmus is a comparatively simple operation and IS oiten productive of the best results, for not only is the respiration at once relieved, but frequently it is followed by a speedy diminution in the size of the gland. The operation consists in making an incision in the median hne of the neck, exposing the isthmus, ligaturing it at either end and excising the intermediate portion. This operation should always be Urst tried in those cases where both lobes are equally enlarged. 2. Partial extirpation.—This may consist in simply scooping out t ?r°''^J°'l thyroid body with a sharp spoon or in removing one nau ot the gland. It must be borne in mind that the removal of the ' f^ole_ gland is followed by myxcedema, but if a sufilcient portion of the ■creting structure is left this result need not be feared. Probably in those ■'^^^l ■^'^ere the enlargement is confined to one lobe, the removal of this , ^. ^^^^ P'^" to pursue. The operation is, however, one of con- 'tlerable difficulty and some risk. There is danger of htemorrhage, which 3 B