GENERAL TREATMENT 33 » pressing the handle, and thus the opening in the skin will be larger than that in the vein, as the point of the instrument is made to describe a seg- ment of a circle. The patient's arm is now turned over a basni or other receptacle for the blood, and the left thumb being removed from the vem, the blood will flow in a full stream. After sufificient blood has been withdrawn, the ligature around the arm is relaxed and a pad placed over the wound and secured by a figure of 8 bandage. The most serious compHcation which may occur m the performance of this operation is a puncture of the brachial artery through the yem, leading to arterio-venous aneurism. This seems to have been an accident of by no means uncommon occurrence in former days. Sometimes a very painful neuralgic condition results, probably from some cutaneous nerve being involved ; and, according to Hilton, ' bent' arm is occasionally the result when the median cephalic vein is selected for the operation, from injury to the cutaneous filaments of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, causing refiex spasm of the biceps and brachiaUs anticus. If the instruments are clean and proper care taken, septic inflammation can hardly occur, though in former days this was not uncommon. Of antiphlogistic medicines, certainly one of the most useful to the surgeon in subduing local congestion is aconite. Given in minim doses of the tincture every half-hour for six or eight doses, it reduces the rapidity of the heart's action, and as a result diminishes the amount of blood sent to the inflamed part in a given time. Other antiphlogistic rernedies are purgatives, especially saline purgatives, diuretics and diaphoretics, which abstract the watery constituents of the blood, and thus diminish the blood pressure generally. The general treatment of inflammation in surgical cases aims rather at treating the symptomatic fever which is set up, and the treatment of this must vary according as to whether it is of the sthenic or asthenic type. In the sthenic form the indications are (i) to maintain the patient's strength by fluid food, such as milk and fluid preparations of meat, beef-tea, veal, mutton, or chicken broth. He can digest nothing else. Stimulants are not usually necessary or desirable. (2) To regulate the secretions, by the administration of purgatives, of which probably saline purgatives are the best, preceded or not, according to the requirements of the case, by a dose of mercury. (3) To endeavour to promote the excretion of the poison from the blood ; for this certain specific drugs, termed antipyretics, may be used. Of these undoubtedly quinine ranks the first as the best and the safest; all the others, phenacetin, antipyrin, antifebrin, and saHcylate of soda, are depressing, and must be given with caution. In the asthenic form a more stimulating plan of treatment must be adopted. In these cases alcohol in some form or other is usually indicated and is often of the very greatest service, but it should always be given in small doses frequently repeated, rather than large doses occasionally administered. The diet must still be of a fluid character, but must be of as nourishing a kind as the patient can take, and must be given in small quantities al short intervals. For medicines in these cases, quinine, or bark and ammonia, are our sheet anchors. As soon as recovery commences the patient may be put upon more or less solid food, and his diet should be light, but as nutritious as possible. A little wine, or even ale or stout, is now generally indicated, as it enables the patient to enjoy his food more and digest it better. D