FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR 445 s ouno- and vigorous adults. \Vhcn the fracture is impacted, the signs are not so clear. There is the history of the injury to the hip and there is liruising about the part, with a fixed pain which is increased by any move- ment. The Hmb is generally everted, but may not be so, and may even he inverted, according to the position of the fragments at the moment of mipaction. The trochanter is displaced upwards and mwards, and there is no crepitus. There is shortening generally to the extent of about an inch, which cannot be overcome by extension. It will thus be seen that this impacted fracture resembles very much the fracture of the neck within the capsule, and there is often difficulty in diagnosing between the two. The main points of differentiation are the :ige of the patient, the degree and direction of the injury which caused the fracture, and the fact that the shortening can be overcome by extension in A\e intra-capsular fracture, but cannot in the impacted extra-capsular fracture. ... •, In the diagnosis of these fractures, as well as in other injuries and affections of the hip, the position of the great trochanter is a sign of the .greatest importance. It is desirable, therefore, to draw the attention of The student to two or three tests by which any alteration in the position of this process of bone may be demonstrated. Nelaton's test.—The patient being laid in the supine position, with the limb extended in the axis of the body, a piece of tape is stretched from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the most prominent part of the tuber ischii. If the trochanter is in its normal position, the middle of the tape ought just to skirt the upper border of the trochanter. Bryant's test—The patient being in the same position, a vertical line is dropped from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the distance between this line and the top of the great trochanter is com- pared with a similar measurement on the other side of the body. Morris's test.—This is made by means of a rod, graduated from the centre, with sliding pointers. The rod is placed across the abdomen, so that its centre corresponds to the middle line of the body, and the pointers moved along it till they correspond to the outer surface of the o-reat trochanter. The measurements on the two sides of the body can thus be compared. The advantage of this test is that it gives the amount of inward displacement, and it may be usefully employed in conjunction with Bryant's test, which denotes the amount of upward displacement. Treatment.—The non-impacted fracture is to be treated by extension to overcome the shortening, and a long splint to keep the parts at rest and prevent the eversion. Extension is best applied by means of a pulley and weight fixed to the end of the bed. The weight should be attached to the limb by a stirrup applied to the thigh and not to the leg, to prevent stretching the ligaments of the knee, and for a healthy adult should be about fourteen pounds. After the extension has been applied, a long splint (Li.ston's or Desault's) should be placed on the outer side of the limb and be fixed to the foot, and bandaged round the thigh and round the body. It should extend as high as the axilla. If there is much splintering of the great trochanter, a broad bandage, preferably of flannel, should be placed round the hips before the long splint is applied. These fractures unite soundly by bone. Where the fracture is impacted no attempt should be made to disengage the impaction; all that is required is to keep the limb quiet with a long splint, without extension. Union readily takes place, but with shortening and probably ever.sion.