768 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS passive movements of the muscles are attempted. At this time the reflexes are usually exaggerated. Finally, painful spasmodic contractions of the limbs supervene, so that the patient lies habitually with his legs flexed on the thighs, and the thighs on the pelvis. Though the muscles \vaste, they still act to the faradic current. The reflexes now become diminished or altogether disappear. Sensation, which at first is little interfered with, later on becomes impaired. If the pres.sure is in the lumbar region the detrusor urinje may be paralysed, but generally the patient empties his bladder periodically, but quite unconsciously. A diff'erent train of symptoms is set up where the spinal nerves are pressed upon or irritated as they leave the cord and pass out through the intervertebral foramina; here we have neuralgic pains in certain special nerves, followed later on by loss of sensation and weakness, or loss of motion in the muscles supplied by the special nerves pressed upon. In these cases, supposing the pressure is sufficient to cause paralysis, the muscles would no longer react to the faradic current. Diagnosis.—Little more need be said about the diagnosis of spinal caries than has been already said. In the early stages it is perhaps most frequently mistaken for hysteria; but the inconstant and more diffused character of hysterical pain, the absence of any true rigidity though the patient may hold his back stiff, and the presence of other signs of hysteria or of uterine derangement are usually sufficient to estabhsh the diagnosis. Spinal caries may be mistaken for rheumatism, lumbago, or neuralgia, and it is not easy always to distinguish between them. The main points to be relied on are the presence of persistent fixed pain in the back, the absence of pain in any of the other joints, or history of a former attack of rheumatism. These, together with the occurrence of the disease for the most part in early life, and in a tuberculous subject, would lead one to suspect the existence of caries. The deformity of spinal caries may be mistaken for the kyphotic curvature of rickets ; but it will generally be found that in this latter condition the curve disappears more or less completely upon holding the child up by its arms, or by laying the child flat on its stomach and then raising it gently by the ankles, so that the back becomes concave. The prominence in angular curvature does not disappear, ^yhile in rickety spine it does. In addition to this, there is not the same rigidity about the spine. From tumours of the spine, especially cancer, it cannot always be diagnosed at first; but the rapid increase of the symptoms in malignant disease, accompanied by emaciation, speedily settles the point. In erosion of the bodies of the vertebra; from aneurism there is the same fixed pain in the back, but a careful examination of the chest and abdomen will usually serve to exclude this disease. The diagnosis of abscesses connected with spinal caries is not always easy, especially in cases of lumbar and psoas abscess. A lumbar abscess usually presents at Petit's triangle, just above the crest of the ilium, and the point which has to be determined is whether it is caused by disease of the bones of the spine or the pelvis. In the absence of any definite symptoms of spinal caries, it may be impossible to determine this point until the abscess is opened, when, if the disease is situated in the bones ot the pelvis, it will probably be possible to feel the diseased tissue with the finger or a probe ; whereas if the disease is in the lumbar spine the abscess will track upwards, and it may not be possible to feel the carious bone. In psoas abscess the diagnosis is often much more complicated. 1 ii<-^ principal diseases with which psoas abscess is likely to be confounded are