CARBUNCLE T47 The predisposing causes of boils are numerous. They may occur in the plethoric, when it is believed by some that they are due to the habit of eating too much animal food ; or, on the other hand, they may occur in the debilitated, as after one of the exanthematous fevers, or in cases of diabetes or Bright's disease. They are not uncommon in the young, but may occur at any period of life. Sudden changes in the habits of life, as in the athlete when he goes into training, or in a sudden change from a sedentary occupation to more active pursuits, will often produce a crop of boils; for it is a common thing to find when one boil appears, that it is followed by others, and the patient may suffer from this condition for weeks or months, one boil appearing after another in fairly rapid succession. Symptoms.—A boil begins as a small pimple, which causes considerable irritation and itching. This is followed by inflammation of the skin around, and a conical, hard, circumscribed tumour is formed, from the centre of which a hair can generally be seen protruding. The swelling is of a dusky red hue, and considerable pain of a tensive throbbing character is complained of. Soon a little pustule forms on the summit of the boil; this bursts and leaves an opening, at the bottom of which may be seen a greyish white slough. Suppuration takes place, the slough gradually separates, leaving a little granulating cavity, which gradually fills up. Occasionally the nearest lymphatic glands become enlarged and tender, but rarely suppurate. Treatment.—In many cases an abortive treatment may be pursued with advantage in quite the early stage of the disease. If the hair which can be seen protruding from the centre of the boil is seized with a pair of forceps and plucked out, and the part then protected from the air and friction, no gangrene may take place and the effused inflammatory material may become reabsorbed. The plan which I have usually adopted is to cover the part -with a thick coating of gutta-percha dissolved in chloroform, and this has seemed to answer very well. Should, however, the pain continue, it will be evident that suppuration is taking place, and the gutta-percha .shield should then be removed. Nothing will be found to relieve the pain so much as an incision, followed by an antiseptic fomentation. This is generally all the local treatment that is necessary. At the same time an endeavour must be made to find the cause of the outbreak, and the patient treated accordingly. Failing this, careful dietetic measures and hygienic surroundings, with change of air and tonics, are indicated. Carbuncle.—It is somewhat difficult to draw a sharp line of distinc- tion between a boil and a carbuncle, and perhaps the best definition of the latter is that it is a collection of boils. Hence follows the main distinction between the two. The boil is a circumscribed inflammation ; the carbuncle is a spreading inflammation, because fresh little patches of inflammation (i.e. boils) are constantly forming at its margins. As we have already seen, both diseases are believed to be due to the same micro-organism, but a carbuncle is altogether more extensive; it involves the subcutaneous tissues, and a large slough or a number of smaller ones, each with its separate orifice, is formed. As regards the predisposing causes, there are some points of difference between the boil and the carbuncle. The latter is rarely met with in the young; in fact the disease is usually one which occurs in advanced middle fife. It is much more common in the male than in the female. The two most common conditions which predispose to it are diabetes and a lowered condition of the system. In my experience the most common class of people liable to be attacked by carbuncle are men servants out of L 2