TREATMENT OF INHERITED SYPHILIS 199 (i) gummatous ulceration, most frequently attacking the skin of the face and the legs ; (2) symmetrical synovitis, principally involving the knee- joints and being attended with an effusion into the synovial sac, which is exceedingly intractable, but rarely impHcates the other structures of the joint; (3) affections of the internal ear, leading to deafness, the exact nature of which is not known; (4) chronic enlargement of the lymphatic glands of the neck and other parts; and (5) gummata of the liver, spleen, brain, testicle, or other organs. It should be mentioned in addition that frequently fissures may be observed radiating from the angle of the mouth as a result of stomatitis and mucous patches in this situation. When present they afford an indication of the syphilitic nature of the case, hut they are not characteristic, as they may also be caused by eczema. Treatment.—There is only one remedy for congenital syphilis, and that is mercury ; but care and discrimination are required in its administra- tion, and care also is required in feeding the child. To take the last point first, the child should be always nursed by the mother, if she is in good health and has sufficient milk; but this is often not the case, the mother herself being frequently syphilitic and unable to supply sufficient nourish- ment for her child. Under these circumstances the child must be brought up by hand and must on no account be suckled by a wet-nurse for fear of infecting her. The greatest care must be taken in the artificial feeding, and one of the various plans for approximating the quality of cow's milk to that of human milk adopted. There are two ways of administering mercury—by the mouth, or by inunction, and after a very considerable experience of both plans I have come to the conclusion that the latter is the better of the two, if only it can be efficiently and thoroughly carried out. It is less likely to interfere with the child's general health, or to produce diarrhoea, which cannot in a young infant be combated by small doses of opium, as it can be in the adult. The plan I adopt is that originally recommended by Sir Benjamin Brodie, except that instead of using the blue ointment, I use the oleate of mercury as being less irritating and more easily absorbed. A drachm of the oleate of mercury (10 per cent.) is spread on a flannel bandage and fastened round the child's belly. Each day after a hot bath a fresh quantity of ointment is applied. Under this treatment the child rapidly improves; the eruption, snuffles, and other symptoms disappear, and the child fattens and assumes a more healthy appearance. When the mercury is given by the mouth, grey powder is the best form to give it in ; a grain two or three times a day may be given with safety even to young infants as they bear mercury very well. In a considerable number of cases, how- ever, it produces purging, with green stools, and the treatment by inunction will have to be resorted to. In extreme cases of syphilitic marasmus, cod liver oil will be found to be a useful adjunct to the mercury. The mercury should be continued for some time, three to six months, after all symptoms of inherited syphilis have disappeared, and there need be no fear of its doing the child harm ; in fact, it seems to flourish under the administration of the drug. In the treatment of congenital syphilis in children of riper years, iodide of potassium in combination with iodide of iron will be found the best means of combating the disease, and if mercury is given it should be in very small doses over a very long continued period of time.