SYMMETRICAL GANGRENE i39 (e) Gangrene due to loss of nerve power.-Loss of nerve power is some imeTf cause of gangrene. When a Hmb is paralysed, its nu ntion is deficleiTt and in some cases a part deprived of its nerve stimulus may actually fan into a condition of gangrene. We see this in cases of injury ?o the fifth pair of cranial nerves, which is frequently followed by sloughing of [he cornia. This part is supplied with .sensation by the fifth nerv^^^^^^^^^^^ when this nerve is paralysed, its nutrition is impaired and i die . bevera^ explanations of the cause of this have been given. One is that he SSon of the nerve destroys the f^o-motor filaments wh^h s^^^^^^^^^ muscular coat of the arteries, which becomes paralysed and the vessels permanently dilated. But permanent dilatation produced by division of he sympathetic does not cLse paralysis, and it is therefore _ difficult to undersS why it should do so in division of the cerebro-spmal nerves. Zain it^ said that it is due to loss of nutrition from destruction of the t^^:\:r::t most probable explanation is that of Mr. Hutchmson viz : that it is due to a condition of spasm of the muscular coat of the blood-vessels, brought about by a reflex irritation of a sensory nerve The gangrene which is produced in this way is of the dry kind and is .e y fnsidious, coming on and spreading slowly. The Pf becomes cold and shriVelled, and is quite insensitive: the skm becomes smooth, shining, and glistening, and the papill^B waste away and disappear^ Gradually the colour, which was in the first instance dusky red, turns to purple and then black, and the part becomes gangrenous, without an.y foetor and without any constitutional disturbance, at all events until the process of separation commences. This condition is almost always seen in the fingers and toes, and is especially liable to occurm the little finger after injury to the ulnar nerve. In addition to this gangrene which is the direct outcome of defective innervation, we have a large number of cases where the gangrene is produced indirectly by imperfect innervation from pressure or some such cause. To this class'belong another group of bed- sores differing from those already spoken of. They are generally of the moist variety of gangrene, come on quickly, run a rapid course, and are often spoken of as acute bedsores. They occur when any paralysed pari is subjected to pressure: as the back of the sacrum from the pressure of the body on the bed in a person who is paralysed, and a sore produced by the pressure of a splint applied to a paralysed limb, and would appear to result from imperfect nutrition of the-paralysed tissues. '' 2. General causes of gangrene.—Under the heading of general causes producing gangrene, there are four different varieties which will have to be considered: {a) symmetrical gangrene, or Raynauds disease ; {b) gangrene in connection with diabetes ■ {c) gangrene following the use of ergot of rye ; and {d) gangrene after acute fevers. (a) Symmetrical gangrene.—It will be convenient first of all to con- sider symmetrical gangrene, because, like that form of gangrene we have just been considering, it is connected with nervous derangement. _ It was first described by Raynaud under the name of ' La gangrene symetrique des extremites,' and, as its name implies, it comes on symmetrically in the two extremities. It may also occur in the external ear. It much more frequently attacks the upper than the lower extremity, and generally occurs in young women between the age of eighteen and thirty, but it is also seen occasionally in young children. It occurs most frequently in the weak and anaemic, who habitually suffer from cold extremities, and is genera ly brought on by cold weather. It is supposed to be due to spasm of the