639 HARE-LIP under the pin, and the whole of the upper lip covered with two or three layers of gauze, fixed by collodion. The hare-lip pin is to be removed at the end of forty-eight hours ; the superficial stitches may be left for a week.' Most surgeons object to the use of hare-lip pins, and use instead silver wire ; but I have always employed them, and have seen no reason to be dissatisfied with them. The main objection which it is stated that there is to their use, is that they leave a small scar at the site of puncture. If, however, they are withdrawn at the end of forty-eight hours, as they should be, they leave no mark, and they certainly possess the advantage of being rapidly applied, and of completely stopping the haemorrhage from the coronary artery. However, if the surgeon prefers the silver suture, there is no real need for using the hare-lip pin ; the only care should be to introduce the suture through the whole thickness of the lip down to the mucous membrane, otherwise bleeding may take place from the deep surface of the wound. Rose's operation.—In cases where the two edges of the cleft are equal or nearly equal, the most satisfactory results may be obtained by the plan advocated by Rose, which is a modification of an old opera- tion introduced by Syme. It consists in making an incision on either side of the cleft, in a semicircular manner, from its apex to the point of junction of the cutaneous and mucous surfaces of the lip, and from this point obliquely upwards into the cleft (fig. 244). The two little angular Fig. 244. —Rose's operation for the cure of hare-lip. flaps formed at the extremity of the cleft are turned down and sewn together, so as to form a prolabium. Rose uses deep silver sutures, two in number, one just above the red margin and one close to the nose, and superficial horsehair or catgut sutures to accurately adjust the edges. Nelaton's operation is only applicable to incomplete hare-lip. I.e. clefts which do not extend through the entire depth of the lip into Fig. 245.—Nekton's operation for the cure of :iare-lip. the nose. It consists in making a reversed V-shaped incision round the cop ot the cleft, and then pulling the apex of the fissure downwards, so as \V,!Jlr^^°^j^^mentioned that the operation above described is a modification of Aftlr l J' • y °P.'-'''^t'on the flap is cut from the outer or shorter edge of the cleft. ac vnrfiir'-''^ ^u''^,'"^ P^'"'' ^ ^""''^ ^he conclusion that the one I have duvocaiea gives the best results.