TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS i55 excite inflammation, with attendant migration of leucocytes, which destroy the micro-or^ranisms; and that the fever is due to the absorption into he blood stream of the chemical products of the bacteria and not to the ""''^he p'Ts'mttem appearances of those who have died ^'om erysipelas are those of death fronrblood poisoning. The blood is thin and fluid; the linin, membrane of the blood-vessels and heart is blood-stamed The kidneys and liver are congested and their epithehum cloudy. The spleen is Sten enlarged and sometimes soft and diffluent. The lungs are usually congested, and Busk has stated that the smaller pulmonary vessels often contain blocks of altered white corpuscles. Bastian has described a similar condition in the vessels of the brain. eir^.r^K. vP.nlvp^ Treatment.—The preventwe treatment of erysipelas simply lesolves itself into strict attention to hygienic measures and the isolation of cases affected with the disease. In former years erysipelas was an extremely pommon disease, and used sometimes to spread up and down a ward tor an indefinite period. At other times it would appear to locate itselt m some part of the ward, and attack patient after patient Avho was placed m the beds in this particular corner of the room. In these cases it was probably due to some local cause, as a faulty sewer or the emanations from I dustbin. Nowadays, however, the practice of aseptic s^urgery has practically prevented erysipelas from occurring in our wards, though cases are still admitted from without. With regard to the treatment of the disease there is no question that the strictest attention should be paid to perfect ventilation with pure air. The old-fashioned plan of smothering a patient up in a close room, with curtains around his bed and every means taken to prevent any current of air through the room, was exceedingly prejudicial. Ihe hrst and strictest attention should be paid to proper ventilation ; the patient should be placed in a large and airy room ; all curtains and hangings should be removed, and the nurse should be instructed to thoroughly ventilate the room, care, of course, being taken not to expose the patient to any draught. The treatment of erysipelas should always be commenced with a purge ; a little blue pill followed by a saline draught is perhaps the best form to administer. The issue of a case of erysipelas depends in a great measure upon the patient being able to take the requisite amount of nourishment; and as there is generally a good deal of derangement of the gastro-mtestinal mucous membrane, a brisk purge is the best means of getting his digestive organs into as good a condition as possible to enable him to take the requisite nourishment. Erysipelas is accompanied by a fever of an asthenic type, and therefore salines and tonics are the remedies which are indicated. The plan I usually adopt, especially if there is thirst and dry- ness of tongue, is to give the compound tincture of bark, in an arnmoniated effervescing saline, with excess of ammonia. The administration of the tincture of the perchloride of iron in large and repeated doses has been much vaunted as a specific for erysipelas, especially by Bell. I have tried it frequently, and have never been able to satisfy myself of its efficacy, and its tendency to produce constipation is a decided objection to its use. The diet should be fluid, consisting of strong beef tea, broth, milk, given in such quantities as the patient can digest. Stimulants are also generally required in these cases in varying quantities according to the exigencies of the case. When the patient has been habituated to the