923 LUMBAR COLOTOMY are removed, and the protruding intestine, wliich will be now found to be covered with a layer of lymph, cut away with scissors. This is painless and does not require an anesthetic, but the surgeon should be prepared with a number of artery clips, as there is sometimes fairly smart haemor- rhage. Should it be deemed necessary to open the bowels at once, the'gut should be accurately sutured to the parietal peritoneum all round, andlhen, an opening into it having been made, a Paul's tube should be tied in (fig. 311, o). Mr. Paul of Liverpool has suggested a modification ot this operation, with a view to the prevention of the involuntary escape of the ffeces, from the want of control of the orifice. It is framed on the principle of the modern operation of gastrostomy. An incision is made in the usual situa- tion, the sigmoid flexure found and pulled out of the wound, and attached to its margins by one or two sutures only. It is then passed between the external a"nd internal oblique muscles for about two inches, and finally brought to the surface through a second incision in the skin, opened and sutured; the original wound being completely closed. A truss, with a horse-shoe pad placed over the bowel as it runs in the abdominal wall, prevents the escape of any fasces as long as it is in position. Lumbar colotomy may be performed in either flank, according as it is desired to open the ascending or descending colon. As a rule the left flank is selected, and the descending colon opened, as it is nearer the termination of the intestinal canal, and still, in most cases, sufficiently above the seat of the disease to fulfil all the requirements of the operation. Left lumbar colotomy is the operation which will here be described. The patient is turned well over to the right side, with a firm hard pillow under the abdomen, so as to arch up and render prominent the left flank. The parts having been properly cleansed, a straight line is drawn from the anterior superior to the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and a point taken half an inch behind the centre of this line. From this point a vertical line is drawn upwards to the last rib. This marks the course of the descending colon, and the central point of it between the crest of the ilium and the last rib marks the centre of the incision. An oblique incision is now made through this point, so that two inches are in front and two inches behind it. The incision is carried through the skin and superficial structures, and through the layers of the abdominal muscles, first dividing a part of the latissimus dorsi and external obhque; then through the fascia lumborum, and perhaps some of the posterior fibres of the internal oblique, and opening the sheath of the quadratus lumborum, the anterior border of which will probably also require division. The transversalis fascia, which is here very thin, is now to be opened to the whole extent of the incision. If the bowel is distended, it will bulge into the wound, and there will be no difficulty in dealing with it. If, however, the gut is empty, this bulging will not take place, and the colon will have to be sought for. Retractors are inserted into the lips of the wound, so as to stretch it wide open, and the fat carefully separated with the fingers in the direction of the colon. The guide to the colon is the lower edge of the kidney, and this having been defined, the bowel must be sought for imme- diately in front. If there is any difficulty in finding it, the patient may be rolled over on to his back, when the colon will descend into the wound ; or, failing this, air may be injected into the rectum, if there is not such complete obstruction as would prevent its passing. When the bowel has been found—and it may be recognised by the