534 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES o Gouty synovitis is another form of synovitis which falls under the care'of the physician, and therefore does not require a lengthy description in this work. It usually attacks a single joint, most frequently the meta- tarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe (podagra), but it also not unfre- quently attacks the corresponding joint of the thumb (chiragra) and the knee (gona<^ra). The disease consists in the sudden onset of an acute inflammatory process in the joint, evidenced by intense pain, redness, and swelling from effusion into the joint. This is always accompanied by the deposit of urates in the matrix of the cartilage. As attacks are repeated the deposit increases, until it forms considerable masses, which infiltrate all the structures entering into the formation of the joint. In this way the arti- culation becomes permanently enlarged and deformed, and quite rigid and stiff. Sometimes the skin over the swollen joint gives way, and a discharge of a chalky material takes place. . The treatment consists first of all in careful dieting and the adminis- tration of colchicum, citrate of lithia, and saline purgatives. Locally the application of glycerine and belladonna with a hot fomentation will be most grateful to the patient. After the attack he must be carefully dieted to prevent a recurrence. He should avoid all fats and rich foods, pastry, sweets, and sugar, and his diet should consist of poultry fish, fresh vegetables, toast or stale bread, and skimmed milk, with plenty of fluid, espe- cially hot water, night and morning. He should take regular exercise. A free action of the skin, bowels, and kidneys should be maintained. In the way of stimulants, nothing should be taken except a little whisky or claret. X Acute infective synovitis.—This condition is met with in the course of many infective diseases, as in pyaemia, in puerperal fever, in scarlet fever, smallpox, typhoid fever, and dysentery. Hitherto these conditions have been regarded as distinct from each other, but they are probably closely allied and due to the same cause—the pre- sence in the blood of one of the diff^erent forms of cocci which have been introduced into it from the local lesions of the various diseases which have been enumerated : from the septic wound in pyoemia; from the placental surface of the uterus in puerperal fever; from the ulcerated throa in scarlet fever; from the pustules in smallpox ; and from the ulceratLd intestine in typhoid fever and dysentery. It is brought about by the irri- tating effects of the micro-organisms or their products upon the synovial "'"^ThTdisease begins suddenly with a rapid swelUng from effusion into the joint. The effusion, at first consisting of simply altered serum, speedily becomes turbid and purulent, The inflammation expends to the ligaments and the cartilages, and acute arthritis is setup, ihis lapiai) terminates in complete disintegration of the joint. _ SYmptoms.—The local signs are those, to a certain extent, ot acute local synovitis. There is sudden swelling, which follows the shape of the synovial sac; there is acute pain and heat of the joint. _ But the pain soon becomes of a throbbing character; the skin over the joint becomes ot a dusky patchy hue, and there is cedema of the subcutaneous tissues The disea e frequently attacks more joints than one. The constitutional symptoms are of a clifferent type to those seen in acute local synovitis There Tre rigors, often repeated; a high but oscillating temperature d Sum ; rapfd emaciation and increasing debility with oftei. diarrhea and vomiting ; in fact, all the symptoms which denote an attack of acute septicaemia (page 167).