88o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS taken not to dissect them up, lest pockets be left. Any small vessels which may be wounded are seized and clamped. The sac may be recognised by the vessels being arranged in a network over it. It is to be seized with a pair of dissecting forceps, and a small nick made into it. The escape of fluid will at once indicate that it has been opened. The sac is now to be divided to the full extent of the external incision, and its contents examined. If there is apparently nothing in the sac but omentum, this must be carefully unravelled, for in some cases a small knuckle of intestine may be ensnared and be completely surrounded with omentum. The cause of the strangulation is to be sought for, and can be felt by introducing the forefinger into the sac, and carrying it to the upper part along the herniated contents, when a tight constricting band or ring will be felt, sometimes so tight that the finger nail cannot be passed underneath it. This has to be divided: the tip of the finger or a broad flat director is passed beneath it, and guided by this a hernia knife is introduced and the ring divided. The hernia knife is a blunt-pointed straight or curved bistoury, with a cutting edge of about three-quarters of an inch, commencing the eighth of an inch from the extremity. The direction in which the stricture is to be divided must depend upon the variety of the hernia. In an inguinal hernia the incision is made directly upwards, while in a femoral hernia it is made upwards and inwards. Some surgeons, instead of dividing the stricture from within, recommend that it should be divided from the outside by retracting the edges of the wound. Certainly this plan possesses the advantage that it is done under the guidance of the eye of the surgeon, and there is less risk of the intestine being wounded by its lapping over the edge of the director. It is, however, less expeditious, and with care a wound of the intestine can be avoided. After the stricture has been divided the loop of bowel should be pulled down to ascertain its condition at the point of stricture : here will generally be seen a white line (page 876). If this is whole, and there appears to be some inclination for colour to return in it, it may be safely left. The gut is now washed and returned. Any omentum, if slight in amount and unaltered, may be washed and returned; but if there is a considerable quantity, or it appears to be congested or in any way matted together, it is wiser to remove it. It should be transfixed with an aneurism needle about its centre, close to the point where it emerges from the abdomen ; and a ligature having been inserted in the aneurism needle, and the needle withdrawn, the omentum is to be securely and firmly tied in two portions, and then cut off below the ligature, leaving a sufficient stump to prevent the ligature slipping. The operation above described may have to be modified in several ways according to the state of the bowel. . 1. If the bowel is in a satisfactory condition, and it is noticed that it begins to lose its black hue after the stricture is divided, it may safely be returned, even if it is covered with flakes of lymph, but under these circum- stances it should be thoroughly well irrigated and cleansed with hot antiseptic fluid before it is replaced in the abdominal cavity. 2. If the condition of the bowel is"doubtful, but recovery is thought to be possible, after the stricture is divided it should be well irrigated and gently replaced within the hernial orifice. It will not stray from this position, and if it subsequently gives way, adhesions will have formed, and the f£Ecal matter will be discharged externally. Under these circumstances the external wound should not be entirely closed, but a dram insertea down to the situation of the gut.