MYOMA 239 innocent tumours, and do not recur if completely removed The only treatment consists in their removal, and this can generally be done without ^^'''^vf^ Glioma.—Neuroglia is the name given to the deUcate connective tissue of the brain and spinal cord, and tumours composed of this form of connective tissue and which occur only in the central nervous system are known by the name of gliomata. They are regarded by some as belong- in'^ to the class of embryonic connective tissue growths, and are grouped with the sarcomata, principally because a tumour very similar in structure, but which undoubtedly is a sarcoma, grows not infrequently from the sustentacular framework of the retina. This is known under the name of retinal glioma. But the true gliomata as they occur in the brain can scarcely be regarded as sarcomata, and really are more like an overgrowth of the connective tissue of the brain than distinct tumours, as they are never circumscribed and present the appearance and consistence of the brain substance. They are composed of round cells and an exceedingly delicate areolar stroma, the relative proportion of the two constituents vary- ing in different tumours. The consistence of the tumours varies within certain limits according to the amount of stroma which they contain. As a rule these tumours are single, and do not give rise to secondary growths. GROUP II. TUMOURS COMPOSED OF COMPLEX TISSUES In the second group we include those tumours which resemble in structure the more complex tissues of the body, such as vessels, muscles, nerves, glands, &c. These tumours include the following : I. Vascular tissue (Angioma). II. Lymphatic tissue (Lymphoma). III. Muscular tissue (Myoma). IV. Nervous tissue (Neuroma). V. Papillary tissue (Papilloma). VI. Glandular tissue (Adenoma). I. Angioma.—The angioma or vascular tumours are composed of enlarged blood-vessels of new growth, and do not include those tumours which are produced by dilatation of already existing vessels. They will be considered with the other diseases of blood-vessels. II. Lymphoma.—The lymphomatous tumours are growths exactly resembling in microscopical structure ordinary lymphoid structure. They come under the notice of the surgeon only as they occur in the lymphatic glands, and perhaps, strictly speaking, should not be classed as tumours, but rather as non-inflammatory hypertrophies. Their consideration will therefore be deferred until we speak of diseases of the lymphatic system. III. Myoma.—The myomatous or muscular tumours, that is to sa}', tumours consisting of muscular tissue only, are exceedingly rare,_ but tumours consisting of muscular tissue in combination with fibrous tissue are very common ; these tumours are known as the fibro-myomata. The tumours consisting of muscular tissue alone are divided, like muscular tissue itself, into two classes: (i) those composed of unstriped muscular