864 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS abdominal cavity through some weak spot, and this is especially likely to occur if the compressing force is suddenly applied and is intermittent. Thus all violent muscular efforts rnay determine its occurrence, such as lifting a heavy weight, straining at stool, or severe fits of coughing. It may also be produced by the prolonged efforts of straining induced by stricture, enlarged prostate, or phimosis, in attempting to pass water. Clinical varieties of a hernia.—A hernia may present itself, at different times, in several different phases or clinical' -aspects. It may be (i) reducible, that is to say, returnable into the abdominal cavity; (2) irreducible, when it cannot be returned into the abdomen ; .(3) ob- structed, when the lumen of the intestinal tube is blocked, sq. that'the contents cannot pass onwards ; (4) inflamed, where there is , acute or sub-acute inflammation of the hernial sac or its contents ; and (5) strangu- lated, when the circulation through the herniated portion of bowel is arrested. . ■ . I. Reducible hernia.—This is when the hernia, or at all events the contents of the sac, can be pushed back into the abdominal cavity, or returns of itself when the patient lies down. It is the most common clinical variety of hernia, and, with a few exceptions, the form in which hernia presents itself in its early stage. Symptoms.—The patient complains of a swelling, usually m some situation where a hernia is known to occur, accompanied by pain, and sensation of weakness in the abdomen above the swelling.. The pain varies in amount, is usually of a gnawing, dragging character, and is increased by exertion. Accompanying this there are often symptoms of ' dyspepsia, nausea, and irregularity of the bowels. The tumour is rounded or pyriform iii shape, broader below than above, and a narrowed neck can be traced upwards to one of the abdominal openings. It varies somewhat as to whether it contains intestine or omentum. When it contains intestine it is smooth, regular, and elastic, and becomes tenser when the patient strains. If the gut contains flatus, it is tympanitic on percussion ; if it contains fluid matter or is empty, the percussion note is dull. When the patient coughs there is a distinct impulse, and this impulse is of a distensile nature, similar to the impulse which is conveyed to the fingers in an aneurism ; that is to say, if the fingers are made to grasp the swelling, there will be felt to be a dilatation in every direction, so that the fingers become more widely separated from each other. When the patient is lying down and pressure is applied for the pui-pose of reducing the hernia, the intestine first glides smoothly out of the sac and then dis- appears suddenly. If there should chance to be any fluid in the intestine, this reduction, is accompanied by a very characteristic gurgle. If after reduction the patient is made to stand up and the hernia allowed to return, the swelUng will be seen to appear from, abov-e and descend into the sac. This is a very important sign, and serves to diff"erentiate a hernia from a fluid swelling which can be returned into the abdomen, and in which there may be an impulse on coughing. The fluid swelling increases from below upwards, as the fluid collects in the sac. Lastly, a hernial tumour is opaque to transmitted light; at all events, under most circumstances, in a large scrotal hernia in an infant, in which there is "Othing but intestine in the sac, a certain amount of translucency may be perceived. ^^ hen nie hernial sac contains omentum, the tumour is flabby, ""^ven and inda.tic, it is always dull on percussion ; there is an impulse, except ^^ '"''^'iJ^^V i^^" ^ is small, but it is much less marked than the distinct and expansile impulse