PHIMOSIS penis consisting simply of the tube of the urethra covered by skin ; or, on the other hand, in rare instances there may be a double penis, from both of which urine and semen may be discharged. Sometimes the penis may be adherent to the scrotum, the skin^ on the under surface of the penis being directly continuous with the raphe on the front of the scrotum. In these cases when erection takes place the penis is arched into a bow, and the patient is incapable of having connection. This condition is very often associated with hypospadias (page 990). Wounds of the penis are always serious if they are of any depth so as to penetrate the corpora cavernosa or the corpus spongiosum. If one of the former bodies is wounded, the resulting cicatrix contracts and produces a permanent distortion of the penis, which is very marked when the penis is erect, bending it over to one side and preventing copulation. When the corpus spongiosum is wounded the urethra is generally also injured, and this leads to difficulty in micturition, and a subsequent stricture or a urinary fistula may result. In these cases adaptation of the ed<^es of the wound by suture with careful antiseptic treatment should be carried out. If the urethra is opened, the margins of the opening should be carefully approximated, and a full-sized catheter passed and retained in the bladder. The fibrous stroma of the corpora cavernosa may be torn, generally through some forcible bending of the organ when it is erect; this is followed by similar results as occur after wounds of these bodies. Union takes place by cicatricial tissue, which subsequently contracts and produces permanent incurvation of the organ, and when erection takes place the portion of the penis which has been involved in the injury remains flaccid, because the cavernous spaces of the tissue are consolidated by inflammatory exudation. A peculiar accident has been recorded in which the penis has been stripped from its coverings and displaced into the scrotal tissues or on to the abdominal wall, the skin of the penis and the prepuce remaining in their normal position. In a case of this kind, under the care of Sir W. Fergusson, the penis was displaced into the right groin, and the patient, a boy aged fourteen, passed his urine through a fistulous opening in this situation. Phimosis. This is a term used to imply an inability to retract^ the prepuce. It may be either congenital or acquired. Congenital phimosis.—At birth the internal surface of the prepuce is usually adherent to the glans, but the adhesions disappear after a time. If, however, the orifice of the prepuce is too small, they persist. The secretion of the glands around the corona is thus unable to escape, and collects as a white cheesy material in the sulcus behind the corona glandis. This sets up irritation and inflammation from decomposition, and causes a train of symptoms which to a certain extent resemble stone in the bladder. There is frequent micturition, pam and difficulty in passing water, sometimes with retention, at others with incon- tinence, and the child is constantly noticed to be pulhng the foreskin. This condition may sometimes lead to hypertrophy and fasciculation of the bladder walls, and to dilatation of the ureters and pelves of the kidneys. The constant straining may give rise to hernia and prolapsus ; and various nervous conditions, such as spastic paralysis of the lower limbs, convulsions, and even epilepsy, are said to be caused by it. Later on in life the constant irritation produced by the retained secretion may be a potent cause in the production of epithelioma of the penis. In some children the orifice of