23 SYMPTOMS considerable number of bacteria in the air. Water wou d appear to contain more micro-organisms than air, no doubt on account of the fact that, as we have seen, water is necessary for the life of all bacteria. But for the most part the bacteria found in water are non-pathogenic, and, moreover, can be entirely destroyed by boiling the water for a few minutes There can be no question that the favourite habitat of bacteria is the free surface of the body and some of the cavities connected with it as the mouth, nose, intestine, and vagina. Here they are provided with the two great essentials which, as we have seen, are necessary for their growth, namely, moisture and a certain temperature. • 1 • The surface of the skin is always to a certain extent moist, and micro- organisms brought into contact with it find a favourable habitat, and, accumulating, may speedily be distributed over its surface. Many distinct species have been found on the surface of the body and m some of its cavities ; and though most of these are harmless, others are potent for evil, should they effect an entrance through any abrasion of the cutaneous or mucous surfaces. . . The creneral characters of the whole of this group of micro-organisms are closety allied to the lower forms of vegetable life, but in addition to these there are some animal parasites which also cause inflammation, such as the itch insect, the trichina spiralis, &c., which will be described hereafter. The most important, however, are the vegetable parasitic fungi; these grow into the surrounding tissues, exciting inflammation as they spread ; they enter the circulation by the blood stream or lymph, and cause a true infection both locally and generally. The inflammation they excite is termed infective. . <• c II. Predisposia^ causes of inflammation.—The consideration of the predisposing causes of inflammation need not occupy us long, for they may be summed up in a very few words. Anything which depresses the vital powers may be regarded as a predisposing cause of inflammation ; for example, hereditary tendencies, as gout, syphilis, scrofula; bad habits, as excess in eating or drinking ; faulty hygienic and dietetic surroundings, as bad air bad food, starvation ; iveakened nerve poiver, as when the nervous supply to a part is cut off; certain states of the blood, as in albuminuria, disease of the liver, diabetes, and ansemia. Symptoms of acute inflammation.—The symptoms of acute inflamma- tion are both local and general. I. Local symptoms.—The four local signs or symptoms of acute inflammation as originally laid down by Celsus are ' pain, heat, redness, and swelling,' and to these it is generally the custom to add a fifth, viz. modification of function. It must be borne in mind that it is the sum of these symptoms which indicates the inflammatory process, and not any one single symptom, for occurring singly they may be due to other causes. Of the four cardinal signs, probably the increased heat of the part is the most characteristic sign, though occurring alone it is not necessarily indica- tive of inflammation. When, however, the four symptoms are all present in a part they always indicate inflammation. • , u r The pain is due to the pressure exercised on the terminal branches of nerves by the dilated blood-vessels, and is always therefore greater when the inflamed part is in a dependent position, because under these circum- stances the vessels are more distended with blood. It will often be found, therefore, that the pain of inflammation may to a very great extent be relieved by attention to position. Another characteristic of inflammatory