24 INFLAMMATION pain is that it is increased on pressure ; this is only what one would expect for ,n all probability the nerves themselves are the seat of inflamnmtory change in an inflamed part, and hence any external pressure by oressinL/ on these nerves occasions increased pain. The increase of pain on pressure may become an important sign in diagnosing inflammatory from other kmds of pain, as, for instance, neuralgia, where the pain is often relieved by pressure. The intensity of the pain in inflammation varies very con- siderably, and the variation depends more on the structure afl^ected than on the amount of inflammation, and would appear to depend in a great measure on the amount of tension to which the parts are subjected - thus in dense, resisting structures, such as fibrous tissue, the pain is very 'great whereas in loose, connective tissue, which is extensible and easily yields the pain is often comparatively slight. ' The character of the pain seems to vary, within certain limits, according to the tissue or organ inflamed. Thus the pain which is characteristic of inflammation of serous membranes is of an acute, lancinating character while that of mucous membranes is of a burning character : the pain pro- duced by mflammation of bone is of a gnawing or aching character, and is worse at night : the pain of an inflamed testicle or kidney is described as sickemng; and, finally, the pain when suppuration is occurring is of a throbbing character, and this often aff^ords an important diagnostic sign to the surgeon. ° The W in an acutely inflamed part is always greater, so as to give a sensation of increased heat to the hand placed upon it. This increased temperature is no doubt mainly, if not entirely, due to the larger quantity of blood and not to any appreciable extent to the generation of heat in the part Itself, as was formerly thought to be the case. It is possible, however, that owing to the active chemical changes which are going on there may be a very slight development of heat in the part, but the matter is not one of any great practical importance. The redness in acute inflammation is due to the dilatation of the blood- vessels and the accumulation of red corpuscles in them. At the marginal part of the inflamed area there is a bright red colour, gradually shading off into the normal condition of the skin ; the redness here disappears on pressure, because the mflammation is in the first stage—namely, that of simple dilatation—and therefore the pressure of the finger drives the cor- puscles from the vessels subjected to pressure into neighbouring capillaries. Towards the centre of the inflamed area the redness is of a darker hue, in consequence of the retarded flow, and the fact that in consequence of this retardation there has been time for the red corpuscles to part with their oxygen, and the oxyhaemoglobin to be deoxygenated. The redness here persists on pressure, because all the vessels being choked the corpuscles cannot be expelled from any one vessel by the pressure of the finger. If the inflammation has existed for any little while, there is also a certain amount of pigmentation of the tissues, because some of the red corpuscles have passed through the walls of the blood-vessels, into the peri-vascular spaces, and have there disintegrated and left their pigment behind. Hence it follows in these cases that when the inflammation subsides and the vessels recover their tone, a certain amount of colouration remains, owing to this pigmentation of the tissues. The sivelling in acute inflammation is due to the increased efl^ux of blood in the first instance, and secondly to the exudation which has taken place.