536 INIURIES AND J)ISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES and iron. Patients suffering from gonorrhoeal rheumatism are ahnost always antemic, and a tonic plan of treatment is therefore indicated. Iodide of potassium is often recommended, but owing to its depressing effects it very often proves worse than useless. I have seen in these cases >.ood results follow the internal administration of carbolic acid combined with quinine. Minim doses of liquefied carbolic acid are given with two crrains of quinine, two minims of dilute sulphuric acid, a drachm of Slycerine and water, three times a day. The patient should have full diet, and very often a couple of glasses of stout daily will prove of benefit to him. ARTHRITIS By arthritis is meant an inflammation of all the structures of which the joint is composed. It may commence in the synovial membrane, and from it may extend to the other structures; or on the other hand it may begin in the bones or in the soft parts around the joint, and the synovial membrane become secondarily affected. In its acute form it rarely begms in the ligaments or cartilages, but one variety of chronic arthritis—osteo- arthritis—begins for the most part in the cartilages. Acute arthritis may begin in the synovial membrane, either as (i) a rheumatic synovitis, which may spread to the other structures and occasion disorganisation of the joint; or (2) a septic synovitis, from the introduction of septic material from without through a wound (see page 494); or U) an infective synovitis, from the introduction of organisms from within through the blood (see page 534); or acute arthritis may result from disease of the soft parts external to the joint. In acute bursitis tor instance, running on to suppuration, or in phlegmonous erysipelas of the tissues over a joint, pus may find its way into the cavity of the joint, and acute arthritis, going on to total destruction of the joint, follow, innally, acute arthritis may result from disease of the bones in the neighbourhood. This is especially the case with the acute arthritis of infants, which will be described in the sequel. . . Symptoms.—The symptoms of acute arthritis are pain, heat, swelling, and redness, with fixation of the joint in a particular position. The pain is very severe, and is greatly increased upon the slightest movement; even iarring the bed or shaking the room by walking across it with a heaNy step i< so exquisitely painful as to cause the patient to scream with agony. When the cartilages become eroded and the articular surfaces of the bones exposed, there are painful startings of the limb at night. As soon as the patient drops off to sleep the muscles become relaxed and thrown oil then Luard thus allowing the inflamed surfaces to move slightly on each other, and causing the most excruciating pain and a sudden reflex contraction of the muscles which wakens the patient and causes a scream of agony, i he heat about the diseased joint is considerable. The swelling is not generally very great except perhaps in the early stage, when the inflammation is confined to the synovial membrane and has not spread to the otliei structures It is uniform, and is due in a great measure to inflammatory exudation into the capsule and the structures external to the Pint n the early stage, in joints which are superficial, there is more or less bright redness of the skin over the joint; while later on in those cases which run on to suppuration, the skin becomes of a more dusky hue. The posit.o which the limb assumes is peculiar. It is always more or less flexed-ui