GENERAL DISEASES 178 organs. Mr. Hutchinson advises that the patient should be made to sit in a warm bath for several hours daily, the water in the bath being constantly changed and, if thought advisable, charged with some antiseptic, as boracic acid; iodoform being applied during the intervals between the baths. Others have recommended one or two free applications of fuming nitric acid to the part; this will usually stop the phaged^^na, but the treatment is unneces- sarily severe, and as equally good results may be obtained by milder means, it is not usually called for. 3. The sloughing sore.—The third form of soft sore is the gan- grenous. It usually occurs in those that have a long and tight prepuce,_and is therefore in a great measure the result of want of cleanliness ; that is to say, a patient with this condition of prepuce contracts an ordinary soft sore, and neglecting to carefully get rid of the discharge_ by syringing, this is retained, undergoes putrefaction, and sets up the condition of gangrene. It occurs most frequently in weak and debilitated subjects ; those who have been suffering from want of proper food; soldiers whose health has been undermined by hard service or exposure ; men whose constitutions are shattered by habitual intemperance, or prostitutes who are broken down by want and debauchery. It is said also to occur more frequently in the tuberculous subject. In the male the end the penis becomes enormously swollen, the skin dusky red and glazed, and the prepuce cannot be retracted. In the centre of this red, swollen tissue a black spot appears, which rapidly spreads, until the whole of the prepuce is a foetid gangrenous mass, and is thrown off in the form of foul pultaceous sloughs. There is a discharge of very offensive blood-stained pus. Accompanying this local condition there is considerable constitutional disturbance of an asthenic type, due to septic poisoning. As soon as the sloughs separate and the pent-up discharges find an exit, the intensity of the inflammation diminishes and the fever lessens. _ Not only may the prepuce be destroyed in this way, but also the glans penis, and the sloughing process may extend into the corpora cavernosa, opening up the vessels and causing severe haemorrhage, which may prove fatal j or death may occur from exhaustion. In these cases the glands are not generally affected. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition must be prompt and energetic. The prepuce must be at once slit up in order to reheve tension and lessen the intensity of the inflammation. When this has been done it is usually at the same time desirable to remove the whole of the prepuce, if the tissues where it joins the body of the organ are not involved, otherwise a pendulous flap of skin will be left, which will require subsequent removal. No formal circumcision can be performed, but the prepuce should be simply cut away with scissors and the part then sluiced thoroughly wth i in 20 solution of carbolic acid and dressed with wet cyanide _ gauze and jaconet. If, on slitting up the prepuce, the glans penis is also involved, or if the patient is in an exhausted condition, so as to be unable to stand the hsemorrhage of the major operation, which is generally pretty considerable, the parts should be left and the sloughs allowed to separate of themselves, iodoform being freely applied; any pendulous flaps that may be left being removed on a future occasion. The patient should be treated generally b\- free doses of opium, plenty of nutritious food and a liberal allowance ol stimulants. In women soft chancres present no essential difference from those in the male; they may be either simple, phagedcenic, or sloughing. They are