866 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS and probably it will be sufficient if we indicate the essentials of a good truss, and mention two or three of the principal varieties. A truss should be light, firm, elastic, and should fit accurately, so that it maintains its position in whatever attitude the body is placed. In the ordinary spring truss, which is the form most commonly used the pad is usually composed of a piece of soft metal lined with cork and covered by wash leather; but other materials, such as india-rubber, vulcanite, ivory, or cushions filled with air or water, are sometimes used. The shape of the pad must vary according to the variety of the hernia and its size In the inguinal hernia the pad should be pyriform in shape, so as to press on the whole length of the inguinal canal (fig. 338, a) ; in some cases, where the hernia is of considerable size, of old standing, with a large external abdominal ring and therefore difficult to retain, the pad should be triangular ; this is known as the rat-tailed or semi-tailed truss (fig. 338, d). Wood recommended that in inguinal hernia the pad should be made of box-wood and should be horse-shoe in shape, so as to support the pillars of the ring and the inguinal canal without pressing on the spermatic cord (fig 338 c) In femoral hernia the pad is made much smaller than in inguinal hernia, so that it may not obstruct the femoral vein ; it is also made more convex, so as to press more directly on the femoral ring and canal Its relation to the spring is much more oblique than m the inguinal truss, for whereas in the latter the pad is a direct continuation of the spring, in the femoral truss it is turned downwards and forms an angle with it. (Compare a and b, fig. 338.) > , , v The spring consists of a steel band, possessed of considerable elasticity which encircles the body (in the case of a single truss) from just behmd Fig. 339.—Mode of applying the truss, a, inguinal; B, femoral; C, Salmon and Ody's. In all the hernia is on the left side. the anterior superior spinous process on the sound side to the pad (fig. 339)- As it passes round the back it lies across the base of the sacrum, ana on either side it should rest about midway between the crest of the ilium anu the upper level of the great trochanter. As it turns round ; anterior superior spine to reach the abdomen, it presents a bend ^^"'cn known as the s/iouMer. It should fit evenly and comfortably, just in coma^ with the skin, but without pressing upon it at any part. From the ext > of the spring on the sound side a thong of soft leather is earned lou to the front of the abdomen and fixed by a button to the "PR^"^ . of the pad. In addition to this a second sofdy padded band .. nx to the spring, in the inguinal truss, a little behind the ^ntei 0. supe spine on the affected side, and in a femoral truss a little brought underneath the 'fork' and fixed to a button on the lo^^c