OF THE THUMB 1141 process of the radius, over the thenar eminence and down the rn.dial border of the hand, to the anterior transverse crease of the pahn; a similar incision is made from the styloid process of the ulna, over the hypothenar eminence, to a correspondinj,'- point on the ulnar side of the palm, and the lower extremities of the two incisions joined by a transverse one across the palm, the corners being rounded off. The flap thus formed is then dissected up as far as the level of the wrist joint, and is made to contain all the structures down to the bones. It is then turned backwards, and the fle.xor tendons and the large nen-es divided at the level of the joint and removed ; the other structures, including the palmar arches, are left. The hand being now pronated, a slightly convex incision is made across the back of the wrist from one styloid process to the other ; the extensor tendons and the lateral and posterior ligaments of the wrist divided, and the hand removed. Where the soft parts are scanty this operation cannot be performed, and it may then be necessary to amputate by anterior and posterior flaps of ec[ual length ; but this operation does not yield such good results as those obtained by the long palmar flap. Amputation of the thumb at the carpo-metacarpal joint is hardly e\-er required in practice ; but it is a classical operation, and must therefore be Fig. 434.—Amputation of the thumb at the carpo-metacarpal joint by the oval method, and of the index finger at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. described. It may be done by the oval method or by transfixion, the former being generally preferred. Ihe oval method (fig. 434).—The hand being in a position midway between supination and pronation, the surgeon grasps the thumb with his left hand and introduces the point of his knife over the back of the carpo-metacarpal joint, an inch below the styloid process of the radius, and carries it down the back of the metacarpal bone to the base of the first phalanx ; he then sweeps it round the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, so as to make an oval incision. He then dissects the soft parts from the metacarpal bone, first on the inside and then on the outside, keeping close to the bone, until he reaches the carpo- metacarpal joint ; this he opens, and by twisting, aided by a touch or two with the point of the knife, he disarticulates. In doing this he must bear in mind the close proximity of the radial artery and keep close to the bone. In the operation by transfixion on the right side of the body, the hand is fully supinated and a sharp-pointed long bistoury is thrust into the web between the thumb and index fingers, carried through' the thenar muscles, and made to emerge at the carpo-metacarpal joint ; by cutting outwards, a semi- circular flap is formed. The hand is now pronated, and an incision made