FISTULA IN ANO 903 from the surface the reparative process is not interfered with, not being influenced by the action of the sphincter muscle, and it heals as an abscess in any other situation. If, however, it is allowed to burst into the intes- tinal canal, it forms a fistula which may become complete or remain as a blind internal fistula, and will require division. The typical form of fistula is produced by the ischio-rectal abscess, which is prevented from healing either by small particles of ffecal matter finding their way into the abscess cavity and keeping up irritation, when there is an internal opening, or else by the constant contraction of the sphincter am muscle, which keeps the'walls of the abscess apart and in constant movement, and so prevents the rest necessary for repair from taking place. In its complete form the upper opening is generally very near the anus, just above the external sphincter, and the lower one is, as a rule, not far from the margin of the orifice; so that the fistula is not of any great length (fig. 351). But this is not always so. In some cases the internal opening may be high up, and in others the sinus may burrow round the bowel; and the external opening may be on one side, while the internal is on the other. In other cases a single opening in the bowel may communicate with two or more on the surface of the body, producing a Y-shaped fistula. The symptoms of a com- plete fistula are self-evident; the presence of an orifice by the side of the anus, which often presents a minute vascular granulation and is constanriy discharging a thin purulent fluid, marks the disease. But it must not be forgotten that fistulous open- ings in this situation may not originate in the rectum ; they may be caused by a urinary abscess which has burrowed backwards, or by a labial abscess from gonorrhoea! or fistulous channels in connection with disease in the pelvis ; not, indeed, that a fistulous track in this situation is a simple fistula in ano,' the result of an ischio-rectal abscess, for it may arise from stricture of the rectum, either simple or malignant. This point, however, will be ascertained when the finger is introduced into the rectum. The upper opening of a complete fistula in ano is not always easy to find, but it is of the greatest importance, as regards the treatment, that it should be found. Many of the cases of unsuccessful operation for fistula are due to the fact that the internal opening has escaped detection, and that the director has been pushed through some other part of the mucous surface, so that the whole length of the suppurating track has not been divided. The difficulty in finding the internal opening is explained by the accom- panying diagram (fig. 352). In figure A, a is intended to represent an ischio-rectal abscess which communicates with the bowel at b and the sur- face of the body at c. When this abscess contracts into a sinus it assumes Fig. 351.—Drawing showing fistula in ano. The muscular fibres of the sphincter ani are dissected to show the relationship which they bear to the fistula. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)