44 GENERAL INJURIES tZ'^^'^'u ^''^ ''""fT P'-oducts into the blood, and which, by this time have probably coated the surfaces of the wound. ume, The amount of traumatic fever is always proportional to the amount of ptomaines absorbed. When the wound is large and the quantity of decom posuig material is great, and especially if pent up and sub^^cted to pressur^ which mcreases the rapidity of absorption, a condition known as slpr^emia or septic intoxication is set up. In these cases the temperature rises very wi?i ^nnfnl'Tf ^ "J^^^imum of 104° or 105°; there is great prostration, with a rapid, feeble pulse, nausea and vomiting, frequently diarrhoea raoid emaciation, and the patient falls into a condition of collapse and dies Again in other cases, the temperature does not fall when the wound granulates, or if it has fallen, it again rises; under these circumstances probably pent-up decomposing matter is still retained in the wound under a certain degree of pressure, and a condition of 'hectic' is set up', which will be referred to hereafter. '' Treatment.—In aseptic traumatic fever no treatment is necessary the condition is of an exceedingly transitory nature, and the natural tendency is o recovery. The patient should simply be kept on a fluid diet until the temperature becomes normal, and it may be advisable to administer a purgative, if the bowels are confined. The treatment of the septic form consists in getting rid of the cause of the condition by cleansing the wound of all putrefying material, and if this can be done the fever will quickly subside. In order to do this it may be necessary to reopen the wound, if it has been closed, and possibly to enlarge it, to irrigate it thoroughly with some antiseptic fluid, of which corrosive sublimate solution (i in 2,000) is perhaps the best, and to endeavour to get rid of any fluid locked up in the part by careful and efficient drainage. Traumatic delirium.—A delirious condition may sometimes follow surgical operations and injuries, and this may depend upon three distinct causes. _ i. It may occur in cases of septic traumatic fever, and is then due to the circulation in the brain of the products of the putrefactive changes which are going on in the wound. It is usually termed l7,fl.avimaU)ry traumatic delirium. It usually shows itself from the third to the fifth day after the injury, when the traumatic fever is at its height and is accompanied by increased fever. The delirium is sometimes of a violent character, but usually there is only wandering of the mind and incoherent talk during the night, the patient answering questions rationally during the day. The Treat- ment consists in local measures to get rid of pent-up discharges in the wound, a purgative to clear out the bowels, a light, nutritious diet, and an ice cap to the head when the fever is high. 2. A form of traumatic delirium is occasionally met with, which almost exactly resembles delirium tremens, but which IS not due to excessive drinking, in patients exhausted by brain work, or of highly nervous temperament. The delirium in these is usually of a low muttering character, but is occasionally maniacal and is said to differ from true delirium tremens in the absence of the tremor of the muscles, which is one of the characteristic signs of the delirium of drunkards! These cases are generally relieved by inducing sleep by means of narcotics and by the careful use of stimulants, which are generally indicated, especially when the delirium has been caused by over-exhaustion of the nervous system. 3. By far the most common cause of delirium after injury or operation is the habit of excessive drinking on the part of the patient, and is, in fact, true delirium tremens occurring as a complication of a surgical case! The symptoms usually commence with want of sleep and a nervous,