GENERAL DISEASES 2l8 CHAPTER VIII HYSTERIA Hysteria may be defined as a morbid condition in which certain symptoms are produced as the result of some fault or deterioration in the nutrition of the nervous centres. The name hysteria (va-Tepa, the womb) was given to the disease because it was believed that the condition of the nervous system was induced by some functional disturbance of the uterus. But this view is no doubt erroneous; in at least half the cases of hysteria in females it is probable that the uterine organs are absolutely normal, and moreover the disease occurs also, though not so frequently, in males, so that the term is etymologically absurd as applied to this sex. Though all cases of hysteria are not due to uterine disturbance, it is probable that there is always some condition of ill health which produces the deteriora- tion of the nervous centres, that excites the disease; sometimes it is anjemia or chronic dyspepsia, at other times mental worry or constant trouble, and in not a few of those advanced in life, habits of intemperance, which may cause the disease. It is impossible in a work like this to describe hysteria adequately in all its multitudinous phases, nor is it necessary to do so, as for the most part cases of hysteria fall under the care of the physician ; it will be only necessary to describe, first, an ordinary hysterical fit, and then briefly allude to hysteria in its relation to surgery. An hysterical fit.—Sometimes an hysterical fit comes on without any exciting cause, but in most instances it is induced by some mental emotion, produced by some shock to the nervous system, either physical or moral. It is mainly characterised by a suspension of the power of control possessed by the higher centres, and results in irregular movements, convul- sions, and spasms. The fits frequently begin with a sensation of weight in the abdomen, and the patient complains of a feeling as if some foreign body was present, rolling about and rising upwards to the throat, and producing an intense feeling of suffocation. This condition is known under the name of globus hystericus, and is supposed by some to be due to irregular peristaltic contraction of the oesophagus. The sense of suffocation is attended by deep and hurried breathing, and the patient may be observed to clutch at her throat. This is followed by convulsive movements, which usually terminate in a fit of violent laughing or crying, or probably a com- bination of the two. During the fit the face is flushed, the skin hot, and there is tumultuous action of the heart. As the convulsive movements cease the heart quiets down, and the patient becomes calm and often falls into a profound sleep or into a semi- conscious state, from which, however, she can be roused. After the fit the patient frequently voids a copious quantity of pale urine. The dura-