SPLENECTOMY 833 AFP'ECTIONS OF THE SPLEEN Enlargement of the spleen.—The spleen is often very con- siderably enlarged in cases of malaria, constituting the so-called ague cake, and. also in one form of leucocythemia. Enlargement of the spleen is also found in rickets and in lardaceous disease. In these cases the margins of the enlarged organ can generally be made out, and there is an increased area of dullness. The organ descends on inspiration, and it can be differentiated from enlargement or tumour of the kidney by its general shape, and by the absence of the colon in front of it. Cases of enlarge- ment due to leucocythemia are not amenable to surgical treatment, as the operation of removal is almost invariably fatal from haemorrhage ; but in cases of enlargement in malaria, which have resisted medical treatment and are accompanied by grave cachexia, the operation of removal is some- times attended by great benefit, though the percentage of mortality is very high. Abscess of the spleen is most frequently the result of pyaemia, but it may also follow an injury. It presents the ordinary symptoms of deep-seated suppuration, and may either point in the left hypochondrium or burst into the peritoneal cavity or into the intestinal canal. Floating spleen.—Excessive mobility of the spleen appears to be due in a considerable number of cases to the formation of some abdominal tumour which drags upon it, stretching its ligaments' and causing them to yield ; in some cases, however, it is congenital, and tight lacing has been said to give rise to it. It is certainly more common in women than in men. It gives rise to pain in the back ; a sense of uneasiness and discom- fort after walking; colic and dyspepsia. Upon examination a movable tumour can be felt, sometimes as low as the iliac fossa, which can be recognised as the spleen by its shape and by the sharp thin anterior border, which is frequently notched. Occasionally the elongated pedicle through which the vessels run may become twisted, producing very acute symptoms of peritonitis. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen and fixing the spleen to the diaphragm by sutures, or removing the organ. Tumours of the spleen.—New growths in the spleen are generally malignant, primary sarcoma being the form usually met with, but secondary carcinoma also occurring. Of innocent tumours, cysts are the most common. They may be hydatid, or degenerated angioma, or cysts of doubtful origin. Some of these cases may be treated by incision and drainage. _ Splenectomy.—Extirpation of the spleen may be required for injury, for movable spleen, for malarial enlargement, for cysts which cannot be cured by incision, and in the early stage of primary sarcoma. The operation is best performed in the left semilunar fine. The abdomen is opened and the spleen explored. If there are numerous adhesions, it is wiser to at once abandon the operation, for all torn adhesions bleed freely and render the operation dangerous. When it is decided to proceed with the removal, the organ is gently raised out of the wound, taking great care not to drag on the pedicle. The pedicle is then tied or clamped, and the tumour cut away, each vessel being again separately tied for greater security. 1 he great danger is recurrent h?emorrhage. 3 H