I004 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS 2. The treatment by gradual continuous dilatation consists in passing a catheter through the stricture and tying it in, so that the end lies just within the bladder. In the course of a day or two it will be found that the catheter lies quite loose in the stricture, and it must then be removed, and a larger one inserted. In this way the stricture can rapidly be dilated. This plan of treatment is particularly applicable to very tight strictures where, perhaps, only the smallest instrument can be introduced with the greatest difficulty under anesthesia. In such a case, after the instrument has been introduced it should be tied in, and in this manner the stricture may be dilated up so as to admit a No. 5 or 6 catheter in a week. It necessitates keeping the patient in bed, and is therefore applicable principally to hospital in-patients, whom it is desirable to cure as quickly as'possible, and who, while in hospital, can be confined to bed. The treatment is not, however, without its risks, and cystitis is very liable to be set up by the constant presence of the catheter; and if care be not taken to prevent the catheter lying too far in the bladder, the pressure of the point of the instrument may cause ulceration of the coats of the viscus, and even, as in one case which came under my own notice, actual per- foration. The catheter is best held in position by tying the centre of a piece of tape round the handle of the instrument, and then bringing the two ends down either side of the body of the penis, and fixing them there by means of a piece of strapping which is made to encircle the penis, care being taken not to put it on so tightly as to produce strangulation. The catheter is closed with a wooden plug, which the patient can remove when- ever he desires to pass water. In the course of a day or two some of the urine will pass by the side of the catheter, and probably there will be a little discharge from the urethra. 3. Forcible rupture, by which is meant forcibly rupturing or tearing the stricture by means of some expanding instrument. This is a plan which has had many advocates, but happily now has almost entirely fallen into disuse, as it is attended with very considerable risk, and though it may succeed in restoring the urethra to its full diameter in the course of a few minutes, this can only be accomplished at considerable peril to the patient's life, and can after all only bring about in a few moments what can equally well be done by gradual dilatation in a few days without any appreciable risk to the patient. The dangers of this operation are, first of all, shock, which may sometimes be severe, and in many cases has been followed by suppression of urine, and the death of the patient; secondly, it is not unfrequently followed by urinary abscess, and in some cases this has led to pytemia. The operation has now, therefore, been practically abandoned, and need not further be discussed. 4. Electrolysis consists in destroying the scar tissue which constitutes the stricture by an electric current. To the end of the negative pole of the battery is attached a flexible catheter terminating in a metal tip. This is passed down to and pressed against the stricture. The positive pole, to which is attached a sponge or wet pad, is placed on the back. The .strength of the current should not be more -than 5 milliamperes. After the current has been passed for some time, it may be for half an hour, the catheter will pass through the stricture. The proceeding as a rule causes little or no pain, but may require repeating two or three times, eacli time using a larger electrode. This treatment has recently been revived by Swinford Edwards, Bruce Clark, and others, and is highly spoken of by them, but at present we have no accurate data as to whether there is the same