GENERAL DISEASES 136 boiled mutton occasionally; but beef, all highly seasoned food, hashes, curries, stews, &c., should be avoided. Then comes the question of stimulants. A little stimulant, in the shape of weak brandy or whisky and water, is no doubt required, but I am sure a great deal of harm is done by pushing stimulation too far. It increases the action of the heart, and excites it to drive more blood through vessels which are incom- petent to carry the blood they have already to transmit, and therefore any amount of stimulant which excites the heart's action is prejudicial. In cases of senile gangrene, a question of considerable importance as to the advisability or not of performing amputation cannot be said to be conclusively settled. Until within recent years surgeons abstained for the most part from recommending the removal of the limb in cases of senile gangrene, on account of the acute inflammation, followed by sloughing, which usually attacked the stump. This was due to septic causes, and nowadays with attention to antiseptic precautions may be avoided. There is therefore a greater tendency on the part of surgeons to advocate amputation, and also to advocate early operation, before the patient's strength has been lowered by the pain and want of sleep. The amputation has, however, to be done high up, for it is impossible to say where the gangrene will cease until a line of demarcation is set up, and even after this has taken place a fresh outbreak of the gangrene may take place above the line of demarcation. Therefore, amputation through the knee joint, or immediately above it, is usually recommended. Of these, the latter operation is probably to be preferred, as the flaps are better nourished, and there is less risk of sloughing. But there is something to be said, on the other side, against the routine practice of amputating early in these cases. Amputation in the lower third of the thigh is a serious measure for a gangrenous toe, which may continue for a long period, twelve months or more, without causing any great constitutional disturb- ance, slowly creeping on or undergoing arrest, and gradually separating. It is a serious measure, because such an operation cannot be performed on a man advanced in life, with rigid calcified arteries, and a feeble heart, and probably with his kidneys and other eliminatory organs in not as healthy a condition as they once were, without very considerable immediate risk of death from shock. And again, because of the feeble vitality of the tissues, the process of repair is very prolonged and imperfect, and the patient may sink from exhaustion. Moreover, in these cases, owing to the brittle nature of the vessels, the process of ligaturing them is attended with considerable difficulty, since the ligature, as soon as it is tightened, cuts through the vessel and will iiot hold. Torsion in these cases is out of the question. In one patient on whom I operated for senile gangrene, the difficulty I had in commanding the hemorrhage was so great, that I had to resort to the actual cautery before I could control it. Personally, therefore, I cannot say that I recommend the routine practice of high am- putation in the early stage of senile gangrene. I think that each case should be treated on its merits, and before deciding on amputation, atten- tion should be directed to the rate of progress of the gangrene, the amount of pain suffered, the general state of health of the patient, and the condition of his eliminatory organs. Sudden obstruction of the flow of blood through the vessels pro- ducing gangrene may be caused by («) accident, ligature, (7) embolism, or {I) by strangulation. («) Under the head of accident we include all those cases where the