CONTUSION OF THE LUNG 781 mammary artery, and it may be necessary to remove a portion of the costal cartilage or tie the vessel in the space above. With regard to the inter- costal vessels, the hccmorrhage often continues because the artery has been incompletely divided; complete division and seizing the bleeding point with a pair of clip forceps, which can be left on and packed with the dress- ing, will usually suffice, if the vessel cannot be tied. Tampon plugs are sometimes used, but cannot be recommended. A square piece of aseptic hnen is laid over the wound and pushed partly into the pleural cavity with the point of the finger. The bag thus formed is packed with gauze and then tied round the mouth with a piece of silk. By now pulling on the portion of linen which remains outside, firm pressure is made on the parietes around the wound, and the heemorrhage is stayed. It is very seldom that this plan of treatment is required. 2. The diaphragm may be injured in punctured wounds of the lower part of the chest, and some of the abdominal viscera, the stomach or colon especially, may protrude into the thoracic cavity and may become strangulated. 3. Hernia of the lung is a rare condition. It may be either (i) immediate or (2) subsequent. (1) Immediate hernia of the lung {prolapse) occurs in extensive wounds of the parietes of the thorax, when a portion of the lung is protruded during expiration. It is easily recognised, and, if recent, it should be at once carefully cleansed and returned by pressure. If not soon reduced adhesions form between the two layers of the pleura, and it is then irreducible and may ultimately become gangrenous and slough off, or it may shrivel up and almost disappear. It may be removed, where it cannot be reduced, by ligature and the knife, or by searing it off with the actual cautery. Guthrie recommends that it should be left alone and allowed to slough off (2) Subsequent hernia of the lung {pneumocele) generally occurs where there has been an external wound, the cicatrix of which yields It may also be caused from weakening of the chest wall from fractured ribs without an external wound, or from giving way or rupture of the intercostal muscles from violent expiratory efforts, as in labour or cornet-playing. Symptoms.—Pneumocele forms a soft compressible tumour,*^ which increases in size during expiration or coughing, and can be diminished or altogether disappears on pressure. It gives to the hand a soft crepitant leel, and with the stethoscope a fine crackling sound can be heard. It does not appear in any way to shorten life, and the only treatment which is necessary is to fit the part with a concave shield which will support the tumour and prevent its increase. INJURY TO THE THORACIC CONTENTS Contusion of the lung.—In these cases there is bruising of the lung tissue, with extravasation of blood into the air cells, without any lesion ot the pleura. The extravasated blood gradually breaks down, and is dis- charged by coughing. It is a not uncommon complication of fracture of the ribs, but may occur independently of this lesion. In slight cases there may be no appreciable symptoms for some days, at the end of which time the patient coughs up a quantity of rusty sputum; but in severer cases there is paroxysmal difficulty in breathing, resembling asthma, and if a