I002 INJURIKS AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL GROANS rigor, should supervene. His bowels should have been well opened beforehand, and he should be directed not to pass his water for some time afterwards. If the temperature begins to rise, or symptoms of rigor set in, five grains of quinine and a cup of hot beef tea should be given. Dangers of catheterism.—In addition to the dangers of shock and urethral fever from passing a catheter, there are other dangers which must be borne in mind. In all operations on the deeper part of the urethra there is always a certain amount of reflex action on the kidneys, which causes congestion of these organs ; and if they are diseased, as they often are in cases of stricture, suppression of urine may result. Local troubles may also be set up by the passage of an instrument. Urethritis and cystitis have already been alluded to, and not uncommonly inflamma- tion in the urethra may extend down the vas deferens, and a condition of epididymitis be set up. Hsemorrhage may occur from the passage of an instrument. This is usually from abrasion of the mucous membrane by the point of the catheter, and is to be avoided by using the greatest care and gentleness; but in other cases where the mucous membrane is congested a certain amount of bleeding cannot be avoided. It is never very severe, and usually stops of itself in a short time. False passages may be produced by the too violent use of the catheter, the point of the instrument finding its way out through the coats of the urethra into the surrounding tissues. They are especially liable to occur where a small metal instrument is used. They partake of the character of a lacerated punctured wound, and usually take a direction downwards and to one side ; they may, however, be directed downwards, without any lateral deflection, and after traversing the tissues for a certain distance, may re-enter the canal; they are not then attended with so much danger. When, however, they are deflected to one side, they may enter the loose areolar tissue between the rectum and bladder, and then serious consequences may ensue from inflammation and abscess around the neck of the bladder. The occurrence of a false passage is at once indicated by the surgeon feeling, at the moment he is making some little effort to introduce the instrument, a sudden onward movement, and a deflection of the handle of the catheter to one side. This is attended by a sudden pain, and probably the patient cries out, and blood issues from the urethra. On introducing the finger into the rectum the point of the catheter will be felt too near the bowel, below the prostate. In some cases the instrument has been pushed through into the rectum. In order to avoid making a false passage, it cannot be too strongly insisted upon that no force should ever be employed in passing a catheter. The point of the instrument should be always kept towards the roof of the urethra, as false passages are generally made through the floor of the canal. If the surgeon is aware that he has made a false passage, he should desist from any further attempt to introduce an instrument, unless retention is present, and should desire his patient to abstain from attempting to pass water as long as he can, in order that the wound may become glazed before any urine passes over it. No attempt should be made to pass a catheter again for some days until the wound has healed. Treatment.—The treatment of stricture of the urethra must be con- sidered under two heads : first, the treatment of the common form in which strictures are met with, where a catheter can be introduced into the bladder; and secondly, the treatment of those cases where it is impossible to pass an instrument.