WOUND OF LUNG FROM FRACTURED RIB 783 Symptoms.—The symptoms of surgical emphysema are a puffy swelling, which starts from the neighbourhood of the injury and may gradually spread until it involves the whole of the injured side of the trunk, and may extend up the neck to the face, or on to the extremities. The swelling is pale and tallowy, and when pressed upon affords a peculiar crackling sensa- tion, which when once experienced can hardly be mistaken for anything else. The same crackling is to be felt in some cases of gangrene from the evolution of the gases of decomposition into the cellular tissue, but the diagnosis is at once made by the discolouration of the skin in gangrene, and the con- stitutional symptoms. When the swelling is so great that it extends into the neck, there is danger from pressure on the trachea. Treatment.—When the emphysema is not extensive no treatment is necessary; it will rapidly disappear. It is better in these cases not to apply a bandage, as this might prevent the air escaping into the cellular tissue, where it does no harm, and cause it to collect in the pleural cavity. If the emphysema is great, and especially when it causes pressure on im- portant organs, as the trachea, minute punctures should be made in great number, so as to allow of the escape of the air externally. This proceeding IS rarely necessary. {b) Pneumothorax.—The causes are the same as those which pro- duce surgical emphysema, but in addition to these it may sometimes occur in cases of phthisis, from the giving way of a vomica. The signs of this condition are urgent and excessive dyspnoea, resonance of the chest on percussion, and amphoric respiration, which may be described as a sound resembling the noise heard by blowing obliquely into an empty flask. The heart is displaced to the opposite side. Treatment.—If the symptoms are urgent, so as to threaten life, the chest should be tapped with a trocar and cannula and the air allowed to escape, which it will do generally with a hissing sound ; and the lung, which has been compressed, will at once expand. (2) Ip cases of wound of the lung from a broken rib, blood may be extra- vasated into {a) the subcutaneous tissue, (b) into the pleural cavity or (0 into the substance of the lung, {a) When it is extravasated into'the subcutaneous tissue it constitutes an ordinary bruise, which differs in no •respect from contusions in other situations, (b) When it is poured out into the pleural cayity {hcBmothorax) it may produce speedy collapse and death if it IS poured out in large quantities. When the extravasation is less, there are signs of fluid in the pleural cavity, coming on shortly after the injury, and attended by syncope, vertigo, paleness of the face and blanching of the hps, and short and hurried breathing. The physical signs of fluid in the chest are increased capacity on the affected side with bulging of the intercostal spaces; dullness on percussion, which may be universal if the cavity is full, or at the most dependent part !l u I partially filled ; and absence of the normal respiratory murraur the breath sounds being tubular in character. There is loss of vocal fremitus and bronchophony, {c) In wounds of the lung, the blood may oe extravasated into the lung substance around the injury, producing a condition resembling pulmonary apoplexy. In these cases there is a circumscribed area of dullness on percussion, which does not alter in position with changes in posture of the patient, and over which there is loss of the respiratory murmur. In addition to these situations into which the oiood, in injury of the lung, may be extravasated, it may find its way into tne bronchial tubes and may be expelled by coughing {hoimoptysis). Some-