557 DISEASE OF THE ELBOW JOINT will cause the lesser tuberosity of the humerus to appear at the bottom of the wound, and the surgeon separates the tendon of the sub-scapularis from it, and at the same time divides the capsule of the joint as far inwards as he can reach with his knife. The assistant then rotates the arm inwards, and depresses it; this causes the great tuberosity to appear at the bottom of the wound. The three muscles, supra-spinatus, infra- spinatus, and teres minor, are then severed from their attachments, and the capsule freely divided on the outer side of the joint. The assistant, by still further depressing the arm, forces the head of the bone out of the wound, the surgeon freeing any remains of the capsular ligament behind. The saw is now applied, and the head of the bone cut off. In doing this it is desirable, if possible, to saw parallel to the anatomical neck and a little below it, so as to leave the greater part of the two tuberosities ; in some cases, however, where the disease is very extensive, it is necessary to saw through the surgical neck. This, however, is apt to leave a flail-like joint. After the head of the bone has been removed, attention must be directed to the glenoid fossa, and all diseased bone thoroughly gouged away, and all remains of synovial membrane and granulation tissue removed with the flushing gouge. An opening is now to be made at the back of the joint by pushing the point of the knife through the soft parts, taking care to keep well above the posterior circumflex artery, and a drainage tube inserted through the opening. The anterior incision is sutured, the parts dressed, and the arm bandaged to the side, with a large pad in the axilla to prevent the muscles which pass from the wall of the chest to the upper end of the humerus, pulling the bone inwards. Passive motion should be commenced at the end of the first week. The elbow joint.—The elbow joint is frequently the seat of synovitis, both simple and septic. The simple is the result of injury, strain, or exposure to cold, and is very liable to be followed by permanent stiffening of the joint. The elbow joint is especially liable to become the seat of suppurative synovitis from extension of septic inflammation from neighbouring parts; thus in cases of suppurative inflammation of the bursa over the olecranon, and in cases of diffuse cellulitis of the forearm, which spreads as far as the elbow, this joint is very liable to become involved. When effusion takes place into the joint, the swelling is greatest around the olecranon; that is to say, on its inner and outer sides and above it, so that the hollows in this situation are replaced by a rounded fullness. Occasionally a well-marked triangular fullness may be seen lower down on the outer side of the olecranon, from efl"usion into the pouch of synovial membrane beneath the anconeus, and the head of the radius is obscured by swelling of the synovial sac in this situation. There is generally merely a little deep-seated fullness at the front of the joint, beneath the brachialis anticus muscle. In cases of suppurative synovitis, incisions should be made into the joint on either side of the olecranon, care being observed on the inner side to avoid wounding the ulnar nerve. In cases of synovitis, care should be taken to maintain the limb in such a po.sition as to give the patient a useful member in case ankylosis ensues. This should be a little less than a right angle, so as to enable the patient to get his hand to the back of his head or to his mouth. The difference between a right angle and a slightly acute angle is of great importance as regards the comfort of the patient. In cases of fibrous ankylosis of the elbow joint, the treatment by massage and passive motion IS not always very satisfactory, on account of the complicated nature of the