1063 TUBAL PREGNANCY be drawn down considerably lower into the vagina, and a second inch of the broad ligament is treated in the same way. This second ligature will embrace the round ligament and the pampiniform plexus of veins, and when this second part, which has been constricted, has been cut a\yay from the uterus, it will be found possible to drag the organ down sufficiently to pass a ligature over the top of the Fallopian tube, and by tying it constrict this structure and the ovarian artery. The tissues between this third ligature and the uterus are then divided with the scissors on either side, and the organ, being freed from all its connections, can be delivered from the vagina. The vagina is then washed out and lightly stuffed with gauze, no sutures being introduced. The gauze may be removed at the end of the second day. The operation of removal of the uterus for cancer has not been attended with that amount of success which could be wished, because, in many cases, the connective tissue and glands of the pelvis are infected at a very early period of the disease and before operative interference has been under- taken, so that the removal of the uterus has proved merely palliative. Quite recently Ries and Clarke in America have advocated a much more extensive proceeding. They advise the removal, by the abdominal route, of the whole of the pelvic connective tissue, together with the uterus. The parts removed include all the lymphatic glands situated along the course of the iliac vessels up to the bifurcation of the aorta and in the sacral hollow, and the broad ligaments, utero-vesical and recto-vaginal ligaments, and the meso-rectum. The peritoneum is closed over the cavity that is left. AFFECTIONS OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES The Fallopian tube is subject to several morbid conditions, which can scarcely be discussed in this work. It may be the seat of inflammation, either acute or chronic, generally the consequence of septic infection of the genital tract (salpingitis), or the closed tube may be the seat of dropsy as a result of inflammation (hydro-salpinx), or may be distended with pus (pyo-salpinx) or with blood (hcemato-salpinx), the blood being either the menstrual fluid which is unable to escape on account of an imper- forate hymen, or atresia of the vagina, or blood which has been poured out into the tube as the result of injury or abortion. It must not be mistaken for a tubal gestation. The Fallopian tube may be the seat of stenosis, of tuberculous disease or of tumours, or its extremity may be herniated into a hernial sac in either the femoral or inguinal region, either alone or in company with the ovary, or with bowel or omentum. Finally, the Fallopian tube may be the seat of an extra-uterine foetation, and it seems desirable that something more than a passing mention should be made of this condition, since the surgeon might at any time be called upon to operate on one of these cases, and it is necessary therefore that he should have a knowledge of the symptoms by which it may be recognised and the line of treatment which should be carried out. Tubal pregnancy.—A fertilised ovum may lodge in any part of the tube, (i) When it lodges in that portion which traverses the wall of the uterus it is termed interstitial or tubo-uterine gestation. In these cases, when rupture takes place, it generally does so into the uterine cavity, and the embryo is discharged as in an ordinary abortion.