796 INJURIES AND i)ISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS If the stomach is injured, this viscus should be emptied of its contents, if it contains anything, by gently squeezing it, and the rent repaired. This is done, if there is not much bruising or laceration of the edges of the wound, by uniting them by a Czerny-Lembert suture, which consists in joining the mucous surfaces of the rent with a continuous suture, and then bringing the serous coat on either side of the rent in apposition by an ordinary Lembert's interrupted suture. This suture is applied in the following way. The needle is introduced into the serous coat on one side of the laceration and some little distance beyond its extremity, and made to penetrate to the submucous coat and then emerge again. It is now carried across the line of the rent and reintroduced into the submucous tissue, and made to emerge at a point a little more external to the laceration. In this way a series of sutures are applied, at the distance of about an eighth pf an inch from each other, until they extend well beyond the other extremity of the rent (fig. 306). In applying these sutures care must be taken not to perforate the mucous coat, otherwise leakage may take place. By draw- ing up and tensing these stitches, the margins of the wound are tucked in and the peritoneal surfaces around the rent are brought into apposition. They are then tied. It will be seen that in this way a groove is formed, and it is generally a wise precaution to insert an extra stitch at either end, so as to completely close the terminal extremities of the groove. After the rent has been closed, the abdominal cavity must be carefully cleansed of all extraneous matter with sponges, and by irrigation with steriHsed water or a normal saline solution of a temperature of 100° to 105° F., care being taken to get rid of all the surplus water before the abdomen is closed, for, having been mixed with putrescible matter, it may be more, or less septic, and if left behind likely to set up mischief. If the edgps of the wound are much lacerated and torn, it may be advisable to excise them; but this proceeding materially prolongs the operation, which it is desirable should be completed as rapidly as possible, on account of the condition of the patient, and is often attended with considerable haemorrhage. It the rent is on the posterior surface of the stomach, the difficulties of the operation are greatly enhanced. An attempt must be made to reach the seat of injury by division of either the layers of the great omentum as it passes from the stomach to the transverse colon, and thus opening up the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, or by dividing the gastro-hepatic omentum. When the injury is in the bowel, one of several plans will lia\e lu be pursued according to the amount of injury which has been do"*^ ^° the intestine. If the wound is clean-cut and is not extensive, tne perforation may be closed by a single layer of Lemberts suture, but if the edges are torn and jagged, though the wound is not extensn p it is better to excise them and bring the parts together by the > Lembert method. In those cases where the wound is extensive ana gut around is much bruised, or where there are several wounds, or tne » Fig. 306.—Czerny-Lembert suture.