366 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES of the limb. Perhaps a better application is to paiut the part over freely with a mixture of equal parts of extract of belladonna and glycerine, and then swathe the limb in a thick layer of medicated wool, which may be li<^'-htly bandaged on. The internal administration of an alkali (potassium bfcarbonate) "to render the urine neutral or slightly alkaline is of use, especially in the gouty form of the disease. When all inflammatory symptoms have subsided and sufficient time has been allowed for the organisation or removal of the clot, massage should be employed in order to get rid of the oedema and inflammatory thickening which has taken place. 2. Infective phlebitis.—The suppurative form of phlebitis is a much more serious condition than the plastic form. In it the walls of the vein and the thrombus contained in the vein are infiltrated with pyogenic ori^anisms. The disease may begin in the coats of the vessel, as a phlebitis, its''wall becoming infected with septic material from an infective inflam- mation of the tissues in the neighbourhood ; or a thrombus may first form and the organisms may then invade the clot and from it spread to the wall of the vessel, or the clot itself may be septic, the infective material having been carried in the circulating blood from some distant focus of infection. In whichever way formed the clot undergoes puriform softening and the products blend with those of the disintegrated vessel. Fresh thrombi form above the first one, and these in their turn break down and become puri- form, and in their disintegration portions of the clot are often dislodged and are carried in the blood stream to other parts, where they become lodged in the arterioles and form emboli, which, being infected with septic matter, form secondary abscesses, and thus a general condition of pyaemia is established. In many cases the infection spreads from the vem to the tissues around, and suppuration takes place in these tissues. The disease occurs in connection with septic wounds, and especially in septic inflamma- tion of bones, such as acute necrosis, or osteo-myelitis after amputation and compound fracture. It is now almost banished as a sequel to surgical operations, though formerly, before the introduction of antiseptic surgery, it was of very common occurrence. In some cases the infected thrombus may be localised by a plastic phlebitis taking place in the vessel on the cardiac side of the infected area. This seals the vessel at this point and prevents the passage of the septic material into the general circulation. In these cases local suppuration occurs at the infected area, but no general pyfemia results. Symptoms.—When the disease attacks a superficial vein, the symptoms are sufficiently obvious : a solid cord will be felt, with enlargements, corre- sponding to the position of the valves, the skin around is dusky red, and the tissues more or less infiltrated with inflammatory effusion, so as to a certain extent to obscure the outline of the vein. There is pain and tenderness along the course of the vessel and oedema of the parts below. After a time the hard cord becomes softer, and eventually fluctuation will be detected and all the symptoms of acute abscess. The disease may be limited in those cases where a plastic phlebitis is present beyond the area of infective phlebitis, but in many cases the inflammation may be traced rapidly creeping up the vein. When the disease is situated in one of the deeper veins, the symptoms are much more obscure, and indeed the disease may not be suspected until the grave symptoms of septicjemia and pyemia show themselves, but acute deep-seated pain with marked oedema should always lead the surgeon to suspect this condition in cases where a septic wound is present.