INTESTINAL ANASTOMOSIS 803 taking place, union has occurred just external to the line of pressure atrophy, and by the time the button is free the two divided ends of the gut will be united. Murphy's button is still regarded by some as the best means of perform- mg end-to-end anastomosis, though it does not appear to retain all the favour which was at first bestowed upon it. Undoubtedly the great point in its favour is the rapidity with which it can be employed. But numerous unfortunate accidents have followed its use. Among these are the tendency which it has to remain in the bowel, sometimes without doing any harm, at others causing obstruction and perforation; in other cases there has been failure of union, or sloughing at the line of junction and extra- vasation of fceces; again, a case has been recorded where the button from Its weight caused kinking of the gut and strangulation, and in a patient under my own care the lumen of the tube became blocked by a piece of potato skin which the patient had swallowed. It would seem, therefore that It IS better to join the two ends of the intestine by means of simple suturing, without the use of any appliance, and to reserve Murphy's button Fig. 312.—Mode of applying Murphy's button in end-to-end anastomosis. for those cases where the completion of the operation in the shortest possible time is a matter of urgent importance. It will generally be found, however, that the surgeon may be expected to attain the greatest success by using that method with which he is most familiar. The subject of end-to-end anastomosis cannot, however, be left without mentioning an important modification of Maunsell's method which has been suggested by Ullman. The first steps are identical with those adopted by Maunsell, but when the two segments of bowel have been pulled out of the lateral incision, he introduces into the tube a bobbin of decalcified bone and ties a silk thread round its centre, where there is a groove, inclosing the two tubes of gut; he then returns the bobbin and protruding bowel, and sews up the lateral opening. This materially shortens the operation, and would appear to combine rapidity with security. ^ 3 F 2