163 CHAPTER III SEPTICEMIA AND PYEMIA The terms Septicaemia and Pyaemia have been somewhat vaguely applied and in different manners by different authors. In order to clear the ground it is necessary to define the sense in which they will be used in this work. By the word septicaemia we mean the fever produced by the presence of bacteria or their toxic products in the blood. By the word pyaemia we understand something more than this ; that is to say, pyjemia is septiccemia phcs the formation of secondary abscesses in various tissues and organs of the body; so that in these latter cases there is a fever due to the presence of bacteria or their products in the blood, and there are in addition purulent collections in various parts of the body, which in themselves may generate toxic products, and so not only keep up but increase the fever which already exists. But we must go farther than this. Experimental research has gone far to prove that under the head of septicaemia we must include two different conditions. If, for instance, putrid meat solutions are injected into a given number of animals in sufficient quantities, they all die with well- defined symptoms. But suppose a single drop of this same solution is injected into the same number of animals, say a dozen : in a certain number, perhaps two or three, definite symptoms will be set up which will terminate in death, whilst in the rest no ill effects will be produced by the experiment. We have therefore two distinct conditions. In the first a poison is irijected into the blood stream, and if it is introduced in suffi- cient quantities it invariably causes death, and in these cases the symptoms .supervene directly after the introduction of the poison; if it is injected in smaller quantities it produces the same train of symptoms, but they are not so severe and the animal does not die, but after a longer or shorter interval perfectly recovers; and again, if injected in a very small quantity no appreciable effect IS produced. In this respect the poison resembles in Its effects the symptoms produced by the introduction into the system of an ordinary vegetable poison, as, for example, opium or one of its derivatives. Supposing, for instance, we inject under the skin of an animal a large dose of solution of morphia, the animal becomes comatose and dies, and this the more rapidly the larger the dose; but suppose a smaller dose is injected, the animal presents all the symptoms of opium poisoning, but after a time recovers and is apparendy none the worse for the experiment; and thirdly, if a very minute quantity is injected, no appreciable result is observed. The form of septicaemia, then, in which the poison, the product of putrefaction, produces results proportional to the amount of poison M 2