5i6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES Symptoms.—The signs of this dislocation are very similar to those of the previous one, but less marked. There is flattening about the hip, and the trochanter is displaced, though not to the same extent as in the dis- location on to the dorsum. The limb is shortened to the extent of about an inch. The thigh is adducted and rotated inwards, so that the ball of the great toe rests on the great toe of the opposite foot. The direction of the axis of the femur is across the knee of the sound side, instead of across the lower third of the thigh as in the dorsal dislocation, and it is by this sign that the one form of displacement is distinguished from the other. The head of the bone is often felt with difficulty, or perhaps, buried beneath the glutei muscles, it cannot be felt at all. The treatment of this dislocation is to be carried out in the same manner as in the dislocation on to the dorsum ilii. Dislocation into the obturator foramen.—In this disloca tion the head of the bone usually rests on the obturator externus muscle, close to the inner margin of the obturator foramen ; but sometimes it is dis- placed further inwards, and rests on the rami of the os pubis and ischium. Symptoms.—There is an appearance of deformity about the hip, which is flattened. On the outer side there is a depression where the trochanter ought to be; in front there is a hollow below the middle of Poupart's ligament; internally there is a tense cord, which stands out prominently beneath the skin, caused by the tense adductor longus muscle : behind, the fold of the buttock is on a lower level than natural. There is lengthening of the limb: this, however, is more apparent than real, and is in a great measure due to tilting downwards of the pelvis on the affected side ; but there may be a little real lengthening. If the patient assumes the erect position, this obliquity of the pelvis will be very percep- tible and the body will also be bent forwards, owing to the tension ot the iUo-psoas muscle. The limb will be seen to be abducted and advanced in front of the other, with the toes either slightly everted or pointing straight forwards. The head of the bone, if it rests on the obturator externus muscle, is not very easily felt; but if it is advanced further inwards, it can be readily felt and even seen as a globular mass under the tense skin ot ttie perineum. Patients in whom this dislocation has been allowed to remain unreduced are often able to walk without pain or di£ficulty._ _ Treatment.—There is not generally much difficulty in reducing an obturator dislocation by manipulation, as the bone has not travelled tar from the place where it left the capsule, and therefore all that is necessar) is to make it re-enter the rent in this structure. The patient having been placed on a mattress on the floor, and anaesthetised, the surgeon standing over him grasps the knee with one hand and the ankle with the other, and flexes the leg on the thigh and the thigh on the pelvis, at the same time slightly abducting it, and by this means disengages the head of the bone from the structures on which it rests, and brings it close to the rent in the capsule By now rotating the femur strongly inwards he causes the_ head of the bone to enter the rent in the capsule, and then adducting it and carrying the knee to the floor by a movement of extension he completes the '"""^Disiocation on to the os pubis.—In this dislocation the head of the bone rests on the os pubis, generally close to the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, but sometimes more internally, nearer the pubic spine. . j o ,.,^r^■ Symptoms.—The most marked sign of this dislocation, and a %er)