653 DISEASES OF THE TONGUE Dermoid cysts in the floor of the mouth may be found in two situations; either in the median Hne, between the two genio-hyo-glossi muscles, where they are probably due to a dilatation of an unobliterated portion of the thyro-glossal duct; or to one side of the middle line, on the outer side of the genio-hyo-glossus, when they owe their origin to the inclusion of a piece of epiblast in connection with the formation of the structures in the floor of the mouth. They form rounded, smooth, elastic sweUings, which can be distinguished from a ranula by their deeper position, _ as they are always situated under the mucous membrane, which can be pinched up from them and is normal in appearance. Though they are congenital, they may remain small and be undiscovered until adult age, when they may begin to increase suddenly and may attain the size of a bantam's egg. They present the ordinary structure and contents of dermoid cysts -(page 229). The treatment consists in making an incision in the median line of the submaxillary space and dissecting out Other forms of cysts which sometimes project into the floor of the mouth are hydatid cysts, and enlargement of the bursa between the o-enio- hyoid and the genio-hyo-glossus. The latter, however, more usuall? pro- jects in the neck, forming a fluctuating swelling in the sub-maxillarv triangle. SaliYary calculi, consisting of phosphate and carbonate of lime may torm in any of the salivary ducts, but most commonly occur in Wharton's duct. They cause retention of the saliva, and the gland becomes swollen and painful upon taking food. They can at once be detected by passing a probe down the duct. The treatment consists in making an mcision through the mucous membrane over the duct and prising out the calculus. DISEASES OF THE TONGUE Tongue-tie is a rare condition, though anxious mothers constantly consult the surgeon under the belief that their child is tongue-tied When the condition really exists, the frasnum is so short, and attached to the tongue so far forwards, that this organ cannot be protruded beyond the front teeth; when it can, there is no need for operative interference. In those cases where there is true tongue-tie, it may interfere to a certain extent with sucking, and later on with distinct articulation. Under these circum- stances the frasnum should be divided. This little operation is performed by introducing two fingers of the left hand, one on either side of the fnenum, and pushing the tongue out of the way; a nick is made in the anterior border of the frsnum with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors and the tongue is forcibly pulled upwards by the two fingers and the rest of the fraenum torn through. The cut should be made downwards to avoid wounding the ranine artery. _ In rare cases the frsenum of the tongue is too long, and under these circunistances the tongue may be sucked or fall backwards during sleep over the opening into the air passages. Death from asphyxia has been recorded from this cause. Hypertrophy of the tongue (Macroj^/oss/a).—This is not a true hypertrophy of the tongue, but is a condition which is set up by some obstruction to the lymphatic circulation at the base of the tongue