RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA 869 points which will have to be taken into consideration : (i) The occupa- tion; (2) the age; (3) the social position; (4) the general health; and (?) the temperament of the patient. _ ■, ■ . . I As regards the occupation.—If a man is engaged in sedentary occupations, there is little chance of his rupture coming down with a well- fittin^ truss, whereas if the subject is a labouring man exposed to injury and strain, there is always the chance that the hernia may descend, even though a fairly efficient truss is applied. The radical cure is therefore more indicated in these latter cases than the former. -> The age.—In the elderly patient there is little necessity for advo- cating a radical cure, because he is not likely to engage in any laborious occupation, and moreover it is not desirable to perform it, for he is not a favourable subject for the operation; but in the younger man who is full of vigour and activity, it is desirable to render him as physically sound as possible. In quite young children, there is considerable difference of opinion as to whether it is right to operate or not. The reasons which have been given why it is undesirable to operate on young children, are on account of the difficulty in maintaining the wound aseptic ; and secondly, because a permanent cure may be eflfected by wearing a truss. The first objection is not a very vaUd one—with care and good nursing there ought to be no great amount of difficulty in keeping the wound aseptic; but with regard to the second, though it is true that in a certain percentage of cases a hernia may be cured by wearing a truss, still it must be remembered that this can only be accomplished if the mother or nurse is intelligent and willing to devote herself to managing the truss, and this, especially among the poor, is not easy to accomphsh. The truss is liable, particularly in fat children, to shift during the movements of the child; it is also liable to become soiled by the urine and fseces, and to become a source of irritation; and again, in consequence of the growth of the child, it speedily becomes too small and requires renewing. Finally, it would appear in many cases, where a cure by truss is supposed to have taken place, that this is not so, especially in cases of congenital hernia, but that there is merely a narrowing of the funicular process, which prevents the rupture coming down for a time, but that later on in Hfe the hernia recurs. On all these grounds, a radical cure in children is to be advised. 3. The social position of the patient has to be taken into consideration. We have seen that to be fully equipped a patient with a rupture requires four trusses, and these are constantly getting out of order and require renewal, and therefore the treatment of hernia by trusses is a source of considerable expense, which to a poor man is burdensome and is an extra reason for advising him to submit to operation. 4. The general health of the patient should always be taken into consideration, and the existence of any organic disease of the viscera is an indication for the non-performance of the operation. 5. The temperament of the individual should also be taken into account. In some the constant wearing of a truss is exceedingly irksome and repugnant, whereas others do not seem to mind it in the least. Where the former is the case, it would be an extra inducement to advocate operative interference. Many different plans of operation have been introduced_ of late years, more particularly in the treatment of inguinal hernia, for which the radical cure is especially applicable. We shall first of all consider the operation for the cure of this form of hernia; and secondly, the radical cure in femoral