544 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES often localised to some part of the joint, and not forming a globular enlarge- ment of the whole joint, as in the tuberculous form of disease, with which it is apt to be confounded. There is some limitation in the movements of the articulation, but no increased redness or appreciable increase in the heat of the part Tater on, if softening takes place, the swelling becomes more doughy and eventually fluctuates, the skin becoming discoloured and of a purplish hue. Conjoined with this is the history of syphilis and nrobably the evidence of syphilitic lesions in other parts of the body. Treatment —The treatment of this condition consists in the administra- tion of iodide of potassium or sodium, and improvement of the general health bv tonics change of air, and carefully regulated nutritious diet. 1 he tonics esnecially indicated are iron and cod-liver oil. The local treatment con- sists in the earlier stages of hot douching and massage, with some form ol SDhnt to support the joint and restrain its movements. In a considerable number of cases this treatment is attended with very satisfactory results, and the disease subsides, with or without permanent thickening. _ The disease is met with in the hereditary as well as in the acquired form of syphilis, and in the former the administration of a course of mercury "ln?ongenital syphiUs the disease shows itself in joints in another way. Not unfrequently a child with evident traces of inherited syphilis will be brought under the notice of the surgeon with passive effusion in two sym- metrical joints, generally the knees. The effusion is usua ly unattended vfth pain and there is little or no thickening of the synovial membrane or ciDSular ligament. It is an example of hydrops articuli, spoken of above (mere q^i) The great characteristic of the disease is the uniformity with Sch it attacks the corresponding joint on the two sides of the body This and the evidence of inherited syphilis establish the diagnosis. The disease is very intractable, and leads to weakening and instabihty of the 0 nt from stretching of the ligaments. A marked feature in these cases is he varktion in the amount of fluid which takes_ place : at times it wil cUmini h very considerably, and it will appear as if resolution were about to foUow, and then, without any assignable cause, a fresh effusion will occur rhe t °ea ment of these cases consists in administering a prolonged course of mercury and careful bandaging, to promote absorption by pressure, and support the weakened joints. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS Tuberculous arthritis may commence in the synovial membrane ..hlhSl^^n ^^P'^/'^ or in the ends of the long bones Tntering nto the for^iadon of the joint. In addition to ^^^is tuberculou arthrSs may be the result of a tuberculous condition o the tissues in e neighboiXood of a joint, extending by continuity of structure to die rtfculation Thus tuberculous bursitis may terminate in general implica- arucui • . . J neighbourhood of the bursa. TubercXus synovitis is that form of disease which is populai y known S the^-ame'^of ..kife swelling, and is a very common disease m VSy^^^e is generally the result of some slight m|ury