INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION 841 anus may be made. This proceeding is not adapted to strictures in the small intestine, as an artificial anus in the small intestine, especially high up, leads to death from malnutrition. This plan of treatment should only be resorted to when none of the other measures are applicable, or where, on account of the patient's condition, they cannot be undertaken. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION The term intestinal obstruction is variously used. In this place it will be employed to denote those cases where there is a com- plete arrest to the passage of fteces and flatus along the intestinal canal from some mechanical cause, and therefore will not include those cases where the arrest is due to some nervous influence, as in paralysis of the gut in acute peritonitis, or in enteritis following the reduction of a strangu- lated hernia, &c. Nor will it include those cases where the passage of the faeces and flatus is arrested in consequence of the protrusion of a portion of the gut through some normal or abnormal opening in the abdominal wall. These cases will be considered separately under the head of Hernia. The arrest of the passage of the fasces and flatus through the intestinal canal from mechanical causes is attended by certain local and constitutional changes. The local changes are mainly due to venous congestion of the gut at the site of obstruction. In consequence of the interference with the venous circulation, the part becomes loaded with black blood, and then inflamed, and this causes such damage to the walls of the gut that the bacteria of the intestine (bacillus coli communis) escape through them, and peritonitis, either local or general, is set up. The venous congestion, if the cause is not removed, goes on to gangrene, and subsequently ulcera- tion and perforation. If the cause of the obstruction is removed early enough relief follows, the venous congestion subsides, the peritonitis is arrested, the peristaltic action of the intestine returns, and the fceces pass on in the natural way. But it may happen that the obstruction has not been removed until such time as irretrievable damage has been done to the gut; then the venous congestion continues, the gut remains paralysed, no return in the peristaltic movements takes place, and ulceration and perforation follow. The constitutional symptoms depend upon the absorption of the decomposing intestinal contents, the inability to take food, and the ex- haustion induced by the constant vomiting, so that they are characterised by rapidly increasing weakness and exhaustion, failure of the heart's action and respiratory centres, and death from asthenia. It is convenient to consider intestinal obstruction as an acute and chronic condition, but it must be borne in mind that the same mechanical obstruction may give rise to either one of these two conditions. Acute intestinal obstruction.—Several different causes may give rise to an acute obstruction in the intestine. They may be classified as follows: (i) internal strangulation of the bowel ; (2) volvulus; (3) stric- ture; (4) foreign bodies; and (5) intussusception. I. Internal strangulation of the bowel.—These are cases where the bowel is compressed, so as to arrest its circulation, by some cause within the cavity of the abdomen, such as an abnormal band, or by slipping through some normal or abnormal opening in the abdomen. They