INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS across, and pushed l)efore the finger into the bladder. This may be avoided by first introducing a pair of dressing forceps along the groove in the staff after the urethra has been incised," and by opening and with- drawing them, dilating the passage before an attempt is made to introduce the finger. 5. Another accident which is likely to arise from the knife slipping from the groove in the staff is that the bladder is never reached at all, but the loose connective tissue between it and the rectum is opened up. This is then broken down by the finger; and under the supposition that it is in the bladder, fruitless endeavours are made to find the stone. Causes of death.—Death may result from shock, after a protracted operation, as in the case of a very large stone ; it may occur from hccmorrhage; or from suppression of urine, where the kidneys are exten- sively diseased. Later on it may occur from diffuse septic inflammation of the pelvic cellular tissue leading to pyaemia. This arises in those cases where the recto-vesical fascia has been laid open, and the urine becomes infiltrated into the pelvic cellular tissue ; and also where the Fig. 374.—Petersen's bag. areolar tissue about the neck of the bladder has been torn and bruised in the endeavour to extract a large stone. Septic cystitis is another occasional cause of death after lateral lithotomy, the inflammation extending to the kidneys and destroying Ufe from septic pyelo-nephritis. Supra-pubic lithotomy—The removal of a stone from the bladder by an incision through the anterior abdominal wall immediately above the symphysis pubis, and through the anterior wall of the bladder, where it is uncovered by peritoneum, has lately come prominently into favour. The main danger in the operation is that of wounding the peritoneum. The method which is often adopted to avoid this danger is to introduce mto the rectum an india-rubber bag of a pyriform shape (Petersen's bag), to which is attached a piece of india-rubber tubing provided with a stopcocK (fig. 374). This bag is introduced empty, and then filled with from ten to twelve ounces of water. This proceeding elongates the prostatic "''^^"f"^ lifts the bladder out of the pelvis, and pushes the peritoneum out of the way. It is not, however, unattended with risk, and cases have been recorded where the rectum has been torn, so that under no circumstances should more than twelve ounces of fluid be inserted into the bag. Anotne