AFFECTIONS OF THE OVARY dangers which attend rupture. In the majority of cases, however, the rupture will have taken place before the surgeon will be called upon to treat the patient. These cases imperatively call for immediate operation. All abdominal section should be at once performed, and the tube, with its placenta and embryo and the ovary and part of the broad ligament, should be removed in the same manner as in obphorectomy; the peritoneal cavity should be then cleared of blood and clots and the external wound closed. This can only be done in cases of tubal gestation where rupture occurs, as it almost always does, before the tenth or twelfth week. In cases of tubo- ovarian gestation where the rupture may take place later, or in cases of secondary rupture, this cannot be done. The sac must be laid freely open, the foetus extracted, and the sac wall sutured to the edges of the abdominal wound. The placenta must not be disturbed. The strictest antiseptic precautions must be taken. AFFECTIONS OF THE OVARY Malpositions of the ovary.—The ovary may be misplaced or displaced. It is misplaced when it does not descend to its normal position after its development in the lumbar region ; it may be retained either in the neighbourhood of the kidney, or it may descend as far as the brim of the true pelvis, and become fixed in this position. The ovary may be displaced either into the sac of a hernia {oophorocele), or into Douglas's pouch (^prolapse). Oophorocele or hernia of the ovary.—In these cases the ovary becomes displaced, and passing out of the pelvis through the in- guinal canal or the femoral ring, and, pushing the peritoneum before it, forms a complete hernia, in which the contents of the sac is the ovary, some- times accompanied by the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube (page 1063). The variety of hernia is most frequently inguinal, and it may occur on one or both sides. In some cases the hernia, when inguinal, is said to be of the congenital variety, and the ovary would then descend through the canal of Nuck into the tunica vaginalis. There are no very distinct signs by which this form of hernia can be diagnosed from an ordinary intestinal hernia, but it is said that it becomes larger and more tender during menstruation ; there is, of course, no characteristic gurgle on reduction. Sometimes the ovary in the sac may become inflamed, and symptoms would then arise which might simulate strangulation, or true strangulation may occur, though this is rare. Treatment.—In the majority of cases where the ovary is reducible the condition may not be suspected, and the case may be regarded as an ordinary hernia. If it is, the treatment would be the same : the application of a well-fitting truss. It may be sometimes necessary, on account of great pain, or from degenerative changes taking place in the ovary, to remove it. Prolapse of ovary.—As a result of some displacement of the uterus, or in consequence of some change in the bulk of the ovary and after preg- nancy, the ovary may become displaced into Douglas's pouch and lie between the rectum and vagina. It may then give rise to no symptoms at all, or, on the other hand, it may be the source of great pain and discomfort. The patient often suffers from a constant, wearing, sickening pain in the region of the sacrum, greatly increased at the catamenial period. Increased pain