761 SACRO-COCCYGEAL TUMOURS This operation has been ably advocated by Mr. Mayo Robson, of Leeds. He states that the operation is indicated (t) in cases of meningocele, whether the opening into the canal is large or small ; (2) in cases where the coverings are thin and translucent, even when this condition extends to the margin of the tumour; and (3) in cases where the cord is expanded, or nerves are blended with the sac. Excision of redundant parts, or incisions between manifest portions of nervous structure, reduces the tumour and enables it to be returned in the canal, and no difficulty is e.xperienced in covering the replaced structures. Professor Yelverton Pearson, of Cork, has introduced some modifications in the technique of the operation. He places the child on the side with the head low; he makes a lateral incision instead of a median one, and after incising the sac, plugs the canal with sponges to prevent leakage. After opening the sac, he retains the fluid, as far as possible, by holding up the margins of the opening with compression forceps, so that the contents of the sac are displayed in a bath of fluid, during the separation of the cord &c. from the skin; and finally he employs a small drainage tube for a few days, placed between the dura mater and the aponeurotic coverings. Spina bifida occulta is a term applied to a condition where there is a deficiency of the laminse and spinous processes of the lower vertebrae, and a hollow cul-de-sac of dura mater protruding through it and adherent to the skin, but without any visible swelling or tumour. The condition is indicated by the growth of a tuft of hair in the situation of the deficiency, which is sometimes of extraordinary length. In some cases a considerable deposit of fat takes place around the process of dura mater, presenting the appearance of an ordinary lipoma. This condition is often accompanied by imperfect innervation of the parts below; perforating ulcer, club foot, paralysis, and incontinence of urine have all been noted as complications of this disease. Treatment.—When spina bifida occulta is uncomplicated, it is best to leave it alone; but where any of the above-mentioned -complications exist, it should be treated by excision. The cul-de-sac should be exposed, liga- tured at its base, and the distal portion removed. If this is done in early life, there may be some prospect of relief to the paralytic symptoms. Sacro-coccygeal tumours. — There is a group of tumours occasionally found in the sacro-coccygeal region which is for the most part congenital, and which are known as congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours. They may be conveniently arranged in three groups: i. Der- moid tumours.—These may be either cystic tumours, containing the ordinary dermoid structures, hair, epithelium, and sebaceous material; or more solid tumours resembling closely in structure the thyroid gland, con- sisting of alveoli, lined by cubical epithelium and bound together by connective tissue. These tumours spring from the structures between the rectum and coccyx, and are believed to be formed in connection with the mesenteric canal, by which, in the embryo, the neural canal communicates with the hind gut (see page 230). 2. Teratomatous tumours, which in their most highly developed form are included foetuses, but more commonly cysts containing clear fluid with irregular masses of tissue in which foetal remains are found. 3. Certain forms of tumour, cystic hygroma, lipoma, and soft fibromata, usually growing from the anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx. The symptoms differ with the nature of the tumour. They vary in consistence, and are often irregular on their surface. Their origin from