102 GENERAL INJURIES the results which follow primary amputation are much more satisfactory than those where secondary amputation is performed. Where amputation is not required the wound must be treated on ordinary surgical principles ; the main points to attend to are absolute rest, free drainage and strict asepsis. By these means inflammation may be limited, and slough.s, if they form, separated with a minimum amount of suppuration. 2. Injury by explosive shells.—The injury is produced by the impact of the fragments, into which the iron casing of which the shell is com- posed breaks up upon its explosion, and the damage depends upon the number and size of the fragments which strike the individual. They pro- duce some of the most terrible wounds met with in war. They inflict lacerated wounds of very irregular shape, in which large portions of tissue, or even an entire limb, may be torn away. They may splinter a bone in every direction, or they may reduce the body to a shapeless mass. Sometimes if a small piece of shell strikes an individual it may pass through, making a wound of entrance and a wound of exit, both of which are large and ragged. But as a rule, though they produce severe laceration an"d may penetrate tissues to a considerable extent, they rarely pass through them. 3. Injury from small shot.—Injuries produced by the discharge of small shot from a fowling piece are the most frequent form of gunshot wounds which are met with in civil practice. The amount of damage which is done depends upon the distance at which the gun was discharged. If the person wounded is within a few feet of the muzzle of the gun at the time of the explosion, the injury produced is of the most extensive character. The charge of shot enters the body like a solid mass of metal, and then spreads in all directions. Here the entrance wound is large and its edges crenated, because the shot have already begun to spread a little ; unless the muzzle is quite close to the individual, when the mass of shot makes a wound like that produced by a fragment of shell. The exit wound is very large and irregular, and its margins have a sieve-like appearance from isolated shots passing out. When the gun is fired from a considerable distance, the shots spread as they fly, and produce a number of wounds, which usually do not penetrate beyond the subcuta- neous tissue. Here they rarely do any harm, unless they suppurate. Sometimes a shot may chance to strike an important part, as the eye, and the sight may be destroyed. CICATRICES AND THEIR DISEASES We must not leave the consideration of wounds without saying a few words upon the diseases of scar tissue. As we have already seen, scar tissue is formed from the connective tissue cells of the part, and consists of a lowly organised fibroid material, which is a distinct retrograde change from the normal tissues. The diseases to which it is liable are therefore, as we should naturally expect, diseases of degeneration. The three diseases to which cicatrices are liable are : (i) Ulceration, (2) Keloid, and (3) Epithelioma. I. Ulceration.—The most common complication of a scar is ulcera- tion. This only takes place in large scars which have formed from wounds where there has been considerable destruction or removal of skin, so that the edges of the wound cannot be approximated, and is particularly liable to occur after burns, and is evidently due to the low organisation of the