584 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS 11. INJURIES OF THE SKULL Fractui'es of the skull may be incomplete, that is, implicating one table of the skull only ; or complete, where the whole thickness of the skull is involved. . , , „ • , 1 ^ v. Incomplete or partial fracture of the skull is most commonly met with in those cases where the fracture occurs over the situation of some of the air sinuses of the bone, and where the external table forming the outer wall of the sinus is broken. Thus fractures over the frontal sinuses or the mastoid cells may belong to this class of partial fracture. They derive their principal interest from the fact that as these sinuses contain air, this may find its way through the broken bone, and permeate the subcutaneous cellular tissue, setting up a condition of emphysema. Scratch fractures, as they are called, also belong to this class. These are cases where the external table is slightly broken by a direct blow in cases of scalp wound, and belong to that class of case which has been already considered as the third variety of scalp wound, and lead to the same results. A third variety of incomplete fracture is where the internal table is fractured and often depressed, without any injury to the external table. In these cases no diagnosis can be made during life, and the patients generally die of intra- cranial mischief. . „ . • / \ c Complete fractures comprise the following varieties: (i) fissure, (2) comminuted fracture, (3) punctured fracture, (4) depressed fracture, S compound fracture, and (6) fracture of the base. All these fractures are produced by external violence, which may either be where the skull yields at the point struck ; or indirect, where the force producing the fracture is not applied directly to the skull, as in a case where a man fractures the base of his skull by falling from a height on to his feet. A third doubtful way in which fracture may be caused is by what is lermed contre-coup, where the vibrations caused by the injury meet at a point opposite to that struck, and produce a fracture in this situation. I Fissure of the skull is a crack in the skull, which starting from the point struck, may often extend for a very considerable distance It may be productive of no further symptoms than those of the shock 01 the injury and gives rise to no signs by which its presence can be diagnosed. No doubt in many cases of injury to the head, m jhich symptoms of concussion have alone existed, a fissure has also been presen , but its presence has been unsuspected. If the fracture is compound, then the existence of the fissure would be at once evident by the presence ot a red streak, and would be felt by the finger nail carried over th^ suriacc or the bone. Even if a fissure is detected, no special treatment is called lor If it is compound, the most rigid care must be taken to preserve asepsis, as the patient's safety depends in a large measure upon this, ^^^i^iple nssure in children is in rare cases followed by the formation of a A^ctuat „ sweUing under the scalp. This occurs in those cases ^^'l^*-^'-^/1^ g mater has been torn in a line corresponding to the fracture, and the contained in the tumour is cerebro-spinal, which finds its way hio". the fissure in the bone. The swelling is translucent, becomes ^n ^ ^^hen the child cries, and sometimes pulsates. It can "c^^f/^"'; ^hat in size by pressure. The treatment is unsatisfactory; the only t "S ^J*^ can be done is to aspirate and then apply pressure, in the hope that it not refill.