540 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES synovial secretion ; but this is by no means a constant condition, and as a rule the disease is essentially ' dry ' throughout its course. As the disease advances the capsule becomes thickened, and bony outgrowths spring up from the periosteum of the adjacent bone, producing greater deformity than that which already exists, and further interfering with the movements of the joint, which may have been already seriously interfered with by the interlocking of the osteophytes springing from the articular cartilages. It must be borne in mind, however, that no true ankylosis takes place, and no fusion between the outgrowths, though they may be firmly wedged one into the other. The eburnation spoken of above as taking place on the articular surfaces, does not extend deeply, and the bones below are of a more open texture than natural and filled with yellow fat. In consequence of this the bones become much altered in shape. The rounded heads of the long bones, as the humerus and femur, become flattened out and expanded, and the neck shortened, so that they assume the shape of a mushroom. The cavities with which they articulate become enlarged and flattened. Symptoms.—The symptoms of osteo-arthritis are pain, rigidity, defor- mity, and crepitus or grating. The pain is not very great in the earlier stages of the disease, but later on it becomes of a peculiarly wearing, aching character, being worse at night and in damp weather. The rigidity at first is slight; it will be found that the patient is unable to flex and extend the joint to the same extent as on the opposite side, and if this is attempted, pain is induced. Subsequently, the growth of the additamentary bones interferes with the movements more and more, and if they become interlocked with each other, movement is almost entirely arrested. The deformity may be due in the earlier stages to effusion into the joint, if there is any ; but as the case progresses it is caused by the alteration in the shape of the bony surfaces, and to the formation of the osteophytic outgrowths around the joint. The crepiius is at first merely a slight creaking on movement; but when the cartilages are eroded it is a true bony grating, caused by the rubbing together of the exposed bony sur- faces, and is sometimes so loud that it can be heard all over the room. Treatment—-The treatment of this complaint when it is fully estabHshed is never very satisfactory. When structural changes have taken place, they cannot be repaired; but in the early stages much may be done to arrest the rapid progress of the degenerative changes. The most potent means of giving relief is by sending the patient to reside in a dry warm climate and improving the general health by a light digestible diet, fresh air, and tonics, especially arsenic, at the same time keeping the bowels freely open by gentle laxatives, and the skin acting by warm clothing, Turkish baths, &c. The joint affected should be protected from cold by a flannel bandage, but its movements should not be restricted, as this causes it to become fixed sooner than it otherwise would have been. When changes have taken place in the joint, as indicated by alteration in the joint surfaces and in the loud grating on movement, much may be done to relieve the suffering. Hot-water douches are very beneficial, and rubbing the joint with stimulating embrocations is attended with good results. If pain is very severe it may be relieved by sedative applications, such as opium and belladonna. Iodide of potassium given internally will often relieve the pain, but it is better to avoid giving it, at all events for any long period of time, on account of its depressing efl"ects. Natural mineral waters and baths, especially those of Wildbad in Germany, Aix-les-Bains