CARIES OF THE SPINE 765 implicated, and pain in this region may be the result. A chil.d therefore who is brought by its mother, complaining of 'belly ache' for which there is no obvious cause, should always be looked upon with suspicion, and a careful examination of the spine made. Sometimes a single nerve only is impli- cated, and this may produce a sensation as if a string were tied tightly round the body. This is popularly known as girdle pain. 2. Local pain, that is, pain at the seat of disease. The patient may come com- plaining of a fixed pain in one particular spot along the spme, but usually there is no pain, unless it is elicited by pressure on or per- cussion of the vertebral spines. If the spines are percussed one after another down the whole series, the patient will flinch and complain of pain when the spine of the diseased vertebra is struck; or a similar result can perhaps more readily be obtained by striking the transverse processes. Pain can also be usually elicited by jarring the spine, by causing the patient to jump off a footstool or low chair, or by requesting him to stand on tip-toe and then sharply bring his heels to the ground. Rigidity is a constant sign of early disease of the spine, and is_ caused by reflex spasm of the muscles, which are thrown into contraction in order to immobilise the spine and prevent any movement of the diseased surfaces on each other. This rigidity causes the spine to be held in a stiff and erect position, and the patient walks with great caution. This rigid spine is often at once apparent to the practised eye, and causes the diagnosis in some.cases to be made at a glance. But if it is not so apparent, the rigidity may be often demonstrated with great facility : if the patient is requested to flex the spine it will be at once seen that no movement takes place between the affected vertebrae ; if he is asked to pick up any object from the floor, instead of bending the trunk to do so, he will flex the knees and hips, keeping the trunk rigid, or else go down on his knees in order to pick it up. The manner in which children recover themselves after stooping to pick up anything is often very characteristic. They will place their hands on their knees, and by gradually raising their hands up their thighs, assist the elevation of the trunk, by 'climbing up their legs,' as it is generaUy described. If the disease is in the cervical region the child will carry the head stiffly ; the chin is poked forwards and often supported with one hand, and if the child is asked to look to one side he will turn the shoulders and trunk and not the head only. If then a child of a tuber- culous type or with a tuberculous history is brought to a surgeon with a fixed and rigid spine, complaining of ill-defined superficial pains about the trunk, and a sensation of pain can be elicited by jarring the spine or percussing, there need be no hesitation in pronouncing the case to be one of tuberculous caries of the spine. Deformity.—Sooner or later, if the case is not treated, deformity sets in, and corresponds in a great measure with the extent to which the bodies of the vertebrae have been diseased. In those cases where there are several foci of small extent, as sometimes occurs in the lumbar vertebrje, the whole of the body is not destroyed, but some parts remain- ing intact serve to support the trunk, and then there is no deformity. But in all other cases, as the body of the vertebra becomes destroyed, the vertebrre above sink down, and as they do so, the spinous processes project posteriorly and produce an obvious deformity, which may be recognised at a glance. When only one or two vertebras are affected, this produces a true angular deformity; but when several bodies are involved, as frequently occurs in the dorsal region, it partakes more of the character of