789 WOUNDS OF THE HEART in cases of bronchiectasis, where it is believed that the dilatation is con- fined to one bronchus, but so far without any material benefit. The operation is performed by raising a flap and removing a portion of one or two ribs. If the pleural cavity is obliterated, the lung is incised with a Paquelin's cautery, and a drainage tube inserted. If, on the other hand, the two surfaces of the pleura are not adherent, and the case is not urgent, the lung should be connected to the parietal pleura by a few points of suture, and the completion of the operation deferred for a couple of days, until adhesions have taken place. Pneumectomy, or excision of a portion of the lung, has been performed in a few instances ; but the only cases in which it is likely to be required are those already described, when a portion has become prolapsed through a hole in the parietes (page 781). WOUNDS OF THE HEART AND LARGE VESSELS Wounds of the pericardium.—The pericardium may be wounded by a stab or broken rib, or may be bruised or torn by a severe blow on the chest, without the heart being injured. It is attended with marked col- lapse and cardiac failure, followed by inflammation. At first friction sounds may be heard, but eff"usion soon takes place, and there is an increased area of pre-cordial dullness, and the heart sounds are muffled or inaudible There is intense thoracic oppression, with orthopnoea and dyspnoea restlessness, pallor, a frequent feeble pulse, and coldness of the extremities' In some cases blood is efl-usedinto the sac of the pericardium from a wound of some vessel of considerable size ; then the increased area of cardiac dullness is present from the first, without any antecedent friction • the heart sounds are feeble and indistinct, and the impulse scarcely to be felt I he most senous cases are those in which the injury to the pericardium is comphcated with an external wound, because there is the danger of sentic infection. * ^ The treatment consists in guarding against infection of the wound by antisepsis ; m keeping the patient at rest; and if effbsion ensues, and is caus- ing serious symptoms of pressure, in tapping and draining the pericardium Wounds of the heart are often immediately fatal, but not necessarily so. They may be non-penetrating, that is, they may involve the substance of the ventricle without perforating the cavity ; under these circumstances they may prove fatal from shock or from haemorrhage if one of the coronary arteries has been injured ; or from pericarditis ; or, on tne other hand, the patient may recover. Or wounds of the heart may be penetrating, opening one of the auricular or ventricular cavities : they are then almost invariably fatal from loss of blood (figs. 302 and -^o^) the period at which death takes place varying with the size of the perforation and the rapidity with which the blood is poured out. Symptoms.—If the wound is immediately fatal, the patient either falls at once prostrate or starts up convulsively, uttering a sharp and piercing shnek and then falls dead. If, on the other hand, the wound is small ana the blood escapes more slowly, there is intense collapse ; great distress, th K ■ ^"^^ anxious countenance ; restlessness; dyspnoea ; the action of me heart IS tumultuous, weak, and irregular; the pulse scarcely perceptible and the heart sounds obscure or inaudible. If the patient survives, signs ot pericarditis supervene. ^