815 PERFORATION OF THE STOMACH Symptoms.—The symptoms of perforation are the sudden occurrence of a severe pain in the region of the stomach, often after the ingestion of a hearty meal, in a patient who has been suffering from symptoms of dyspepsia—discomfort and pain after food, vomiting or regurgitation, pyrosis and perhaps heematemesis. The attack of pain is followed by collapse, and the pain which was at first localised in the left hypochondrium becomes diffused all over the belly. The patient often vomits, and the vomited matter may occasionally contain blood. Upon examination there is tender- ness on palpation, especially over the region of the stomach ; the breathing is generally thoracic ; the abdomen is often distended and tympanic, owing to the presence of free gas in the peritoneal cavity, and the normal liver dullness is replaced by a clear bell note. When these symptoms are present, a perforation of the stomach may be definitely diagnosed. The perforation takes place usually on the anterior surface of the stomach, and more often towards the pyloric extremity. When the perforation takes place on the posterior surface of the stomach, the lesser bag of the peritoneum has generally become previously obliterated by adhesions, and the extravasation of food takes place outside the peritoneum and an abscess forms in the retro-peritoneal tissue. The matter travels up between the liver and the diaphragm, and usually points in the neighbourhood of the ensiform cartilage. In these cases the left pleura often becomes involved, and a collection of pus takes place in the pleural cavity. These cases of perforation of the posterior wall of the stomach do not give rise to the symptoms detailed above as occurnng when the anterior wall is perforated. They are merely those of acute abscess. Treatment.—If a diagnosis has been made of perforation of the stomach, operative interference should at once be proceeded with as the only chance of saving the patient's life. There should be no delay, as statistics have abundantly proved that it is only by operating early that a successful issue can be fairly hoped for. While preparations are being made for the operation, the patient should be kept quiet on his back, and nothing should be given by the mouth. A hypodermic injection of morphia may be given to allay pain and keep the patient quiet, and if there is severe collapse an enema of hot brandy and water. The abdomen is to be opened by a median incision above the umbilicus, and if more room is required a transverse cut may be made through one or other rectus muscle. When the peritoneum is reached, a small puncture should be first made so as to allow the contained gas 'to escape slowly; and when this has taken place, the peritoneum is divided to the extent of the external wound with scissors. Fluid and particles of partially digested food will escape. The perforation is now to be sought for, and when found drawn up to the surface of the wound, and the stomach emptied into a dressing tray or large sponge by gentle pressure. The abdo- minal cavity is now to be cleared of all extraneous matter by careful spong- ing m a systematic manner, commencing at the top of the abdomen and gradually working the way down into the pelvis, so that all particles of food which have escaped from the stomach may be dislodged from the folds of the peritoneum. The next step in the operation consists in closing the perforation. This can be done by turning in a tuck of the wall of the stomach and sewing the margins of the tuck together. The viscus is held by an assistant rather loosely on either side of the ulcer, and the surgeon with his forefinger pushes the ulcer inwards, so as to invaginate it into