SURGERY SECTION I I NFL A MM A TION In commencing a study of the Art and Science of Surgery, it is necessary to describe Inflammation, which is at the root of and underlies most surgical processes. A right understanding of it is, therefore, necessary in order to clear the ground and enable us to appreciate the various patho- logical changes which take place in the several diseases which we shall have to describe. In considering the subject of inflammation, the first thing necessary is to have a clear and logical understanding of what inflammation is. The definition which is most usually accepted is that proposed by Sir John Burdon Sanderson : that ' inflammation is the succession of changes which occur in a living tissue when it is injured, provided that the injury is not of such a degree as at once to destroy its structure and vitality.' Or, in other words, more briefly and succinctly, it is ' the response of living tissue to injury.' By this he means, that whenever an injury is inflicted on any part of the hvmg body a series of changes takes place in the part, and these changes, up to a certain point—that is to say, as long as a destructive process is going on—constitute inflammation. The further changes which take place are those of repair, and are not inflammatory. Inflammation must therefore be regarded as essentially a destructive process, and precedes repair, which is more or less a constructive process; and the one must not be confounded with the other. The older definition of inflammation was that it was that condition which was attended by certain so-called cardinal symptoms—pain, heat, redness, and swelling—and it was said that we must regard these symptoms as the ' characteristic of the thing of which the word inflammation is the name' (Burdon Sanderson). But I shall have occasion to point out im- mediately that we are not in a position to say that a part is inflamed because of the_ presence of these four symptoms, for I shall have to describe a condition in which they may all be present and which certainly is not inflammation. If we do not accept Burdon Sanderson's definition of inflammation, as B