994 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL OR(iANS penis against it. The piston is then slowly pushed home and the fluid injected. It is allowed to remain in the urethra for about half a minute; the nozzle is then withdrawn and the fluid escapes. A useful mode of applying antiseptics to the urethra is in the form of bougies. The best of these is the iodoform and eucalyptus bougie. It is made of iodoform gr. v ; eucalyptus oil uix; oil of theobroma gr. xxxv. The patient first passes water, and then the bougie, which has been previously lubricated with carbolic oil, is rapidly pushed into the urethra, until it has entirely dis- appeared, and a pad of antiseptic wool is tied over the end of the penis. The bougies are usually made of the length of four inches, but a longer one may sometimes be employed with advantage. After the insertion of the bougie, the patient should refrain from passing water as long as possible. A bougie may be applied every other day, and in the intervals the patient should use some mild astringent injection. During the treat- ment of this stage of gonorrhoea, the patient must lead a regular life. His diet should be plain and unstimulating, and as a rule alcohol in any form should be prohibited. He should avoid all severe exercise and fatigue. It is advisable that he should wear a suspensory bandage. Various attempts have been made at different times to cut short an attack of gonorrhoea in its early stages by abortive treatment. Perhaps the most feasible plan is that recommended by the late Mr. Cotes. After the patient has passed water, a solution of cocaine is injected. An endoscope is then introduced, and the posterior limit of the inflammation is defined. A swab soaked in a lo or 20 gr. solution of nitrate of silver is passed clown the tube of the endoscope, so that it projects beyond the end of the tube and therefore beyond the limit of the inflammation. The swab and endoscope are withdrawn together. The patient is kept quiet for twenty- four hours, and then uses a weak boracic lotion as an injection. ' The treatment of gleet is often very difificult and disappointing. The patient may fancy himself cured, and then sexual intercourse, or a little excess in eating or drinking, will bring back the discharge. Gleet is very likely to occur in the rheumatic, gouty, or tuberculous subject, and these constitutional conditions should always be sought for, and, if found, treated. Otherwise the patient should be enjoined to keep regular habits ; to abstain entirely from sexual intercourse, and to avoid all excesses of eating and drinking. In some cases entire abstinence from alcoholic liquids is neces- sary ; in others the patient appears to derive benefit from a glass of stout or a couple of glasses of claret with his dinner. Change of air, especially sea air, is often beneficial. If the patient is anaemic, tincture of the perchloride of iron should be given internally, care being taken to prevent constipation. The local treatment consists in the injection of the various solutions which have been mentioned above, but as a rule it is desirable to use them rather stronger in the gleety stage. A full-sized bougie should be passed once or twice a week. If these measures do not succeed, and there is reason to believe that a granular patch has formed in the urethra, an endoscope must be introduced and the patch mopped Avith a strong solution of nitrate of silver (10 or 20 grs. to ^j). The patient must be kept strictly at rest after the application, as otherwise it is likely to be followed by swelled testicle or abscess in the perineum. Complications of gonorrhoea.—The complications which may follow a gonorrhoea are very numerous. I, They may be due to the direct extension of the inflammation, which may set up {a) balanitis, {b) suppurating bubo, {c) urethral abscess,