1091 ACINOUS CARCINOMA The subject cannot, however, be considered in any way as proved, and many powerful arguments can be adduced against the theory. Two distinct forms of cancer are met with in the breast : the acinous, commencing in the acini, and constituting the most common form of the disease; and duct cancer, which begins in connection with the ducts. a. Acinous carcinoma begins as a proHferation of the epithelial cells of the acinus. The proliferated cells find their way through the walls of the acini, and speedily infiltrate the connective tissue spaces, and pass into the lymphatic channels, along which the disease in all prob- ability spreads, until a considerable area of mammary tissue is implicated. In this a stroma is developed. The relative amount of stroma to cells will determine whether the cancer is hard or soft. In most there is a great tendency to the development of fibrous tissue in the centre of the growth, and this by its contraction leads to atrophy of the epithelial cells. Under these circumstances a hard tumour is formed, which is usually known by the name of scirrhus, and is the most common form in which cancer of the breast is met with. In other cases the fibrous tissue is more scanty, and Fig. 406. - Scirrhus of the breast. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) then the cells are more abundant, larger and plumper, and the whole growth proportionately softer. This is known as the eiicephaloid or brain- like cancer, and between these two types any gradation of consistence may be found. The subsequent progress of a case of cancer of the breast after its forma- tion is its increase by infiltration of surrounding parts, and its tendency to spread along the lymphatic vessels to the nearest set of glands, which it secondarily implicates, or it may become disseminated in some internal organ or distant part. When a section is made of a scirrhous cancer of the breast, the appearances are characteristic (fig. 406). When it is cut across, the resistance to the knife is very marked, and often there is a creaking sound. The toughness is greatest in the centre of the growth, and shades off towards the margin. The cut surface is usually somewhat concave, of a yellowish grey, semi-transparent appearance, traversed by whitish bands of a more opaque character, and studded with minute yellow dots of degenerated tissue. It exudes on squeezing a thin milky juice which is probably the altered secretion of the remains of the gland. The 4 A 2