INTURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS in the formation of a large reddish irregular lobulated mass, which projects from the end of the nose and produces a most unsightly deformity. It is covered with greasy shiny skin, in which are seen a number of pit-like depressions, which are the orifices of the hypertrophied glands. The disease is usually attributed to habitual intemperance, and exposure to cold. The treatment consists in shaving away the hypertrophied tissue down to the cartilages of the nose, which must be left uninjured. The rawed surface may then be covered with grafts by Thiersch's method. The results which can be obtained are very satisfactory. Lupus, rodent ulcer, and epithelioma require no special mention, as they present no special features, and they have been already described. They may result in partial or complete destruction of the organ and great deformity. The nose may require removal in cases of epithelioma, and in these cases, as well as in those where the nose has been destroyed as the resuh of traumatism or tertiary syphilis, the surgeon may be called upon to exercise his art in attempting to form a new nose. The operations are not as a rule very satisfactory, as the new nose, consisting of only soft structures, is ver)- apt to shrivel up, contract and become quite fiat; so that in most cases the patient will be well advised if he trusts to the instrument maker to remedy his deformity by modelling an artificial nose, rather than submit himself to operation. At all events the proceeding should only be undertaken in the healthy and fairly young, and where the cause of the destruction is local and has been entirely removed. The operation is performed by taking flaps from different situations : from the forehead by the Indian operation : from the inside of the arm by the Tagliacotian operation ; or from a finger by Bloxam's operation. The student is referred to works on opera- tive surgery for a description of the details of these operations, for which space cannot be found in this work. DISEASES OF THE NASAL FOSS^ An examination of the nasal fossse can be made by anterior or posterior rhinoscopy. . . r , r r Anterior rhinoscopy consists in illumination ot the tront ot the nasal cavity through the anterior nares. This may be done by bright day- light or by a strong light thrown in by means of a mirror, or by a small electric lamp fixed to the forehead of the surgeon. The anterior nares are dilated by some form of nasal speculum, of which Cresswell Baber's is probably the best (fig. 233). If the patient's head is thrown back, the whole of the inferior meatus, the inferior turbinated bone, sometimes a part of the middle turbinated bone, and the lower part of the septum can be explored. It is advisable to spray the nostrils with a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine before the examination, not only because it saves the patient pain, but because it produces shrinking of the soft vascular structures which cover the turbinated bones, and thus gives a more extensive view. Posterior rhinoscopy, or examination of the posterior nares with a mirror, is a difficult proceeding, and in children is generally impossible. A far greater amount of information as to the condition of parts can be obtained by inserting the forefinger into the naso-pharynx than by the momentary glimpses that can be obtained by introducing a small mirroi behind the uvula and soft palate. If an attempt is made to get a view 01