TETANUS 87 (ficT t6). This presence of a spore distinguishes it from most other forms ofVthogenic micro-organisms except the bacillus of anthrax. The other characteristic of the tetanus bacillus is that it will not grow m the presence of free oxygen. It is what is termed anaerobic, and in this respect resembles the bacillus of malignant oedema and the bacillus of quarter evil in cattle. With these exceptions pathogenic microbes are capable of orowing either with or without the access of air. This charactenstic of the tetanus bacillus led to the difficulties of first isolating it, and it was not till Kitasato cultiv.ated it in an atmosphere of hydrogen that he could get it to grow. Subsequently it was found that it could be cultivated in the pre- sence of oxygen, provided grape sugar was added to the culture medium. Subsequent experiments have proved several other interesting facts in con- nection with this microbe. It is found that a filtered free solution of a culture will set up tetanus in an animal just as well as an ordinary culture, which is full of germs ; consequently the disease is due to the products of the bacillus, and not to the bacillus itself. A pure culture is not necessarily fatal; but if the culture is mixed with cultures of other microbes, tetanus is invariably produced. This is no doubt due to the fact that these other microbes abstract the free oxygen, and thus prepare a condition which is favourable to the growth of anaerobic bacilli. Accordingly we find that tetanus usually occurs \ / / in wounds which are in an infective condition. \ • \ From a knowledge of these facts wc are ^ V / f enabled to explain the behaviour of these y ' ' microbes. We have seen that the blood of an / / \ \^ f \ / animal which has died of tetanus, if injected ^ \ /-^ 1-^v. into another animal, produces no effect, and . ' y J furthermore if the animal which has died of \ *^ / \\ y tetanus is examined, no trace of the microbe can ^ ^ be found in any organ or in the blood, or in fact anywhere except in the immediate neighbour- Fig. 16 -The tetanus hood of the focus of infection. The bacilli, when nacuius. introduced into a wound, multiply, but their multiplication is limited to the seat of injection, i.e. to the immediate neighbourhood of the wound. In the dissemination of the materies morbi they take no part. This is done entirely by the products of the growth of these organisms. So that, to sum up, we may say that the tetanus bacillus, when inoculated, multipUes locally in the tissues and gives rise to certain toxic substances, which are absorbed into the blood and act like strychnine on the nervous system, especially on the medulla and upper part of the spinal cord. Tetanus was formerly described as traumatic and idiopathic : the latter cases being those in which noabrasion or breach of the surface could be found. With our present knowledge of the infective nature of the disease, we should be inclined to believe that these so-called idiopathic cases were really cases where the wound of inoculation was not diligently sought for, or was so minute that it escaped observation. It is more than probable that_ every case of tetanus is traumatic in its origin. The wound is generally either a lacerated one, with recesses into which air cannot easily be admitted, and in which, therefore, the anaerobic microbe can flourish ; or else suppurating wounds, because the pyogenic organisms consume the oxygen, and therefore leave a soil favourable for the growth of the tetanus bacillus. The wound is probably in most instances contaminated with earth, since this is the