UNION OF FRACTURES 411 of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull there may be no signs indica- tive of fracture, until the appearance of discolouration from extravasated blood some days after the accident points to the nature of the injury. Diagnosis.—Fracture may be mistaken for dislocation on account ot the deformity which is produced, but it may generally be diagnosed from it by the fact that in dislocation if the deformity is remedied it shows little inclination to return, whereas in fracture any deformity which may exist returns after reduction, when the extending force which has removed 1 is relaxed. Again, in dislocation there is no crepitus, unless it is comphcated with fracture, and the mobility of the part is impaired rather than increased. In impacted fractures the diagnosis is often difficult, because two of the most important signs, crepitus and increased mobility, are absent, ihe sur-eon must be guided by the history of the case, especially as regards the direction in which the violence was applied; the situation of the lesion ; and by the presence of the characteristic deformity of the particular fracture. . . , ^ j • r In incomplete fractures the diagnosis is also difficult, and in cases ot fissure of bone impossible unless the fracture is compound. The presence of fixed pain, and the appearance of a Unear ecchymosis some days after, would strongly point to this injury. In greenstick fractures the diagnosis is more easv, as there is the presence of deformity. _ , . ■, The diagnosis in cases of separation of the epiphyses is to be made by attention to the age of the patient, the position of the injury at the end of a long bone, and the nature of the crepitus, which is of a softer and less marked character than in fracture. Union of fractures.—The union of a simple fracture is analogous to the union of a wound of the soft parts by first intention, except that the reparative process goes farther, and the scar (fibrous) tissue is eventually converted into bone. At the time of the injury the broken ends of the bone and the lacerated tissues around are surrounded by a clot of blood. A simple traumatic inflammation is set up, exudation takes place, and the clot is invaded by leucocytes, which absorb it and the damaged tissues. This is followed by an infiltration of large plasma cells, derived from proliferation of the connective tissue cells of the inflamed parts. This exudation becomes organised and converted into granulation tissue, known as callus, by the growing into it of vessels from surrounding tissues. The plasma cells destroy the emigrated leucocytes, and become converted into fibrous tissue, and this contracts and consolidates with obHteration of the vessels. So far the changes are identical with those of union of wounds by first intention, but now further changes take place in the callus—it calcifies and ossifies. The intercellular substance increases in quantity and the cells assume the angular form of osteoblasts, a deposit of lime salts takes place around them, and true bone is developed, in the same way as it is in ordinary ossification. In the lower animals there is an intermediate stage of formation of cartilage, but in man this does not occur as a rule, though it is occasionally met with in the union of bones in children, and in the union of fractured ribs. The union of bones, especially as regards the amount and situation ot the callus, diff"ers under diff"erent conditions. When there is a transverse fracture, without any displacement, and therefore the broken ends are in accurate apposition, and the limb is kept absolutely quiet so that no movement of the fragments on each other takes place, very little callus is thrown out.