GENERAL INJURIES 74 IS obtained by their introduction. If a flap of skin has been torn down, it may be desirable to insert one or two sutures to hold it in position, but at all events nothing like an accurate adaptation of the edges of the wound should be attempted. After the cleansing process has been thoroughly carried out, the wound may be dressed with wet gauze and mackintosh sheeting to retain the heat and moisture. It will be found, how- ever, that in addition to this the frequent irrigation of the part with some weak antiseptic lotion, or, if it can be carried out, the immersion of the part in a weak antiseptic bath for two or three hours once or twice a day, will materially facilitate the separation of the sloughs with the smallest amount of suppuration. With regard to irrigation there is a little difficulty in maintaining the fluid at the temperature at which it should be applied, which is about 95° or 96° F., so that I always prefer the immersion when it can be carried out, and this in the upper extremity is not difficult, but in the lower extremity is not so easy, as it necessitates the limb being in a depen- dent position and so favours passive congestion. The irrigation or immer- sion should only be resorted to for two or three hours at a time, the w^ound in the interval being covered with wet gauze and mackintosh. As in the incised wound, so in these contused and lacerated wounds, every care must be taken by the surgeon to maintain the part in as perfect a condition of rest as possible, in order not only to promote a quicker union, but also to relieve the patient from pain. After the sloughs have separated, cicatrisa- tion must be encouraged by the application of antiseptic ointments, of which perhaps boracic acid ointment is the best: attempts may be made to approximate the edges of the wound by bandages or strapping, or even the introduction of a few sutures for the same purpose may be thought desirable, and in this way the cicatrisation may be hastened. PUNCTURED WOUNDS Punctured wounds are produced by a thrust or stab with a sharp- pointed narrow instrument, and therefore their depth is much greater than their extent. They vary very much in degree, from a prick with a needle to a stab through the body with a bayonet. They are of two different kinds, which differ much in their behaviour and consequences, the one partaking of the character of an incised wound, the other of a contused and lacerated wound. When a punctured wound is made with a clean, sharp-pointed instrument into healthy tissues, no serious consequences as a rule result, unless some deep-seated vessel has been injured, or some serous or synovial cavity has been opened ; and even in these latter cases, if the wound is at once closed and no foreign substance has been introduced, no serious harm is to be anticipated. The wound behaves in all respects as a clean incised wound would do. Probably in these cases the wounds often unite, as I have already pointed out, by blood clot. We have daily experience of punctured wounds healing in this way in cases of osteotomy and tenotomy, where a wound whose depth greatly exceeds its breadth is made by the surgeon to divide a bone or tendon through healthy structures, with clean instruments. But when a punctured wound is made with a blunt or triangular instrument, like a bayonet, it bruises the tissues through which-it passes and produces a wound which partakes of the character of a contused and lacerated wound. ^Ve have seen that in this class of wounds a certain