194 GENERAL 13ISEASES At the lower end of the alimentary canal the rectum is often the seat of venereal disease. In tertiary syphilis there is sometimes, though not often, an infiltration of the mucous mem- brane, which produces thickening and contraction, but does not ulcerate; this is known under the name of ano- rectal syphiloma. But in addition to this there is a destructive ulceration, almost exclusively confined to women, which is usually regarded also as a tertiary affection, though there seem some very good grounds for believing that this is not the case. This condi- tion will be described with the other diseases of the rectum. The penis in the male and the vulva and lower part of the vagina in the female may be attacked with gum- matous ulceration, and they are liable to be mistaken for primary sores. Tertiary syphilitic dis- ease of the Yiscera.—Tertiary syphilis may affect most if not all of the internal organs, and may lead to Fig. 40.—A gumma of the tongue. (From a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) organic changes of the most serious show itself either in the diffuse form character. As in other parts, it may or as the locahsed gumma. In the former it produces an interstitial growth of fibroid tissue, which contracts and in the lung may produce one of the forms of fibroid phthisis ; in the fiver, a condition analogous to cirrhosis. The two organs in the body which are most frequently the seat of tertiary syphilis are the liver and the testicle. In the former of these, when it occurs as the locaUsed gumma, the inflammatory mat,erial does not usually break down, but under treat- ment it may be absorbed, producing a puckered cicatrix. Tertiary syphilitic disease of the nervous system- Tertiary syphiUtic disease of the nervous system is identical in its pathology with tertiary syphilis in other parts of the body, and may affect the Brain, the Spinal Cord, or the Nerves. We may have a diffuse chronic inflamma- tion, leading to the formation of a fibroid material and an induration of the neuroglia or connective tissue ; or we may have a localised gumma, generally affecting the meninges or the sheaths of the nerves ; or we may have changes in the intima of the arteries leading to their narrowing or occlusion. In the skull, (i) gummata may form on the surface of the meninges, pressing on the cerebral cortex below; or (2) thickening of the mem- branes may take place from a chronic meningitis, often accompanied by the deposit of lymph beneath the arachnoid; or (3) neuritis may be set up, especially implicating the nerves in the cavernous sinus ; in other cases the functions of the nerves which lie in the sinus may be impaired by pressure on them from thickening of the walls of the sinus ; or, finally, (4) disease in the central vessels may lead to narrowing and thrombosis or aneurism. Tertiary syphilitic disease of the brain shows itself clinically for the most part as paralysis or epilepsy. In the former the paralysis is generally one-sided and may be partial or complete. In the spinal canal the disease may show itself either as a disseminated