8 INFLAMMATION regarded as twofold : first, a temporary paralysis of the blood-vessels acting especially at the focus of inflammation, and a condition of inhibition set up as a reflex act in the vessels around. Second change.—The acceleration of the flow of blood through the dilated vessels lasts as a rule only a very short time; it will shortly be noticed that the stream becomes slowed, and the corpuscles, which in the hrst instance were indistinguishable from each other on account of the rapidity of their movements, become now plainly distinguishable and can be diff^erentiated from one another. The period at which this slowin</ down of the blood stream takes place is very variable and appears to depend in a great measure upon the nature of the irritant. If the irritant IS very powerful, the acceleration of the blood stream is merely momentary and the retardation sets in at once; so much is this the case sometimes that It will be found, before the microscope can be brought to bear on the part, that the stream has become slowed down, and it will be seen that though the vessels are dilated the flow of blood is retarded, or it may be altogether arrested. On the other hand, if the irritant is slight-as, for example, if the mesentery of a frog is exposed to the air and examined under the micro- scope—retardation does not set in for some considerable time, and the blood continues to flow with increased rapidity during the whole of this period. As the stream becomes slowed and the individual corpuscles become dis- tinguishable from each other, it will be noticed, if a single corpuscle is selected, that it shows a tendency to adhere to the wall of the vessel and to other corpuscles. This will be noticed at first especially in the white corpuscles, which appear to have a tendency to separate themselves from the axial blood stream, and whenever in their onward course they come in contact with the wall of the vessel they appear to stick for a moment to the lining membrane and then to flow on; when next they come in contact with the vessel they again adhere, and for a longer period; and this process is repeated with successively longer periods of adhesion, until at length they become finally arrested and remain permanently sticking to the wall of the vessel—unless, indeed, they pass out of the inflamed area, when they seem at pnce to lose their adhesiveness and flow along as in the normal circu- lation. In this way it will be found after a lapse of time that the lining membrane of the vessel may become coated with a layer of corpuscles adhering to it and giving it the appearance of an epithelial covering. This is especially noticeable in the small veins, where the force of the circulation is least. After a time, and while the white corpuscles are forming this sort of epithelial lining to the vessel, the axial stream also becomes slowed down, first in the veins and capillaries, then in the arteries. These changes can best be seen in the arterioles and venules of the inflamed area. In the capillaries, where the corpuscles can only pass in single file, no separa- tion of the white corpuscles from the red occurs, but the retardation of the two takes place together. As the slowing down of the blood stream goes on, and the corpuscles become more adherent to each other and to the wall of the vessel, the vessel at last becomes choked with corpuscles which are unable to pass through it, and a complete arrest of the circulation takes place. This is known as s/asis. This condition of stasis must not be confounded with thrombosis, another condition in which there is arrest in the circulation through a vessel. In the former, stasis, the fluid part of the blood, or plasma, still remains fluid between the closely packed cor- puscles ; whereas in the latter the plasma has undergone coagulation, and a solid clot has formed in the vessel. So that in the condition of stasis