LIGATURE OF THE POSTERIOR TIJ3IAL 361 taken of the long saphenous nerve which lies in front of the artery and the vein which lies immediately behind. The aneurism needle may be passed in either direction, as is more convenient to the operator. Ligature of the popliteal artery.—The popliteal artery may be ligatured at its upper part most conveniently by an incision on the inner side of the thigh. The knee is to be flexed and the thigh rotated outwards so that it rests on its outer surface; an incision three inches in length, beginning at the junction of the middle and lower third of the thigh, is to be made parallel to and immediately behind the tendon of the adductor .magnus; and the skin, superficial and deep fasciae divided. The tendon of the muscle is thus exposed, and is to be drawn forwards and the ham- string tendons backwards. A quantity of fatty tissue will now be opened up, in which the artery will be felt pulsating. This is to be separated with the point of a director until the artery is exposed. The vein and nerve will not be seen, as they lie to the outer side of the artery. The sheath is to be opened and the aneurism needle passed from before backwards, keeping its point close to the artery for fear of injuring the vein. The only_ structure to avoid is the long saphenous vein in the superficial incision. The popliteal artery may also be tied in the upper part of its course by an incision on the back of the limb, along the outer margin of the semi-membranosus, but the operation is a more difficult one, as the internal popliteal nerve and the popliteal vein are first exposed, and great care has to be exercised in separating them from the artery. Aneurisms of the leg and foot.—Aneurisms below the ham are of very rare occurrence, except when arising from traumatic causes, under which circumstances they are best treated as wounds of the vessel.' Ligature of the lower part of the popliteal and the tibial arteries is therefore rarely required for disease, though they require ligature for injury. Ligature of the lower part of the popliteal artery.— The patient is to be placed m the prone position with the limb extended and an incision made in the middle line of the ham from the level of the knee joint for about three or four inches. In dividing the superficial struc- tures care must be taken to avoid wounding the external saphenous vein and nerve. After the deep fascia has been divided, the leg should be flexed in order to allow of the separation of the heads of the gastrocnemius Some loose adipose tissue will now be exposed, in which will be found the internal popliteal nerve, beneath which is the popliteal vein and still lower the popliteal artery. The plantaris muscle may also be exposed lyin^r over the artery. These various structures must be drawn on one side and the artery exposed, care being taken not to wound the sural or other muscular branches of the artery. After the sheath has been opened the aneurism needle should be passed between the artery and vein Ligature of the posterior tibial artery.-The operation of hgat-uring the posterior tibial artery in the middle of the leg is one of con- siderable difficulty. The patient should be placed in the supine position, with the leg flexed at the knee and rotated outwards, so that the limb rests on the table on its outer side. The foot should be extended, so as to rela.x as far as possible the calf muscles. An incision four inches in length IS now made in the middle of the leg, a finger's breadth behind the inner border of the t.b.a. In doing this care must be taken to avoid wounding the internal saphenous vein and nerve. After the deep fascia has been divided, the inner border of the gastrocnemius will come into