1125 HALLUX VALGUS is one of equinus, and that this is the cause of the cavus Fo'" equinus to produce cavus it must not be extreme-that is to say, the long axis o hedst be at an obtuse angle to the leg When this is so, he w^^^^ of the body is transmitted to the toes obliquely, and there is a tendency to curl up the foot and by an overarching to bring the heel to the ground. This overarching, constantly repeated, becomes gradually permanen and so claw foot is set up. The position of the toes is due in Parkin ophiion, to the interossei becoming displaced from the first phalanges being hyper-extended on account of the equinus, and from the contraction of the extensor muscles. This deformity is easily recognised. It is accompanied by a good deal of pain after prolonged walking or standing, from the pressure of the weight of the body having to be borne upon the heel and the skin covering the prominent heads of the metatarsal The treatment of this condition is not very satisfactory, and if structural alterations have taken place in the tarsal arch little can be done to cure the deformity. Before this has taken place, the tendo Achillis and the plantar fascia should be subcutaneously divided, and about three weeks afterwards methodical manipulations should be regularly performed so as to unfold the foot. If these are persevered in for a considerable time, very great improvement may be obtained. Hallux flexus—In this condition the first phalanx of the great toe is flexed on the metatarsal bone, and is fixed in this condition so that it cannot be extended; there is no flexion of the terminal phalanx on the first, so that when the patient stands the end of the great toe rests on the ground and causes pain and seriously cripples the patient, as he is obliged to bear the weight of his body on the outer side of his foot. Davies-Colley, who first described the condition, attributes_ it, in most cases, to short boots. A somewhat similar condition, to a slighter extent, and where some amount of extension is possible, is sometimes met with in cases of flat foot. It is then termed hallux rigidus. The treatment consists in the slighter cases in manipulation with a view to overcoming the inextensibility. In more severe cases the_ best mode of treatment is to excise the articular surface of the head of the metatarsal bone. Hallux valgus (fig. 424) is a displacement outwards of the great toe, from partial dislocation of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, owing in the first instance to wearing boots with pointed toes, and secondly to osteo-arthritic changes taking place in the joint. In these cases the great toe is forced over or under the adjacent toes, and the phalanges form an angle with the metatarsal bone, the head of the latter bone forming a prominence on the inner side of the foot, which is constantly irritated by the friction of the boot. This sets up inflamma- tory changes, which result in alteration in the shape of the head of the bone and disorganisation of the joint. The skin over the prominence becomes thickened, and the bursa between it and the bone becomes enlarged. Fig. 424.—Hallux valgus.