TREATMENT OF ACUTE NECROSIS 465 high temperature is maintained, and he rapidly emaciates and refuses his food. Symptoms of pyaemia may now appear, and the patient sinks. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition is to make free incisions down to the bone, so as to reUeve tension and let out the effused inflam- matory products. The sooner these incisions are made the better; if before suppuration has taken place all the better for the patient, though it is very uncommon for this to occur, as the formation of pus so rapidly follows the effusion. It is only by making incisions freely and early that there is any chance of preventing necrosis taking place. The incisions should be made in the long axis of the limb, and if necessary there must be several, so that the whole of the effused material may escape. When the incision is made through the periosteum it will gape and thus enable the surgeon to thoroughly flush out the cavity between this membrane and the bone. This should be done with some hot antiseptic solution, prefer- ably corrosive sublimate (i in 2,000). It is desirable in these cases to insert a full-sized drainage tube, so as to prevent the superficial structures filling up the wound and preventing the free exit of the discharge. The wound must be dressed with a thick antiseptic dressing and a splint applied. In many cases this proceeding will be at once followed by a rehef of the pain and a subsidence of the temperature. But if this should not be so, and on the following day the patient is found to be still in pain and his temperature high, it will be an indication that the infective inflammation has spread to the medulla and that a condition of osteo- myelitis is present. Steps must be at once taken to deal with this. The wound must be exposed and the finger introduced. If the periosteum is found to have been only partially separated from the bone, so that the whole circumference is not involved, a trephine must be applied to the bare bone and the medullary cavity opened. With a sharp spoon as much of the inflamed medulla as can be reached must be scraped away, and the interior of the bone irrigated with an antiseptic solution and a drain mserted. If the whole circumference of the bone has been denuded the bared portion of bone should be removed in its entirety, by sawing through the bone with a chain saw introduced between the bone and the peri- osteum, or by means of a keyhole saw; or, if the child is sufficiently young to allow of its being done, by cutting the bone through with cutting forceps._ In some cases where the denudation of bone has extended from epiphysis to epiphysis the whole of the shaft of the bone may be removed by exposing the bone near its centre, cutting it through in this situation, and drawing the two ends out; having been separated at the epiphysial line there will be no difficulty in doing this. After these operations, where the whole thickness of the bone has been removed, the limb must be carefully adjusted in splints and maintained in a rigidly fixed position. If this IS done new bone will be formed from the periosteum, which will fill up the gap, and the patient will have a useful limb without shortening. In cases where the joint has become implicated and the general condition is grave, amputation may have to be resorted to; as also in cases where prolonged and profuse discharge threatens to exhaust the patient. The general treatment of these cases must not be neglected. The patient s strength must be supported by a generous and easily digestible aiet. btiniulants in small quantities are generally required, and opiates are sometimes called for to diminish irritability and procure sleep. If tne patient survive the acute symptoms there will be a long and exhausting H H