GENERAL DISEASES kept up- certainly for twelve months, probably two years is better, with slight intermissions now and then, especially if the patient begins to lose weight. It will sometimes be found that, owing to some idiosyncrasy, a patient appears to be intolerant to mercury, and in some instances it will be found impossible to give it ; but it is a curious fact that, though a patient may not be able to tolerate the drug when administered in one way, he will be found able to bear it when given in another. When, therefore, a case of this sort is met with, the use of the remedy should not be abandoned until the different measures mentioned above have all been tried : a patient who cannot tolerate the drug when given by the mouth, may very well bear it when administered by inunction or injection. But there are some cases in which mercury requires to be given with extreme caution, especially patients who are suffering from albuminuria. I have seen eight grains of grey powder profusely salivate a patient with granular kidneys. Then, again, patients who are in a condition of great debility, particularly tuber- culous individuals, bear mercury very badly, and it must be given with caution; also patients exhausted by dissipation or insufficient food are not good subjects for mercury, and it must be given in very small doses and the effects carefully watched. In cases where mercury cannot be given, the only plan of treatment is to improve the general condition, and give such remedies as iodide of potassium, ammonia, sarsaparilla, &c., but no drug except mercury can be said to exert any real influence on the disease. Secondary syphilis.—The secondary symptoms of constitutional syphilis do not usually appear until the primary sore has healed, which it commonly does in about six weeks, if it has not been irritated by caustics, &c.; but though the sore has healed, there will probably be some indura- tion still remaining. The usual time for the appearance of the lirst secondary symptom, which is usually an eruption of the skin, is about eight to twelve weeks from the time of inoculation, though the period may be longer, especially if the patient has been given mercury at an early period after the first appearance of the sore. Shortly before or at the time of the first appearance of secondary symptoms, in a considerable number of cases, the patient suffers from certain febrile symptoms, which are sometimes termed 'syphilitic fever.' The patient feels ill and out of sorts, he complains of headache, pains in the bones, and aching in the loins ; there is a slight nocturnal elevation of temperature, with increased frequency of the pulse, and a furred tongue. But these symptoms are by no means constant, and it is certain that many cases of secondary syphilis occur without these premonitory symptoms. The parts which are principally affected in secondary syphilis are the skin and its appendages, the mucous membrane of the mouth and throat, the eye, and the lymphatic glands. I. The skin.—In most cases the first evidence of secondary syphilis is the appearance of an exanthematous rash, (i) roseo/a, which is not unlike measles. It generally appears on the chest and abdomen ; it is very transient, often fading in twenty-four hours or so, and frequently escapes observation, especially in hospital patients; (2) later on, a papular rash, lichen, appears in many cases. It consists of small papules, produced by the effusion of inflammatory material into the dermis. Frequently the epithelium over these papules desquamates and forms a thin dry scale, thus giving it the appearance of a squamous eruption ; to this the term