ACUTE PY^.MIA 171 intravenous injection of pure cultures of the pyogenic ^^^^^^f^^^^"^ though these pvL^mic abscesses can be produced much more read^y if in addition to the pyogenic organisms some non-irritatmg particles are injected at the same time. In this way, then, the fact can be explamed that secondary pycemic abscesses can be formed in any tissue or organ and not necessarily in that organ where the first set of capillaries are met with in the course of the circulation from the mfecting focus, for it is now known that these organisms, which can circulate everywhere witho^^^^ hindrance, are able to produce them. The micro-organisms may be der ved either from the original focus of infection or from the secondary abscesses, and, circulating in the blood, become arrested in the capillaries of the systemic circulation. Around them coagulation takes place, forming a bacterial embolus, which excites inflammation and suppuration m the engorged tissues around, and thus the metastatic abscess is fo™ed. The micro-organisms which produce pyaemia are probably always the pyo- genic micrococci ; of these the streptococcus pyogenes has been iound in the greatest number of cases, though the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus is also frequendy found : more commonly there is a mixture of the b. pyogenes aureus and albus, and in some cases a mixed infection of streptococci and staphylococci has been found. . But the infection by micro-organisms is not the only thing necessary to produce pyaemia : there must be also a general predisposing condition which will favour their multiplication in the blood, for the presence of pyogenic organisms in a wound is not sufficient to cause pyaemia. This predisposition on the part of the recipient is usually anything which deteriorates the general state of health and prevents him from successfully combating the inroads ot the organism. Such conditions as are produced by starvation, by chronic alcoholism, by faulty hygienic surroundings or by wasting diseases, such as diabetes or albuminuria, have long been recognised as predisposing causes of this disease. Symptoms.—Clinically we recognise two forms of pysemia, the aaae and c/iro/Hc, and the distinction between the two in typical cases is well marked, but between the two types there is a regular series of gradations, so that it is impossible to say where one begins or the other ends. Acute pyaemia—Let us take as an illustration the case of a wound of the scalp. The wound becomes sepric, it is inflamed, foul and sloughy, and is discharging decomposing pus. The patient is apparendy s_uff"ering from some febrile disturbance ; that is to say, the temperature,_ which rose after reaction had taken place, does not fall to normal, but continues above it, or if it has fallen to normal, again rises. At the same time the pulse is accelerated. A patient with these symptoms gets a severe rigor, and the temperature runs up to 105° or 106° F. This is followed by profuse sweating, and the temperature falls considerably, but not to normal. Such a condition of things is strongly indicative of pytemia, but not characteristjc. If, however, the rigor is repeated, the diagnosis becomes almost certain, for it is the recurring rigor which is pathognomonic of the disease. In septicsemia we may have a rigor, but it is not repeated. Coincident with the rigors we have rapid alternations in the temperature. A rapid rise up to 105° or 106° F., or it may be even higher, then a rigor followed by a pro- fuse sweating, and a sudden fall of some five or six degrees, but never down to normal (fig. 37). During the rigors there is great acceleration of the pulse and respiration, and the patient's countenance betokens great distress. The rigors recur at irregular intervals, and this, together with the fact that