741 CHAPTER XI INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BACK Contusions of the back are of common occurrence, and may be attended with large effusions of blood beneath the deep aponeurosis. They derive their importance from the fact that they may be complicated with injury to the spinal cord, and care should be taken to examine for numb- ness, tingling and formication, or interference with the functions of the bladder, before too confident a prognosis is given. Otherwise these bruises differ in no respect from contusions in other parts of the body. The symptoms are pain and swelling of the injured parts, but 'Often ■without visible ecchymosis, as the effused blood is beneath the deep fascia. There is great pain in moving and especially in extending the spine. Recovery is generally slow, and the extravasated blood may remain unabsorbed for a considerable period of time, forming a diffused swelling with a soft centre and hard margin. Occasionally in these cases the kidney may be contused and lacerated, and this will be indicated by the presence of blood in the water. The treatment consists in keeping the patient at rest in bed, and if there is rapidly increasing effusion of blood, ice may be applied; otherwise hot fomentations or hot Goulard lotion with opium will be found to be most comforting to the patient. The rest should not be too prolonged, and when all acute symptoms have subsided, provided there is no evidence of any lesion of the cord, massage and methodical friction should be applied. Sprains of the spine.—On account of the multiplicity of jomts and the complicated system of muscles and ligaments, sprains of the spine are a form of injury which should never be regarded lightly, especially as the injury may be complicated with some lesion or subsequent inflammation of the delicate nervous structures contained within its bony walls. The injury is usually produced by indirect violence—some sudden and unexpected wrench, which produces violent twisting or bending of the whole column, and stretching or laceration of the muscles, fasciae, or ligaments of the back. From this the patient may entirely recover, or persistent pain with rigidity may follow owing to adhesions having formed in the muscles and other soft parts which have been injured. In some cases graver results may follow: where the ligamenta subflava have been torn haemorrhage may take place into the spinal canal; or where the meninges of the cord have been injured, inflammation of the membranes of the cord itself may be set up. Again, in other cases, disease of the bones of the spine may be caused by the injury, especially in the tuberculous child. The symptoms are those of severe injury. The patient is considerably collapsed, and complains of great pain in the back; the lumbar region being the part which is generally most affected, and where therefore