922 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS this"'is a matter of little importance, and it must be borne in mind that the peritoneum is very frequently unintentionally opened m the lumbar ooeration under less advantageous circumstances. (2) That there is a greater tendency to prolapse of the gut. This no doubt is true, but it may be obviated to a great extent by attention to the details of the operation. (1) That there is risk of soiling the peritoneum if the operation is performed at one sitting; that is to say, if the contents of the bowel are at once evacuated before adhesions have formed. In the cases we are considering this is scarcely ever necessary; but when it is, by care and attention the risk is not a very great one. , • The operation is performed as follows: The abdominal wall having been duly cleansed, an incision is made in the left inguinal region. It is usually recommended that this incision should be made at right angles to a line extending from the anterior superior spinous process to the umbilicus, the centre of the incision corresponding to the junction of the outer and middle thirds, and that it should be two and a half inches in length Mr. Harrison Oipps, however, recommends that it should be made considerably hicxher 'as high as the level of the umbilicus, so that the wall of the lower part of the abdomen, where the pressure is greatest, is left intact. By this means he believes, with considerable justice, that he diminishes the tendency to prolapse. The layers of the abdominal wall having been divided, and the peritoneum opened and slit up to the extent of the external wound, a fiat sponge with a cord attached is introduced to prevent any bulging of the intestine, and the cut edges of the peritoneum sutured to the skin by a continuous suture. The sponge being now withdrawn the finder and thumb are introduced and a loop of sigmoid flexure pulled out of the wound. It is easily recognised by its appendices epiploic^ and its longitudinal bands. The bowel is drawn out of the wound and passed in again at its lower angle until no more will come. This is done that the opening may be made at the upper part of the sigmoid flexure in order to prevent prolapsus afterwards. The coil which now protrudes, and which should be withdrawn sufficiently to freely expose its mesentery is hxed to the abdominal wall. Several plans are adopted for doing this. Ihe method adopted by Mr. Herbert AUingham is simple and efficient A needle threaded with carbolised silk is passed through the abdominal wall and parietal peritoneum on one side of the wound, then through me mesentery and through the parietal peritoneum and abdominal wall on lie other side. The needle is then again introduced on the same side ot the wound from which it emerged, at a distance of about half an inch trom tne point of emergence, and made to retrace its steps through the same struc- tures. The two ends of the silk are then tied together, and in this way the mesentery is tightly embraced by the peritoneum covering the two edges of the wound. A few additional sutures are applied around the loop of gut, passing through the parietal peritoneum on the one side aiia through the peritoneal and muscular coats of the bowel on the other, out not being allowed to perforate the mucous membrane. Some operators pass a glass tube through the mesentery and allow it to rest on the skin across the wound; others simply attach the serous coat of the gut to tne parietal peritoneum all round, without fixing the mesentery; and others make a hole in the mesentery and attach the two edges of the wouna together through the hole. When all the sutures have been introducea the protruding knuckle of intestine is covered by green protective, and tne wound dressed in the ordinary way. On the third or fourth day the dressings