274 INJURIES. AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES more Ivirm than good, and when strong they may destroy healthy structures, and produce greater deformity than is necessary. After scraping the best local application is iodoform, which is said to be inimical to the tubercle bacillus. In spite of the utmost care, in a large number of cases the disease will return and require a repetition of the operation. Formerly considerable reliance was placed upon constitutional treat- ment in these cases, but the beneficial results obtained have not been found to be great. Nevertheless, removal to a warm and equable climate usually benefits the patient; beyond this, attention to the general health is all that can be done. .., , r i 2 Lupus erythematosus.—Like the preceding form, lupus erythe- matosus consists in an infiltration of the corium with small round cells, principally, however, affecting the sebaceous glands and surrounding tissue. It differs from lupus vulgaris in several important particulars. It is a disease of adult life, rarely occurring before twenty. It is not prone to ulcerate, and it shows a very marked tendency to symmetry. Though by many the disease is supposed to be tuberculous in its nature, there is no evidence to prove that it is so, beyond the fact that it is said to occur in members of tuberculous families and to be often associated with other tuberculous lesions. The tubercle bacillus has not been found in the cell infiltration, and inoculation experiments have given negative results. The disease commences as an hypersemia around the sebaceous glands, attended by a round-celled infiltration. The glands themsdves become dilated, and their secretion, increased in quantity and exuding, forms greasy scales on the surface of the lupous patch. As the disease pro- gresses, the infiltration cells destroy and replace the gland tissue, and then, in their turn, become converted into cicatricial fibrous tissue. Svinptoms.—The disease begins as a sharply defined red patch on any part of the body, but most usually on the face—the side of the nose or cheek Frequently there is a patch on either side of the nose, jomed across the bridge, and this as it extends gives to the disease its charactenstic appearance of a butterfly, a large patch on either cheek connected by a narrow strip on the nose. The reddened patch, which fades on pressure and often causes considerable itching, soon becomes covered with the dned sebaceous discharge, which forms an adherent crust. When this is renioved, plu-s of sebaceous matter, which adhere to its under surface, are drawn out of the dilated folUcles. As the disease advances at its circumference the first formed parts become pale, shrunken, and cicatricial in appearance, resembling the scar of a superficial burn, so that the disease soon presents the appearance of a central depressed scar, with a bright red raised margin. There is no tendency to suppuration or ulceration, but the scar tissue, after its formation, contracts and produces puckering and great deformity of the features. . • r ^ Treatment.—The treatment of this disease is not satisfactory : no remedy appears to have any direct influence upon it. Perhaps the best results have been obtained by linear scarification, which, however, requires repeated applications for a ver)^ considerable period. Various diugs have been recommended; the one which has answered best in my hands is the ammonio-chloride of mercury in the form of an ointment ot the strength of a drachm to an ounce ; tincture of iodine painted over the part dailv also seems to do good. Hebra recommends a mixture of equal parts of soft soap and alcohol to be rubbed into the patch daily with a piece of flannel; and others, tar ointment.