519 DISLOCATION OF THE KNEE Treatment—The patient having been placed under an anaesthetic, the leg is extended on the thigh and the whole limb flexed as much as possible at the hip, and then direct pressure is made on the prominent margin of the bone, and it is pushed back into its place. Sometimes in the partial form it is difficult to dislodge the inner border from the intercondyloid notch; under these circumstances the outer border should be forcibly depressed : this raises the inner border, frees the bone, and the muscles by their action draw it into its natural position. Dislocation edgewise, or vertical rotation, of the patella.—In this peculiar injury the patella undergoes a vertical rotation around a longi- tudinal axis through its own centre. In consequence of this one border, in rather the greater number of cases the internal, is lodged in the inter- condyloid notch, and the other projects forwards under the skin; the two surfaces looking inwards and outwards. In a more complete form of the same displacement the patella undergoes a greater rotation, and the articular surface is directed forwards, the subcutaneous anterior surface resting in the intercondyloid notch. The most common way in which this displacement is produced is by sharp blows on one or other edge of the patella; but it has been said also to occur from violent rnuscular contraction whilst the leg is twisted, as in jumping with the foot inverted or everted. Symptoms.—The signs of this dislocation are very evident; the sharp prominent border can be felt as a hard well-marked edge under the skin, with a depression on either side of it. The limb is extended and cannot be flexed. ■ _ Treatment.—As a rule, reduction may be accomplished by forcibly and suddenly bending the knee whilst the patient is under an anaesthetic, or by forcible pressure on the prominent margin of the bone while the limb is flexed at the hip. Some cases, however, resist all efforts at reduction. This is probably due to the bone becoming entangled in the torn capsule. In these cases the treatment must either consist in exposing the bone with strict antiseptic precautions, and, after freeing it, replacing it in its natural position; or in leaving the dislocation unreduced. In cases where this latter alternative has been adopted, a fairly useful limb has been the result. After reduction there will probably be some considerable swelling and eff"usion in the joint, and early massage and passive motion must be employed. The patient should b6- enjoined to wear a knee-cap for some considerable period of time, as' a recurrence of the dislocation is very apt to take place. ' Dislocation of the knee.—The tibia is very rarely dislocated from the femur, on account of the great strength of the Ugaments which bind the bones together, and the breadth of the articular surfaces. When it is, it is always the result of extreme violence, such as machinery accidents, when the dislocation is often compound; falls from a great height; jumping from a carriage in rapid motion. The dislocation may occur in four principal directions: forwards, backwards, inwards, or outwards. The antero-posterior dislocations may be complete or in- complete ; the lateral ones are always incomplete. The dislocation forwards is usually complete, and is of more frequent occurrence than the dislocation backwards. The upper end of the tibia is displaced forwards and is drawn considerably upwards, so that the posterior surface of the upper end of the tibia lies in front of the lower end of the femur. The lower end of the femur projecting into the ham may press upon the