6o4 INIURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS fracture in. the skull: under these circumstances septic phlebitis occurs in the diploe, and the infective process spreads inwards along the vessels. Intra-cranial abscess may occur in three situations; (i) between the bone and the dura mater; (2) between the membranes; and (3) m the brain substance. , ^1 ±. I. Abscess between the bone and the dura mater. (Siil)'-cra7iial.)^T\\ev,t cases have already been described (page 582). _ " Intra-meningeal abscess.—Abscess between the menmges generally occurs when the bone is fractured and the dura mater torn, so that the organisms find direct access to the sub-dural space, and there set up a localised suppuration. Sometimes it is merely an extension of suppuration from between the bone and dura mater. The symptoms are those of meningitis, followed by compression. Abscess in the brain substance may be acute or chronic. The acute abscess is usually the accompaniment of the two preceding varieties, sub-cranial and intra-meningeal abscesses. It is situated close to the surface of the brain, opposite the point of injury, and is caused by the direct extension of the inflammatory process. The symptoms are therefore the same, viz. those of septic inflammation followed by drowsi- ness, deepening into insensibility and coma. The chronic abscess is usually situated more deeply in the white matter Its exact mode of formation is not quite certain. It usually occurs in cases of scalp wound exposing the bone, with or without fracture, and is usually believed to be due to a septic thrombosis extending from the injured spot into the brain substance. ... u Symptoms.-The symptoms are the same as those arising trom abscess of the brain produced by suppuration in the middle ear: namely, pain ; vomiting ; slow pulse and sub-normal temperature ; possibly a dilated pupil on the aff-ected side, and optic neuritis; sluggish cerebration followed by drowsiness, deepening into coma. In addition to this there may be certain localising symptoms which will be referred to in the sequel (see Cerebral Topography). _ ^- • ^i.^ Treatment.—The only treatment for mtra-cranial suppuration is the treatment of abscess in other parts of the body—evacuation of the pus. in acute abscess the bone must be trephined if no opening exists m it irom fracture, and if there is it will probably require enlarging; the dura mater must be freely incised and the pus let out. The cavity must be gently syringed with antiseptic fluid and a drainage tube inserted, ihis gives ttie patient his only chance; but if the disease is complicated with septic meningitis, the prospect of recovery is small. In chronic abscess the treatment is the same. If the symptoms detailed above are present, the bone must be exposed over the seat of the injury, if it is not already exposed by the accident. If the bone is white and Ary, it will indicate that the suppuration is sub-cranial (see page 583); but whether it is so or not, the bone must be trephined. If the abscess is situated deeply in the brain substance, the dura mater may be apparently quite healthy, but will probably bulge more than natural in the trephine hole. There may or may not be pulsation of the brain visible. Whether the dura mater is healthy or no , a small incision should be made in it to ascertain whether the pus is intra- meningeal. If no pus is found, an exploring director f ould be pushed directly into the brain substance in the direction in which the ab cess is believed to exist. If a drop of pus appears a narrow k"ife niust ^e passed along the director and the pus evacuated. When the abscess is