143 SPREADING TRAUMATIC GANGRENE stroking of the limb with the flat hand in an upward direction at repeated short intervals will do much to empty the veins, assist the circulation, and avert the attack. AVhen gangrene has actually set in, one of the most important points in the treatment is to prevent the occurrence of sepsis. This is to be done by a complete and thorough disinfection of the whole limb affected, and by its subsequent protection from the admission of bacteria by an efficient antiseptic dressing. If the part becomes septic it at once leads to severe constitutional disturbance from the absorption of septic products ; and, in addition to this, to violent inflammation at the line of demarcation, with profuse suppuration and all the evils which may arise therefrom. During the process of ulceration and suppuration the system must be supported, and this must be done principally by hygienic and dietetic means, assisted by tonics and stimulants. No definite rules can be laid down, but each individual case must be treated according to its necessities. Care must be taken to preserve strict cleanliness and free ventilation ; the food must be light, nutritious, and capable of easy digestion. Stimulants are usually required, but must be given with discrimination and care, so as not to upset the digestive organs. The indiscriminate use of theni is to be strongly deprecated. With regard to tonics, _ quinine, strychnia, and the vegetable bitters, especially cinchona and gentian, are to be most relied upon. Finally, the nervous irritability from which a patient with gangrene m most cases suffers, is to be allayed by opium. Perhaps in no cases is opium of more use than in cases of gangrene ; it relieves the pain, soothes the patient, and though possibly it does not act as a specific, as was formerly supposed, it appears in some way or other to assist in arresting the progress of the disease. It may be given in full doses, and it is astonishing how well patients seem to take this drug, and how little it interferes wath or upsets the digestive organs. 3. Specific forms of gangrene.—Cases of gangrene due to sepsis are now fortunately very uncommon, and therefore -it will not be necessary to devote much time to them. Of these perhaps the spreading traumatic gangrene is the one most likely to occur, and at the same time is one of the most terrible on account of the rapidly fatal nature of the disease if energetic means are not at once taken, and even when they are the case generally ends in death. Spreading traumatic gangrene.—This disease is a form of gangrene which attacks wounds, and is due to the introduction of a septic micro-organism. The form of organism most commonly met with is the bacillus septicus, or bacillus of malignant oedema of Koch. It is a rod-shaped body, rather longer and more slender than the bacillus anthracis. In its behaviour it somewhat resembles the tetanus bacillus. It is anaerobic, and wounds which are attacked are generally those which have been soiled by earth, so that it seems probable that, as with the tetanus bacillus, the favourite habitat of the infecting microbe is earth. Another point of resemblance is that the micro-organism multiplies in the tissues in and about the wound, and does not find its way into the general circulation, and that the general symptoms of septic poisoning are due to the poisons which they generate and not to the micro-organisms them- selves. Symptoms.—The disease sets in about the second or third day after the injury. The edges of the wound become swollen and everted, and