IOI2 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS catheter is simply plugged, and the patient allowed to pass water at stated intervals, some of the urine is sure to find its way by the side of the catheter, and the operation will probably fail. 2. Urethro-perineal or urethro-scrotal fistulae are most commonly the result of stricture and urinary abscess, but may also arise from several other causes, as prostatic abscesses opening externally; peri-urethral abscesses, or abscess of Cowper's glands; and in some cases of tuberculous or malignant disease of the urethra. When arising from stricture, they may be multiple, and may open in the perineum, scrotum, buttock or groin. They must not be mistaken for fistula in ano, or for a sinus connected with diseased bone, but the history of a stricture and the leakage of urine during micturition is usually sufficient to establish a diagnosis. The treatment has already been discussed (page 1006). 3. Urethro-rectal fistula.—The principal cause of this form of fistula is abscess of the prostate, which may burst both into the rectum and urethra; but they are also occasionally the result of wound of the rectum in the lateral operation of lithotomy. In these cases the urine usually finds its way into the rectum, and it is rare for the faeces to pass into the urethra. The treatment is not satisfactory. Occasionally they may be induced to heal by confining the patient to bed and draining the bladder by a syphon catheter, so as to keep the urethra dry, and at the same time washing the rectum out daily with a weak boric acid solution. Plastic operations, undertaken with a view of closing the opening from the rectum, rarely succeed. Tumours of the urethra.—Tumours of the urethra in the male are uncommon, and, with the exception of the vascular caruncle, are not often met with in either sex. Vascular caruncles, partaking of the nature of a papilloma, are frequently met with growing from the orifice of the urethra of the female, and occasionally in the male. They are small, pedunculated or sessile tumours, of a bright red colour, which may sometimes be seen protruding from or partially surrounding the orifice of the urethra. They consist of a vascular connective tissue, covered with stratified epithelium, and usually papillated on their surface. Like other papillomata, they are prone to bleed, and in the female are often very sensitive, causing great pam_m micturition and during connection. The treatment consists in snipping off the growth with scissors, and destroying the base with the actual cautery. . Polypi.—Small polypi are occasionally found m the urethra, ihese may be either little polypoid masses of granulation tissue arising in cases of gleet, or may partake more of the character of the myxomatous tumour. They may grow from any part of the urethra, but are generally situated near the orifice, when they may become prolapsed during micturition. They sometimes bleed and may cause obstruction to the passage,of the urine. If suspected, their presence may be ascertained by the endoscope, or if near the orifice by simply separating the lips of the urethra. They may be treated by the application of nitrate of silver. Cancer.—Primary carcinoma of the urethra is very rare. It usually occurs in men over fifty who are the subjects of stricture. It is character- ised by pain, increasing difficulty in micturition, and the formation of a hard tumour in the course of the urethra. Its diagnosis in the early stage is difficult, and later on treatment by removal is hopeless, as it usually affects the deeper parts of the urethra. The treatment is merely palliative.