SUB-SPINOUS DISLOCATION as It becomes stretched around The signs by which this disloca- (2) Sub-coracoid is by far the most common form of dislocation of the humerus that is met with. The head of the humerus lies on the front of the neck of the scapula, immediately beneath the coracoid process (fig. 180). The anatomical difference between this dislocation and the sub-glenoid is their relative position with regard to the subscapularis ; in this dislocation the head lying above it, and in the sub-glenoid below it. It is frequently torn in both dislocations ; but if it is not, in the sub-coracoid variety, it may prove a serious impediment to reduction, the neck of the bone as a tense band, tion can be distinguished from the others are by the direction of the axis of the humerus, which is backwards and a little outwards, so that the elbow is directed slightly away from the trunk and behind it; by the abnor- mal position of the head ot the bone, which can usually be felt beneath the coracoid process on rotating the arm, though sometimes in very stout people this is not always possible. There is not much alteration in the length of the limb ; if anything, it is a little lengthened. (3) Sub - clavicular dislocation is not at all common. It is an exagge- rated form of the sub-coracoid variety; the head of the bone being driven further inwards and upwards, so that it rests on the second and third ribs, under the clavicular origin of the pectoralis major and immediately beneath the cla- vicle. There is never any difficulty in diagnosing this injury, as the head of the bone can be seen as a globular prominence under the pectoral muscle. The arm is distinctly shortened, and the elbow is carried outwards and backwards. (4) The sub-spinous dislocation is not common. It would appear that when it does occur it is due to direct blows on the front of the head of the bone, driving it directly backwards. The displaced bone rests on the back of the scapula in the infra-spinous fossa, immediately beneath the spine. Malgaigne has described a less complete form where the head of the bone rests on the back of the neck of the glenoid fossa and under the acromial process {suh-acrovtial). The distinguishing signs of this dislocation are the direction of the axis of the humerus, the elbow being directed forwards and away from the side; and the presence of a rounded Fig. 180.—Dislocation of the shoulder joint, with avulsion of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The head of the bone, which originally lay under the coracoid process, has been drawn outwards to show the fragment of the greater tuberosity. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)