REMOVAL OF THE APPENDIX 859 these circumstances, by waiting a day or two, there is less danger of soiling the general peritoneal cavity, since adhesions will have formed in the tissues around the inflamed appendix, and have thus shut off and localised he focus of suppuration. By adopting this plan also we avoid performing the opera- tion Unnecessarily ; for in these cases, if the routine practice is followed of removing the appendix in the early stages of the disease, many patients must be subiected to operation who would have assuredly recovered without Where there is reason to believe, from the persistence of a high temperature and swelling, that an abscess has formed, it should be cut down upon and the pus evacuated. No attempt, as a rule, should be made at the time to find the appendix. It may be that after the abscess has been opened and the pus evacuated, the appendix will be found lying free in the abscess cavity; under these circumstances it may be ligatured and cut off, but any attempt to search for the appendix would inevit- ably be attended with the breaking down of the barrier of adhesions, and a general soiling of the peritoneal cavity. An incision is made over the point of greatest pain and tenderness, and the abdominal wall delibe- rately cut through until the pus is reached: When the abscess has been opened and the pus evacuated, the cavity must be gently flushed out and a drainage tube inserted. In a considerable number of cases, the abscess cavity will fill up, the wound will heal, and there will be no further trouble. But should it not do so, and a sinus be left, it will be necessary at a future date to open the abdomen and endeavour to find and remove the appendix, which can now be done with much greater safety to the patient, as instead of a large suppurating cavity there is simply a narrow track which can easily be avoided, and all risk of contaminating the peritoneal cavity prevented. . ... In those cases of appendicitis in which diffuse peritonitis is present, either from perforation of the appendix or from bursting of a circumscribed abscess into the peritoneum, the only hope of saving life is by performing immediate laparotomy. This operation is called for, not only for the purpose of removing a damaged appendix, but still more urgently in order to evacuate the fluid and inflammatory products which are loaded with septic organisms. The abdomen should be flushed out with some weak antiseptic fluid at a temperature of 105° F., the appendix sought for and removed, and efficient drainage provided. In spite of all this the majority of cases die, but in some few instances the patient may recover. In chronic appendicitis, where the patient has recovered up to a certain point, but still has some pain and tenderness at one particular spot— McBurney's spot—and a small swelling can be felt in this situation, there ought to be no delay in cutting down and removing the appendix. Such cases may explode and become serious at any moment. Finally, in cases of relapsing appendicitis, especially if the attacks are at all frequent, removal of the appendix is indicated; at any time the patient may get an attack of appendicitis, which will put his life in far greater peril than he will incur by submitting to the operation. Operation for removal of the appendix.—In the cadaver the operation of removing the appendix is as simple as possible ; but in patients who have suff'ered from repeated attacks of appendicitis the parts may have become so matted together and altered in position that the operation is by no means easy, and there may be the greatest difficulty in even finding the appendix. Several different incisions are recommerided for opening the abdomen. Some surgeons recommend an oblique