586 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL. ORGANS bone may,, be depressed to a very considerable extent in young children without producing any brain symptoms whatever, as in the case from which fig. 214 was taken ; a child who was crushed between a mangle and the wall" The compression of the brain is partly due to the pressure of the depressed bone, and partly to the laceration and extravasation of blood into the brain substance. 5. Compound fractures.—The term compound, as applied to fractures of the bones of the skull, has the same meaning as in other fractures—that there is an external wound communicating with the lesion in the bone. These fractures are much more dangerous, especially if the bone is depressed, than the simple fracture. In these cases the great danger is not from the compression of the brain produced by the depressed bone but from the septic infiammation which is apt speedily to follow ; and if the dura mater has been torn by the depressed bone, the inOamma- FiG. 214.—Depressed frac- ture of the skull in a child, without symptoms. Fig. 215.—Drawing showing laceration of the dura mater from depressed bone. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) tion spreads to the sub-arachnoid space, and a diffuse septic meningitis is set up (fi°^ ■'15). 1 ■ The treatment of cases of depressed fracture must vary as to their conditions. If the fracture is simple and there is no sign of any bram disturbance, operative interference is not mdicated ; but if the fracture is compound, even though no symptoms of irritation of the bram are present, the depressed bone should be elevated, not so much on account ot any Harm it might do from pressure, but in order that asepsis may be obtainea and free drainage provided for, under which circumstances the risk or septic meningitis is very materially lessened. In all cases where there are symptoms of brain pressure, elevation of the bone should at once d e resorted ta^_^^ for elevating depressed bone.—In some cases all that is necessary is to insert an elevator under the depressed fragment, ana lever it up into position. But in most instances something more tnan this is required; the depressed portion of bone is generally driven somewhat under the bone in the neighbourhood, which overlaps it ana this has to be removed before the bone can be elevated Sometimes tnu may be done by sawing off the overlapping margin with a Hey s sa . 1 other cases a crown of bone, or perhaps more than one, has to be len o^ec with a trephine. No definite rules can be laid down ; each case must