PILES base of the ulcer for the extent of about the eighth of an inch No dressin- is required, but the surface of the cut should be powdered with iodofonn. Some surgeons prefer to forcibly stretch and paralyse the sphincter under an anaesthetic, and this plan of treatment is usually followed by cure. Ball recommends that the small pile at the lower end of the fissure should be removed by a V-shaped incision, and the ulcer scraped with a sharp spoon. PILES OR HEMORRHOIDS Piles or haemorrhoids are one of the most common and important diseases of the rectum, affecting almost all classes of the community, the rich and the poor, the sedentary and the active, the male and the female, and occurring at any period of adult life, though most commonly met with about middle life. , • i , i They consist of an increase and dilatation of the haemorrhoidal vessels, especially the veins, with proliferation of the connective tissue. ihe superior hcemorrhoidal vessels are the ones principally affected, for these are the vessels which supply the greater part of the rectum. When the rectum is developed from the lower end of the hind gut, it descends mto the pelvis and carries with it the terminal branch of the mferior mesenteric artery the superior hsemorrhoidal, which therefore supplies the whole of that portion of the rectum which is developed in this way , the middle and mferior hemorrhoidal merely supplying the proctodeeum, or that part of the lower end of the intestinal tube which is developed from the involution ot epiblast A free anastomosis takes place between these two sets of vessels. The arrangement of these vessels in the walls of the gut has a particular bearing on the causation of piles. The veins, which are the vessels principally implicated, form a circlet around the anal orifice ; in this plexus the veins are normally dilated, and from it are given off about six vessels, which ascend in the submucous coat parallel with each other for about three inches ; they then pierce the muscular coats, and are arranged circularly outside this coat on the wall of the gut, as they ascend to form the inferior mesenteric vein. Causes.—The causes of piles are very numerous. Ihere can be no doubt that one of the great predisposing causes is the erect position which is assumed by man, so that the blood in the haemorrhoidal vessels is returned against the force of gravity ; for the disease is entirely unknown among quadrupeds. But there are also several other anatomical causes which predispose to the formation of piles, among the chief of which must be mentioned the manner in which the veins pierce the muscular coat and are therefore liable to be constricted during its contraction, and thus, the return of the venous blood being impeded, the tributaries forniing these veins are apt to become dilated. Again, the veins, being situated in a stratum of loose connective tissue, lack that support which ]s_ afforded to most other veins, and this also predisposes to their dilatation; and finally, the hasmorrhoidal veins are destitute of valves, and therefore the column of blood is not interrupted, but the force of gravity through the whole length of the vessel is brought to bear upon its most dependent part at the anus. In addition to these various anatomical causes, there must be taken into account the mechanical effect of defoecation. During the forced expiratory efforts employed to accomplish this object, the return of