TREATMENT OF CANCER OF THE BREAST 1095 after removal, and in some instances the two diseases, spheroidal carcinoma and duct cancer, have been found associated in the same specimen. Diagnosis of cancer of the breast.—When a cancer of the breast is at all advanced, the diagnosis is in most cases easy; the marked hardness, the ill-defined, somewhat square, outline, the implication of the skin, and the fixity of the tumour, sufficiently indicate the nature of the tumour. The disease with which it is most likely to be confounded is chronic interstitial mastitis, but in these cases the whole of the breast tissue is involved j the skin is usually not puckered or adherent to the growth, and the axillary glands are not so likely to be affected, and, if enlarged, are not so hard as in cancer. Moreover, the breast will be found to be enlarged, instead of being contracted, as in the cancerous condition, and the other breast may show some indications of being affected by the same inflammatory condi- tion. In some cases it may be very difficult to distinguish a chronic abscess or a very tense cyst from a cancer, but on examination elasticity or even deep fluctuation can be felt, and the centre is always less resistant than the margin, which is different from what is found in a tumour. If a.ny doubt still exists it can be at once solved by the introduction of an exploring syringe. From innocent tumours of an adenomatous type the diagnosis is com- paratively easy; the defined outline, the mobility, and the non-implication of the skin, together with the age of the patient, is sufficient to establish a dia- gnosis. The diagnosis of a soft encephaloid carcinoma from a sarcoma or adeno-sarcoma is not always possible until after removal and examination by the microscope, although in the early stages the latter are more circum- scribed. If there is any doubt about the nature of a tumour of the breast, it can be at once settled by an exploratory incision, and this should be at once advised, obtaining from the patient at the same time permission to carry out any further operative measures which shall be deemed necessary. Considering the uncertainty which exists about the diagnosis of many of the tumours of the breast, it is a good plan for the surgeon to habituate himself as a routine practice to cut into all tumours of the breast before proceeding to remove the organ. Cases have constantly occurred where a breast has been removed for some innocent tumour, chronic abscess, or such like, and these mistakes might easily be averted by following this simple rule. Treatment.—Many different plans of treating cancer of the breast have been advocated, but there is only one method on which any reliance can be placed, and that is removal by the knife. Powerful caustics, including the actual cautery and galvano-cautery, have been employed at various times, but they are scarcely likely to be used in the future, on account of the intense pain and the sepsis which attend their employment. Recently an attempt has been made to destroy the growth by passing a powerful faradic current through it, in the hope that it may be possible to destroy the vitality of the cancer cells by this means. ^ But at present our knowledge on this subject is very meagre. The injection of Coley's fluid (see page 250) has also been tried in cases of carcinoma of the breast, especially in those cases where the disease is too far advanced to be removable by the knife, but so far unsatisfactorily. This plan of treatment would appear to be more suited to cases of sarcoma than carcinoma. The only treatment, therefore, of cancer of the breast which needs our consideration is removal of the disease ^ B.A/./. iSSg. (Inglis Parsons.)