TERTIARY SYPHILIS 191 This increases by fresh infiltration taking place around it, until it reaches a certain size. Then degenerative changes take place in the cells from mal- nutrition, due, in part, to the pressure which the new tissue exercises on the surrounding blood-vessels, and probably also in part to degenerative changes taking place in the vessels themselves, whereby their lumen is narrowed or more or less completely occluded. The cells undergo fatty degeneration, while the fibrillated structure undergoes little change, and gives a considerable degree of toughness to the mass. This new growth may undergo one of three changes : («) it may be absorbed under treats ment, leaving behind a depressed scar in place of the destroyed tissues. (/;) It may die and form a slough. Around the slough, however, there is always a zone of infiltrated tissue, in which death does not occur, and here ulceration takes place, and the slough is gradually separated, (c) It may become encysted and inert. This generally occurs in the internal organs, as the liver or brain ; the caseated mass does not perish, and the zone of infiltration around it undergoes development, and forms a fibrous capsule around the central mass and completely encysts it. It then remains inert, and may gradually undergo a process of calcification. 2. In the diffuse form of inflammation in tertiary syphilitic affections the connective tissue of the affected tissue or organ becomes widely infiltrated with round cells, instead of these cells being collected into a small space, as in the gummatous form of the disease. This causes a gradual enlargement of the Avhole viscus or organ, or of some considerable part of it, and it becomes tougher and firmer than in its natural condition. These round cells become converted into fibre cells and fibrous tissue, and there is thus an overgrowth of the connective tissue of the part, which may press upon and absorb the normal structures, and diminish their natural functions. Later on considerable contraction of this new fibroid material takes place, producing shrinking and puckering of the surface of the affected organ. The condition is principally found in the viscera, the liver, lungs, spleen, and testicle, but also not infrequently in the bones also, lead- ing to a condition of hypertrophy and sclerosis, for in these cases earthy salts are 'deposited in the newly formed fibroid material, leading to the formation of new bone, and there is no contraction. 3. The changes in the smaller arteries.—This is of the nature of an obliterative arteritis, and consists principally in a proliferation of the endothelium of the intima and its infiltration by small round cells, the result of this proliferation. The external coat is, however, thickened to some extent. This collection of cells considerably narrows the tube and may result in complete obstruction of its lumen, thus leading to defi- cient nutrition with its attendant results. It affects the smaller arteries, especially those of the brain, but does not appear to involve the larger vessels. We must now consider the individual lesions of tertiary syphilis as they affect different parts. Tertiary syphilitic disease of the bones.—The bones are very commonly the seat of tertiary syphilis, and it will be convenient to consider this condition in the first place. Syphilitic disease of the bones is merely a modification of the same process which characterises tertiary syphilis in other parts, and presents itself both as the diffuse and circum- scribed _ form. As the diffttse form it shows itself as an osteo-sclerosis. There is a gradual enlargement of the bone over a considerable area, perhaps through the whole of the shaft of a long bone, or throughout the