467 RESULTS OF OSTITIS not long continued, the inflammatory exudation may undergo resolution and the bone return to its original condition. This is only in cases where no absorption of bony tissue has taken place. If, on the other hand, the irritation has been more prolonged and destruction of tissue has taken place, the inflammatory exudation may become organised by small loops of vessels growing into it from neighbouring parts, and converted into a true granulation tissue. This undergoes the same changes as granulation tissue elsewhere. The cells become elongated, spindle-shaped, and con- verted into fibre cells and then into fibrous tissue. But the process does not stop here; earthy salts are deposited in the fibrous tissue and a true ossi- fication results, and new bone is formed, which, though denser in structure, resembles healthy bone when examined under the microscope. The whole of the inflamed portion of bone is now harder and denser than it was before, and frequently many of the Haversian canals are obliterated, so that the bone acquires more or less the consistency of ivory. This condition is known under the name of osteo-plastic ostitis or sclerosis. Sometimes, on the other hand, instead of the inflammatory exudation becoming vascularised and converted into a new tissue, its cells perish from malnutrition and degenerate into pus cells, and suppuration is the result. This is what happens when ostitis is set up around a piece of bone which is already dead, and it is by this process that the dead bone is separated from the living. In tuberculous abscess of cancellous tissue the same thing may occur, resulting in the formation of a localised collection of curdy pus, known as chronic abscess of bo7ie. Symptoms.—The symptoms to which ostitis gives rise are pain of a dull, aching, gnawing character, which is Hable to exacerbations, being increased by exercise, by pressure, or by a dependent position of the part. Its principal characteristic is that it is worse at night. If the bone is a super- ficial one, as the tibia, there may be slight dusky redness of the skin. Later on, especially when the periosteum becomes secondarily involved, there is some general enlargement of the bone. The disease is so mixed up with periostitis that it is almost impossible to differentiate between the two conditions, nor is it a matter of any great importance to do so, since the treatment of the two is almost the same. There are, however, one or two points by which a differential diagnosis may be arrived at. In peri- ostitis the enlargement will be on one aspect of the bone alone in the majority of cases, whereas if there is ostitis as well the whole of the bone will be enlarged. It is said that in cases of ostitis, on tapping or percuss- ing the bone, a severe pain is felt to shoot along it, but in periostitis the pain is confined to the part struck. Treatment.—The treatment of ostitis is the same as periostitis, except that if operative measures are resorted to it will not be sufficient to incise the periosteum, but an opening must be made in the bone. This is done by an operation known as linear osteotomy. It consists in making an mcision, some three or four inches in length, down to and through the periosteum over the inflamed bone ; a Key's saw is now applied to the bone and a cut made in it down to the medullary canal or deeply into the cancellous tissue. In this way pain may very often be at once relieved. Other surgeons attain the same end by taking out a crown of bone with .a^ trephine. This, though a somewhat more severe proceeding, appears., to De attended with more permanent results, since in linear osteotomy the pain IS very apt to recur when the cut in the bone closes up. Results of ostitis.—From the foregoing it will be seen that inflammation ii u 2