ANTISEPTICS 69 sufficient may be absorbed to produce toxic effects. Tlie first symptom which usually shows itself is carbolurea. The urine voided is of a dark, olive-green colour. If the application of carbolic acid is at once left off, no further ill effects appear and -the urine speedily recovers its natural colour; but if, on the other hand, the use of the carbolic acid is persevered with, other symptoms speedily show themselves, of which the most marked is severe and uncontrollable vomit:ing : the urine becomes almost black, sometimes there is a rise of temperature, with excitement and perhaps delirium ; but more commonly, especially if the dose has been large, there is collapse, with a sub-normal temperature, and a rapid feeble pulse, and these symptoms may terminate in insensibility and death. Carbolic acid is used in the form of lotion, i in 20 to i in 40 : in the form of oil, I in 5 to I in 20; and as gauze impregnated with carbolic acid, paraffin, and resin. Corrosive sublimate'is perhaps the most powerful and the most reliable antiseptic which we .possess. Like carbolic acid, it possesses the two disadvantages of being locally irritant, though not to the same extent as carbolic acid, and of producing toxic effects, which it does in a higher degree than any other antiseptic. It enters into combination with the albumen of albuminous tissues, forming a mercuric albuminate, which is far less actively antiseptic than a watery solution; and therefore for washing out wounds it requires to be used of a much greater strength than is necessary to kill the germs when in a non-albuminous medium. The toxic effects of mercuric poisoning show themselves as pains in the abdomen, tenesmus and bloody stools, ai^d sometimes swollen and ulcerated gums. These symptoms are especially likely to occur in patients who are the subjects of Bright's disease, so that this antiseptic should never be used in these cases. Corrosive sublimate is used in the form of a lotion, i in 1,000, to clean dirty wounds or foul abscesses; even i in 500 may be used with care, so long as every precaution is taken not to allow any of the solution to remain in the cavity, so that it cannot be absorbed in any considerable quantity. A solution of the strength of i in 2,000 is sufficiently strong to irrigate a wound during operation or for cleaning the surgeon's hands. Corrosive sublimate is also used in the form of gauze ; but it is not to be recommended, as it produces, when wet, considerable irritation. Far better forms of mercuric gauze are the double cyanide gauze, consisting of a cyanide of mercury and zinc ; and the sal-alembroth gauze, consisting of a gauze saturated with a double mercuric salt of corrosive sublimate and chloride of ammonium, formed by sublimation. The former of these two, the latest introduction of Lord Lister, is far the better, and is, I believe, more universally employed than any other dressing. A most useful form of mercuric dressing, when a dry, absorbent material is required, is 'woodwool,' made from pine wood saturated with corrosive sublimate ; it is soft, elastic, highly absorbent, and antiseptic. Salicylic acid is an excellent antiseptic, and possesses this distinct advantage, that it possesses no toxic properties. It is also non-volatile. It is, however, very irritating, especially to the mucous membrane of the no.se. It is very sparingly soluble, and therefore is not used as a lotion. It is principally employed as saHcylic wool, and answers admirably as a p;acking material. It is also used in the form of an ointment and as a dry powder, mixed with starch, as an application to the surfaces of ulcers. Both salicylic acid and corrosive sublimate are unsuitable for soaking steel instruments, as they act on the metal.