ioo8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS line! This is the point where the urethra pierces the ligament, and the canal is usually dilated in this situation. The point of the knife is thrust through the triangular ligament at this spot, and the urethra is opened. A female catheter is now passed through the opening thus made, and can be pushed onwards into the bladder. The escape of urine through it will at once indicate that the urethra has been opened. The difficulty in the operation now commences. The surgeon introduces the point of his knife into the opening in the urethra and cuts forwards until he reaches the point of the catheter which has been passed down to the stricture. By this means he hopes to divide the stricture by following the line of the urethra, and by great good luck he may succeed in doing this; but it is far more probable that he will cut along the side of the urethra, leaving the stricture undivided. The catheter is now pushed onwards and, guided by the female catheter in the wound, is introduced into the bladder and tied in. If the surgeon has succeeded in opening the urethra all will be well, but if he has made a fistulous tract by the side of the urethra, it will most certainly contract, and the patient's condition will be in no wise bettered. The difficulties and uncertainties of the operation are so great that it ought to be abandoned. Cock's operation closely resembles the preceding as far as the early steps of the operation are concerned, but in it no attempt is made to divide the stricture. An opening is made from the perineum into the urethra behind the stricture, and through this a straight tube is introduced into the bladder, through which the patient passes his urine. In many cases after all irritation has subsided it will be found that an instrument can be passed through the stricture and that then dilatation can be proceeded with in the ordinary way ; but if not, Mr. Cock, who warmly advocated this operation, advises that the patient should be left to pass his water through the artificial opening for the rest of his life ; the patient's mode of micturating being similar to that of the opposite sex. The artificial opening has a tendency to contract and requires the occasional passage of an instrument. The operation is thus performed : The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and the surgeon introduces his left forefinger into the rectum and feels for the apex of the prostate. He then introduces a double-edged knife exactly in the median line of the perineum, about half an inch in front of the anus and pushes it with one thrust down to the point of his fore- finger, which rests on the apex of the prostate. In withdrawing his knife he cuts upwards and downwards a little so as to make a triangular wound. By this means he opens the urethra just as it emerges from the prostate. As it is dilated in this situation on account of the stricture, the operation is not usually attended with any difficulty if the surgeon keeps strictly in the middle line. A broad director is now passed through the wound into the bladder, and along this a straight lithotomy tube is passed and tied in, and the director withdrawn. Complications of stricture.—Stricture of the urethra may be fol- lowed by several local complications, of which the most common are : (a) Retention, (l>) abscess in perineo, and (c) extravasation of urine. _ Retention.—Retention of urine may occur in cases of stricture. This is very often the result of some spasm or congestion becoming super- added to the stricture, and these conditions have already been considered (page 997). But it may also occur in tight strictures from a gradual and progressive contraction. In these cases an attempt should first be made to relieve the patient by passing a small catheter, and very often the surgeon