5o6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES prominence on the back of the scapula, beneath the spine. The arm is lengthened, and there is a distinct hollow or depression beneath the coracoid process. (5) Supra-coracoid dislocation.—This must necessarily be attended with fracture of the coracoid process. The head of the bone rests between the fractured coracoid and the acromion, in contact with the anterior border of the clavicle. It is caused by direct violence applied in an upward direction. The injury can readily be diagnosed, for the head of the bone can be felt in its new position. It is easily reduced, but has a tendency to recur. Treatment.—Dislocations of the shoulder joint may be reduced by manipulation or extension. Manipulation.—This undoubtedly is the better plan of reducing dis- locations of the shoulder, since the procedure can be carried out without any risk of injury. There is, however, a risk from the anaesthetic, which is almost essential in the reduction by manipulation, because the patient has not been properly prepared for it, and because deep anaesthesia is required. If, therefore, a patient is seen almost immediately after the accident, while he is still faint and collapsed, it is advisable to at first try reduction by extension, with the heel in the axilla, without an anaesthetic, and employing only a small amount of force. If an anaesthetic is judged to be necessary, then the plan by manipulation should first be tried. The patient is to be laid flat on his back on a hard couch, and the pro- ceedings should not be commenced until complete ansesthesia is obtained and the muscles are relaxed. The forearm is to be flexed on the arm, and the elbow brought down to the side : the surgeon then grasps the elbow with one hand and the wrist with the other, and rotates the arm outwards until a marked resistance is experienced. This untwists the capsule and renders the rent in it patent, and at the same time causes the head of the bone to roll outwards from beneath the coracoid. Sometimes this is all that is necessary ; the head of the bone retraces its steps through the hole in the capsule, and the reduction is completed. If this is not so, the elbow is now to be moved forwards, upwards, and inwards, until it is opposite the middle line of the body, the external rotation still being maintained. This causes the head of the bone to glide over the edge of the glenoid fossa through the rent in the capsule. Thirdly, by rotating the arm inwards and carrying the hand towards the opposite shoulder, the head of the bone is forced into the socket, and the reduction is completed. The rules may be briefly summed up as follows : i. Rotate arm outwards, with elbow flexed and close to chest wall. 2. Carry elbow to front of chest. 3. Rotate m- wards and place hand on opposite shoulder. This plan, which was first recommended by Kocher, is the one almost universally adopted, and is particularly applicable to the common sub-coracoid dislocation ; but it has also proved successful in the sub-glenoid dislocation, and may be tried m the sub-clavicular form. For the reduction of the sub-spinous dislocation, the surgeon stands behind the patient and grasps the shoulder, so that the thumb rests on the head of the bone and the fingers in front ; with the other hand he seizes the arm near the elbow and raises it to a right angle with the trunk, at the same time making as much extension as he can. He now steadily circumducts outwards, and with his thumb presses on the head of the bone, so as to assist in pushing it into the socket. As soon as the head of the bone is felt to recede from under the thumb, the arm is to be brought down to the side.