SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE RECTUM 917 which will pass through the stricture with a moderate amount of pressure, and a larger size may be introduced every third or fourth day. In this way the stricture may be gradually dilated up to the largest sized bougie, and great relief given; but it will be necessary to continue the _ occasional passage of the bougie, as there is great liability for recontraction to take place. In some cases where the contraction is very great, so as not to admit of the smallest sized bougie, a laminaria tent may be mserted, and when this has dilated the stricture somewhat the treatment by bougies commenced. Occasionally it happens that little dilatation can be effected by bougies, and then the operation of proctotomy must be performed. . . Proctotomy.—This operation is performed by ancesthetising the patient and placing him in the lithotomy position. The point of the fore- finger of the left hand is introduced into the stricture, and along this a blunt-pointed straight bistoury is passed; its cutting edge is directed back- wards, and the stricture and coats of the gut are divided. By making the incision in the middle line there is no risk of wounding the peritoneum, and plugging will usually arrest all haemorrhage. Some surgeons recom- mend notching the stricture in three or four places instead of freely dividing it behind. This operation will not cure the stricture ; it will be certain to recur if left alone, and therefore the passage of a bougie must be rigidly enforced. Where the stricture is tubular, treatment by dilatation appears to do little good, and division is rarely possible on account of the extent of bowel involved ; when any indications of obstruction show themselves, a colo- tomy is the only means of saving the patient's life; and in those cases where the stricture is beyond the reach of the finger, the same measure must be adopted after palliative treatment has been persevered with as long as possible. SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS A primary chancre is occasionally met with in the neighbourhood of the anus, and in the secondary stage of syphilis mucous tubercles or con- dylomata are very common ; but when syphilitic disease of the rectum is spoken of, the term is intended to designate an extensive ulceration of the mucous membrane, which is usually regarded as a tertiary affection, and is believed to be due to the breaking down of gummatous infiltration of the submucous tissue of the rectum. There appear to be, however, many reasons which render this at least doubtful. The disease almost invariably attacks females, which is in itself a strange fact if we regard it as a tertiary affection, since men suffer from this as much, if not more, than women. Then again, it usually occurs before the age of thirty, which is young for tertiary syphilis. In many cases no history of syphilis or any other syphilitic manifestation can be obtained. In most if not all of these cases, the women affected are in the early stage robust and healthy, very unlike the victims of tertiary syphilis. It is true that later on they become worn out and emaciated, but this is due to the local disease, and not to any constitutional cachexia. Again, iodide of potassium, alone or combined with mercury, which is so potent for good in tertiary syphilis, is apparently absolutely useless in arresting the ravages of this disease. Finally, if the disease is cured, the patient entirely