PERITONITIS 809 but if the bowel becomes altered in any way from the normal condition of health, the bacillus becomes virulent and shows an active inclination to penetrate the bowel wall. It may escape either through a perforation or through the wall of a portion of the gut which has been damaged by injury or disease. Examples of peritonitis set up in this way are strangulated hernia, or other forms of intestinal obstruction, appen- dicitis, enteritisj ulceration, with or without perforation, and cancerous growths. 2. Peritonitis due to infection from without.—The micro- organisms associated with this form are usually the pyogenic cocci, and notably the streptococcus pyogenes. They effect an entrance through a wound in the abdominal parietes, the result either of operation or injury ; through the genital organs in the female, travelling from the vagina up the Fallopian tube; or in puerperal peritonitis reaching the peritoneum through the veins, lymphatics, or Fallopian tubes. 3. Peritonitis of doubtful origin.—Peritonitis is said to be caused by chemical or local irritants, and to occur in the rheumatic, syphilitic, and alcoholic conditions, or in victims of Bright's disease. If this is so, it must be admitted that peritonitis can be produced without the infection of micro-organisms, but it would appear to be doubtful whether this is really so; at all events it may be said that the existence of such a condition has not been satisfactorily proved, and that where peri- tonitis has been set up in this class of cases there has been, in all prob- ability, the introduction of micro-organisms either from the outside or through the intestine. Symptoms of acute diffuse peritonitis.—The symptoms vary within certain limits according to the cause of the affection. The patient is seized with acute pain of a burning, cutting, or stabbing character, which is generally at first localised to the seat of injury or referred to the umbilicus, but soon spreads all over the abdomen. This often presents exacerba- tions, the patient suddenly crying out from an access of pain. Speedy collapse follows, and he becomes faint, pale and prostrated. He lies on his back, with his thighs flexed on the abdomen. He is restless, and his features are pinched and expressive of anxiety. Vomiting usually sets in early and is persistent, whether anything is taken by the mouth or not. He rejects first the contents of the stomach, then the ejected matter becomes bilious, and finally brown and offensive. There are often eructa- tions and hiccough. The abdominal muscles are rigidly contracted and the abdominal wall at first is sunken in, but later on the abdomen may become distended and tympanitic. The abdominal wall is hypersensitive, and the patient will often flinch from the slightest touch; there is also pain on deep pressure being made. The respiration is thoracic. The urine is scanty and loaded, and constipation is usually marked, but in some cases there is diarrhoea. The temperature presents no regular course; in some Icases it rises_ steadily, in others it remains slightly above normal, and in others, especially cases of peritonitis from perforation, it is subnormal. The pulse is quick, small, and wiery. The tongue is dry, brown, and furred in the centre. Often intense thirst is complained of There is rarely any delirium or impairment of the mental faculties. In fatal cases, as life ebbs away, the temperature, if it has been raised, falls abruptly, the skin becomes cold and clammy, the pain ceases, the countenance ashen and livid, and the pulse too quick to be counted. Battle points out that in these cases there is sometimes oedema, with tenderness in the groins extending to the