259 TREATMENT OF CANCER be given to a woman who is suffering from scirrhus of the than can breast. Epithelioma is the form of cancer to which allusion has already been made in speaking of the etiology of the disease as being often produced by some local irritation. A large proportion of these cases can be clearly ascribed to some pre-existing source of irritation. Colloid cancer.—There is a form of disease which was formerly classified as a distinct variety of cancer under the name of colloid, gelatini- form or alveolar cancer, but is now known to be merely a degeneration of glandular cancer. It occurs principally in the abdomen, but also occurs sometimes in the female breast. It consists of a lobulated mass, which in the abdominal cavity often attains a large size and appears on post-mortem examination to occupy the whole of the cavity, obscuring the viscera. It is semitranslucent, soft, and of a yellowish colour, not unlike honey. It con- sists of an open network of fibrous tissue forming large spaces in which is contained a jelly-like material. The fibrous stroma is composed of trans- parent fibres, beset with round or oval nuclei; while in the jelly-like material are cells of various sizes and shapes, many of them undergoing processes of degeneration ; some containing fat granules, others being sur- rounded by zones of granules, which give them a resemblance to an oyster shell; in addition to this there are cells which re- semble the spheroidal epitheHum from which the tumour originally sprang. Treatment.—In this general considera- tion of the subject of cancer, it is not necessary nor expedient to say much on the subject of treatment; this will be more conveniently discussed in the sequel in considering cancer as it affects, different tissues and organs. It will be sufficient in this place to allude briefly to the two ways in which cancer, speaking generally, may be treated, viz. by the palliative and the radical plan of treatment. The palliative treatment is employed in those cases where operative interference is contra-indicated; such as cases where the whole of the growth and the infiltrated tissues around cannot be removed ; cases where there are several malignant tumours in different parts of the body; or where the malignant cachexy is well marked, or there is any suspicion that there are secondary visceral growths. Here the treatment consists in soothing pain by the administration of opium, preferably by the subcutaneous injection of morphia; in destroying the foetor which arises from the tumour if it is ulcerated; and in supporting the patient's strength by good nourishing diet; avoiding as much as possible the exhibition of stimulants, which tend to increase the growth and cause pain. The radical treatment consists in the removal of the tumour, together with a free margin of surrounding tissue, which may be already implicated in the disease, in the hope that it may not return or develop as secondary growths in other parts. As we have already stated, some forms of cancer are much more prone to return than others. If removed early, some forms of squamous epithelioma do not as a rule return, and the same may be said, though to a Fig. 68.—Microscopic appef^rance of a column of cells growing downwards from an epithelial surface, and containing two cell nests. Diagrammatic.