969 LITHOTOxMY should not be proceeded with. When the staff has been passed and the stone felt, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, with the knees well apart and the sacrum flat upon the table, the patient's body being kept quite perpendicular to it. The staff is now given to an assistant to hold, and it should be held with the handle well depressed towards the patient's abdomen, so that the shaft of the instrument rests against the front of the symphysis pubis ; this brings the membranous portion of the urethra nearer the surface of the perineum. An incision is now made commencing on the left side of the median raphd of the perineum, one and a half inches in front of the anus, and carried backwards and to the left side to a point midway between the tuber ischii and the anus. The in- cision IS gradually deepened until the operator can distinctly feel the groove in the staff with his forefinger introduced into the wound. The point of the knife is now mtroduced into the groove in the staff by transfixing the J. H. MONTAGUE LONDON Fig. 372.—Grooved staff, lithotomy knife, and lithotomy forceps. membranous portion of the urethra, and when the point is distinctly felt impinging against the steel, a sensation which will be perceived both bv the operator and the assistant holding the staff, the handle of the knife is somewhat depressed and also lateralised, and the point pushed onwards until It reaches the bladder; this will be known by all sense of resistance ceasing and probably also by a gush of the fluid in the bladder taking place (fig. 373). In doing this the utmost care must be taken not to allow the point and back of the knife to leave the groove in the staff. If this accident .should occur, the rectum may be wounded, or the loose cellular tissue between the rectum and the bladder may be opened up and the latter viscus never reached. In thrusting the knife onwards, the membranous portion of the urethra and the compressor urethras muscle are divided • he capsule and the left lobe of the prostate gland partially cut. When the kmfe has been felt to reach the bladder it is withdrawn, and i doing so the wound is slightly enlarged by depressing the knife against the