4 INFI.AMMATION PASSIVE CONGESTION Passive congestion is a condition in which, as in determination, there is an increased quantity of blood in the part, but, in contradistinction to determination, it flows less rapidly than natural, and as a direct outcome of this becomes more deoxygenated, and therefore is of a darker colour than in the normal condition. It may occur quite independently of inflammation, or, on the other hand, it may be the direct outcome of it or act as a pre- disposing cause of it. The phenomena may be studied by tying a ligature fairly tightly round a part of the body—say a finger—sufficiently tightly to constrict the superficial veins and retard the flow of blood towards the heart through them, but not tightly enough to constrict the arteries and so prevent the ingress of blood to the part. In consequence of this, blood continues to flow into the constricted area, but being unable to find its way out through the compressed veins, it collects in the vessels, and thus there is increased blood in the part. In consequence of the impediment to the return of the blood through the veins, the circulation is retarded, and thus the flow is less rapid than natural; and from its prolonged stay in the capillaries the blood loses more and more of its oxygen and so becomes of a darker colour than natural'. If we examine the vessels of the part we shall find that the arteries are of normal size or even diminished in calibre, while the capillaries and veins are enlarged and distended with black blood. If the constriction is allowed to remain long enough the circulation becomes entirely arrested, because the veins and capillaries become choked with blood and are unable to contain any more. When this occurs stagnation is said to take place. Causes.—The most potent cause in the production of passive congestion is any obstruction to the return of the venous blood through the veins. An illustration of this has already been given in our experiment of tying a ligature tightly round a part of the body, but there are many others : the obstruction of a vein by a thrombus; the pressure of a tumour on a vein interfering with the circulation through it; the force of gravity from the long-continued dependent position of a part, especially where the valves in the vein are incompetent, may all give rise to passive congestion. But the arteries and capillaries may also be in fault in the production of this condition : for instance, increased resistance in the arteries may give rise to it. The arteries in old people may become so altered by degenerative changes that, though they are capable of allowing sufficient blood to pass through them to supply nutrition to the part, there is not sufficient pressure from behind to drive the blood onwards through the veins, and a condition of passive congestion is the result. In addition to these causes this con- dition may be set up by a diminution of the natural forces by which the circulation is carried on. This is especially the case when the propulsive power of the heart is weakened by old age or in exhausting diseases, so that it is no longer able to drive the blood through the capillaries, which there- fore become gorged with blood, particularly in those parts which are most remote from the central organ of the circulation. Symptoms.—The symptoms of passive congestion are those which one would naturally expect to find in apart in which there is an increased quantity of blood flowing with diminished rapidity. Ihere is first ot all, swelling, due, at all events in the first instance, to the increased amount of blood in the part; there is a dull aching pain, caused by the pressure of