II50 AMPUTATIONS Pirogoflfs amputation bears the same relation lo Syine's at the ankle as Grmi's does to Garden's at the knee. It consists in removing the whole of the foot except the posterior part of the os calcis at the ankle joint, and then in applymg the sawn surface of the portion of the os calcis whicli is left to the previously sawn ends of the tibia and fibula. The position of the patient and operator is the same as in Syme's amputation, and the incisions bemn and end at the same points ; but the plantar incision is not made directly across the foot, but obliquely forwards (fig. 439), and is carried down to the bone in an oblique direction, upwards and backwards ; so that in making the incision the knife must not be held at right angles to the sole. The foot is now extended, and a straight incision is made from the two extremities of the first incision across the front of the ankle. The ankle joint is opened and the lateral ligaments severed. The foot is now further extended, and the upper surface of the os calcis, behind its ai'ticular facets, exposed. The assistant firmly grasps the heel, while a narrow saw is introduced and applied to the upper surface of the os calcis, midway between the tendo Achillis and the astragalus, and a section of the bone made in a direction downwards and forwards, care being taken to bring it out through the incision on the sole of the foot. The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are cleared from the soft parts, and a thin slice is removed from the inferior surface of the tibia, as well as the two malleoli. Originally, Pirogofif recommended a vertical section of the OS calcis ; and under these circumstances, after union had taken place, the patient walked on the thin skin over the back of the heel, instead of the thick cushion under the tuberosities. After the operation is completed, the heel flap is united to the skin in front, and as a rule it is not necessary to suture the bones, though some surgeons prefer to do so. The patient should be laid on his side, with the knee flexed, so as to relax the tendo Achillis. Very diverse opinions are held with regard to the merits of Pirogofi"'s amputation. Some surgeons prefer it to Syme's, while others believe that it is inferior to that operation. It would certainly appear to have two distinct disadvantages. The one is that it is not applicable to cases of tuberculous disease of the tarsus, since a portion of one of these bones is left behind in which the disease may recur ; and, secondly, union may fail to take place between the two bones, and an unstable stump may result. Sub-astragaloid amputation consists in removal of the whole foot except the astragalus. It is little practised in this country, and the cases •lited to it are few in number, since it is not often that disease of the os calcis and other tarsal bones is present without the astragalus being involved. On the Continent it has been practised as a substitute for Chopart's operation. Several methods have been recommended for its performance, of which we have only space to describe one—viz. Faraboeufs, which appears to be the best, as the nutrition of the flaps is well provided for. An incision is com- menced just to the outer side of the tehdo Achillis and carried forwards along the outer border of the foot, a finger's breadth below the external malleolus, to the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. It is then carried upwards and inwards across the dorsum of the foot as far as the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis, and from that point is made to slope do^vnwards over the inner border of the foot to the centre of the sole, and is then curved backwards and outwards to the point from which the incision started. A large internal and plantar flap is thus formed, which is abundantly supplied with blood. It is dissected up, the astragalo-navicular joint is opened, and by depressing the foot the point of the knife can be introduced between the os calcis and astragalus, and the strong interosseous ligament divided. The tendo Achillis is then divided, and the remaining soft parts separated from the bones, and the foot removed. Chopart's amputation is an amputation at the mid-tarsal joint, the whole of the bones of the foot being removed except the os calcis and the astragalus. Considerable difference of opinion exists among surgeons as to the value of this operation, some asserting that the results are so bad that the