720 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS abscess (page 717); (3) pouches of the lower part of the pharynx (page 714) ; (4) paralysis of the muscles of deglutition, either diphtheritic or labio-glosso- pharyngeal; and (5) impaction of foreign bodies. Dysphagia may be the result of certain morbid conditions of the larynx as : (i) acute laryngitis, causing cedema about the rima glottidis ; or (2) chronic laryngitis, both tuberculous and syphilitic, causing thickening or ulceration about the glottis and obstructing the passage of food ; or (1) it may be caused by malignant disease of the larynx. Conditions, other than stricture, in the oesophagus itself may give rise to dysphagia, as inflammation, acute or chronic, impaction of foreign bodies, and the formation of diverticula. • 1 Among the extrinsic causes of dysphagia are tumours in the neck outside the oesophagus, principally enlarged glands, enlargement of the . thyroid and aneurism ; or tumours in the thorax, aneurism of the aorta or innominate artery; mediastinal growths, enlarged bronchial glands, or sarcomatous tumours growing from the bodies of the. vertebrae. Finally, the dislocated sternal end of the clavicle may press on the oesophagus and cause dysphagia. , , n.u c In investigating a case of stricture of the oesophagus, all these causes ot dysphagia should be borne in mind and eliminated as far as possible; especially before any attempt is made to pass an oesophageal bougie, since a serious mishap might occur, say in a case of aortic aneurism, if an instru- ment were passed down for the purpose of ascertaining whether a stricture existed or not. . , I Spasmodic stricture.—Spasmodic stricture of the oesophagus is met with at all ages and in both sexes, but is most common in_ females under the age of thirty. It is probably almost always associated with some local irritation, as chronic follicular inflammation or ulceration, which is frequently the result of some slight abrasion of the mucous membrane from swallowing a foreign body some time previously. _ The difficulty in swallowing is intermittent and uncertain, and the condition may be sus- pected if the patient is neurotic and there is but little emaciation and loss of strength If the patient is asked to swallow, she will say that it is im- possible for her to do so, and if she is encouraged to make the attempt will half choke in her eff-orts. At other times, when her attention is diverted from her condition, deglutition takes place quite normally, i an attempt is made to pass a bougie, its passage will be violently resisted by the pharyngeal muscles and the instrument be arrested at the entrance ot the oesophagus ; but if steady pressure is kept up for a m^ute or two, the bougie will glide onwards into the stomach without any dimcu ty. The treatment consists in attention to the general health and tne administration of anti-spasmodics. Any local condition about the phao'iix which can be discovered as likely to set up the disease must be treatea and it will usually be found that the occasional passage of a bougie vrm aff'ord relief to the patient. , r • ^.^j^iai ■ 2 Fibrous stricture of the oesophagus is the result of cicatricial contraction where the mucous membrane has been destroyed by the actioi_ of corrosive fluids which have been accidentally or intentionally s^vallo^^_ea , or by the impaction of a foreign body and subsequent "i^^';';f' ^ rare instances, from syphilitic or tuberculous ulceration J^^^ ^^^"•^^ ^^^^^^^^ almost always situated at the upper part of the oesophagus (fig 2 / 5 > t j^ug It has been said to occur at the cardiac end of the tube from the contractioi of a cicatrix formed by a gastric ulcer.