7° GENERAL INJURIES Eucalyptus oil is a powerful antiseptic and possesses no poisonous or irritating effects ; but it is exceedingly volatile, and therefore is not a safe antiseptic to use, as it has been proved to lose its properties in a very few hours when maintained at the temperature of the b.ody. It has been recommended in the form of eucalyptus gauze in cases where carbolic gauze has produced toxic effects, but it is not to be trusted. -In the form of ointment it is a useful application to ulcers, and especially the ulcer of burns. Boracic acid is a weak but useful antiseptic. It possesses no irritating properties, and can be employed in very numerous ways. On account of its non-irritant and non-toxic properties, it is useful as a lotion to wash out cavities, such as the abdomen, where large quantities of fluid are required, but in these cases it probably exerts very little more influence than sterilised water. As an ointment it is largely employed for healthy granulating wounds. In the form of boracic acid lint, it is a useful application where heat and moisture are required. This lint is made by soaking ordinary lint in a hot concentrated solution of boracic acid and then drying ; imme- diately before using, it is again dipped in hot boracic lotion, and at once applied to the part and covered with some waterproof material. Iodoform is a most useful antiseptic, and holds a place of its own amongst these drugs. It is especially useful in wounds opening into cavities, as in the operations for removal of the tongue, and in that for haemorrhoids. In the former of these operations it may be credited with the result that it has almost done away with the most frequent cause of death in former days, viz. septic pneumonia from the patient inhaling the emanations from the sloughing surface of the stump ; and in the latter operation it must to a great extent be credited with the fact that pyaemia, which formerly not unfrequently followed this operation, is now practically unknown. Another valuable use of iodoform is in tuberculous disease ; this drug enjoys the reputation of being specially inimical to the tubercle bacillus ; whether this is so or not, its use in cleaning sloughing tuberculous sores is undoubted. Iodoform possesses marked poisonous properties. The symptoms of poisoning are considerable elevation of the temperature and rapidity of the pulse, with the presence of iodine in the urine, and sometimes an erythematous eruption. In other cases there are marked brain symptoms; in some violent maniacal delirium ; in others drowsiness and prostration. Iodoform very rarely causes any local irritation. It is principally used in the form of crystals, which are sprinkled over the surface of sloughing wounds, or in operations opening up cavities in which an antiseptic dressing cannot be employed. The crystal should always be used in preference to the precipitate, which is absorbed too rapidly. The chief objection to its use is the very disagreeable odour which it possesses, and which sometimes affects patients so much that they lose their appetite, complaining that everything tastes and smells of iodoform. This, however, may be corrected to a very great extent by mixing a little coumarin, the essential principle of the Tonquin bean, with the iodoform. This drug is frequently used in the form of an emulsion to inject tuberculous abscesses, e.g. psoas abscess. The emulsion is made by dissolving ten parts of crystallised iodoform in twenty parts of boiling distilled water, and then addmg seventy parts of glycerine. It is also used as an ointment, and a few drops of oil of bitter almonds effectually disguises the smell. Iodoform gauze and wool are also frequently used. The former is the best form of gauze to use when it is employed as a drain.