986 INJURIES AND DISEASES Ol' SPECIAL ORGANS removed at the first sitting; some should be left behind to be subsequently removed. Should the surgeon fail to pass the Jaques catheter, a coud^ or bicoud^ may be tried, or the plan advocated by Sir Benjamin Brodie may be resorted to. This consists in passing a gum-elastic catheter with a stilette down to the prostatic urethra: when the point of the instrument impinges against the enlarged middle lobe of the prostate gland the stilette is withdrawn about an inch; this causes the point of the catheter to curl upwards, and it will then ride over the enlarged lobe into the bladder. Finally, the prostatic silver catheter may be tried. This is a catheter with a very much larger curve than the ordinary one, and can sometimes be introduced when all other instruments fail. The greatest gentleness and care must, however, be exercised, and the old-fashioned barbarous plan of ' tunnelling' the prostate, as it was called—pushing the instrument through the prostate—never resorted to. In those very rare cases where the surgeon is not successful in passing any instrument, he must proceed to aspirate the bladder above the pubes ; this may require doing two or three times, and then, the pressure being removed from the bladder, the con- gestion of the prostate will subside, and he will succeed in getting an instrument into the bladder. During catheter life the patient must be counselled to preserve a strictly moderate life, especially as regards eating and drinking; he must avoid all sexual excitement and exposure to chills, damp, and fatigue. Under these circumstances, he may enjoy several years of comparative comfort. But at the same time the treatment by the habitual use of the catheter is not always satisfactory. It is likely to set up cystitis, and it destroys the tone of the bladder, and is said by some to help in establishing grave degenerative changes in the kidney. Surgeons have of late years been very active in de\dsing other plans of treating enlarged prostate, and various operative proceedings have been proposed, from time to time for the relief of this condition. 1. Prostatotomy, or division of the prostate, is especially useful in those cases where a bar exists across the neck of the bladder, or where cystitis is present, necessitating continuous drainage. The operation consists in per/orming an ordinary perineal cystotomy. The membranous urethra is cut down upon in the middle line of the perineum, and the finger introduced into the bladder. The projecting bar is divided with a blunt-pointed bistoury, or broken down with the finger; if any projecting masses of prostatic substance are felt, they are to be removed. A gum- elastic lithotomy tube is then inserted, and the bladder drained. The tube will be required to be retained for many weeks, until the patient can pass his water by the natural passage freely. In some cases a permanent fistulous opening is established in the perineum, through which the patient empties his bladder. 2. Bottini aims at forming a new channel by boring through the prostate gland, by means of the galvano-cautery passed down the urethra; and Watson aims at the same thing, but introduces the cautery through an opening made in the perineum. These operations are, however, not devoid of risk, and the success which has attended them has not been so great as to induce surgeons at large to adopt them. 3. Prostatectomy. — This operation consists in opening the bladder above the pubes, and removing the obstructing portions of the gland as freely as possible. The patient is placed in Trendelenburg's position. After the bladder has been thoroughly washed out with boracic solution, about ten ounces of the solution are injected into it; and the