8io INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS scrotum, but not down the thighs. This may prove a diagnostic point of some value in obscure cases. . Treatment.—The treatment of acute peritonitis must be considered under two lieads: (i) as regards the conduct of a case independent of operative interference, and (2) as regards operative measures. And first it must be mentioned, that in quite the incipient stage of peritonitis the attack may be warded off by the administration of a brisk saline purge. The peritoneum is possessed of great sensitiveness, and the onset of an attack of peritonitis is attended with an impression on the nervous system, which among other phenomena produces an arrest in the peristaltic action of the bowel, and a retention and consequent decomposition of its contents, which much favours the activity of the bacillus communis coli. If a brisk purge is given, this material is got rid of, the activity of the bacillus is lessened, and the trouble may pass off; but when once the peritonitis is set up, this treatment can be of no avail. The medical treatment of peritonitis consists in rest, abstinence from food, the administration of opium, with perhaps" calomel; local bleeding, and hot fomentations to the abdomen. The patient should be kept on his back, with the shoulders slightly raised, and a pillow under his knees to relax the abdominal wall. No food should be taken by the mouth, but the patient should be fed with nutrient enemata. The thirst is best quenched by small quantities of hot water, or weak hot tea, to which a few drops of lemon juice may be added. Opium must be given to relieve pam, but no more of this drug should be administered than is required for this purpose. Formerly calomel was given in large doses in combination with opium to act as an absorbent of the effused lymph, but this plan of treat- ment has now fallen into disuse. In the early stages of peritonitis in the robust, the application of half a dozen or a dozen leeches to the abdominal wall is often attended with marked benefit. Operative measures.—It must be borne in mind that the above- mentioned measures are inoperative as far as regards getting nd oi the infective poison contained in the peritoneal cavity, and that this can only be done by opening the abdomen and evacuating the fluid, and it niay be washing out the cavity. Unfortunately this measure is not attended with any large amount of success, because the poison has already wrought tne mischief, and the operation is resorted to too late to prevent it Never- theless, seeing that the disease is almost certain to prove fatal unless sonie such measure as this is taken, it is right in these cases to resort to operation, by which a certain small percentage of cases may be saved. • ■ Unless there is any clear indication to the contrary, the incision is best made in the middle line, below the umbiUcus. When the abdomen is opened, the effusion must be allowed to escape and then the coub u gut gently separated from each other, so as to open up ,^ny P^'^'^f' V ierum or pus. The different parts of the abdomen should be carefully swabbed out with sponges so as to remove as far as Pf^sible flakes lymph, and then freely irrigated with a hot sterilised salt solution (o^ to J at a temperature of 100° F. to 105° F. After the "-"S^^^TV? 'nTceeS fluid should be removed by sponges. The more thorough this proceed; ^8 is, the greater the chance for the patient ; unfortunately in the "lajon ) cases the patient is in such a bad condition that he will "^^ s^'^^^^f'^e very protracted proceeding. The fluid having been 'removed, the s of the peritoneum may be dusted with iodoform, a drain inserted, ana rest of the wound closed. The best mode of draming is b) strip