207 TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS overload the stomach, and if necessary, by occasional aperients, keep the bowels freely acting. He should be allowed moderate exercise, not carried to the point of fatigue. In one word, by careful and temperate living he should endeavour to promote a healthy condition of body. As regards the curative treatment after the local condition of tuberculosis has been set up in some part there are four indications : (i) to remove the cause; (2) to keep the part at rest; (3) to remove, if possible, the caseating focus; and (4) to treat the constitutional condition. (1) The first point in the treatment of these cases is to remove the cause, when this can be ascertained. As we have seen, many cases of tuberculous disease, especially when it occurs in the lymphatic glands, are caused by some slight irritation, which first of all produces a lymphadenitis, and this subsequently becomes tuberculous. In these cases the local source of irritation should be got rid of or treated with a view to this end ; a carious tooth or an enlarged tonsil should be removed; any eruption about the skin should be treated, and so on. But in many cases the irritant which produced the primary inflammation has been temporary; a blow or a strain producing caries of the spine or tuberculous disease of a joint, and then, of course, nothing can be done. (2) A most essential point in the treatment of all tuberculous inflamma- tions is perfect rest, both mechanical and physiological. No one who has had any opportunities of watching the effect of rest in cases of tuberculous disease of joints or the spine can doubt its efficacy. But this rest to be of any use must be absolute and complete, and must be continued for a long period. It is not sufficient, in a tuberculous knee-joint for instance, to keep the patient in bed and prevent him putting his foot to the ground. The joint must be fixed so that no movement can take place in it; nay, more than this, means must be taken, by extension or otherwise, to prevent the articular surfaces from pressing against each other, as they are liable to do from the reflex spasm of the muscles which is set up, and so by keeping up a continual condition of unrest inevitably prolong the disease and prevent recovery. And what applies to tuberculous disease of joints applies to all other forms of tuberculous disease : if the part can be kept absolutely at rest, the tendency is to recovery ; if, on the other hand, a condition of unrest is maintained, the chances of recovery are far more remote. (3) When the tuberculous disease has reached the caseating stage it is often right and proper to remove it, if it is in an external part and can be removed without undue risk to the patient. A great deal of care and discrimination is required in these cases in arriving at a determination as to the propriety of operation, especially when the operation involves the removal of important organs, such as a joint or the testicle. The cases in which the question of the removal of a tuberculous focus has to be considered are most frequently when the disease aff"ects the lymphatic glands. In these the operation should never be undertaken until there is evidence of distinct .softening of the caseated material, but when this is so the sooner the gland is removed the better. Until softening occurs the condition is recoverable from, or, at all events, the diseased gland may become encapsuled and inert, but after liquefaction has commenced there is no probability of this taking place. "When the removal of the tuberculous condition involves the removal of some important part, as a joint or the testicle, the operation .should never be performed until spontaneous recovery is hopeless, or at all events very uncertain and remote. When removal is resorted to, care