270 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES salts has gained some reputation as a cure for warts, especially when they are multiple. It should be given in small doses two or three times a day so as to produce three or four actions of the bowels daily. Corns.—A corn is primarily a thickened mass of epidermis, caused by intermittent pressure. It is almost always found on the foot, and arises from the pressure of ill-fitting boots. It is something more' than the thickened epidermis which is found on the palms of the hands of labourers and rowers, or on the fingers of seamstresses or musicians, for the thickened epidermis causes absorption of the papillary layer of cor'ium immediately beneath, so that it lies as a conical mass in a sort of pit in the true skin, around which the papillae are enlarged from irritation. In old corns, a bursa may develop beneath the thickened tissue from the continued pressure, and this may inflame and suppurate. Corns are of two kinds, hard and soft. The hard corn usually occurs on the dorsal surface of the toes, especially the outer and upper surface of the little toe. It may also occur on the sole of the foot, over the heads of the metatarsal bones. In cases where the bursa under a corn in this situation suppurates, the pus, unable to find an exit through the thickened epidermis, may burrow in the tissues and may give rise to a spurious form of perforating ulcer. In cases of hammer toe a very trouble- some corn is apt to form over the prominence of the flexed interphalangeal joint, which can only be cured by straightening the toe by operation. The soft corn occurs between the toes, and partakes more of the character of a wart than a corn, consisting of elongated papillae covered by thickened epithelium; it is probable that it is produced, like a wart, from the irritation of dirt and sweat collecting between the toes, and not, like a corn, from intermittent pressure. Corns are acutely painful, and from their position often prevent a patient from taking active exercise. It is a curious fact that patients often complain more of the pain from their corns in damp weather. Independently of pain, corns may produce other troubles : the suppuration under a corn may expose a bone, or open and destroy a joint—they are not infrequently the cause of lymphangitis, and in old people may be the starting point of senile gangrene. Treatment.—The first point in the treatment of a corn is to see that the patient is properly shod. He or she should have boots carefully adapted to the foot, with a good breadth at the toes, and low heels. There is no more prolific cause of corns than the high heels worn by some people, which cause the toes to be tightly wedged into the end of the boot. Well-fitting boots, and the application of a ' corn plaister,' is generallv all that is necessary to effect a cure. The corn plaister consists of a round piece of felt covered on one side with diachylon, with a hole in the centre to receive the corn. It may be desirable, if the corn is of large size, before the plaister is applied, to soak the foot in hot water and then pare away the thickened cuticle with a scalpel; but in most cases, if the plaister is steadily worn for a time and the boots fit, the thickened epidermis will desquamate and the patient will suffer no further inconvenience. Moles are overgrowths of the skin, which form raised pigmented patches of a brownish or black colour, and from which short crisp hairs constantly grow. They are always congenital, and may remain quiescent, without any tendency to grow, for years, causing no inconvenience beyond the disfigurement which they produce when situated on some exposed portion of the body. They occasionally become the seat of troublesome ulceration, probably set up by the friction of the clothes.