904 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS the shape shown in figure b, and the probe introduced at the external opening c naturally travels to the top of the sinus at d, and misses the internal opening b. In order to find the internal opening, the finger, well oiled, should be introduced into the rectum. In old-standing cases a well-marked cordlike induration can usually be detected, and on tracing this upwards a depression will often be felt on the mucous surface, which marks the internal opening. A probe is now passed along the sinus without using any force, and is made by gentle pressure to find its way along the canal till it emerges at the depression which was felt by the finger. Too much care cannot be em- ployed in conducting this examination, for it is easy to push the probe B Fig. 352.—Diagram showing the formation of afistula. a, abscess in ischio-rectal fossa ; b, opening into gut; c, external opening; d, abscess contracting and forming a fistula. out of the sinus into the surrounding tissues, and then the subsequent operation will prove futile to effect a cure. Blind internal fistula is that form of fistula where the abscess has burst into the rectum, but has not burst externally. The symptoms are often somewhat obscure. The patient complains of a sensation of uneasiness and discomfort, especially after defsecation, and notices perhaps that there is an occasional discharge of pus from the bowel. Upon examination, a tender or brawny spot may sometimes be detected by the side of the anus, and on pressing on it, pus may be made to escape by the anus. Upon examination with the finger in the rectum the internal opening may be felt, or it may be seen through a speculum. In some cases a very characteristic train of symptoms may be set up. The patient complains of a gradually increasing sensation of pain and weight about the rectum, with the formation of a hard tender swelling near the anus. These symptoms go on increasing in severity from day to day, until they culminate in a fairly copious discharge of pus from the rectum, generally during defsecation, and an immediate cessation of the swelling and pain. After a time the symptoms recur and run a similar course. The blind external fistula is not common ; it usually resu ts from blows or other injuries. It is recognised by the fact that the probe cannot be passed into the bowel; but care must be taken not to contound a complete fistula, in which the internal opening is not easy to find, witii this form of fistula. r u «f Treatment.—Operative interference is usually necessary lor the cure 01 fistula • but there are some cases in which it would appear to be desirable not to attempt the cure, such as cases of fistula in ano dependent on a tuberculous condition, in which there is also an advanced tuberculous condition of the lungs—a not uncommon state of things. In these cases,