648 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS very wide gap in front, owing to the removal of the os incisivum, in which it is impossible to bring together the anterior parts of the cleft. These cases are best dealt with by operating on as much of the cleft as possible, leaving a gap in front, which can be easily closed by the plate to which the artificial incisors are attached, or may be dealt with at a subsequent operation. During the operation the child is placed in different positions by different operators. Some prefer to place the child with the head falling backwards over the end of the table ; others prefer to operate with the head turned to one side; and others prefer the child to be placed on its back, with the shoulders slightly raised, so that the head falls back. This latter is the position I have always adopted, as by it a better light and view of the parts in the mouth can be obtained. Chloroform should be adminis- tered, as ether tends to increase the secretion of the saliva and mucus in the mouth, and obscures the operator's view of the part. As soon as the child is under the influence of the anaesthetic, the gag should be inserted and held by an assistant standing behind the head of the patient. Several forms of gag are in use by different surgeons, but the one which in my hands has proved most efficient is the one which was invented by Sir Thomas Smith, who was the first surgeon to undertake the operation of cleft palate under an ansesthetic. Care must be taken, however, that the gag fits, and that the tongue is not pushed back by the tongue plate, so as to roll over the entrance into the air passages and obstruct the breathing. The assistant who holds the gag should be instructed to turn the child's Fio. 249. Elevator for separating the muco-periosteum in the operation for cleft palate. head over to the side in each pause in the operation, while more chloro- form is being given, so that the blood may run out of the mouth. The first step in the operation consists in paring the margins of the cleft. This is done by seizing the extreme edge with a pair of clawed sprmg forceps, introducing a tenotome on a long handle through the palate, just external to the point seized, and cutting off a thin slice in one piece from one end of the cleft to the other. In a similar way a thm slice is cut off the other side, care being taken to include the anterior angle of the cleft. The second stage of the operation consists in bringing down the muco- periosteum. The point of the knife is introduced through the mucous membrane just internal to the last molar tooth, and carried forwards so as to divide all the structures down to the bone, as far as the position of the canine tooth. The process is then repeated on the other side. A suitable elevator (fig. 249) is now introduced through the incision, and by a rotatory movement of the instrument the muco-periosteum is stripped ott the bone on both sides. When this has been done as far as possible, it will be found that the soft parts do not fall away from the bone, because the soft palate is still connected to the posterior margin ot the hard by the mucous membrane and other soft structures passing from tne floor of the nares on to the posterior surfaces of the soft palate. 1 hese must therefore be divided. The elevator is introduced through the incision and is made to depress the muco-periosteum from the bone, so that one