-'$4:^''- Injuries and diseases of special organs Cerebral tumours.—The different varieties of tumour found in the brnin are:. (i). the tuberculous, most common in children, and affecting especially the cerebellum ; (2) gummata, almost entirely confined to the adult, and usually attacking the cortex of the brain ; (3) glioma, or glio- sarcoma, common both in adults and children, and occurring in both the cerebellum and the cortex cerebri; (4) sarcoma, most common in the adult, and usually forming an ill-defined, infiltrating vascular tumour, which is not amenable to removal (fig. 232). (5) Occasionally secondary carci- nomatous tumours occur in the brain, and (6) a few cases of hydatid cysts have been recorded. The tuberculous, gummatous, gliomatous tumours and the hydatid cyst are usually well- defined and encapsuled growths, and their removal can be undertaken. Symptoms.—The three cardinal sym- ptoms of tumours of the brain are fixed pain in the head, vomiting, and optic neuritis, and these symptoms are progres- sive in their character and increase in severity. In addition to these, there may be local symptoms when some area of the brain is involved, the functions of which are known ; thus there may be paresis or paralysis of certain groups of muscles, or Jacksonian epilepsy, &c. When the tumour is situated in the cerebral cortex, pain of a very severe character is usually induced by pressure applied to the surface of the skull immediately over the tumour. When it is situated in the cerebellum, there is often want of co-ordination of movements. To a certain extent a differential diagnosis must be attempted. If the patient is a child and there are other signs of tuberculous disease, there Fig. 232.-Sarcomatous tumour of a fair inference that the tumour in the brain. (From the Museum of Dram may be of a tuberculous nature, and St. George's Hospital.) these are cases in which operative inter- ference has proved most successful; but, in deciding the question of operation, it must be borne in mind that these tumours may become quiescent and converted into a fibrous mass, though perhaps not before blindness has been produced by atrophy of the optic disc or irretrievable damage done to the brain. If the patient pre- sents the history of syphilis, there is a probability of the disease being a gumma of the brain, and a course of iodide of potassium with or without mercury should be given. Indeed, in most cases of suspected tumour of the brain it is well to subject the patient to a full course of these drugs. The treatment should not, however, be continued too long; probaljly a couple of months is sufficient time to test whether the drugs are causing any improvement in the symptoms. It must, however, be borne in mind that very often in cases of malignant tumour of the brain the administration of iodide of potassium will produce some apparent improvement at first, from the diminution of congestion which it causes, but this improvement is not lasting. When a suspected tumour of the brain is accompanied by a rapid