I074 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS uppe;* part of the wound and making a small opening in it. There is some- times difficulty in doing this ; the serous membrane may be so closely adhe- rent to the anterior wall of the cyst that the one cannot be separated from the other. Under these circumstances the incision must be prolonged upwards until a point is reached where the one membrane can be raised from the other. As soon as a small opening has been made in the peritoneum, it is to be slit up to the full extent of the external wound. This is best done by a pair of elbow scissors guarded between two fingers. The cyst is now exposed. Formerly it used to be the practice to introduce the hand into the abdomen, and, sweeping it over the surface of the tumour, break down any adhesions which might exist on its anterior surface ; but Mr. Knowsley Thornton advises that this should not be done, as haemorrhage may occur from the tearing of small vessels, which being on the stretch cannot contract. When, therefore, the cyst is freely exposed, a Spencer-Wells trocar should be inserted into it and the fluid drawn off. As soon as a little has escaped, it will be possible to seize the cyst around the puncture with the claws with which the trocar is provided, so as to prevent the escape of any of the fluid by the side of the instrument. Every care must be taken by packing sponges around to prevent any of the fluid getting into the peritoneal cavity. If the tumour consists mainly of one large cyst, and there are no adhesions, it will be found that as the fluid flows away the tumour may be delivered by gentle traction : but if there are adhesions, this will not be so. If the fluid does not flow after a few ounces have escaped, it will be clear that the cyst is multilocular, and only one small compartment has been opened. Two courses are open to the surgeon : either he may thrust the trocar about as it remains in the first cyst, in the hope of puncturing others ; or he may withdraw it, close the opening with a pair of clip forceps, and puncture in another place ; probably this latter procedure is the safer. If no fluid escapes, it wiU be evident that the contents of the cyst are too solid to be discharged through the trocar, which must therefore be withdrawn and the puncture enlarged sufficiently to admit the fingers of the surgeon, with which the solid contents must be scooped out. While this is being done, the edges of the incision in the cyst are kept well outside the abdomen by assistants holding them in clamp forceps. Under these circumstances the external wound will require very considerable enlarge- ment before the tumour, even though it has been considerably reduced in bulk by these means, can be delivered. After the cyst has been reduced in size, adhesions, if any exist, will have to be dealt with. Sometimes they are so soft that they can at once be broken down by pressure without exerting any force:.at other times they are too tough to yield to simple measures; they must then be separated bit by bit with the finger nail or a director, any bleeding points being at once secured. In some cases, especially when the adhesions have taken place between the intestines and the cyst, they cannot be broken down without using an unjustifiable amount of force. In these cases a thin layer of the cyst wall should be left adherent to the intestine, and the rest of the cyst removed. Subsequently this small piece of cyst can be got rid of by careful dissection. Occasionally it may happen that the adhesions are so firm and so extensive, especially when situated m the pelvis, that the whole of the sac cannot be extirpated. The only resource then is to remove the upper part of the sac and fix the edges ol the remainder to the margins of the abdominal wound. In doing this the peritoneal cavity must be entirely shut ofi", by stitching up all the upper