CHONDROMA 235 sink simply on account of their own weight. As a rule they grow slowly and cause no pain. Sometimes, however, they grow rapidly and may attam an enormous size. Many years ago I removed after death a fatty tumour from the abdomen of a man, which weighed 29I lbs. and the circumference of which was 39.5 inches. The diagnosis of fatty tumours is generally easy. The only growths for which it may be mistaken are chronic abscess and sarcoma. It may be distinguished from chronic abscess by its margin, which is abrupt, rounded, and lobulated, whereas the margin of an abscess is shelving. If any doubt exists, the introduction of an exploring syringe at once establishes the diagnosis. From a sarcoma it may be distinguished by its rate of growth, which is slow, whereas in sarcoma it is rapid, and by the absence of any dimpling of the skin in the sarcomata. Treatment.—The only treatment of a fatty tumour is removal, and it is desirable in most instances to advise this. Should, however, the patient be out of health or suffering from any organic disease, it is better to advise his bearing the slight inconvenience and annoyance of the tumour, which in all probability will never do him any harm, rather than run the risk which the operation under these circumstances might entail. The operation should be performed by making a free incision into the capsule and tearing the mass of fat from its bed; by this means the small vessels which supply the tumour will be torn and will bleed slightly, whereas if an attempt is made to dissect out the tumour, troublesome oozing will be the result. Care must be taken to remove all the lobules of the growth. Parosteal lipoma.—Very rarely a lipomatous tumour may grow from bone, and is then termed a parosteal lipoma. When these tumours are deeply seated, beneath a mass of muscles and a dense fascia, their diagnosis is extremely difficult, and it is often impossible to ascertain their true nature until an exploratory incision has been made. As they are most likely, when fixed to bone, to be mistaken for sarcomatous tumours, such an exploratory incision should always be made in any case pf suspected sarcoma of bone, in which there is any doubt of the diagnosis, before proceeding to amputate. Diffused lipoma.—The diffused lipomata consist of ill-defined outgrowths of fat and cellular tissue, and ocOur principally in the nape of the neck or under the chin, and may attain enormous dimensions. They have no capsule, and it is impossible to isolate them in any way, as they appear gradually to merge into the surrounding subcutaneous fat. They usually occur in men between fifty and sixty years of age, and for the most part in those who have been in the habit of drinking large quantities of beer or spirits. They give no pain, nor do they cause any inconvenience, except from their size tmd the deformity they produce. As a rule no attempt should be made to remove these growths ; it usually involves a very extensive proceeding in persons who are not good subjects for operation, and it is impossible to distinguish between the growth and the surrounding healthy fat. A very considerable reduction in these tumours is sometimes pro duced by a total abstinence from stimulants. III. Chondroma.—The chondromata are tumours composed of hyaline cartilage. They occur most frequently in connection with one of the long bones, especially the metacarpal bones and phalanges of the hand, but also with other long bones, as the humerus, tibia, femur, and sometimes the ribs. They may spring either from the periosteum, which is the most common mode of origin when occurring in such bones as the humerus or