i68 GENERAL DISEASES The wound becomes inflamed, there is very considerable, sometimes in- tense, pain in the part, and generally a little suppuration. In other cases there may be inflammation of the lymphatics spreading up the limb, or a diffuse cellulitis starting from the wound. The patient begins to feel ill and depressed ; he complains of intense headache and nausea, and this is speedily followed by vomiting. Frequently a sharp rigor occurs, and the thermometer registers a temperature of 103° F. or 104° F., falling per- haps a degree or so in the morning, to rise again in the evening. Towards the end of the second day delirium supervenes, followed after a time by con- vulsive twitchings, and after this, stupor, coma and death ; this last takes place about the fourth or fifth day, though it may be delayed to the sixth or seventh. Early in the case the heart begins to fail, and the pulse becomes weak, quick, and irregular. The respiratory movements are also quickened and very shallow. The urine is always scanty, and towards the end of the case becomes albuminous, but, unlike sapreemia, there is not always diarrhoea, though it is present in some cases, but is rarely attended with discharge of blood. Chronic Septicaemia.—The symptoms of chronic septicEemia differ from the acute rather in degree than in kind, but run a much longer course, often lasting three or four weeks. There are the same symptoms of nervous depression, and the gradually increasing weakness. The temperature is not usually so high, and has a tendency to have a greater remission in the morning than in the acute form, though it never reaches normal. Occasionally, in these cases a rash appears over the body, generally resembling scarlet fever, but sometimes of a papular or urticariform character. Pulmonary complications are also not infre- quent—pneumonia or bronchitis—and these very often hasten the fatal termination. Pleurisy and pericarditis are other complications which sometimes arise. Pathology.—In the post-mortem examination of cases of septicaemia, as in saprfemia and other forms of blood poisoning, petechial extravasations are found on the serous surfaces, and are no doubt the cause of the pleurisy or pericarditis. The post-mortem appearances are much the same as in cases of saprsemia. The blood is uncoagulated, and, as we have seen, swarming with bacteria. The lining membrane of the heart is blood-stained, and in some cases ulcerative endocarditis is found to exist. The brain and cord, and especially the medulla, are congested, and occasionally minute points of extravasation are found in their substance. The spleen, especially in the chronic form, is much enlarged, so much so some- times that the increase in size may be detected during the life of the patient. Its structure is soft and reduced almost to a creamy pulp. The liver is also enlarged and soft, its substance having undergone de- generative changes. The lungs are congested. Treatment.—After septicjemia is once established, the treatment has been up to the present time most unsatisfactory; but modern plans of treatment have been introduced, which hold out better hopes for the future. The first thing to do after the disease is established is to pre- vent any further absorption by at once either removing the parts at the seat of inoculation, or freely incising them and washing out the wound with a strong solution of carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate. This, of course, can have no effect on the general infection which has taken place; but inasmuch as it is not always possible to distinguish this con- dition from saprsemia, these measures should always be adopted.