RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA 871 Bassini's operation.—The parts having been previously shaved and purified, an incision is made about five inqhes in length, parallel to and a short distance above Poupart's ligament. The subcutaneous tissues are mc.s-ed, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique exposed ; this is then divided on a director, so as to open up the whole length of the inguinal canal. The sac as it lies in the canal is to be carefully separated from the' spermatic cord and surrounding structures, up to the internal abdominal ring The spermatic cord is drawn out of the way by an assistant and if there are any varicose spermatic veins they should be ligatured and removed. The sac is now opened, its contents reduced, and it is then cut off close to the internal abdominal ring, and the gap thus left in the peritoneum closed by sutures. The lower part of the sac in the scrotum mav now be isolated from surrounding structures, and the whole ot it removed ; or, what is better, the tubular portion of it which lay in the inguinal canal may be removed, and the lower part sewn up and allowed to remain in the scrotum. The canal is now completely closed by suturing the arched fibres of the internal oblique and transversahs, and the outer border of the conjoined tendon, to the deep aspect of Poupart's hgament, bv a continuous buried suture ; the outermost stitch closely embracing the cord as it passes out through the internal abdominal ring. The spermatic cord is now replaced, and the divided edges of the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the pillars of the ring sutured over it, leaving a small opening at its internal extremity, through which the cord emerges. The incision in the skin is then united. Halstead's operation is somewhat similar, but differs in two essential particulars. One is that the fibres of the internal oblique at the outer margin of the internal ring are divided, and the cord displaced outwards along this incision, and there fixed; and the other is that the cord is brought outside the external obhque muscle, and lies immediately beneath the skin. No particular advantage appears to be gained by this method; in fact, some have thought that the direct opening into the abdominal cavity which is produced in Halstead's opera- tion is more likely to conduce to recurrence than the oblique opening of Bassini, which certainly has this merit—that it imitates nature. There is nothing special in the after treatment of these cases, except that the patient should be kept in the recumbent position for at least a month after the operation, although the wound has in all probabihty healed, and should only undertake light work for some weeks after he gets about Under these circumstances a truss is not, in the majority of cases, required nor desirable. In some few cases where the patient's muscular system is weak, and the abdominal muscles therefore presumably in the same con- dition, it may be desirable to wear a light truss for a time. Radical cure of femoral hernia.—The radical cure of a femoral hernia is not so frequently called for, nor is it so successful as in inguinal hernia. Three methods have been adopted, (i) The sac is exposed, isolated, ligatured as high up as possible, and then cut away. In some cases this is all that is done; in others, an attempt is made to partially close the femoral ring by passing a suture through Poupart's ligament near the spine of the OS pubis, and through the fascia covering the pectineus muscle, and tying the two ends together ; but this is not very efficient, because if any serious attempt is made to approximate the parts, the femoral vein becomes compressed. (2) Watson Cheyne recommends that a flap of the pectineus should be dissected up and transplanted into the femoral canal, where it is fixed by sutures, so as to close it and prevent the descent of the