574 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES front of the joint down to the bone, and its surface exposed. Two sections of the bone are then made with the saw, the upper one at right angles to the axis of the femur, and the lower one at right angles to the axis of the tibia in such a manner that the two sections termmate at the same point on the posterior surface of the bones. The wedge-shaped piece of bone included in these two sections is removed, and the sawn surfaces of the tibia and femur adapted to each other and pegged together. 1 he external wound is sutured, the dressings applied, and the limb put up m a Croft's plaster of Paris splint. Union of the bones takes place, but the limb should be kept in a plaster of Paris casing until it is quite firm With regard to the other diseases of the knee joint, with the exception of tuberculous disease, nothing further need be said, as they have already been sufficiently described in speaking of diseases of the joints generally. Tuberculous disease of the knee joint is a common affection though it does not occur as frequently in the knee as in the hip. UnUke the corresponding disease in the hip, the morbid process in these cases most frequently commences in the synovial membrane. In the early stage the swelling partakes of the shape of the synovial membrane, and in some cases is attended with considerable effusion into the synovial sac; generally, however, the effusion is only slight, and is chiefly apparent on either side of the ligamentum patella;. Later on the swelling becomes globular, and the knee bent at an angle, and though it can be flexed, it cannot be completely extended. After the ligaments become softened and partially replaced by granulation tissue, a partial displacement takes place ; the bones of the leg being displaced backwards and outwards and at the same time rotated outwards, so that the foot is everted, mainly through the action of the biceps muscle. Tuberculous disease of the knee, commencing in the osseous tissues, is of more common occurrence in early adult life than in chil- dren. In these cases the movements in the earbej stages are free, and there is no swelhng, beyond perhaps a little enlargement of the affected bone; but there is pain, especially when the weight pt the body is laid on the affected limb, and upon jarnng the limb by blows on the heel. There is also lame- ness and starting of the limb at night. Treatment.—The measures to be adopted are ttie same as those recommended in tuberculous affections of other joints, namely, absolute rest, and not only must the jomt be im- mobilised, but the patient must be forbidden to put his foot to the ground so that no condition of unrest shall be induced by pressing the articular surfaces together. The best means of attaining this end is by means oi rThomas? knee splint, so that the patient can be allowed exercise, and .till the knee ioint is prevented from moving, and no weight is thro\\n upon i^^(fig In addition to this, if thought desirable extension can Se made by attaching an india-rubber accumulator to the fo°t and to th^^ cross-bar of^the foot-piece of the splint. Thus treated, f^V^^^^^ a considerable number of cases subside, and if the treatment is perse^ued with for a sufficient length of time, complete recovery will take place Fig. 210. Thomas's knee splini.