OSTEO-ARTHRITIS OF JAW 681 The cheeks are flattened, and a hollow can be felt in front of the external auditory meatus. An oblong prominence can be defined in front of the hollow, which may be recognised as the condyle by a slight movement being felt in it on making passive motion. Wheri the dislocation is unilateral the symptoms are much less marked ; the chin is inclined to the opposite side to that on which the dislocation has taken place. The condyle can be felt in its natural situation on the sound side, and a certain degree of movement is possible. Treatment.—The dislocation can usually be reduced by seating the patient in a chair, standing in front of him, and inserting the thumbs, guarded by a napkin, into the mouth, so as to press the lower molar teeth downwards and backwards, and at the same time elevating the chin with the fingers. Some surgeons introduce the end of a piece of wood about a foot long between the molar teeth, and by raising the other end, the pomt, resting on the lower molars, is depressed, the upper teeth acting as a fulcrum, and the jaw is levered back into its place. Nelaton believed that difficulty in reduction depended upon the coronoid process becoming hitched against the malar bone. He recommends that reduction should be effected by introducing the thumbs into the mouth and pressing the ramus directly backwards. After reduction the jaw is to be fixed with a four-tailed bandage, and passive motion carefully and regularly applied. The jaw having once been dislocated is very liable to become again displaced, and in some cases the structures around the joint become so lax that the accident is constantly recurring. _ Acute synoYitis is not an uncommon affection, occurring, in children, as a sequel to the exanthemata, especially scarlet fever, and, in adults, after rheumatic fever. It may also originate from injury. The symptoms are those of inflammation ; pain, greatly increased by any move- ment of the jaw, with heat, swelling and redness in front of the lobule of the ear. The disease is usually accompanied by considerable febrile dis- turbance. It usually terminates in resolution, but may go on to fibroid thickening of the capsular and other ligaments and impaired motion; or in some cases it may run on to suppuration, especially in children, after scarlet fever, when suppuration in the tympanum has followed. Treatment.—The treatment consists in keeping the jaw at perfect rest by means of a four- tailed bandage and applying hot fomentations. A leech or two over the articulation will often greatly relieve the pain. The patient must be kept on fluid diet. Acute arthritis may be the sequel of acute synovitis, and also occasionally occurs as a pyasmic condition and as a gonorrhceal affection. It begins with the ordinary symptoms of synovitis, followed after a time by mcreased throbbing pain and swelling and generally a rigor, and matter points immediately over the joint. The treatment consists in early antiseptic evacuation of the pus and free drainage. Occasionally the condyle dies and requires excision at a later date. • • The temporo-mandibular articulation is one of the joints which is prone to be the seat of osteo-arthritis. It usually occurs atter rniddle life, but is also not uncommon in antemic women of middle lite. It may be bi- or uni-lateral. The joint undergoes the usual changes tound in this disease : the interarticular and articular cartilages disappear • the glenoid cavity becomes enlarged and flattened and its margins lipped' with the formation of osteophytic outgrowths, and the condyle becomes