GENERAL INJURIES 78 become inflamed, and the glands enlarged and tender, and sometimes they suppurate. The virus appears, however, to be arrested in the glands and does not extend beyond. These cases are often attended by sharp constitutional disturbance, perhaps ushered in by a rigor. A still graver condition may sometimes occur in those who are broken down in health. Diffuse cellulitis may be set up in the wound and may rapidly extend up the cellular planes, accompanied by great pain, tension, and redness, with severe constitutional disturbance. As the cases occur in the debilitated and worn out, the condition is a serious one and may terminate in the death of the patient. Treatment.—Bearing in mind the dangers which may attend a post- mortem wound, it should be a fixed rule that these examinations should never be made unless the hands are in a perfectly sound state ; but inasmuch as it has been abundantly proved that inoculation may take place through the unbroken skin, it is a wise precaution to smear the hands with some suitable grease before commencing the examination. If an accidental prick or cut should occur, the part should be bound round above so as to encourage bleeding : then well washed in a i in 20 solution of carbolic acid, and finally sucked for some time, so as to extract all the morbid material. Gauze soaked in a solution of carbolic acid should now be applied and covered with a piece of waterproof sheeting; the arm kept quiet and all further work suspended. The treatment of inflamed absor- bents and diffuse cellulitis will be described when speaking of those diseases. Anatomical tubercle. —One other result of contact with dead animal matter must be mentioned. It is known under the name of anatomical tubercle or verruca necrogenica, and occurs on the knuckles or back of the hands of those who are habitually handling dead animal matter. It consists of a warty thickening without ulceration. There is a strong belief in some minds that this condition is tuberculous in nature, and certainly in my experience the victims of this disease have generally been of a tuber- culous diathesis, and it has been stated by some that it is an actual local inoculation of the tubercle bacillus. It is a true warty growth, consisting of enlarged papillte closely set and having a tendency to spread. The surface readily becomes excoriated, and bleeds or exudes serum, which dries and forms a scab. Treatment.—In most cases protection of the hands, or cessation from the work causing it, is sufficient to effect a cure. If not, scraping the sur- face with a sharp spoon or the application of the acid nitrate of mercury to destroy the warty growth is all that is necessary. l>. Stings of Insects.—The stings of insects in themselves rarely produce any very serious symptoms, but it must be remembered that they may sometimes be the carriers of some specific virus. Thus flies are believed to not infrequently cause cellulitis when they have been previously in contact with putrefying animal matter : they have also been credited with bearing the virus of anthrax, hospital gangrene, and other infective diseases. The only other circumstances under which stings of insects can become dangerous is when from the multiplicity of their stings they produce a condition of collapse, or when from stinging the inside of the throat they cause such an amount of cedema as may interfere with respiration and need scarification for its relief. The sting of a wasp may be taken as an example of the usual results of such injuries. There is immediate severe burning pain in the part, followed by more or less oedematous swelling. In places where there is a quantity of loose cellular tissue, as