GANGRENE AFTER LIGATURE otherwise a continuation of the process will lead to a recurrence of the hasmorrhage. 2. Secondary hsemorrhage from an artery tied in its continuity.— When secondary haemorrhage occurs, at the point of ligature, from an artery tied in its continuity, and it is only slight in amount, an attempt should be first made by a graduated compress and bandage to arrest the bleeding; but if the haemorrhage is at all severe, or if the compress and bandage fail to arrest it, the wound must be opened up and a ligature placed upon the vessel above and below the bleeding point. Should this not be practicable, or should it fail and the bleeding recur, the plan of treatment must differ as to whether the bleeding artery is in the upper or lower extremity. If it is in the upper extremity the right course to pursue is to cut down upon and ligature the vessel higher up, for here there is a fair chance of no gangrene occurring after the double ligature. In the lower extremity gangrene is almost certain to follow the ligature of the femoral artery in two places, and therefore it is advisable to at once proceed to amputation of the limb immediately above the spot where the artery was ligatured in the first instance. Gangrene after ligature of an artery in its continuity.—Almost always after ligature of an artery the collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the vitality of the parts supplied by the vessel which has been tied, so that when gangrene occurs after this operation it is generally due to some obstruction to the venous circulation, and is therefore of the moist kind. In every case after ligature of an artery the venous circulation is carried on with difficulty, because the vis a tergo, the principal cause of the flow of blood through the veins, is lost, and any slight cause may produce a thrombus in the veins, and a complete stagnation of the venous flow, and gangrene will be the result. Thus the coats of the vein may be bruised in passing the aneurism needle, and this may lead to thrombosis. Where the vein is accidentally included in the ligature, or where it is transfixed by the aneurism needle, an accident which has been known to occur, it becomes blocked and gangrene is the result. This form of gangrene generally occurs about the third day after the ligature. It may or may not extend up to the level of the seat of ligature, and is attended with some constitutional symptoms from the absorption of toxic products from the bacteria of decomposition. It is much more common in the lower extremity than in the upper. Treatment.—Much may be done to arrest this form of gangrene when it is impending by (i) raising the limb slightly so as to facilitate venous return. If it is in the lower extremity care must be taken not to raise the limb too much, otherwise a bend or kink will be produced in the common femoral opposite the hip joint, which will interfere with the current of blood through the vessel. (2) By maintaining the natural warmth of the part by swathing it in medicated wool and a flannel bandage, and placing hot-water bottles in the bed, but not in contact with the limb. If placed in actual contact with the part they may over stimulate the circulation, and cause sloughing. (3) By employing methodical and continuous friction in the course of the venous circulation. If moist gangrene actually supervenes, amputation should be performed at once at the level of the point of ligature. In some rare instances, dry gangrene may follow Hgature of an artery. This, however, only occurs when there is some other antecedent cause which interferes with the supply of blood to the part, as disease of the coats