555 DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS it moves about, and occasionally disappears on examination, and reappears at some future date. Diagnosis.—^The only disease for which these loose bodies are liable to be mistaken is displacement of one of the semilunar fibro-cartilages (see page 521), but a diagnosis can be made by attention to the following points. In the first attack in loose bodies in joints the sudden pain comes on during quiet exercise ; whilst in displacement of one of the fibro- cartilages there is the history of a wrench or twist of the joint. In subsequent attacks, also, the loose body gets between the ends of the bone during flexion and extension of the knee ; in displacement of the cartilage, generally from some twist. The fixation of the knee in the two conditions is also different. Wlien it arises from a loose body it subsides of itself; whereas when it arises from displacement it requires manipulation or passive movement of the joint to overcome it. In addition to this the loose body can generally be felt either by the surgeon or the patient, who is usually conscious of its presence and can often find it when the surgeon cannot. Treatment.—There is practically but one way of curing these cases of loose cartilage, and that is by removing them. In former days, when the operation was attended with great risk, palliative measures were adopted, such as fixing the loose body by means of strapping, knee-caps, &c. ; or else attempts were made to fix it by driving pins through it; or it was removed by subcutaneous section of the synovial membrane and squeezing the foreign body through the opening thus made into the cellular tissue out- side the joint. In the present day the open method is universally adopted, the strictest attention being paid to antiseptic details. The loose body is coaxed into some easily accessible place, by preference to the outer or inner side of the patella, and is fixed there by the finger and thumb of the left hand. A vertical incision is now made through the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues, the capsule, and the synovial membrane, when in all probability the loose body will at once spring out if a little pressure is made with the restraining finger and thumb; if not, it must be seized and extracted with forceps. The parts are now to be irrigated and the wound closed, care being taken to pick up the synovial membrane on each side with each suture in the manner described when speaking of the operation for displaced semilunar cartilage (page 522). A drainage tube should be in- serted for forty-eight hours, and the limb kept perfectly quiet on a splint. DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS The shoulder joint.—The shoulder joint is occasionally the seat of simple acute synovitis the result of injury or strain, and also of acute septic synovitis in the course of pyaemia and septicEemia. In addition to this, it is perhaps of all joints the one in which acute arthritis of infants most frequently occurs. These inflammatory conditions are attended by the ordinary symptoms of inflammation, with effusion into the joint. The swelling is mainly on the outer side, so that the deltoid appears to be expanded and the curva- ture of the shoulder increased ; this swelling is most marked in front over the bicipital groove ; this is due to the effusion distending the diverticulum, which runs down the groove around the tendon of the biceps. Sometimes a fluctuating swelling may be seen just internal to the lesser tuberosity from effusion into the bursa beneath the subscapularis, which frequently