GENERAL DISEASES 224 growths which invade all the textures of the part in which they grow, and are not often encapsuled. They grow rapidly and influence the general health. They affect neighbouring lymphatic glands, and through the blood or lymph stream disseminate in distant organs. They are prone to return after complete removal. If left to run their course, they soften and ulcerate, cause cachexia, and finally death from exhaustion. The terms ' cancer' and.' malignant tumour' are not synonymous, for though all cancerous tumours are malignant, all malignant tumours are not neces- sarily cancers, or, as they are termed anatomically, carcinomata. Classification.—Tumours are now almost always classified upon an anatomical basis, which is not only in accordance with that which is employed in other scientific classifications, but also enables the student to trace the origin of the growth from the pre-existing structures from which it sprang, and to understand the relationship which it bears to other tumours which resemble it. In the first place, all tumours may be divided into two great groups, which are distinctly separate from each other: (i) Fluid tumours (cysts) ; (2) Solid tumours. CYSTS OR CYSTIC TUMOURS A cystic tumour may be defined as a closed sac, containing fluid or semi-fluid contents. The sac wall is composed of connective tissue, and may or may not be lined with epithelium according to its origin. These cystic tumours must not be confounded with cysts in tumours, i.e. cavities formed in the substance of solid tumours as the result of mucoid degenera- tion. These cavities have no true cyst wall, and will be considered in con- nection with the solid tumours in which they occur. Cystic tumours may be divided into : I. Cysts formed by the distension of pre-existing tubes or sacs. II. Cysts of new formation. III. Cysts of congenital origin. I. Cysts formed by the distension of pre-existing tubes or sacs.—These cystic tumours are caused by the collection of fluid in a pre-existing cavity, which is either a closed sac, so that the fluid as it collects cannot escape and therefore forms a tumour, or else a cavity or sac the duct of which becomes choked, so that the natural secretion becomes retained and forms a tumour. This naturally divides this class of cystic tumours into two groups, which are named respectively {a) exudation cysts; (/.') retention cysts. ia) Exudation cysts are those cases of cystic tumours where a col- lection of fluid takes place in a closed sac, -without any outlet, that normally secretes a small quantity of fluid, which is absorbed as rapidly as it is secreted and in which therefore no accumulation takes place. Owing to some cause producing an increased secretion or interfering with the natural process of absorption, a collection of fluid in the sac takes place, and an exudation cyst is produced. To this class belong many different conditions, which are not as a rule spoken of clinically as cystic tumours, though undoubtedly they are caused in the way mentioned above, such as dropsy of a joint, collections of fluid within serous cavities, spina bifida, <5v:c. The best examples of exudation cysts are to be found in bursal tumours, which consist of exudation into the sac of a bursa ; ganglia, formed in connection