203 THE TUBERCULOUS SOIL tuberculosis may be set up. As might be expected when tuberculous products are used for the purposes of inoculation, the effects produced vary with the material used. For example, the tissue of a grey granulation will produce much more rapid tuberculosis than material from a caseating mass. This is probably due to the fact that as caseation advances the bacillus breaks up and perishes; but nevertheless caseating tubercle is distinctly infective; this is probably due to the fact that though the bacillus is destroyed its spores remain and are capable of exerting their virulent properties. There is a certain amount of clinical experience helping to prove that tubercle can be transmitted by inoculation. Scattered up and down the pages of medical literature are cases where the direct communication of the disease by inoculation is incontestably proved; cases, for example, where the tubercle has been inoculated during the rite of circumcision. The surgeon occasionally has an opportunity of seeing this after such an operation as excision of the hip for tuberculous disease. The operation is performed, and the curdy contents of the tuberculous cavity necessarily during its evacuation runs over the cut edges of the wound in the skin. After the operation the deeper parts of the wound may heal and the case do well, but an unhealthy tuberculous ulceration of the skin about the edges of the wound sets in and requires a vigorous scraping before it can be got to heal. This is no doubt due to the inoculation of the edges of the wound by the tuberculous material. Transmission of tubercle by respiration has also been proved by experiments on the lower animals. By shutting up healthy animals with tuberculous ones tuberculosis can after a time be induced, especially if the animals are confined in a limited space, without free ventilation. Cases have also been recorded where the transmission of tubercle from one person to another through the respiratory organs has at all events seemed probable. But it is possible that in these cases absence of free ventilation is an important factor in the production of the disease ; as, for instance, in a case where the husband contracted the disease from his wife during a long voyage in which they occupied the same cabin. A very marked example of this form of transmission came under my notice some years ago. A baby a few months old and a boy of about three were placed to sleep in the same room with a nurse who was in an advanced stage of tuberculous disease of the lungs. The baby died of tuberculous meningitis, and the boy developed tuberculous disease of the hip joint. The father and mother and two older children are per- fectly free from any tuberculous taint, and as far as can be ascertained there has never been any tuberculous disease in any member of the family. Transmission of tubercle through the food is not uncommon. The most probable way in which it is transmitted is by milk from tuberculous cows. The risk of transmission by meat which has been cooked is probably small. That tubercle can be transmitted through the alimentary canal has been proved by mixing tuberculous tissue with the animal's food. This has set up ulceration of the intestine, and enlargement of the mesenteric glands and general dissemination. The soil.—This is probably of as great importance as the seed, for unless there is a suitable condition of the tissues for the growth of the bacillus, it perishes or disappears, and no evil effects result from its introduction into the body. It is probable that everyone frequently takes into his body tubercle bacilli, but they do not develop because the general or local conditions favourable for their growth are not present. There are, however, certain individuals, who for purposes of distinction may be termed tuberculous