FRACTURES OK THE HUMERUS 43' the inner side, beneath the coracoid process, and between the two is a distinct sulcus. If the arm is drawn down and rotated, while the finger and thumb i^rasp the outer prominence, distinct crepitus will be telt. Treatment.—A pad is placed in the axilla and the arm bound to the side - the tuberosity is then pushed downwards and forwards as tar as possible, and maintained in this position by a pad and strapping, it has been suggested in these cases to cut down on the fragment and wire, or peg it into position. This is scarcely necessary, for though union usua ly takes place with a certain amount of deformity, the movements of the arm are very little interfered with, and a useful limb is generally obtained. d. Separation of the epiphysis.-This accident is not of infrequent occurrence : it may be caused by direct violence ; by a sudden pull on a child's arm ; or by falls on the elbow or hand. In some cases there is little or no displacement, but usually the shaft of the bone is drawn inwards, and its extremity produces a characteristic prominence on the front of the shoulder a little below the coracoid process. The prominence is smooth and rounded, and not so sharp and irregular as a fractured bone. The head of the bone can be felt in the glenoid cavity, but it does not move on rotating the arm. During manipulation a soft crepitus may be felt. The deformity can readily be overcome by extension, but speedily returns when the extension is withdrawn. Treatment.—The same treatment which is employed for fracture of the surgical neck—a pad or n-shaped splint in the axilla and a shoulder cap —is generally sufficient to maintain the fragments in apposition. If not, the patient must be con- fined to bed, his arm supported in a position of abduction by sandbags, and weight extension applied to the arm. 2. Fracture of the shaft of the humerus.-^ Fracture of the shaft of the humerus is of frequent occurrence, and may arise either from direct or indirect violence or from muscular action. Of all the long bones perhaps this is the one which is most frequently fractured from muscular action, such as throwing a stone or cricket ball. The fracture may occur at any ppint of the shaft, but the two most frequent situations are immediately above or below the point of inser- . V , , < . , , 1 ,1 J- 1 ^ 142.—Fracture ot Ihe tion of the deltoid muscle, and the displacement ^^^^^ ^j^^ humerus, j:/:r-_.. ,.,;^K fko c,-H-,oHr.,. '^^^^^ insertion of the deltoid muscle, show- ing the displacement which takes place and the muscles by which it is caused. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) differs in accordance with the situation of the fracture. When it takes place above the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment is drawn inwards by the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi, and the lower fragment upwards and outwards by the deltoid (fig. 142). If the fracture is below the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment is drawn outwards by that muscle and somewhat tilted forwards, and the lower fragment is drawn upwards by the biceps and triceps, and lies to the inner side of the upper fragment.