8o8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS PERITONITIS Peritonitis, or inflammation of the serous membrane which lines the abdominal cavity, is a serious condition, which arises from many different causes, presents numerous different phases as regards its clinical symptoms, and is frequently the cause of death in abdominal cases. The condition has recently been studied and brought before the profession by Mr. Treves in his Lettsomian lectures. He has done much to clear up our knowledge of this formidable disease. The description which will be now given is mainly derived from this source. Peritonitis may be acute or chronic. The acute form may be either general or local; the chronic may be simple or tuberculous. Morbid anatomy.—In acute peritonitis the morbid processes are the same as in inflammation of other structures. There is first of all hyper- Ecmia followed by exudation, and the nature of the exudation may vary. In some cases it may consist of plastic lymph. Under these circum- stances, if the abdomen is opened, the coils of intestine, which have become dull and lustreless, wiU be found to be glued together by an opaque greenish grey material which principally occupies the sulci between the coils. If the patient lives, this fibrinous exudation may, at aU events in part, become organised into cicatricial tissue, and the coils of intestine become firmly matted together by adhesions. In other cases the exuda- tion is much more serous in its nature, and the peritoneal cavity is filled, to a greater or less extent, by a turbid, greenish yeflow fluid, in which particles of flocculent lymph may be seen floating about. And finally in some cases the exudation may become purulent, and the abdo- minal cavity, in whole or part, filled with an offensive sero-purulent fluid. When the peritonitis is general or diffuse this exudation pervades the whole cavity; when, on the other hand, it is local or circumscribed, the effusion is shut off from the general cavity by adhesions taking place around it, and we may have a circumscribed collection of serous exudation or pus, the remainder of the cavity remaining normal. In chronic peritonitis the pathological changes are the same, but take place more slowly. We may have the same pouring out of plastic lymph and formation of adhesions, or the same effusion of serum or sero-purulent fluid or true pus. The causes of peritonitis.—Peritonitis depends entirely or almost entirely on infective processes, and is almost invariably due to the action of bacteria, and in the larger proportion of fatal cases the symptoms are those of poisoning by these bacteria or their products, and not ot inflammation. These bacteria may be of different kinds, and may effect an entrance to the peritoneum by different routes, but all cases of peritonitis may be conveniently classified under one of the four following heads : (i) 1 en- tonitis due to infection from the intestine ; (2) Peritonitis due 50 infection from without; (3) Peritonitis of doubtful origin ; and (4) Peritonitis due to infection by the tubercle bacillus, a form of the disease which presents peculiar features and will have to be considered separately. ^ ^ I. Peritonitis due to infection from the mtestine. This would appear to be the most frequent cause of peritonitis, r ■ infecting organism being the bacillus coli communis, which exists normdiy in the intestinal canal, and is perfectly harmless in the healthy intestine,