225 RETENTION CYSTS with the sheaths of tendons, are also examples of this form of cystic tumours. These conditions will be considered in the sequel. (/>) Retention cysts.—These form a much more definite and distinct group of tumours. They consist of the accumulation of the natural secretion in some duct or acinus of a gland, owing to the fact that the orifice by which it is naturally got rid of has become obstructed. In consequence of this the accumulated secretion distends the duct or acinus and forms a fluid swelling. The condition is not one, however, of simple dilatation alone, for as the disease progresses the wall of the cyst, which was originally the wall of the duct or acinus in which the secretion is retained, becomes thickened by the growth in it of new fibroid tissue, the result of the irritation set up. Hence the walls of some of these cystic tumours which have existed for some time may become exceedingly dense and thick. The best example of these retention cysts is found in the sebaceous or atheromatous cysts. These arise from the occlusion of the orifice of a sebaceous gland on the surface of the skin. The secretion of the gland going on, and being unable to escape, collects in the interior of the gland and forms a cystic tumour. These tumours are especially common on the face and scalp, but may occur on any part of the body. They are situated immediately under the skin, which is usually attached to them at one spot when the tumours occur on the scalp or trunk; but when they occur on the face, the skin is adherent to the surface of the tumours and cannot be separated from them. The thickness of the sac wall varies very much: when they occur on the scalp it is often so thick and dense as to convey to the hand the sensation of a solid tumour; when, on the other hand, they occur on the face, the sac wall is often exceedingly thin and delicate. It consists of fibroid material, lined by a layer of actively growing epithelial cells. The contents of the sac consist of an inspissated creamy material of a peculiarly offensive odour. Sebaceous tumours vary much in size; some are as small as a pin's head, others as large as an egg, and they may even attain greater dimensions than this. They form smooth, round, circumscribed tumours, movable on the parts beneath, and, except when situated on the face, movable under the skin. They are usually soft and putty-like to the feel, and are often covered with a network of dilated capillaries, which ramify in the thinned skin over them and give to them a dusky red hue. Occasionally a small black spot may be detected on the surface of the skin over them, where the occluded duct opened, and the tumours are usually more adherent to the skin at this point. They are frequently multiple, especially when they occur on the scalp, and they grow slowly or may remain stationary for years. They cause no pain, nor does the patient suffer, as a rule, any inconvenience from them except from their unsightliness. When irritated, a sebaceous tumour may inflame and suppurate. The skin over it becomes thinned and ulcerates, and the exposed sebaceous material putrefies. Sometimes suppuration takes place in the tissues around, and the whole cyst is thrown off and the wound heals, leaving a puckered scar ; at others, the cyst wall becomes thickened and very vascular and forms a nodulated ulcer, with everted edges, which has a tendency to spread and much resembles an epithelioma, but there is no implication of the glands, and if removed it does not recur. Again, a sebaceous tumour may form a peculiar horny growth. Some of the sebaceous matter exudes through an aperture on the surface, and drying forms a scab; under this a fresh exudation takes place and pushes the Q