456 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES the advantage of a perfect recovery in six weeks, for in the hands of a surgeon thoroughly au fait in the details of antiseptic surgery the risk is not great. This being conceded, a second question then suggests itself: Avhether it is better to operate by the open method or by one of the sub- cutaneous methods mentionedabove. I unhesitatingly answer—by the open method. The risk of the one operation is probably not greater than the other, certainly in the operations of Kocher and Barker, where the joint is opened and where the contained blood cannot be thoroughly got rid of, and the benefits to be derived are correspondingly great. The main objection to all these subcutaneous operations is that the fractured surfaces cannot be freed of any overhanging pieces of aponeurotic tissue, the presence of which is one of the main causes of failure in obtaining bony union. In the open method the joint can be thoroughly cleared of all blood clot, the fragments can be accurately adapted, and without the presence of any foreign body between the fractured ends, a perfect bony union is the result. Fracture of the patella from direct violence.—These fractures differ from the preceding in many essential particulars. As a rule they are stellate, but they may be oblique, longitudinal, or even trans- verse. They are often incomplete, that is to say, they do not penetrate the whole thickness of the bone, and therefore do not open the joint. In some cases also the fibrous expansion over the patella is not torn, nor the capsule of the joint on either side, and there is therefore generally very Httle dis- placement. The symptoms are the history of a fall or blow on the knee; the presence of considerable bruising and ecchymosis ; inability to move the joint without great pain ; perhaps crepitus, and possibly some effusion in the joint. These fractures unite readily by bone. The treatment consists in keeping the limb quiet on a back splint in an extended position and applying some evaporating lotion. If the fragments should be widely separated, some form of the retentive apparatus mentioned above should be employed. These cases are not so suitable for operation, on account of the bruising of the soft parts. FRACTURE OF THE BONES OF THE LEG In fractures of the leg both bones are usually broken, although each bone may be broken separately. Fracture of the tibia.—When the tibia is fractured alone, it is generally the result of direct violence. If the fracture takes place at the upper part it is usually transverse, though some few cases of longitudinal splitting have been recorded; when the fracture is in the lower half of the bone it is generally oblique. In the transverse fracture there is, as a rule, very little displacement, and the symptoms are not very obvious, and even in the oblique fracture the displacement is not great, as the fibula acts as a splint. In most instances some irregularity in the outline can be felt by running the finger down the subcutaneous surface; and by grasping the bone above and below the painful spot and moving it crepitus can be elicited. There is usually considerable bruising and swelling. The internal malleolus is sometimes broken by direct violence, without any other bone being broken. There is no great displacement, but the presence of the fracture can be at once ascertained by grasping the process, when it will be found to move backwards and forwards under the pressure