764 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAE ORGANS processes ; it caseates, liquefies and forms a curdy fluid. In this way a chronic abscess is formed at the seat of the disease (fig. 293), which gradually tracks its way to the surface, often by a very circuitous route. But even in these cases recovery may take place. After the curdy material has been got rid of, or has dried up and formed an inert cretaceous mass the granulation tissue which Unes the cavity left between the bones, and which on account of its being nearer the source of nutritive supply does not disintegrate, undergoes developmental processes, and, as m the other case becomes converted into bone and firmly ankyloses the bodies of the vertebree together (fig. 294). Still a third change may take place. In some cases the granulation tissue undergoes caseation and degenerates before the osteoclasts have had time to absorb the bone. Under these circumstances, necrotic caries is said to occur, and we find m the cavity of the chronic abscess pieces of necrosed cancellous bone, often of considerable size. This is an important point, since the removal of these pieces of necrosed bone is often the first step to recovery, which cannot take place as long as they remain as sources of irri- tation. The subsidence of the body of one vertebra on another is a very gradual process, and is rarely attended by any injury or pressure on the cord ; but in some instances the inflammation in the bodies of the vertebrte may extend back- wards through the posterior com- mon ligament to the membranes of the cord, and symptoms of spinal irritation and paralysis may originate in this way. Symptoms—It is of the ut- most importance that this condi- tion of tuberculous caries of the spine should be recognised early, before any displacement of the Fig. 294.—Extensive angular curvature of the spine, in which a cure has been effected and the remains of the diseased vertebrte anl<ylosed together. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) bones has taken place ; for, if this is done, there is a very fair pio pect that, by judicious treatment carried out for a sufficient y long tinic recovery may take place without any deformity. _ ^\'e shall there ore discuss first of all the symptoms of this disease m its earliest sta t, reserving for future consideration the symptoms arising from deloimiu, the formation of chronic abscess, and from spinal irritation or Pressure. The symptoms of tuberculous disease of the spine in its earliest stage may be considered under two heads, pain and rigidity. _ Pain is a constant and important sign of disease of the spine, anu two kinds : referred pain and local pain i. Referredpam cau-sed b> irritation of the nerves as they pass out through the '"f ^^--^if ^^'^^ Z^^^^ is and is referred to their peripheral termmations. ^hus i the a situated in the lower dorsal region, which it very commonly s, .jc lower dorsal nerves which supply the skin of the abdominal NNall ma)