AMPUTATIONS II34 of the .bone in amputations of the leg. After having made his flaps, he saws through the bone at the apex of the longer flap, leaving some inches of bone protruding when the flaps are retracted. He then cuts off a quadrangular flap, consisting of periosteum and a thin slice of bone from the internal surface of the tibia, and turns this over the ends of the bones, after they have been sawn off at their proper level, and secures it with a suture. While the bone is being sawn the soft parts must be carefully kept out of the way by an assistant. Formerly retractors were used for this purpose, but they are scarcely ever required ; never, if the parts cut through are healthy. The division of the bone should be made with a broad-bladed saw with finely set teeth, and the section should be made by placing the heel of the saw on the bone and drawing it towards the point for the whole length of the instrument; this will make a preliminary groove, and then, by steadying the saw with the thumb nail, the section is rapidly completed by drawing the instrument fairly from heel to point at each stroke. While the bone is being sawn the assistant who is holding the limb must be careful to hold it steady, neither ele- vating nor depressing it, but drawing it straight away from the body. If he elevates it he will lock the saw ; if he depresses it he will splinter the bone. If any splintering has taken place, or the bone is sharp and likely to produce an injurious effect on the soft parts of the flap, it must be trimmed off with cutting bone forceps. Fig. 430.—Arrangement of stump after amputation. All bleeding vessels having been secured, the wound must be dressed. It is well in all cases of amputation to use a drainage tube for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. A piece of drainage tube should be inserted into each angle of the wound. This is better than having one long piece passing across the wound from one angle to the other, as they are more easily withdrawn. The flaps, having been well sluiced with corrosive sublimate solution, are brought together by three or four deep silkworm-gut sutures, which act as mainstays, and the whole length of the wound is then accurately adjusted with a continuous horsehair suture. All blood and fluid having been carefully expressed from the bag of the stump, the gauze is applied, and over this a very thick layer of sali- cylic wool, and this is carefully bandaged on so as to make firm elastic pressure on the flaps and prevent any cavity being left between them. The stump is then immobilised by an accurately adjusted splint, which is supported by a stump pillow (fig. 430). The chief complications which are likely to arise in the subsequent course of an amputation are shock, haemorrhage, and a septic condition of the stump. Shock is liable to occur in cases of primary amputation, where the patient has suffered from other injuries or has lost a considerable c|uantity of blood : m old, weakly, or exhausted subjects, or young children, and in the major amputa- tions, such as disarticulation at the hip joint. The surgeon must be prepared for this, and must treat the case on the lines laid down above (page 41).