1026 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS cause the two surfaces to adhere together, either partially or completely, or will so alter the serous membrane as to destroy its power of secre- tion. Many different fluids have been recommended, but the two most commonly employed are tincture of iodine and carbolic acid dissolved in glycerine. Of the two, I give preference to the tincture of iodine, as the more certain. Carbolic acid was recommended because it was said to cause less pain, but in some cases in which I have used it the pain after- wards has been very intense. In using the tincture of iodine, the old Edinburgh tincture, which is twice as strong as that of the British Pharmacljpoeia, should always be employed. The amount injected must vary according to the size of the sac, but in most cases a couple of drachms will be found to be sufficient, unless the sac is very large. All the fluid must be drawn off before the injection is made, and the whole of the tincture may be allowed to remain in the sac. When carbolic acid is used it should be dissolved in 5 per cent, of glycerine, and from half a drachm to a drachm injected. These injections are followed by very severe pain for some few hours, often requiring a subcutaneous injection of morphia to relieve it, and considerable swelling of the scrotum, which after a few days subsides, and a cure may be anticipated in a very considerable percentage of cases, if there is no morbid condition of the testicle itself. But in a certain number of cases failure occurs, and these are generally cases in which the sac is much thickened, or sessile bodies are attached to its internal surface. (2) Incision.—Incision should be resorted to where the sac is very thick, and where injection has failed. The operation consists in making, with antiseptic precautions, an incision, two or three inches long, down the anterior surface of the hydrocele, and laying the sac open for the whole leno-th of the incision. After the fluid has escaped the sac should be washed out with an antiseptic solution, and its internal surface carefully examined to see if any fibrous bodies are attached to it; if so, they must- be removed. The sac wall is then sutured to the skin, and the cavity filled with antiseptic gauze, which is withdrawn on the second day and a fresh piece inserted. The wound usually fills up in about three weeks. (3) Partial excision of the sac—This plan of treatment is usually advocated, as being more certain of cure than the simple incision. I have no personal experience of it, as I have never had a failure from the former plan of treatment. It consists in separating the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis from its surroundings, and cutting it away close to the testicle. After all htEmorrhage has been arrested a drainage tube is inserted, and the wound closed and dressed in the ordinary way. Recurrence has been said to take place even after this considerable operation. 2 Congenital hydrocele.—This and the next two forms ot hydrocele to be described depend upon the condition of the tunica vaginalis and its funicular process in respect to their obliteration. In congenital hydrocele the whole of the funicular process remains pervious, and the sac of the tunica vaginalis communicates with the general peritoneal cavity. The communication is generally small; that is to say, it is not large enough to allow of the descent of the gut through it, otherwise a congenital hernia (page 861) would be formed, but it is large enough to allow any fluid in the peritoneal cavity to trickle down and collect in the tunica vaginalis, ana thus produce a hydrocele. The condition usually exists in infancy and early childhood, but may be present in adult life. It is distinguished from ordinary vaginal hydrocele by the shape and extent of the swelling, and Dy