95 INFECTIVE DISSECTION WOUNDS slight scratch or abrasion of the skin, and therefore generally occurs on some exposed part of the body, especially the hands and forearms. The wound is so small that it usually escapes detection, and the first ap- pearance is the formation of a small pimple, which is principally cha- racterised by the intense itching to which it gives rise. The pimple increases in size, and in the course of from twelve to fifteen hours fo/ms a vesicle filled with yellowish fluid. The itching still continues, and the vesicle is soon burst by the patient's scratching. A dry scab now forms on the surface, at first grey, and on the second day black. The edges become indurated, and the tissues around cedematous. A second crop of vesicles now forms in the indurated tissue around the central black patch, which becomes dried and sunken below the level of the surrounding parts. The appearance is now very characteristic : a central black slough, sur- rounded by a ring of vesicles, and the whole supported on an inflamed and cedematous area. The process is then repeated, the secondary ring of vesicles burst, form scabs and become merged in the central black slough, while a fresh induration and ring of vesication takes place around, and in this way the eschar increases. The skin and subcutaneous tissue for some distance around become red, swollen, and cedematous, and the neigh- bouring lymphatic glands enlarged. The constitutional symptoms are not severe at first; in fact, beyond a general feeling of malaise, the patient does not complain j but between the second and the fourth day, when it is supposed that the bacilli and their products have effected an entrance in considerable numbers into the blood, constitutional symptoms of a very severe character begin to show themselves. The temperature rises—102° to 104° F.—the pulse becomes quick and irregular, the skin hot and dry; there is diarrhoea, often delirium, and sometimes great dyspnoea. Towards the end the temperature falls, sometimes below normal, and there is great prostration and collapse. Death usually occurs in about a week, but cases have been recorded where the patient has recovered though no treatment has been adopted. Pathology.—The post-mortem appearances are those indicative of blood poisoning : the blood fluid or imperfectly coagulated ; the internal organs congested; the lining membrane of the heart and blood-vessels blood- stained ; petechial patches on the serous surfaces, and the spleen large, soft, and diffluent. Upon microscopic examination, the blood is found to be teeming with the specific micro-organism of the disease. Treatment.—The treatment of this disease is eminently satisfactory. It consists in a free excision of the whole indurated area, followed by the application of chloride of zinc paste or liquid carbolic acid. If the disease is recognised early and this treatment adopted, the symptoms soon subside and the patient recovers. Mr. Davies-Colley has pointed out that even in tho.se cases where there is well-marked evidence of blood poisoning, the treatment may be followed by a successful issue. He records seventeen cases as having occurred at Guy's Hospital in ten years; of these in fifteen cases excision was performed, with thirteen recoveries.' e. Infective dissection wounds are due to the introduction of some specific morbid poison. They generally occur when the poison is derived from a subject who has died from one of the acute infective diseases, such as erysipelas, pycemia, or septic peritonitis. The exudations in these subjects always contain infective organisms, which are the source ' Med. Chir. Traits, vol. Ixv. 1882, p. 248.