570 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES must bo' made with the Hmb in this position. When this has been done, the lower extremity is generally supported in this attitude by pillows ; but I ani in the habit of using a light framework which was invented by a former House Surgeon at the Victoria Hospital for Children— Dr. Muir—which answers its purpose admirably (fig. 206). It consists of an inclined plane fixed on a light framework in such a manner that it can be adjusted at any angle. To the framework is also attached the pulley, over which extension is made, and this can be fixed at any level. As the flexion of the limb subsides, the inclined plane can be lowered gradually and steadily until the limb is in the same plane as the body._ When extension is not made in the true axis of the thigh, it tends rather to increase than diminish the amount of intra-articular pressure and to pro- duce a greater amount of lordosis. As the flexion is corrected the inclined plane is lowered, so that the extension may still 'act in the long axis of the thigh, until at last the limb is brought into the same line with the body. If there is any diffi- culty in keeping the patient, when a child, on its back in the horizontal position, a long splint may be applied to the opposite side of the body. The time which is required to bring the limb down straight is generally less than a fortnight, and when this end has been accomplished, one of two methods may be adopted, the sine qua non of both being the maintenance of absolute rest to the joint. By far the best plan is to keep the patient in bed, with the weight extension still applied, for several months. If the patient belongs to the more wealthy class, and his surroundings are such that he will not suffer from the long-continued confinement to bed, this plan should be adopted. But in hospital cases among the poor this cannot be carried out. The patient cannot be kept in hospital, and if allowed to go home the enforced quietude' will in all probability not be maintained, and therefore the second alternative has to be adopted. This consists in applying an im- movable apparatus to fix the joint and allow the patient to go about on crutches, with a patten on the sound foot, so that the affected limb cannot reach the ground, _ and_ by its weight makes a certain amount of extension when the patient is in the erect position. The best apparatus that we possess for fixing the jomt is Thomas's splint (fig. 207). This consists of a flat bar of malleable metal, which is moulded to fit the various curvatures of the back, and extends from the level of the axilla to just above the ankle. To this three pairs of curved bars are attached. The uppermost pair embrace the chest on a level with the nipple, and the two ends are buckled together by a padded strap across the front of the chest. The middle bars embrace the upper part of the thigh, and the lowest encircle the leg, just below the calt. The splint is to be firmly bandaged to the body by a broad nb-roller, and to the lower part of the thigh and leg (fig. 208). This splint must be worn continuously, day and night, until all symptoms of disease ha\e Fig. 207. Thomas's hip spUnt.