MOIST GANGRENE portion of tissue dies, especially a small portion of the skin, we use the term sloughing, and the part which dies is called a slough. Many of these cases go by the name of sloughing ulcer, but they niore properly belong to the condition of mortification than of ulceration, since there is always death of visible portions of tissue, which are thrown off as dead matter. Gangrene is divided, according to its form, into moist or dry. The division is a classical one, and in extreme cases a very well marked one ; but between these two extremes there are all sorts of gradations, so that ordinarily in practice it is very often difficult to refer the case to the one or the other form. It will be convenient, however, to describe a typical instance of these two forms in the first place, and then, taking the causes of gangrene as a classification, point out the various features in which the gangrene varies from these typical forms according to the cause which has given rise to it. Dry gangrene is essentially a chronic process, and occurs in those cases where there is a deficiency of blood supply to the part, and where the fluids which are present, owing to the chronicity of the process, have tinre to evaporate. Moist gangrene, on the other hand, occurs where there is too much blood in the part, and where, owing to the greater acuteness of the process, the fluids contained in the part have not time to evaporate, and where therefore putrefaction takes place. In the dry form, owing to the absence of moisture, which is essential to the process of fermentation, the ordinary putrefactive changes do not take place or take place very slowly 3 the gangrenous parts simply become dry and mummified. Dry gangrene.—The part affected becomes paler than natural, sometimes tallowy white and mottled with dusky spots. It becomes dry, shrivelled, and hard. Then the colour changes, and it turns to brown and eventually becomes quite black. The shrinking process continues and the skin becomes wrinkled, so that it assumes the appearance of a mummy. The surface of the part is greasy, from the fatty matters becoming liberated from the fat cells and infiltrating the tissues. There is usually very great pain in these cases, and this is believed to be due to the fact that the nerves are the last structures to die. Little or no putrefaction takes place, and therefore the offensive odour which is so characteristic of the moist form of gangrene and which arises from the gaseous products of putrefaction is not present. The process of death is a slow but progres- sive one, and the gangrene having commenced, generally at some point farthest removed from the central organ of the circulation, spreads slowly, sometimes for weeks and months, before it is arrested and a line of demarcation set up. And it frequently happens soon after a line of demarcation has been set up, that the process recommences, and the living tissues in the immediate neighbourhood of this line take on the same process of dry gangrene. Moist gangrene occurs where there is an excess of blood in the part owing to some arrest in the circulation through it, and where therefore there is, first, an intense passive congestion before death actually takes place. Secondly, the vessels become so choked that an actual stoppage is the result : the fluid parts of the blood transude through the walls of the vessels, with a certain number of corpuscles both pale and coloured, and the part dies. Thirdly, the part being dead undergoes putrefaction. The symptoms, therefore, of moist gangrene may be con- sidered in connection with these three conditions—passive congestion, K 2