402 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES being affected. The skin, which at first is not implicated, becomes after a tmie adherent to these fascial prolongations. The disease would appear to be inflammatory in its nature, and to consist in the formation of scar tissue, which after its formation undergoes contraction, and so produces the deformity. It is probably in most cases gouty in its nature; though it is sometimes said to be hereditary. Possibly it may be that the gouty diathesis has been inherited. As an exciting factor in the production of the disease, there may be some direct irritation of the palm, as in those trades where some instrument is worked by constant pressure with the palm of the hand, and the pressure of the hand on a stick in walking. Symptoms.—The disease begins with the formation of some induration in the palm, generally at the ulnar extremity of the principal transverse crease. This is followed by some flexing of the little finger, which cannot be completely extended; the induration spreads, and the ring finger becomes drawn down. The disease may be confined to the ulnar side of the palm, and these two fingers may be alone implicated, or it may spread to the other fingers, and in rare instances to the thumb As the disease progresses the fingers become firmly flexed on the palm and cannot be extended by any effort. On examination, tense ridges will be felt extending from the palm to the contracted fingers. The flexion IS confined to the first and second joints, the third phalanx remaining extended. The disease must not be mistaken for contraction of the flexor tendons. This condition is generally the result of some injunr of which there will probably be the history, and on attempting to straighten the finger the tendon at the wrist will be felt to become tense The disease is not usually attended with any pain, but seriously cripples the hand and may eventually render it practically useless. Treatment.—In the early stages manipulation and massage, combined with a suitable instrument, to be worn at night, will generally prevent the extension of the disease, but the patient should be cautioned that the abandonment of these measures will be followed by a return of the contraction. Any gouty condition should at the same time be treated. Later on the only treatment is by operation. Many difl"erent procedures have been adopted, but the plan advocated by Adams appears to vield the most satisfactory results. It consists in subcutaneously dividing the indurated bands, wherever they can be felt to be tense, with a very fine tenotome. Adams recommends about four punctures for each finger, but It is better to divide every band which can be felt until the finger can be completely straightened. After this has been done, the hand must be put on a splint with the fingers extended. When the wounds are healed, passive movements must be employed for some time. The open method consists in making a longitudinal incision and dissecting away the thickened bands. This is a more radical operation, but of much greater severity. i ' , &