362 Ij^JURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES view and must be pulled outwards in order to expose the tibial origin of the soleus muscle. When this has been defined a director is to be passed beneath it from below upwards, and the tendon divided about half an inch from its attachment to the tibia. The deep fascia of the leg covering the deep muscles will now be exposed, and the artery will be felt pulsating beneath it about an inch from the tibia. The superficial calf muscles must be retracted as far as possible by a broad retractor, and a strong light thrown into the wound by a reflector. The deep fascia is to be carefully opened over the artery and the veins separated from it. The aneurism needle is to be passed round the vessel from without inwards, so as to. avoid injuring the posterior tibial nerve. The posterior tibial artery may be tied at the ankle joint by making a semilunar incision, with its convexity towards the heel, about three inches long midway between the internal malleolus and the internal tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis. The skin and superficial structures are divided, and the internal annular ligament exposed. This is to be divided oh a director, and the artery will be exposed lying between the flexor longus digitorum and the flexor longus hallucis, with the nerve to its outer side. _ The vessel is to be separated from its vense comites, and the aneurism needle passed round the vessel from the heel towards the ankle, so as to avoid the posterior tibial nerve. liigature of the anterior tibial.—The anterior tibial arter)' may be tied in the middle of the leg, but the operation is one of consider- able difficulty on account of the depth of the vessel. The chief point is to accurately define the outer border of the tibialis anticus muscle, and this should be done before the patient is placed under an ansesthetic, by causing him to put the muscle into action. With the limb turned some- what to the inner side, an incision four inches in length is made in the line marking the outer border of the fleshy belly of the tibialis anticus, and the deep fascia exposed. The wound must now be carefully dried, its edges retracted, and the white line separating the tibialis anticus from the extensor longus digitorum sought for. When this has been clearly defined, the deep fascia is to be divided in this line and the tibialis anticus separated from the adjacent muscles with the handle of the scalpel or a director until the interosseous membrane is reached. The foot is to be flexed in order to relax the muscles, and upon drawing them apart the artery will be found lying on the interosseous membrane, with the nerve to its outer side or on the top of the artery. The nerve should be drawn outwards and the vence comites separated from the artery and the aneurism needle passed round it. Ligature of dorsalis pedis.—The dorsalis pedis artery may be tied by making an incision two inches in length along the outer border of the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis muscle. The incision should not extend farther forwards than the tarso-metatarsal joint. The skin and fascife having been divided the artery will be found, with the nerve lying to its outer side and with the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum about to cross it. DISEASES OF VEINS Thrombosis and Phlebitis.—The principal .symptom of inflam- mation of a vein is a hard cord along the course of the vessel, caused by the coagulation of the blood in its interior. This is called thrombosis, and it