38 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES of the' bone and has become quite chronic, in which the operation of excision may be undertaken. Acute arthritis of infants is the name given by Sir Thomas Smith to an acute inflammation of joints rapidly running on to sup- puration. It generally occurs in infants under twelve months of age, and would appear to be, in most cases, a sequel to acute epiphysitis (page 474). Epiphysitis is first set up, and the pus formed at the growing end of the shaft of the bone burrows its way either through the epiphysis or through the soft parts surrounding it, and bursts into the joint, setting up an acute suppurative arthritis. The disease most commonly occurs in the shoulder, the hip, and the knee. The symptoms in the first place are those of epiphysitis, and the implication of the joint is indicated by sudden swelling from effusion into the synovial sac. This is followed by serious general symptoms. The temperature rises to 103° F. or more; the child becomes sallow and wan, refuses its food, and is often sick; it is fre- quently convulsed, and, unless actively treated, speedily dies either from pyemia or exhaustion. The treatment has been described in the chapter on diseases of the bones, in connection with epiphysitis (page 474). OSTEO-ARTHRITIS Osteo-arthritis appears to be the best designation for a disease which is very common in this country, and has been known by many different names, such as chronic rheumatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, arthritis deformans, and rheumatic gout. At all events, it seems desirable to keep the name ' rheumatic' out of its appellation, as the view most generally held at the present time appears to be that it is a disease quite distinct from rheumatism, and therefore the introduction of the prefix ' rheumatic _ is misleading and tends to cause it to be mistaken for those cases of true rheumatic arthritis which have already been described. Osteo-arthritis is a disease which usually commences m middle life, and is essentially chronic, continuing throughout the rest of the life of the patient. It occurs in both sexes, and is generally confined to one joint, but may attack several, one after another. All joints are liable to it, but the hip the knee, the shoulder, and the temporo-maxillary joint are especially liable to be affected. It is said that the hip joint is more commonly affected in the male, and the knee in the female._ A peculiar variety is when it attacks the smaller jomts, especially the joints of the fingers ; this is usually in anaemic females, and generally commences at a much earlier age than the ordinary form. The vertebral joints are also not unfrequently the seat of this disease. . Causes.—The causes of osteo-arthritis are very obscure. It is usually believed to be due to some form of malnutrition, and to be predisposed to bv any depressing influence, either mental or physical. There seems to be very good reason for believing that in many cases defective innervation is the exciting cause, and that this is set up by peripheral neuritis or some other degenerative change in the nervous system. There can be no ques- tion also, that exposure to damp and cold, and especially residence on a clayey soil, predisposes to this disease, on account of the common occur- rence of the disease in those who are exposed to these conditions, and also on account of the relief which is afl-orded by a change of residence to a drier and warmer climate. Quite recently it has been asserted that the disea.se us