255 SCIRRHUS o. The scirrhus or hard spheroidal-celled carcinoma is one of the most common forms of cancer, but nevertheless occurs in very few situa- tions in the human body. It is principally found in the breast; in the alimentary canal, especially at the pyloric end of the stomach; in the pancreas, prostate, and the skin. It is characterised by its great hardness, feeling like a craggy stony mass, which has earned for it its popular name of 'stone cancer.' It grows slowly and never attains a very large size. As it occurs in the breast it forms an irregular nodulated mass, continuous with the gland and moving with it. As it grows the structure already formed has a tendency to contract and draw in the surrounding tissues by claw-shaped processes which extend from it in all directions; those which pass outwards to the skin pull it in, and produce the dimpling which is one of the characteristic signs of the disease. This peculiar property of contraction, which is such a marked feature in these tumours, is believed to be due to the newly formed fibrous tissue, which, like ordinary scar tissue, undergoes contraction after its formation. Sometimes it happens that from this cause the tumour diminishes in size Fig, 64. —Scirrhus cancer. (From 'A System of Surgery,' by Holmes and Hulke.) and shrinks to such an extent that there may be scarcely anything left but a dense cicatricial-looking mass. As the growth reaches the surface, the skin becomes adherent to it; this becomes livid red and finally ulcerates. These tumours are often at first quite painless, at other times sharp lancinating pain is complained of, but after the skin becomes involved they are usually very painful. When a section is made of a scirrhus tumour, it will be found to cut with a characteristic hardness and 'creaks under the knife!' Its cut surface is yellowish white, not unlike a raw turnip, and is streaked with white glistening bands of fibrous tissue sufficiently dense to be seen with the naked eye, and dotted over with minute yellow points where fatty degeneration has taken place. A peculiarity about the cut surface of a scirrhus tumour is that it often presents a cup-shaped or concave surface. There is no definite margin to the tumour, but the morbid growth gradually merges into the healthy normal tissue. Examined microscopically it is found to possess the character of a carcinoma : a fibrous stroma with spheroidal cells in its alveoli. But in the hardest tumours sections cut from the centre of the growth appear to consist almost entirely of fibrous