563 ANKYLOSIS OF THE HIP preserve its equilibrium it has to be bent over to the affected side, and so a condition of lateral curvature is the result. Thus it follows that in a case of faulty ankylosis of the hip in a position of flexion and adduction the gravest deformity is set up. The same would be the result of ankylosis in a position of abduction, except that the spine would be bent in the opposite direction. If the ankylosis is fibrous, an attempt should be made to rectify the position without operation, and when the ankylosis is recent and not very firm, this can often be accomplished by extension. The patient is laid on a hard flat bed with the foot of the bed raised so as to make counter extension, and a weight, running over a pulley and hanging over the end of the bed, is attached to the thigh by a stirrup. The weight should be about 14 lbs. for an adult. If this does not succeed an attempt may be made, under an an^issthetic, to break the adhesions and get the limb into good position. If one of these measures succeeds, and the thigh can be brought down to the extended position and parallel with the other limb, or even into a position of slight abduction—which is not disadvantageous, especially in the female—it should be put up in a plaster of Paris casing or some other fixed apparatus until consolidation takes place. If, on the other hand, the faulty position cannot be overcome by these means, operative interference must be resorted to. There are two ways of doing this. Sayre attempted, by Fig. 201.—Adams's saw. sawing out a semicircular piece of bone above the lesser trochanter, to obtain a movable joint; but a fixed position of the limb is preferable in these cases, and the result of the operation is very uncertain, and therefore it need not be further alluded to. The usual operation consists in sub- cutaneously dividing the femur and putting the limb up in a good position, and keeping it there until osseous union has taken place. The femur may be divided through the neck (Adams's operation) or below the trochanters (Gant's). Adams's operation is applicable only to those cases where there has not been extensive destruction of the head of the bone. It consists in introducing a long and strong tenotome, with a cutting surface of about an inch at its extremity, midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the top of the great trochanter, and carrying it downwards and inwards until its cutting edge reaches the front of the neck of the femur, when it is made to divide the capsule and tissues in front of the bone. The knife having been withdrawn, an Adams's saw (fig. 201) is mtroduced and passed down to the neck of the bone and it is sawn through. In doing this the saw must always be maintained parallel to Poupart's ligament, so that the neck may be sawn at right angles to its axi.s. After the bone is divided the wound is closed and the limb brought down straight and fixed in this position. A Bryant's double long splint will be found to be the most efficient way of doing this, for 002