i88 GENERAL DISEASES other, arid generally somewhat almond-shaped, hence they are sometimes known as amygdaloid g/a/ids. They are generally quite painless. Amongst the rarer lesions of secondary syphilis are periostitis, affections of the joints, the ear and the testicle. The periostitis does not give rise to the formation of nodes as in the tertiary form of the disease, but there is merely pain complained of, which is increased on pressure, and is some- times attended by a little swelling. The joint affection is a sub-acute form of synovitis, attended by pain, which is worse at night, and is often very intractable. The affection of the ear is a deafness which is supposed to be due to some morbid condition of the internal ear, but about which little or nothing is known. In most cases the deafness is slight and passes off rapidly under the influence of treatment, but now and then cases occur in which absolute deafness comes on with great rapidity. The affection of the testicle belongs more to the intermediate stage, with which it will be considered. Usually patients suffering from syphilis pass through the secondary stage without any grave disturbance of the general health. But occasion- ally cases are met with where the opposite is the result; the patient becomes antemic, with loss of appetite, inability to sleep and general emaciation. In these cases the amount of prostration &c. is out of all proportion to the severity of the local condition. Treatment.—The treatment of secondary syphilis is the same as that of the primary disease, namely mercury. If the nature of the primar)' sore has been recognised and the patient placed under a course of mercury, it must be continued in that form and in that dose which has been found best suited to the patient's requirements. If, on the other hand, the treatment by mercury has not been commenced, as soon as the first symptoms of secondary syphilis show themselves, the drug should be ordered and given for the length of time mentioned in speaking of the treatment of primary syphilis. There are one or two points about the treatment of special forms of secondary symptoms to which allusion should be made. The skin eruptions require no special reference, except to mention that in those cases where rupia occurs at an early period of the case mercury requires to be given with great discrimination and care ; and I have found that patients belonging to this class bear mercury very badly when given by the mouth, and that the best way to administer it is by fumigation, using very small doses (say, 5 grains) of calomel and combining with this careful feeding, a moderate allowance of stimulants and tonics, with small doses of opium. The combination which I have found most useful is the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, with steel wine and laudanum, in 5-minim doses three times a day. In throat affections, some local treatment is generally advisable. A gargle of alum or chlorate of potash is generally all that is necessary for the superficial ulcerations of the earlier conditions of the secondary stage. In the later conditions, where excavated ulcers form on the tonsil, there is nothing that has proved so useful in my hands as the verdigris gargle of the St. George's Hospital Pharmacopoeia. This is composed of verdigris gr. xv, vinegar 5iss, honey 5iij, and hme water Oj. When the ulceration assumes a phagedsenic form, the local fumigation with calomel seems to be the most potent means of arresting the destructive process. This is administered in the following way : ten, fifteen, or twenty grains of calomel are placed in a common earthenware teapot and the lid closed. A spirit lamp is then held under the teapot until the calomel is sublimed. The patient puts his lips to the spout of the pot, and cautiously sucks the vapour into