966- INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS The triple phosphate very seldom forms a calculus Ijy itself, but is not unfrequently deposited around any foreign body introduced into the bladder, as a catheter which has been tied in, or a stone, in cases where there is cystitis and the urine is decomposing. Phosphate of lime calculus is also very rare. CalcuU are most frequently formed originally in the kidney, and descend through the ureter into the bladder; but sometimes they originate in the bladder spontaneously, or are deposited around some foreign substance either introduced from without or around some organic matter, either fibrine or blood clot, contained in the bladder. Growth.—Calculi in the bladder increase in size by the deposit on their surface of fresh material from the urine, and may sometimes attain an enormous size. This increase in size has a tendency to produce lamination, and the various laminae of which they are composed may consist of different materials, according to changes in the composition of the urine at various times. That material which happens to be in excess in the urine at any given time is the one which is deposited on the stone. Thus a Uthic acid stone may be formed in the kidney and descend into the bladder. After a time, it may be as the result of change in dietary or from some other cause, the lithic acid which has been in excess in the urine is imperfectly oxidised, and oxa- late of lime is in excess in- stead, and the stone increases by the deposit of oxalate of lime upon it. Later on, cystitis is set up, the urine decomposes and becomes alkaline, and then the calculus becomes coated with successive layers of phosphates. To such stones as these, the name alternating calculi is given (fig. 371). Calculi are much more common in the male than in the female. This may be partly due to the greater dilatabiHty and shortness of the female urethra, so that stones in the bladder are more easily passed and got rid of; but independently of this there seems no reason to doubt that stone occurs more frequently in the male than in the female. They are most common either during childhood or in advanced life, being most frequently present in children among the poorer classes, and in old age among those who are well-to-do. To a certain extent they may be regarded as hereditary, certainly as regards the cystic oxide calculus; with regard to other forms the hereditary tendency is not so marked. They are far more common in some parts of England than in others, and in some foreign countries, as the North-West Provinces of India, than in any part of England. 1 ne reason of this is not at present very apparent; in fact, the cause of stone is at present unknown. . . j Symptoms.—The symptoms of stone vary within certain limits, accora- ing to the size and roughness of the stone, and as to whether it is Iree Fig. 371.—Alternating calculus. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)