265 JIGGER WORM The disease consists in a chronic inflammation commencing in the connective tissue of the foot and thence spreading to the other tissues, but especially the cancellous tissues of the bones of the tarsus, leading to the formation of abscess cavities in this structure, with numerous tortuous fistulte by which they communicate and also discharge on the surface (fig. 71). The disease occurs especially in the natives, who work bare- footed in the fields, and may also, though not commonly, attack the hands. In the abscess cavities and in the discharge from them are black masses of the fungus resembling fish roe, and also yellow particles, which are beheved by some to be caseous or fatty material, by others to be a separate form of fungus. Symptoms.—The disease is usually very chronic, and begins as a small hard spot on some part of the foot," frequently between two toes. _ This breaks down and a little pus is discharged, and instead of healing, a fistula or sinus is formed. In the same way other fistulaj are formed in the tissues around, the foot swells and becomes two or three times its natural size, and eventually riddled with discharging sinuses, from which purulent fluid, containing the black granules, discharges. The disease Fig. 71.—Madura foot. (From a preparation in the Museum of St, George's Hospital.) may progress for months or even years before the foot becomes useless, and is unattended by any constitutional disturbance. Recovery would appear never to take place, but the disease may last for twenty or thirty years without causing the death of the patient. Treatment.—In the early stages of the disease an effort should be made to save the foot by a thorough scraping away or excision of the disease, but generally before the patient applies for treatment and the disease is recognised, it is too far advanced to admit of this treatment, and then amputation is the only resource. JIGGER WORM OR CHIGOE The jigger worm is an insect which infests the sand of the tropics of America, Africa, and the West Indies, and attacks the bare feet, especially of children, whose skin is thin and less callous than that of the adult. The insect belongs to the flea tribe, but is only about one half the length of the common flea, and is armed with a sharp proboscis. It is the im- pregnated female which finds a home under the .skin, through which she perforates her way by means of her sharp proboscis, the most usual site of