56 GENERAL INJURIES considerable destruction of tissue, is represented by nothing more than a linear cicatrix. The final stage of the process consists in the covering over of the surface of the newly formed tissue by epithelium, which spreads over the surface from the margins of the wound. 5. Union by Secondary Adhesion, or growing of two granulating surfaces together.—This is another way in which union takes place with suppuration. It sometimes happens that in consequence of the edges of a wound not having been brought into apposition, or from their having become separated from each other, no union takes place between them, but their surfaces become covered with granulations. Such a condition may sometimes be seen in a case of hare-hp, where union by first intention has failed and where the edges of the wound gape and eventually granulate. If these granulating surfaces are placed in apposition and retained there, supposing the granulations are perfectly healthy, they may unite without further suppuration, the cells of the granulations become converted into fibrous tissue, and become joined together to form the bond of union. The advantage of this mode of union is that the process is completed in a shorter time than if union were allowed to take place by granulations gradually filling up the wound from the bottom, and also that the resulting scar is smaller. But it is not a mode of union which the surgeon often attempts to bring about on account of the difficulty that there is in bringing the whole of the'two granulating surfaces in immediate apposition, so that sometimes the more superficial parts of the wound are united in this way, while the deeper parts are not, and the formation of pus in these parts still goes on, without the means of escapmg from the wound. Formerly this mode of promotincr the union of wounds was much resorted to, especially on the Continent" where wounds, such as those made in amputations, were stuffed with charpie until the surfaces of the flaps were covered with granulations, and thenthey were brought into apposition by plaisters and bandages ■■ Healing by blood clot.—Allusion has been made to another mode in which union of. wounds may take place, namely, by blood clot Ihis is a subject of great interest, both from a practical and pathological point of view, but the exact nature of the process has only recently been thoroughly worked out. John Hunter believed that the blood clot itself was organised, either by forming new vessels in itself, or by the protrusion of vessels into it from neighbouring structures. Subsequent investigation however, has proved that the clot itself does not become organised, but that It acts as a pabulum and supporting structure in which a new tissue IS formed which m the case of wounds constitutes the scar tissue or cicatrix The clot itself is got rid of by the action of leucocytes which emigrate into it, and acting as scavengers destroy it after it has done its frli Ji-f ^'^PP°itl^g framework to the plasma cells, which also emigrate into the clot and are the active agents in the formation of the new tissue. r^J!^,u °^ healing by blood clot generally takes place in those cases where a large cavity has been left by the removal of a tumour or such an organ as the breast. The skin is brought together, but It seldom happens that the whole of the cut surfaces a?e in apposition, and therefore a cavity is left, in which blood collects and coagulates, and Snh?.' uP^'^"^^ P^oc^s« '-^bout to be described. Subcutaneous wounds, where there is only a small puncture in the skin, but considerable solution of continuity in the subcutaneous tissue, probably also heal m the same way, and of course the same mode of union may