TUMOURS OF THE TESTICLE 1037 the testicle, since it is practically useless, and will be a constant source of annoyance and discomfort to the patient. Tumours of the testicle.—The only innocent tumour of the testicle which is at all common, is the adenoma or fibro-cystic tumour ; the malignant tumours may be either sarcoma or carcinoma. The adenoma or fibro-cystic tumour is characterised by the forma- tion of a number of cysts, of varying size, scattered throughout the substance of the organ. The cysts are rounded or tubular in shape, lined with epithelium, which is sometimes cubical, sometimes stratified, and often contain secondary intra-cystic growths. They frequently inter-communicate with each other. The contents of the cysts varies ; it may be clear and serous, mucoid and thick, or mixed with blood (fig. 393). The cysts are held together by a stroma of con- nective tissue, in which is often a certain amount of cartilaginous tissue, disposed in nodules or tortuous columns. This connective tissue may undergo sarcomatous changes, and the tumour may become malignant. Hence they were formerly called cystic sarcomata. Upon making a vertical section through a testicle, the seat of this disease, a double capsule will be seen, and between the two a layer of a brownish-yellow material. The external capsule is the tunica albu- ginea ; the internal capsule is the true investing capsule of the tumour, while the material between the two is the secreting structure of the testicle, piQ. 353.— Cystic adenoma of the testicle, which is spread out as a thin layer (From the Museum of St. George's over the surface of the tumour. This Hospital.) throws some light on the pathology of the disease, the tumour being believed to be an outgrowth from the organ of Giraldes, which is the remains of the Wolffian body, situated in the neighbourhood of the globus major of the epididymis, and which grows into the body of the testicle, pushing the testicular substance before it. Symptoms.—The symptoms of the disease are the history of a gradual and progressive enlargement of the testicle without pain in a young adult. There may be no assignable cause, or it may be attributed to an injury. The enlargement is globular, smooth, and elastic, and there is, as a rule, an absence of testicular sen.sation. It gives rise to no inconvenience, except from its weight and size. If not removed, it may attain a very large size, though its growth is slow, and eventually the skin over it may give way, especially if it takes on a malignant type. It may be mistaken^ for a hfematocele, or an old hydrocele with a thickened sac, which is not translucent. The diagnosis must be made from the shape, which is globular and not pyriform, and by the detection of the testicle at some part Of the swelling in hydrocele. An exploratory incision should always be made before removal, as the diagnosis can never be certain. The only treatment is castration. Among other innocent tumours of the testicle are chondroma, fibroma,