II MIGRATION OF CORPUSCLES the walls of the capillaries, and, according to some observers, through he walls of the smaller arteries also. In consequence of this migration the tissues of an inflamed part become crowded with leucocytes, and to a less thou-h varying, extent with red corpuscles, and by virtue of their amaboid movements the leucocytes wander away through the tissues so that a very considerable area around the dilated vessels is seen to be infiltrated by them (fie 0 The explanation of the migration is generally assumed to be that thewhite corpuscles pass out by their own amceboid movements, aided to a '-reat extent by the pressure within the vessels; but that the coloured co%uscles are forced out by intra-vascular pressure alone, since not being possessed of any power of amoeboid movements, they must be perfectly passive agents in the process. Formerly it was supposed that there were openings or 'stomata'in the walls of the capillaries, and that it was through these that the corpuscles passed out. Now it is believed that no such openings exist, but it would seem probable that they pass out between the cells of which the vessel wall is made up; the natural adhesion between Fig. 3.—Normal and inflamed mesentery of a frog. In the mflamed mesenteiy the peri-vascular tissues are seen to be infiltrated with leucocytes and some . few coloured corpuscles ; the vessels are enlarged and choked with cells. Represented diagrammatical ly. the cells being lessened by the diminished functional activity resulting from the inflammation which has been set up. Another conceivable explanation has been given, and that is that the leucocyte, which is a mass of protoplasm, rebuilds the wall of the vessel which it is perforating (which is also protoplasm) as fast as it destroys it. It matters not which of these explanations is the correct one, for it is quite certain that a most important factor in the migration of the white corpuscles, as well as the red, is the intra-vascular pressure ; for it has been found that ligature of the artery or arteries leading to the inflamed area very materially diminishes, and in some cases entirely arrests, the migration of the corpuscles. . Another theory as to the migration of the corpuscles and their subse- quent movements in the tissues into which they have migrated requires to be mentioned. Some observers regard as the cause of the migration of the corpuscles, a peculiar influence which has received the name of ' chemiotaxis.' By this is meant the influence which various chemical substances, the products of the growth of micro-organisms in an inflamed