WOUN]:)S OF THE SCALP 581 special interest and importance from their being liable to be mistaken for depressed bone. They consist of a soft fluctuating swelling surrounded by a hard and distinct margin, caused by the blood at the circumference becoming coagulated. This gives to the touch the impression of the edge of a fracture with depression. The diagnosis is to be made by bearing in mind that in fracture by passing the finger towards the sharp margin it passes at once from the level of the surrounding surface into the depression ; but in blood tumour it passes up the elevated margin of the clotted blood before it reaches the sharp margin which bounds the central soft portion. (III.) Extravasations may take place under the pericranium, generally in infants, from direct violence during parturition, either from maternal structures or obstetric instruments. They are then termed cephalhannato- mata, and are confined to one bone, generally the parietal, and never pass beyond the sutures. They are soft, fluctuating swellings, sometimes with a hard margin around. They for the most part disappear in the course of a few weeks. Extravasations of blood into the sub-aponeurotic connective tissue may also occur as the result of injury during parturition. The swelling is then not necessarily confined to one bone, and may form large soft fluctuating swellings. Treatment.—No treatment is necessary beyond the application of a lotion to promote absorption. The extravasation will probably be absorbed in time. If very extensive, so as to cause tension of the skin, it would be right to aspirate and relieve tension by withdrawing some of the fluid. Wounds of the scalp,—Wounds of the scalp may be caused by sharp or blunt instruments, by falls on the head, or by gunshot injuries. The most common form is a contused wound, produced by a blunt instrument. But it must be borne in mind that, on account of the tenseness of the tissues, a blunt instrument may produce a sharp-cut, clean incised wound. Scalp wounds may be divided into three classes : (I.) Superficial wounds not penetrating the epicranial aponeurosis, which are of little importance and diff'erin no wise from wounds in other parts of the body ; (II.) AVounds dividing the epicranial aponeurosis and opening up the loose cellular tissue beneath it; and (III.) wounds extending through the pericranium and ex- posing and probably more or less bruising the bone. Scalp wounds may, like wounds in other parts of the body, be incised, punctured, contused and lacerated, or large flaps may be torn down. These flaps, as pointed out above, rarely slough, and should never therefore be removed, however grimed with dirt and crushed they may be. The bleeding is sometimes free, when any vessel of size has been injured, but can usually be controlled by pressure unless the vessel has been merely punctured 'without being divided completely across, when repeated htemorrhages may take place. This can always be at once arrested by dividing the vessel and applying pressure. Complications.—Where a scalp wound, opening up the sub-aponeu- rotic connective tissue, is tightly closed so that the serous exudation cannot escape, the fluid forces its way into the spaces of the loose connective tissue and distends them. As this fluid is a highly putrescible anunal matter, if any of the bacteria of putrefaction are present, it speedily decomposes and sets up a difiuse cellulitis of the sub-aponeurotic cellular tissue, which may spread all over the scalp. About the third or fourth day after the receipt of the injury, the edges of the wound become swollen and puffy, and the patient complains of pain in it. This swelling extends rapidly, and is of a dusky uniform redness; it presents a boggy sensation