469 OSTEO-PLASTIC OSTITIS from the rarefying process which has proceeded to a certain extent in it. This condition is spoken of as necrotic caries. Caries is most common in cancellous bone, where red marrow is found, such as the bones of the carpus and tarsus, the bodies of thfe vertebrte and the ends of the long bones. The symptoms of caries are very insidious, and in the early stages are impossible to distinguish from chronic ostitis. The first .symptom is generally pain of a dull aching character in one of the short bones, or extremity of one of the long bones. The pain is increased by pressure or jarring the bone. This is followed by some enlargement of the bone. So far the symptoms resemble those of chronic ostitis, but after a time a dusky redness of the skin, with swelling and infiltration of the soft parts over the bone, and possibly an indistinct sensation of fluctuation, show themselves and indicate the condition as one of caries. After the abscess has been opened or burst, the introduction of a probe will give the sensation of roughened and bare bone, which is soft, and in which the probe can be buried. In many cases symptoms of caries may be alto- gether absent, or so slight that they do not attract attention, and under these circumstances a fluctuating swelling at some distance from the surface mav be the first indication of the disease. Treatment.—In the early stage, the treatment of caries consists prin- cipally in keeping the part at absolute rest. If there are any symptoms of acute inflammatory trouble, means must be taken to subdue them by appropriate local and genert^ remedies; but in the great majority of cases there is nothing of this kind, and the disease is essentially chronic from the first, and under these circumstances means should be taken to ■maintain the absolute immobility of the part and keep it at perfect rest. Combined with this, change of air, especially to the seaside, and plain nutritious food should be prescribed. Cod-liver oil, the iodides of iron and potassium, should also be given. As soon as definite signs of soften- ing present themselves, operative interference should be undertaken, and this, if possible, should be done before pyogenic infection has taken place. The successful treatment of a case of tuberculous caries will depend in a great measure upon whether the pyogenic organisms have effected an entrance or not. An incision should be made and the bone opened, and all caseous products gouged away. This should be done very thoroughly and the part flushed with some antiseptic solution. The cavity which is left should be stuffed wath iodoform gauze and the wound sutured, the end of the gauze being left protruding through a small opening in one angle of the wound, so that it can be withdrawn at the encT of forty-eight hours. If there is no pyogenic infection and the whole of the diseased tissue has been removed the wound will probably heal, and if there is no recurrence the case will be at an end; but if any pus is present, the wound will not heal by primary union, and in many cases a recurrence of the disease will take place in the surrounding bone. When this is so and the disease is situated in some accessible bone, such as one of the bones of the carpus or tarsus, excision of the whole bone seems to hold out the best prospect of a cure. Where several bones are implicated amputation may be necessary. 2. Osteo-plastic ostitis.—This has already been alluded to in speaking of the pathology of ostitis. It is simply the curative process of a chronic ostitis which has gone on to the destruction of bone tissue. In those cases where the hone tissue has been destroyed by the invading