1093 ATROPHIC SCIRRHUS on at the surface, the tumour is extending more deeply, and, after imphca- t'm^ the pectoral fascia, invades the muscle and becotaes more and more fixed, especially when the arm is extended, so that the muscle is tensed. The growth may also invade the wall of the chest, and passing through it, may involve the pleura. As the glands in the axilla become enlarged, they press upon the axillary vein, causing obstruction and oedema of the arm; and on the cords of the brachial plexus, causing intense pain m the upper extremity. , • • In the later stages of the disease a condition of general cachexia is set up. The patient emaciates, loses her appetite, becomes sallow and wan, and eventually dies from exhaustion, induced by pain, want of sleep, and repeated htemorrhage; or from a condition of septic poisoning, from the absorption of poisons formed in the cancerous growth. In other cases secondary deposits take place in other parts of the body; the liver, the pleura, and the bones being the parts most usually affected. The above are the characters of an ordinary case of scirrhous cancer of the breast. It will be now necessary to say a word or two on various modifications to which the acinous form of cancer is liable. Encephaloid cancer.—This, as pointed out above, is merely a modification of acinous cancer, in which the proportion of stroma to cells is different from what it is in the form of the disease which has just been described. In these tumours the amount of stroma is much less, and the number and size of the cells is proportionately larger. The result of this is that the whole tumour is softer and is more rapid in its growth. No definite line can, however, be drawn between the hard and soft forms, for between the two every gradation of consistence may be found. The disease is met with as a soft, rapidly growing tumour, infiltrating the whole breast, which becomes large and prominent. There is no dimpling of the skin nor retraction of the nipple in a typical case, but the disease rapidly reaches the surface, and implicates the skin, which gives way, and a large fungous protrusion takes place, which often bleeds furiously on account of its great vascularity, and rapidly destroys the patient's life from exhaustion. This soft form of cancer is liable to be followed by secondary deposits in the viscera, and by glandular implication at a much earlier date than the scirrhous form. In fact, it runs a very much more rapid course than the hard variety. Atrophic scirrhus.—A very different form of cancer of the breast from the preceding is the condition which is known as atrophic scirrhus, which is not uncommonly met with in the breasts of old women. In these cases the nodule of cancer never attains a large size, but gradually causes the gland tissue to shrivel up and disappear. This is due to an excessive contraction of the fibrous stroma of the growth, which by its contraction presses on and destroys the cellular elements. The skin over the tumour generally gives way after a time, and forms a small ulcer which slowly spreads. Patients suffering from this form of cancer have been known to live for many years, and eventually die of some other malady. Sometimes, however, secondary growths appear in the viscera, or the bones, and these grow rapidly and destroy the patient. The lymphatic glands are not implicated at nearly so early a period. The appearance of these tumours is very characteristic. The breast is small and shrivelled ; the nipple deeply retracted ; the skin adherent to the surface of the growth, and often presenting an ulcerated surface, covered by a scab. The breast is often