853 CHRONIC INTUSSUSCEPTION 2. Tumours in the bowel.—Simple tumours growing from the wall of the bowel, such as adenomata or papillomata, may give rise_ to obstruction. They assume a polypoid form, and may attain a great size. They are most commonly found in the colon and rectum. 3. Faecal accumulation.—The accumulation of faeces m the large intestine may give rise to chronic obstruction, and the accumulation may take place from several causes : from chronic dyspepsia, often occurring in patients who are edentulous or do not properly masticate their food ; from the consumption of indigestible food, which remains in the intestine and forms a sort of nucleus on which ftecal matter is deposited; or from loss of tone of the muscular coat of the bowel, from debility, old age, or the habitual use of aperients. The fiEces become hard from absorption of their watery constituents, and rounded in shape, forming spherical masses, which get lodged in the sacculi of the colon and produce obstruction. The bowel is apt to ulcerate, forming the so-called stercoral ulcer, and perforation may take place. 4. Foreign bodies which have been swallowed may occasionally give rise to chronic obstruction. 5. Pressure on the gut from without may be caused by inflamma- tory thickening and subsequent contraction in the neighbourhood of the bowel gradually producing a narrowing of the lumen of the tube. Thus in cases of pelvic cellulitis, in appendicitis, or in peri-nephritic in- flammation, the gut may gradually be occluded and symptoms of chronic intestinal obstruction set up. The gut may also be pressed upon by malignant or other growths, as hydatid or ovarian tumours, or by a dis- placed uterus, and this may give rise to chronic obstruction. 6. Chronic intussusception.—In chronic intussusception the obstruction is not as a rule complete at first, but in many cases it becomes so after a time and proves fatal. The strangulation of the gut is not usually sufficient to cause gangrene, and therefore, as there is neither complete occlusion nor complete strangulation, this condition may last for months before death ensues; this takes place from complete occlusion coming on, or from exhaustion, or from perforation of the gut above. Symptoms of chronic obstruction.—In chronic intestinal obstruction, constipation is the prominent symptom. The patient gets an attack of constipation, with colicky pains, and perhaps vomiting. This is relieved by medicine, and may or may not be succeeded by a mucous diarrhoea, from catarrhal enteritis set up by the irritation of the retained fseces. This is followed, after a longer or shorter period of time, by a second and a third attack, each being more obstinate than the last, more difficult to overcome, and attended by severer symptoms. Between the attacks the patient may feel fairly well, or, on the other hand, he may suffer from nausea, malaise, and loss of appetite. These symptoms persist and increase, it may be, for several months, until at last an attack occurs in which the symptoms cannot be relieved, and complete obstruction sets in. In other instances the early symptoms are not so marked. The patient may be going about his ordinary occupations, and perhaps, after the ingestion of a hearty meal of some indigestible food, complete obstruc- tion sets in somewhat suddenly. There may be comparatively little disturbance at first, but the abdomen becomes distended, and then nausea and discomfort are experienced, followed after a time by eructations, retching, and vomiting, which may in the final stage be faecal. Vomiting, however, is not such a marked feature as in acute obstruction. As the