WOUNDS OF THE SPINE 747 vasation is generally distinctly localised and rarely exceeds an almond in size (fig. 286). It is most frequently situated in the cervical enlargement for the reason mentioned above. In one class of cases the extravasation involves the whole section of the cord and completely destroys its function, and under these circum- stances the symptoms are exactly analogous to those which would be produced by a transverse section of the cord in the same situation. The patient is suddenly struck down with paralysis and loss of sensation in all the parts supplied by nerves off below the seat of lesion. In other where the extravasation is not so great and coming cases, is confined to the grey matter, the conducting powers of the cord may not be completely destroyed, and there may not be complete paralysis and loss of sensation in all the parts supplied by nerves coming off below the injured part, but paralysis of single muscles or groups of muscles, with loss of sensation in localised definite areas. If the patient survives the injury for any length of time, secon- dary degenerative changes come on and run the ordinary course. When the injury is in the cervical enlargement, it may be immediately fatal from implication of the phrenic nerve, or death may ensue within a very short period of time from inter- ference with the respiration. Treatment.—Nothing much can be done for the treatment of cases where the haemorrhage has taken place into the substance of the cord; the patient must be kept absolutely quiet, ice applied to the spine, and ergotine administered internally or injected subcutaneously ; but where the hsemor- rhage is meningeal and a diagnosis is made early, the question of laminectomy should always be seriously considered, especially in those cases where the pressure is sufficient to cause loss of power and sensation in the parts below, and above all in those cases in which there is any evidence of an as- cending paralysis taking place. In the slighter cases rest and ice to the spine is all that is re- quired, followed later on by counter irritation. In these cases the clot may become completely absorbed, and the patfent restored to a condition of perfect health. Wounds of the spine.—Penetrating wounds of the spine are always grave injuries, but happily in civil practice are very uncommon, to gunshot wounds, to stabs with pointed most likely to occur in the neck, where it a pointed instrument to penetrate between whereas in the dorsal region the imbrication cient protection to the spinal canal, and in ; 1 '^r 286. Extravasa- FiG. tion of blood into the substance of the cord. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) They may be due instruments, when they are is by no means difficult for the laminte of the vertebra;, of the laminae forms an effi- the lumbar region the depth of the spinal column from the surface of the body renders a punctured