429 FRACTURES OF THF HUMERUS to the side. A pad is placed in the axilla, and a banclage is then carried unde? the point of the elbow and over the opposite shoulder, and afterwa.ds round the arm and chest. j j fvr,,-,-. rlii-prt The coracoid process is rarely fractured, and only fiom d ect violence. There is little displacement, except con.pl.cated ^"T^J ^^^^^ the coraco-clavicular ligament is torn as well. The signs ^ ^ mcicased mobilitv of the fragment, and pain and crepitus on ^^^n puU on fhe treatment consists in placing the forearm across the chest, with the hand on the opposite shoulder, and bandaging it in this position. FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS For convenience of description fractures of the humerus like fractures of the other long bones, are divided into (i) fractures of the upper extremity; (2) fractures of the shaft; and (3) fractures of the lower extremity.^ fractures of the upper extremity are those of (a) the anatomical neck; (^) the surgical neck; _(.) separation of the greater tuberosity, and {d) separation of the epiphysis. a Anatomical neck.-Fracture of the anatomical neck is always the result of direct violence, such as blows or falls on the shoulder. It is sometimes designated ' intra-capsular,' but this is scarcely correct as the line of the fracture usually lies partly within and partly without the capsule. It is frequently impacted, the upper fragment being driven into the lower. In the impacted fracture the deformity is usually considerable. There is some shortening of the arm and appa- rent projection of the acromion, with flattening of the shoulder beneath, but the head of the bone can be felt in the glenoid cavity. There is loss of power, pain and swelling about the shoulder, but no crepitus. In the non-impacted form there is less deformity, some slight irregu- larity about the shoulder, and generally about half an inch of shortening. The head of the bone can sometimes be felt on the inner side of the joint, unless the swelling, which is some- times very considerable on account of the direct nature of the injury, obscures it. It has been said that necrosis of the upper fragment may occur, but this complication very rarely, if ever, takes place, as it remains attached to the rest of the bone by a few shreds of capsule, through which it obtains sufficient blood to maintain its vitality. Cases have been recorded where in this fracture the head of the bone becomes twisted round, so that its cartilaginous surface rests against the broken end of the lower fragment; and others where it has been forced into the axilla through a rent in the capsule. _ Treatment.—If there is much swelling and ecchymosis it is better to support the shoulder on a soft pillow for a few days, with extension from the elbow, and apply evaporating lotions. Then a n-sbaped splint of leather or gutta-percha should be placed in the axilla, and maintained in Fig. 141.—Figure showing the Ireatmenl of a case of fracture of the neck of the humerus.