DISLOCATION BACKWARDS OF THE HIP 515 suddenly down into the extended position. By this series of manoeuvres the head of the- bone will be made to retrace the steps by which it has been dislocated, and the head of the bone will be returned into its socket. That this is so, will be known by a peculiar sound being heard and all deformity being removed. These various movements may be remembered shortly thus : Bend up ; roll out; turn out; and extend. The explanation of this process is as follows. By flexing the leg on the thigh the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve are relaxed ; by flexing the thigh on the pelvis, the front of the capsule and the ilio-femoral ligament are relaxed, and the head of the bone is forced from above and behind the acetabulum to below and behind it; by abducting the thigh the head is forced from below and behind the acetabulum to below and in front, to the position of the rent in the capsule. This is mainly effected through the agency of the ilio-femoral ligament, which acts as the fulcrum of a lever of the first kind, and, as the knee is rolled outwards, fixes the neck and causes the head of the bone to glide inwards. Finally, by rotating the femur outwards, the head of the bone is raised upwards and outwards and caused to enter the rent in the capsule, and by extension is carried to the bottom of the acetabulum. In case this plan of reducing the dislocation by manipulation does not succeed, recourse must be had to extension. The simplest and best plap is the one advocated by Kelly. It consists in placing the patient on his back on the floor. His pelvis is fixed by strong webbing passed across it and fastened to screw hooks inserted in the floor. The injured thigh is flexed to a right angle with the trunk, and the surgeon, standing over the patient and bending forwards, passes his forearms behind the patient's knee and grasps his own elbows. The dorsum of the patient's foot rests against the perineum of the surgeon. He is now in the best position to accomplish the reduction by drawing the limb directly upwards. This will generally succeed in reducing the dislocation. Should it not do so, circumduction may be added : whilst still maintaining traction, the surgeon bends his body to the injured side, then forwards towards the patient's head, then outwards away from the injured side, and finally, by stepping backwards, he brings the limb downwards into a condition of extension, and in all probability the head will slip into the acetabulum. Formerly attempts were made to reduce dislocations of the hip by means of multiplying pulleys, but in recent dislocations one or other of the methods described above will generally be found sufficient, and the use of the pulleys is not to be advocated ; and in old dislocations the probabilities of effecting any good by the pulleys are so slight, and the probabilities of doing serious damage so great, that it would seem better to leave the disloca- tion unreduced, in the hopes that after a time a new socket may be formed and a fairly useful limb be obtained ; or to expose the head of the bone, divide all resisting structures, and replace or excise the head of the femur. Dislocation backwards into the neighbourhood of the sciatic notch.—This dislocation is usually termed dislocation into the sciatic notch, but there is no evidence to prove that the head of the bone is actually driven into the notch, and some surgeons doubt whether it ever is so ; and it would appear that in most cases the head of the bone rests on the posterior surface of the ischium, between the edge of the acetabulum and the margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch, below the tendon of the obturator internus.