524 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES Dislocation backwards.—In the complete form of this dis- location the lower end of the tibia rests on the neck of the astragalus and the navicular, and the articular surface of the astragalus is completely behind the tibia; in the incomplete form the two articular surfaces are not quite clear of each other. Symptoms.—There is marked deformity and shortening of the foot. In front of the ankle the tibia can be felt as a prominent transverse ridge of bone, terminating below in an abrupt margin. The os calcis projects posteriorly, and the tendo Achillis is prominent and stands out tensely under the skin. The toes are pointed downwards. Dislocation forwards.—This dislocation is very rarely complete ; when it is, the articular surface of the lower end of the tibia rests on the posterior part of the upper surface of the os calcis, just in front of the tendo Achillis. In the incomplete form, it rests partially on the articular surface of the astragalus. Symptoms.—In these cases the foot is elongated; the heel is less prominent than natural, and the tendo Achillis is lax. Immediately in front of it can be felt the lower end of the tibia. Treatment.—These dislocations are to be reduced by traction. The patient is laid on his back, with the leg flexed on the thigh, to relax the tendo Achillis, and held in this position by an assistant. The surgeon then makes steady and firm extension from the foot, at the same time gently moving it from side to side with a rocking movement, so as to disengage the astragalus. The dislocation backwards is much easier to reduce than the dislocation forwards. Should any difficulty occur, it may usually be overcome by dividing the tendo Achillis. Dislocation upwards is an accident of extreme rarity, but well- authenticated cases have been recorded. It consists in the articular surface of the astragalus being forced upwards between the tibia and fibula, the interosseous ligament between the two bones having first been torn. It appears to be always caused in the same way, by falls from a height on to the feet. Symptoms.—There is great widening of the ankle, and the two malleoli stand out prominently under the skin, and are nearer the level of the sole of the foot than natural. Movement at the ankle joint is lost. Treatment—The displacement is to be overcome by traction m the same manner as in the foregoing dislocation. Cases have been recorded in which it has been found impossible to overcome the displacement, the astragalus being so tightly jammed between the two bones of the leg. Dislocation of the astragalus.—The astragalus may be dislocated from all its articulations : from the tibia and fibula above, the OS calcis below, and the navicular in front; and the displacement may be either forwards, backwards, or laterally to either side. In addition to this, cases have been recorded where the astragalus has become dislocated from all its surroundings, and then undergone a rotation or version, either horizontally, so that the long axis of the bone is across the joint, or it may be turned on its side, so that its upper and under surfaces look inwards and outwards respectively. Dislocation forwards is the most common lesion. Ihe astragalus is shot out from its socket, and in the complete form is detached from all its connections and rests on the navicular and cuneiform bones. It is generally compound, the head of the bone protruding from the wound. In the incomplete form the under surface of the neck rests on the posterior