TERTIARY SYPHILIS 189 the mouth, so that it is brought into contact with the ulcerating surface. This must be done with care, as a vigorous inhalation would carry it into the air passages and excite a severe attack of coughing. The mucous patches which occur in the mouth are best treated by painting them over with a solution of chromic acid (gr. x ad 5i), or a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. _xx ad §1), every second or third day. The solution of chromic acid especially is of the greatest service, and often succeeds in getting rid of these patches in a surprisingly short space of time. Syphilitic iritis must be treated with atropine, in addition to the mercurial course, in order to secure dilatation of the pupil. Two or three drops of a solution of atropine (gr. iv to the |i) should be inserted into the eye every four or six hours until this end is attained. The affected eye should be protected from light during the acute stage, and a blister appHed to the temple, if the pain is very acute. The treatment of the other forms of secondaries requires no special mention. Tertiary syphilis.—The division of syphilis into stages is to a great extent artificial. The distinction between the primary and secondary stage is definite, but the same cannot quite fairly be said about the secondary and tertiary stages in all cases. Tertiary syphihs is said to be distinguished from secondary by the occurrence of an interval of health. A patient contracts syphilis, he passes through the primary and secondary stage, and after a time all symptoms, either under the influence of treatment or without it, disappear, and he is apparently quite well, and remains well for a longer or shorter period of _ time. Then other symptoms supervene : the patient has got tertiary syphilis. Such a case as this is perfectly clear, and there is a definite distinction between the two conditions, secondary and tertiary syphilis. But this does not always occur. It may and frequently does happen that before the secondary stage is over, certain symptoms arise and may be prolonged until after the tertiary stage has begun, so that there is no interval of immunity between the two stages. To this condition Mr. Hutchinson has given the name of intermediate stage, and the symptoms which occur during it he call reminders^ But though we cannot exactly differentiate between the secondary and tertiary stages, there are certain characteristic differences between the two conditions which make their separation a matter of practical clinical importance. With regard to secondary symptoms there can be no question that their duration is limited, and that they have a tendency to disappear spontaneously and quite independently of any treatment which may have been adopted. This is not so with the tertiary symptoms ; the condition once started goes on indefinitely unless arrested by medical aid. Then again, in secondary syphilis there is a certain well-defined symmetry' which IS almost unknown in the tertiary form of the disease. And thirdly m tertiary .syphilis, in the majority of cases, the tendency is towards the production of definite formations, giinwiata. It is in fact, as Lancereaux puts It, the 'stage of gummatous products.' This new growth resembles the products of inflammation regarded as an ulcerative process ; while in secondary syphilis the new growth, when it exists, resembles more the product of inflammation regarded as a reproductive process. The intermediate stage.—This so-called stage resembles more a condition of rckipse than a distinct, or even an intermediate stage as its symptoms resemble to a great extent those noted in the secondary stage