379 TUBERCULOUS LYMPHADENITIS lymphadenitis ; that is to say, from some slight cause an inflammation is set up in a gland which in a healthy subject would subside spontaneously, but which in a tuberculous individual alters the condition of the gland to such a degree that it becomes a favourable nidus for the growth of the tubercle bacillus ; this fuids an entrance, and the simple inflammation becomes a tuberculous inflammation (seepage 205). Then the changes already described take place; the tuberculous material caseates and forms a cheesy fluid, within a thickened capsule. The curdy pus thus formed, if left to itself, gradually finds its way to the surface, involves and destroys the skin, and the matter is discharged, leaving an unhealthy cavity, in which are remains of the broken-down gland structure. This is slow to heal, and- when it does leaves a puckered scar and great deformity. Symptoms.—Tuberculous disease of the lymphatic glands is most common in the neck, and occurs principally in children and young adults. The disease begins as an insidious and painless enlargement of one or more glands, often without any evidence of primary lesion in those parts from which they derive their supply of lymph. In other cases there is evidence in the shape of some eruption about the scalp or face; pediculi capitis ; carious teeth ; or some irritation about the mucous membrane of the mouth or throat; or, failing these, some lesion of the mucous membrane of the nasal or aural cavities ; and in those cases where no primary lesion can be found, it is nevertheless probable that some lesion has existed, and that the irritation has been conveyed from this to the glands. The en- larged glands are at first freely movable and clearly defined ; as, however, the inflammation progresses, it extends from the gland to the tissues around, and they become fixed to neighbouring parts. If several glands are affected, they become fused together and form a large indurated and nodulated mass. The increase in size is slow, and sometimes the enlarged glands may remain stationary and cease to enlarge. The glands are at first quite solid; but after a time they will be felt to become softer in their centre, and then fluctuation will be detected. They now become adherent to the skm, which becomes thin, purplish, and undermined, and eventually gives way by a small opening, and curdy pus is discharged. This discharge may contu-|ue for weeks and months; the thin and undermined skin melts away, leavmg foul unhealthy ulcers, with undermined edges and a base composed of the remains of the caseated material. If these sores even- tually heal, they leave unhealthy puckered cicatrices, which produce great deformity. The diagnosis of this condition from simple chronic inflammation is m the early stage mipossible; but the chronicity of the process, with the gradual occurrence of softening and the diathesis of the patient, will later on reveal the true nature of the case. Tuberculous lymphadenitis may be mistaken for lymphadenoma in the early stage of this latter disease, when only one chain of lymphatic glands is affected; but in this condition the enlarged gland.s are quite isolated, and show no tendency to become fused together, or to become adherent to surrounding parts. At a later period ot the case, the enlargement of several groups of lymphatic glands in lymph- adenoma renders the diagnosis ea.sy. _ Treatment.—In the treatment of these tuberculous glands, the first point is to ascertain, if possible, the cause of the irritation and remove it. A diligent search should therefore be made to find any such cause, and if found to get rid of It: carious teeth should be extracted; enlarged tonsils removed; or any eruption about the scalp or face treated. When this