205 SYMPTOMS OF TUBERCULOSIS inflammatory enlargement of a neighbouring lymphatic gland. And here it may be noted that in these tuberculous cases the amount of local irritation may be very trifling and very slight in proportion to the amount of mischief it sets up. The enlarged gland is not tuberculous in the first instance, but the inflammation in it converts it into a favourable site for the encroachment of the tubercle bacillus, which may find an entrance through the lesion which has caused the enlargement. After a time grey granulations become dotted about in the gland tissue, and soon small caseous points appear, which increase in size and coalesce till the whole gland becomes a uniform caseous mass, inclosed in a thickened capsule. The process may terminate here, and the cheesy mass may become calcareous or encapsuled and remain inert. But what generally happens is that it softens and liquefies, while inflammation and suppuration take place in the tissues around, the capsule gives way, and the material gradually finds its way to the surface, and undermining the skin to a considerable extent eventually perforates it and the curdy fluid is dis- charged. The sinus resulting usually remains open for a considerable time, and the process extends locally, by affecting adjacent tissues, so that on opening up one of these cavities formed by the discharge of caseated material, sinuses may be found burrowing in all directions. When cicatri- sation takes place, the resulting scar is usually of a dusky hue, consisting of thin flimsy material, and great deformity is produced from puckering of the neighbouring skin. From this it will be seen that tuberculosis is a purely local condition in the first instance, and that it has a great tendency to extend locally, by infecting adjacent tissues ; but in addition to this the tuberculous virus from this infecting centre may be carried to all parts of the body and a condition of general tuberculosis may be set up. Symptoms.—The tuberculous individual presents, in many instances, certain characteristics by which the condition may be recognised, and these present themselves as two distinct and separate types. They are specially to be recognised in children and young adults. 1. The fair or sanguine type.—Children belonging to this type have soft, transparent, thin skins, so that the cutaneous vessels show through. The hair is light-coloured, fine and silky. The eyelashes are long. The eyes are bright, with blue irides and large pupils. The sclerotic has a bluish tinge, from its thinness allowing the choroid tb show through. The face is oval and the lower jaw small, and the whole expression pleasing and sometimes beautiful. The mental powers are considerable and early developed. This form of tuberculosis is usually inherited. 2. The dark or phlegmatic type.—Individuals of this type are short, stunted, and bulky. The expression is sullen and forbidding. The skin is harsh, swarthy, and thick. The hair is dark, thick, curly, and often very abundant. The lips are thick and tumid. The teeth ill formed, and soon become carious. The mental capacity is slight, and there is a torpor or languor about all their movements. Their circulation is slow, and the cheeks often present in consequence a dusky red hue. They are very liable to .suffer from chilblains. This form is usually acquired and is sometimes known as ' workhouse ' tuberculosis, as it is largely met with in the inmates of these places. The local signs of tuberculous disease differ with the part or organ affected ; they will, therefore, be considered with the other diseases of the various tissues or organs. The constitutional symptoms.—In the majority of cases of tuberculous