499 UNREDUCED DISLOCATIONS The amount of movement which can be obtained in a false joint varies very considerably, depending partly on the amount of injury which has been done to the soft parts around and the consequent inflammatory thickening and consolidation which has taken place, and partly upon the nature of the joint; very much more movement, as a rule, being obtain- able in a ball-and-socket joint than in a hinge joint. Upon the amount of movement which can be obtained without pain will, in a great measure, depend the decision of the surgeon as to whether any attempt should be made to reduce the dislocation. The old rule laid down by Sir Astley Cooper that it was improper to attempt the reduction of an old dislocation of the shoulder of more than three months' standing, or a dislocation of the hip of more than two months, does not now hold good. Owing to the introduction of anaesthetics, attempts have been successfully made to Fig. 178.—Unreduced dislocation of the humerus, showing the formation of a new cavity for the head of the bone, under the coracoid process. (From a preparation in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.) reduce dislocations of much older standing than this. At the same time it must be borne in mind that these attempts cannot be made without incurring a very considerable amount of risk. Instances are by no means uncommon where very serious injury has been done by an attempt to reduce an old-standing dislocation : large blood-vessels and nerves have been torn; bones have been broken; the skin and muscles have been lacerated, and inflammation and suppuration have been set up. It therefore behoves the surgeon to consider every case on its own merits, and determine whether he shall attempt reduction ; taking into considera- tion the amount of movement which the patient has in the Hmb with the bone in its new position. If he can move the parts without pain and with a fair amount of freedom, probably the wiser course is to leave the parts alone if a longer period than three months has elapsed .since the accident. K K 2