SYMPTOMS OF STONE 967 encysted. The three maizi symptoms are pain, increased frequency of micturition, and h^ematuria. 1. The pain h of two kinds. There is a sharp cutting-pain towards the close of or immediately after micturition, especially referred to the end of the penis. I his is produced by the contraction of the bladder, causing the sensitive mucous membrane to rub against the stone. In cases where the stone is encysted or lies in a pouch behind an enlarged prostate this pain is absent. In young children it is frequently well marked, and is evidenced by a tendency on the part of the child to pull upon the prepuce and produce elongation ot this structure. Secondly, there is a constant chronic pain and sensation of vyeight and he-aviness in the region of the bladder and perineum, and if the stone is large this pain radiates down the back of the thighs, from mechanical pressure on the sacral plexus. Pain is much mcreased by exercise, especially riding or driving, and is relieved by the recumbent position. ^ 2. There is increased frequency of micturition. This is especially marked durmg the day while the patient is moving about, and more particularly if he IS subjected to jolting and shaking, so that it sometimes renders horse or carnage exercise impossible. During the night, when he is at rest in bed the stone remains in one position, and then this symptom is but shghtly marked or may be altogether absent. In this it presents a marked difJerence to the frequency of micturition in enlarged prostate, which is always worse when the patient is warm in bed. 3- Haemorrhage.—In cases of stone in the bladder there is always the history of the passage of blood at some period of the case, though it is not always constant, and may be absent for some considerable time It is chietl)' noticed after exercise or exertion, and frequently disappears if the patient remains quiet in bed. It generally shows itself in the passage of a few drops of bright blood after the act of micturition has been completed and IS caused by the walls of the bladder becoming bruised when they come in contact with the stone. ^ In addition to these principal symptoms other subsidiary ones may exist There may be the history of the sudden arrest of the flow of urine during of th Ki fr^'^'^T- V'i'''^^'^^ being carried to the neck nlt^ b^^?f '^"d. occluding the orifice of the urethra. Sometimes the patient will further mform the surgeon that when this has occurred he has ound, from practical experience, that by lying down he is able to complete tne act. When he does this the stone rolls away from the orifice of the urethra, and the impediment to the oudet of the water is removed In nffpn o"' f'^""^/ mentioned, the prepuce is elongated, and, as there is olten a good deal of strainmg, prolapsus of the rectum in children, and piles mthe adult, are very common conditions met with in cases of stone in the bladder. Sooner or later cystitis will be set up, and then there is an agara- iTnrl f 7^"^Pto"?s. The frequent desire to pass water is increased, and torments the patient by night as well as by day. The urine firs becomes loaded with mucus, and then alkaline, and finally contains blood ana pus. Ihe kidneys become involved, pyelo-nephritis is set up, and the patient succumbs partly from exhaustion and partly from septic poisoning._ In those cases where the stone is ency.sted (fig. 36^:), many of the foregoing symptoms are absent. There is no sharp cutting pain at the end of micturition, there is no blood in the urine so long as cysdHs is not set up, and there is no sudden stoppage in the act of micturition There is however, constant dull aching pain in the region of the bladder and perineum.