952 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS concretions, so that the united edges have to be" broken down for their extraction. Anderson suggests making a new bladder by dissecting up the mucous membrane all round the margin of the extroversion for about half an inch, and then bringing the fiaps over and uniting them together in the middle line. The skin around the margin of the extroversion is then dissected up from within outwards, and the two flaps brought together in the middle line over the reflected mucous surfaces, tension being relieved by lateral incisions. The operation is ingenious, but failed in the case in which Anderson tried it, as it did also in a case under my own care. Trendelenburg divides the posterior ligaments of the sacro-iliac joints, and by compression approximates the two pubic bones ; in conse- quence of this, the protruding vesical wall recedes and forms a sort of hollow, which he subsequently closes by a plastic operation. The operation must be done before the child is five, and is a very severe one at so young an age ; and in addition to this, it further weakens the already weak pelvic arch. Reginald Harrison proposes to remove one kidney, and, after the other has undergone compensatory hypertrophy, to transplant the ureter of the single kidney into the loin, where it is made to open on the surface of the body, and the urine is discharged into a suitable urinal. The palliative treatment of extroversion consists in adapting some hollow cup-shaped appliance to the part in order to prevent the irritation from friction and collect the urine; but none that have been hitherto devised have proved very satisfactory. Hypertrophy of the bladder.—The muscular coat of the bladder is frequently found to be hypertrophied after death, when there has been any cause which has obstructed the exit of the urine. Thus it is found in cases of stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, tumours of the bladder, stone in the bladder, and in chronic cystitis, where the thick ropy mucus which is formed causes considerable obstruction to the passage of urine. The hypertrophy produces a fasci- culated condition of the wall of the bladder ; the muscular tissue forming bundles of fibres, which interlace with each other and produce ridges on the mucous surface. In some instances, where the obstruction is great, the mucous membrane may bulge between these hypertro- phied muscular bundles, and thus a condition of sacculation may be produced, when pouches or sacculi are formed, communi- cating with the interior of the bladder, and composed of the mucous and submucous coats only (fig. 362). Urine may be retamed m one ot these pouches, and may putrefy, giving rise to serious trouble, or a stone may become lodged in one of them (fig. 363). Hypertrophy of the Fig. 362.—Sacculation of the bladder. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)