GENERAL INJURIES IS a true squamous epithelioma, which shows itself first as a warty growth from the surface of a scar; this speedily ulcerates and soon presents all the characters of an epithelioma. As Mr. Flawkins pointed out, the glands are not early affected in this form of the disease. I'he only treatment which holds out any prospect of success is early and free removal, and this when the disease occurs on one of the extremities is best accomplished by amputation. Neuralgia of scars is another condition which requires incidental mention. It generally arises from implication of some divided nerve fibres in the cicatrix. It was not uncommon in the olden times after, the operation of venesection from the median basilic vein, from implication of some branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. The best remedy is to remove the scar and employ skin grafting to the resulting raw surface. Contraction of Cicatrices.—We have seen that scar tissue after its formation has a tendency to contract. When a large surface of skin has been destroyed, and the resulting scar is of considerable extent, this contraction may be very great, producing the gravest deformities. As this condition is generally the result of burns and scalds, it will be considered with these affections. BURNS AND SCALDS Burns are produced by the application of dry heat; scalds by the application of moist heat, that is, hot liquids or steam ; but pathologically and clinically they may be regarded as the same thing, except that, inasmuch as the degree of destruction of tissue depends not only upon the intensity of the heat, but also on the duration of its application, scalds are generally milder forms of injuries than burns, since the hot liquid rapidly runs off the body and quickly cools. This does not apply to molten lead, which adheres to the part, and retaining its heat for a long time destroys the tissues to a great depth. Burns are classified according to their depth, and the classification of Dupuytren, who divides them into six degrees, is the one usually adopted. 1. In the first degree there is no destruction of tissue. It is, in fact, a mere scorch, produced by the momentary action of heat. There is super- ficial hypersemia, indicated by redness. The scorched epidermis may subsequently desquamate, but beyond this no trace of the injury remains. 2. In the secoftd degree there is destruction of the cuticle. The cutis beneath it inflames, with the result that exudation of serum takes place between the cuticle and cutis, forming blisters or blebs. Fresh epithelium forms over the cutis, the separated cuticle is cast off, and no mark or scar results beyond sometimes slight discolouration. If the cuticle is torn off or removed before the fresh epidermis is formed, the raw surface may become more inflamed and discharge a little puriform fluid. 3. In the third stage a part of the thickness of the true skin is destroyed, but not the whole. This destroyed tissue separates, and after it has done so the deeper layers of the cutis vera, containing elastic tissue, hair follicles, and sebaceous glands, remain, and are quickly covered by granula- tions, which discharge pus and rapidly cicatrise. No contraction results because there has not been destruction of the whole thickness of the skin, but a visible cicatrix remains. 4. In the fimrth stage there is destruction of the whole thickness of the skin, and the subcutaneous tissue is exposed and perhaps slightly implicated.