FRACTURES OF THE SPINE 751 and painful cramps and spasm of the muscles of the lower limbs. The reflexes are exaggerated. This is followed by paraplegia; retention of urine and septic cystitis ; incontinence of ffeces and the formation of bed- sores ; and the patient generally dies of exhaustion or bladder troubles, or the inflammation, in septic cases, may spread to the membranes of the brain, and he may die of compression of the brain. The local symptoms are attended by a considerable amount of fever, often ushered in by a rigor and followed by rapid emaciation and exhaustion. In some cases the active symptoms subside, and the disease assumes a chronic form. Chronic meningitis and myelitis may be the sequel of an acute attack or may originate as a chronic condition, probably in cases where there has been no external wound, but some bruising of the cord or its membranes. The disease is usually localised. Inflammatory lymph is poured out upon the cord and into its substance, glueing the two together and causing sclerosis of the cord. The symptoms are persistent local pain and tenderness, increased by pressure or movement, rigidity of the back, cramps or spasms in the lower limbs, going on to paralysis, and hyperesthesia and shooting pains in the parts below the seat of the inflammation. The reflexes are exaggerated. The treatment in these cases is not satisfactory. In the acute septic form probably no treatment is of any avail. In the other acute cases, ice may be applied to the spine, and absolute rest and low diet enjoined. In the chronic form counter irritation to the spine, absolute rest, and the long- continued administration of mercury in small doses is to be recommended. Fractures of the spine.—These injuries may be conveniently divided into two classes : (i) incomplete, where the continuity of the column is not interrupted; and (2) complete, where there is a solution of continuity of the column, which is now divided in two parts, and these may become displaced from one another. In cases where this displacement occurs, the name fracture-dislocation is given, and they are by far the most common and the most important form of fracture, since the displaced bone in the majority of cases presses upon and crushes the spine marrow, and produces a very serious and, in the majority of cases, fatal lesion. Causes.—Fractures of the spine, like fractures elsewhere, may be the result of direct or indirect violence. Fractures by direct violence are not so common as the other form; they may be produced by severe blows on the back, or by falls across a beam or gunshot injuries. The indirect form of fracture is produced by over-flexion of the spinal column ; it may thus be caused in hunting, by the individual being thrown over the horse's head; or in diving, by the head coming violently in contact with the bottom of the bath; or by over-extension, as when a man driving under an archway catches his forehead against the arch. I. Incomplete fractures are usually fractures of the spinous processes and laminae, though in rare instances a transverse process may be broken off or even a fissure of the body may take place. The symptoms are pain in the part, increased on movement or on manipulation, irregularity in the line of the spinous processes, with increased mobility. In many cases crepitus can be obtained, but often there is very considerable extravasation and bruising in the soft parts over the injured bone, and then the signs above mentioned are obscured. The treatment consists in keeping the patient at rest in bed until all pain has subsided and union may assumed to have taken place.