7SO INIURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS The alkaUne urine sets up cystitis, and the inflammation spreads up the ureters to the kidneys, and causes septic nephritis, or septic poisoning may set in by absorption from the ulcerated coats of the bladder, the result of the inflammation. Bedsores are also very likely to occur, and the exhaustion they produce may be the cause of death. Priapism or semi- erection of the penis is a frequent accompaniment of complete division of the cord in any part above the site of the centre in which this condition is generated, but is perhaps most common when the injury is in the upper part of the cord. It is supposed to arise from the control of the centre havino- been cut off" by the division of the cord above it. (6) Division of the cauda equina low down, e.g. at the sacro-vertebral ano-le is attended by loss of sensation and motion in the parts supplied by the sacral plexus only. Conjoined with this there is paralysis of the sphincter ani and incontinence of faeces, and paralysis of the detrusor and sphincter vesicse, with retention of urine, followed by overflow. _ In cases where there is a simple puncture or a partial division of the cord, the symptoms are not so definite or clearly marked. The extent of the 'injury will only be revealed by the resultant symptoms of nerve impairment; by paralysis or loss of sensation corresponding with the part that is involved. In cases where there is division of one lateral half of the cord, there would be, according to the most recent views, paralysis of both sensation and motion on the same side as that in which the section had been made. . Treatment.—The great aim in the treatment of penetratmg wounds of the spine is to render the parts as aseptic as possible. In order to accomplish this end an aneesthetic should be given, and if necessary the external wound enlarged ; all foreign bodies and loose pieces of bone should be removed, and the parts thoroughly cleansed with a strong antiseptic solution. If the dura mater has been severed and the cord not injured, an attempt should be made to accurately adjust the edges of the wound in the membrane, so as to prevent as far as possible the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid; a drainage tube must at the same time be inserted to carry off any fluid which may escape. The patient should be laid flat, in bed, without any pillows, and preferably on his face. When the spinal cord has been injured, it is useless to make any attempt to suture it; a drainage tube should be inserted and the wound dressed. The great difficulty in dealing with penetrating wounds of the membranes is the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid, and it is a good plan to cover the wound with a bag of gauze which has been filled with boric acid powder; the fluid escapes into this, and its decomposition is prevented. Spinal meningitis and myelitis.—These two conditions may be considered together, since they usually exist at the same time, or the one passes into the other. They are most commonly septic in their origin, arising in cases of penetrating wounds or after the bursting ot a spina bifida, but they may arise where there is no wound m cases oi crushing of the cord from displaced bone or contusion without Iracture. Thev may present themselves either as an acute or chronic condition. Acute meningitis and myelitis.-In the acufe fonn he membranes become hypercemic, and eff-usion of lymph takes P!f f' may eventually become pus. The cord becomes red and softened, ana the nerve elements destroyed. a k,- move- The symptoms are deep-seated pain in the back, increased by mo^ ment; rigidity of the spine; pain and hyperaisthesia of the parts oe.u ,