548 INIURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES takes place and eventually fluctuation is perceptible, and finally the skin Pives way and discharge of curdy material takes place. The abscess does not necessarily occupy the whole cavity of the jomt, but may result from a localised caseation in the granulation tissue. After a time it contracts and forms a sinus which continues discharging. Other localised foci may form in the same way, and thus several discharging sinuses, which may burrow extensively in the tissues around the joint, may form. In many cases retained debris in one of these sinuses undergoes decomposition and a more acute septic process is set up in the remains of the granulation tissue, and this is rapidly destroyed and the whole of the cavity of the joint is converted into a foul abscess, with severe pain and great constitutional disturbance. . , • . The constitutional disturbance in the earlier stages is not great; there may be a little deterioration in the general health, and there is a slight nocturnal rise in the temperature. After caseation has taken place, these svmptoms become more pronounced, and the patient's strength deterio- rates more rapidly, especially if the starting pains at night are constant disturbing the patient's rest. When the sinuses are discharging, a general condition of exhaustion and hectic sets in, or a tuberculous condition of some internal organ, as the lungs or the membranes of the brain, may be set up, and may terminate the life of the patient. When the disease commences in the ends of the bones the symptoms are much the same in the early stage. There is the same history of a slight iniury; with pain after exercise and impairment of movement. Before the synovial membrane becomes involved, it may be possible to feel some enlargement of the end of the bone, and on percussmg the bone pain may be elicited. Later on, when the synovial membrane becomes infected, the symptoms are identical with those above described, except that after sinuses have formed, on probing them, caseous bone "'"^ Treatment.—The treatment of the early stage of tuberculous affections of the joints may be summed up in a very few words : rest, with or without extension, and attention to the general health. Rest is the mo important factor in the treatment of these affections and without it all other treatment is useless. It must be borne m mmd that this rest, to be of any use, must be absolute and complete, and must be continued for some long period of time. In other words, the joint must be put .up in some apparatus that will absolutely prevent any movement in the articulation, and if the joint is in the lower extremity means must be taken to prevent the articular surfaces being pressed upon each other b> the weight of the body. Of course this can be done by confining he patient to bed and placing a splint on the limb; but it is very desirable that he should be allowed to get out into the fresh air as much as possible, and the splints invented by Thomas of Liverpool are of esssential service where the hip or the knee is affected. These splints serve to keep the joint immobile, and if a patten is adjusted to the boot of the sound leg he patient is able to go about on crutches, with the affected limb raised rom tl e ground. When the ankle is affected, an ordinary knee-rest may Sle thi patient to get about, after the ankle has been placed in a Ipnther or plaster of Paris case, so as to immobilise it. In the upper extmi ity aull at is necessary is to fix the joint and allow the patien to go about^vith his arm in a sHng. In fixing a limb in thi^ disease it must be borne in mind that a very possible result may be ankylosis, and there-