955 CHRONIC CYSTITIS urethra. In consequence of this decomposition the urea is spht up; the urine becomes foetid and ammoniacal; and a vicious circle is set up, which renders the cystitis very intractable. Symptoms.—The symptoms are very much the same as in the acute form of the disease, but less severe. There is frequent desire to pass water; pain before and during the act of micturition; and the urine contains mucus and pus. In consequence of the inflamed condition of the mucous membrane, the bladder is very irritable and is unable to retain more than a very limited amount of water, and the calls to micturate are urgent and frequent. The pain is especially great before the act of micturition is commenced, and if there is any delay, is often very severe indeed. The amount of pus or muco-pus in the urine varies. It is usually most abundant towards the end of the act of micturition. If the urine passed is allowed to stand, it sinks to the bottom of the vessel, where it forms a tenacious stringy sediment of muco-pus, mixed with epithelium and crystals of triple phosphates and granular phosphate of lime. The urine is alkaline, has a strong, offensive odour, and if means are not taken to prevent it, becomes abominably foetid and offensive. In those cases where the urine contains blood in addition to these other abnormal constituents, ulceration is indicated. There is pain on pressure in the hypogastric region and in the perineum, and where the pain on pressure is very severe there is also a probability that there is ulceration. There is usually little or no pyrexia; but the pain, the interference with rest and sleep from the constant calls to pass water, and the absorption of septic products from the bladder, undermine the health, and may lead to death from exhaustion. In other patients the inflammation may extend up the ureters to the kidneys, and a condition of pyelo-nephritis be set up. Treatment.—The treatment of chronic cystitis consists in the first instance in endeavouring to ascertain and remove the cause : if there is a stone or foreign body in the bladder it must be removed ; if there is a stricture of the urethra it must be dilated; if the cystitis is due to retention of some portion of the urine from an enlarged prostate, a catheter must be passed and the bladder emptied at regular intervals. The local treatment must consist in daily irrigation of the bladder with some antiseptic solution. Great care must be observed in doing this : the catheter must be aseptic, so as to avoid the admission of micro- organisms from without; no force must be employed in introducing the fluid; only a small quantity must be injected, and a weak antiseptic must be used. Many different solutions are recommended; among the most useful are the following : boro-glyceride (5ij to Oj); boracic acid (gr. xx *° ij) j Condy's fluid (5j to Oj); solution of corrosive sublimate (i in 5,000); quinine (gr. ij to ^j); and iodoform in mucilage (gr. iv to §j). The mode of proceeding is as follows : A red-rubber catheter is the most suitable; this should be carefully sterilised and lubricated with carbolic oil (i in 20), and gently passed. To the end of the catheter a piece of india-rubber tubing three feet long should be attached, with a funnel connected to its other end. The funnel is then raised till the tubing is tense, and two or three ounces of the solution selected, at a temperature of 100" F., should be poured into it and allowed gradually to find its way into the bladder by gravitation. As soon as all the fluid has found an entrance, the funnel is depressed between the patient's thighs, and the fluid allowed to run out. The funnel is then elevated again, and a fresh amount of fluid introduced, and this process is continued until the solution