702 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS 1. When the foreign Vjody is lodged in one of the ventricles of the larynx, the symptoms will depend much upon its nature. When it is sharp and angular and projects from the ventricle into the cavity of the larynx, irritating the vocal cords, there is great distress and a constant sense of suffocation, accompanied by spasmodic cough and a croupy respiration. The voice is hoarse or altogether lost. When, however, the foreign body is smaller and buried in the ventricle, none of these signs are present except the alteration in the voice. The diagnosis will then be mainly based on the history of the case, that the child while it had something in its mouth was attacked with a sudden fit of suffocation, and on the absence of any inflammatory condition about the throat which could give rise to the hoarseness. In addition to this the foreign body may sometimes be felt by the finger introduced into the mouth or seen with the laryngo- scope ; and if the foreign body is a metallic one or a piece of bone, it may be demonstrated by the Rontgen rays. The treatment in these cases consists m performmg laryngotomy, and then dislodging the foreign body by some blunt instrument introduced through the wound and pushing it back into the mouth, except in those cases where the foreign body can be felt with the finger introduced into the mouth, when it can probably be extracted with forceps. In the event of the foreign body being so fixed that it cannot be dislodged, the laryngo- tomy must be converted into a thyrotomy (page 708). 2. When the foreign body has passed into the trachea, the symptoms will vary according to the size and weight of the substance. If it is small and of no great weight, it floats about in the trachea, moving upwards and downwards with respiration; if, on the other hand, it is large and heavy, it sinks to the lower part of the trachea and remauis there; or, if smaller, finds its way into one of the bronchi. When it remains loose in the trachea moving about with respiration, it must necessarily occasionally come in contact with the lining membrane of the tube, when it sets up a violent fit of coughing. During this expiratory effort the foreign body may be driven against the glottis and excite spasm, so that the patient becomes black in the face, makes violent attempts at inspiration, and presents other signs of obstruction; this is succeeded by a croupy inspira- tion and the patient is relieved for a time. The attack is succeeded by another and another. In addition to this, the foreign body may be heard, with the stethoscope, moving up and down and striking the wall ot the trachea If the foreign body is large and heavy and sinks to the lower part of the trachea, where it remains, there will be evidence of more or les obstruction to the entrance of air and sibilant rales during inspiration. The treatment in these cases consists in performing tracheotomy, an making a good free opening in the trachea. The foreign body is very otte expelled through the wound by coughing at the time of the operadon. If not the edges of the incision in the trachea should be sutured to tn skm wound, and in a large majority of cases, where the foreign body 1 movable, it will be spontaneously expelled. If it is fixed m the lower pa of the trachea, the treatment must be the same as that pursued when it 1 lodged in one of the bronchi, and will be considered immediatel)'^ \ When the foreign body has found its way into one of the broncni, 1 is usually beheved that it more frequently finds its way "^to the r gj bronchus, because it is larger and because the b'^^^^'^.^Von -derable lies somewhat to the left of the middle line; but ^h-^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ difference of opinion on this point, and the statistics of different collector