PERIPHERAL SARCOMA 487 have a greater tendency to diffuse themselves widely in the medullary tissue, and are much more malignant than the myeloid tumour. The favourite seat of the central sarcomata is the articular extremities of the long bones, and some bones are more prone to be affected than others, the lower end of the femur and the upper end of the tibia being the two places where the disease is most commonly situated. The disease most frequently occurs at about early middle life, but no age can be said to be exempt from it. The central sarcomata are more liable to undergo degenerative than developmental changes, and myxomatous, cystic, and fatty degenerations are commonly present in these tumours (fig. 174). Symptoms.—The early signs of this condition are a fixed and constant pain in the end of one of the long bones, which is worse at night and is accompanied by slight enlargement; so that the disease at its commence- ment is not to be distinguished from chronic ostitis. The steady, progres- sive, and somewhat rapid increase in the size of the bone should put the surgeon on his guard. In some cases there is conjoined with the enlarge- ment of the bone a little effusion into the neighbouring joint. But the growth, as a rule, does not implicate the joint, but is arrested by the articular cartilage. Later on as the swelling increases the bone over it becomes so thinned that it communicates a peculiar crackling sensation to the fingers, which is known under the name of egg-shell crackling. There are no signs of inflammation; the skin is white and glossy, with very often a number of large veins visible in the subcutaneous tissue. Not uncommonly, on account of the great vascu- larity of these tumours, a distinct pulsation can be felt and sometimes a bruit heard. When the tumour extends beyond the osseous limits it begins to increase much more rapidly, and may attain a very considerable size. After the bone has been thinned by the disease, sponta- neous fracture is likely to occur, and sometimes this fracture is the first indication of the disease, especially if the tumour is a rapidly growing one. The myeloid tumour of bone is very much less malignant in character than the round- or spindle-celled sarcoma, and rarely gives rise to secondary growths, and very often does not recur if entirely removed. Peripheral or periosteal sarcoma (fig. 175) grows for the most part from the surface of the bone, beneath the periosteum, though there is a rare variety, termed parosteal, which grows from the tissues outside the peri- osteum and secondarily invades the bone. The periosteal sarcomata are spindle- or round-celled, or more frequently a combination of the two. They usually commence on one side of the bone, but may subsequently surround it. They are very prone to undergo developmental changes, and to undergo ossification or chon- drification. In this way the bulk of some of these tumours may consist of bone, clothed by a thin coating of sarcomatous tissue. The new-formed Fig. 175 of the — Peripheral sarcoma tibia. (From a pre- paration in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)