281 INJURIES OF VEINS application of the violence and curl up in the vessel, while the external coat, on account of its toughness, resists the force for a longer time, and is pulled down and twisted over the curled-up inner and middle coats so as to completely occlude the orifice (fig. 77)- 3. Division of an artery with some cutting instrument may be complete or Incomplete. ■ • • i- j Incomplete division.—The term incomplete division is applied to two very different conditions, (i) The one is not of much importance, as it rarely occurs, and when it does must be regarded and treated exactly in the same way as a wound penetrating the vessel. The terni is applied to those rare cases where the external coat is divided by a knife or sharp instrument which does not completely penetrate through all the coats. As, however, the uninjured coats will in all probability eventually give way, the vessel should be ligatured above and below the injured spot. (2) The other way in which the term incomplete division of an artery is applied is where the vessel is only partially cut across and not completely divided, and these cases are of great practical importance, since the artery is unable to contract and retract in the same way that a severed artery can do, and thus the bleeding continues. The treatment in these cases consists in converting the incomplete into a complete division. To this class of cases belong the punctured wounds of arteries. These may be produced by stabs, or by pins or needles, or by sharp fragments of bone from a fracture. If the wound is produced by a fine, aseptic needle, no haemorrhage may ensue or evil effects be produced ; the elasticity of the coats at once closing the puncture. But if the wound is larger, then there is hsemorrhage ; and as these wounds are often oblique, the blood does not escape through the external wound, and a traumatic aneurism may result. When the wound in the artery is large, it will go on bleeding until some efficient obstacle to the further flow is established. This may be a natural arrest by the formation of a clot in the tissues around which presses upon and occludes the orifice of the vessel, or it may be an artificial arrest by the pad and bandage or liga- ture of the surgeon. The amount of hemorrhage will vary with the direc- tion of the wound ; a longitudinal wound will bleed less than a transverse one, because the latter gapes more. The only safe treatment of an incom- plete wound of an artery is to convert it into a complete one, and tie the vessel above and below the division. Complete division of an artery.—When an artery is com- pletely cut across, free haemorrhage is the result. If the artery is of any considerable size, the case is rapidly fatal; if the vessel is of smaller size, faintness may be induced, and coagulation take place in and around the cut end of the vessel, and the case may not prove fatal. This will be again alluded to in speaking of the natural arrest of hEemorrhage. The treatment consists in tying or twisting both ends of the divided vessel. Injuries of Veins.—Veins, Uke arteries, may be contused, lace- rated, or cut. Contusion of veins may lead to alterations in their coats and the formation of a thrombus, which will occlude the vessel, or if more severe may lead to death of the portion of the vein which has been injured. Laceration or rupture of a vein may occur in the same way as laceration of an artery ; in Rict, the two vessels may be torn at the same time by the same cause. More extensive haemorrhage usually takes place in cases of laceration of a vein than when an artery is torn, on account of the small amount of muscular and elastic tissue which the walls of a vein