91 TREATMENT OF TETANUS cleansed. It has been recommended by some to excise the tissues sur- rounding the wound, with the wound itself; or when the injury is situated on an extremity, to amputate. The results, however, which have followed this practice have not proved sufficiently satisfactory to warrant its recom- mendation. Probably the better plan is to scrub the wound thoroughly with some strong antiseptic agent, pure carbolic acid or solution of chloride of zinc (40 grs. to the ยง i), and then sluice it well with corrosive sublimate solution (i in 500). Formerly division of the trunk of the nerve leading to the injured part was advocated, under the belief that the disease was due to an ascending neuritis ; but though occasionally a case was recorded in which recovery took place after this proceeding had been resorted to, it is clear from our present knowledge of the pathology of the disease that the result was not due to the division of the nerve. With regard to the constitutional treatment of this disease, nothing could have been more unsatisfactory until the last few years. Almost every internal remedy has been successively recommended and tried, only to prove that it was per- fectly useless : antiphlogistics, alteratives, diuretics, sedatives, stimulants, antispasmodics, and tonics have all been given in varying forms, and all have proved quite futile in arresting the progress of the disease. Perhaps Calabar bean is the drug which deserves physiologically the most attention. It is, as is well known, quite antagonistic to the tetanic spasms of strychnia poisoning, and it was thought that it might act similarly in tetanus, and in the hands of some it has been said to have afforded good results. It was tried in several cases at St. George's Hospital some years ago, in the form of a hypodermic injection of i of a grain, frequently repeated, but without affording any marked benefit. Professor H. de Renzi advocated what seemed to be the most rational mode of treating the disease until the introduction of the plan of injecting antitoxine. It was based on the principle of supporting the patient's strength, avoiding all sources of external irritation, and giving sedatives. The patient was placed in a room which was almost dark, with a single attendant, the door being opened every four hours to bring in and remove necessary articles and to relieve guard. The floor was thickly carpeted and all external noises rigidly excluded. The ears were plugged with wax. The patient was fed by enemata of beef tea, eggs and brandy, and chloral hydrate and bromide of potassium given in large and frequent doses. Within the last few years a new mode of treatment has been introduced which appears to promise more encouraging results. This is by the injec- tion of 'tetanus antitoxine,' which is supposed to be an albuminous body and would appear to be in nature somewhat similar to an enzyme. It is found in the serum of immunised animals, and the serum is used as the therapeutic agent without any further treatment such as precipitation and the like. Animals which are susceptible to the disease, e.g. horses, are injected with gradually increasing doses of a pure culture of the tetanus bacillu.s, until they can resist a large dose of the most virulent poison. They are then considered to be immune. The serum taken from the blood of these animals is then injected into patients who present symptoms of tetanus. Already sufficient evidence has been brought forward to prove the efficacy of this plan of treatment, and fresh cases are constantly being reported where it has been tried with a successful issue. The gravest objection again.st it, and no doubt the reason why it does not succeed more frequently, is that the treatment must necessarily begin so long after the poison has been inoculated ; and that in acute cases death follows so