2 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES CHAPTER VI INJURIES AND DISEASES OF JOINTS INJURIES Contusions.—Joints are often contused by direct violence, such as falls, blows, or kicks. The injury is attended by an effusion of blood into the cavity of the joint if the synovial membrane has been torn, and by consecutive inflammation of the structures entering into the -formation of the articulation. Symptoms.—In some cases there is little to mark the injury beyond the history of the accident and pain, greatly increased on moving the jomt, with some little tumefaction ; but in other cases, where blood has been effused into the joint {Jicemarthrosis) or into the tissues around,_ there is rapid swelling and discolouration. Later on, the swelling may be increased by the effusion of synovia. The blood and the synovia undergo absorption after a time, and as a rule no untoward results follow. In the young, however, and especially in tuberculous children, these injuries should never be lightly treated, as they may be and often are the starting point of serious tuberculous disease of the articulation. Treatment.—The treatment consists in perfect rest and the mainte- nance of complete immobility of the joint by the application of a splint. The limb should be raised, and cold applied by means of ice, Leiter's tubes, or evaporating lotions. If the joint is so much distended with fluid as to cause severe pain and tension, it may be reUeved by aspiration. _ _ Sprains—By the term sprain we mean a violent twisting or wrenching of a joint so that its ligamentous structures are either much stretched or partially torn, though there is no displacement of the bony surfaces from each other. The amount of injur)^ which takes place varies in different cases : in some there is merely a laceration of a few liga- mentous fibres ; in others ligaments may be completely torn across, or, what is more common, scales of bone to which the ligaments are attached may be broken off, constituting sprain fractures; surrounding tendons may be displaced from their grooves; or muscles and tendons may be torn : the synovial membrane and capsule may be lacerated, and there may be a considerable extravasation of blood. Symptoms.—The immediate effect of a sprain is a very severe, sickening pain. This is followed by sweUing, due in the first instance to the blood which has been extravasated, subsequently to effusion of inflammaiory products. There is inability to bear any weight oir the injured limb, ana any attempt to move the joint is attended by increased pain. The anioum of pain and swelling will depend upon the severity of the lesion, i nt diagnosis of these cases from fracture and dislocation is not always eas>.