403 CHAPTER V INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BONE INJURIES Contusions.—A direct blow on a bone may give rise to bruising of the bone and periosteum, and this may be followed by inflammation, especially in tuberculous, syphilitic, and gouty subjects. But, as a rule, the inflammation quickly subsides and no evil results follow. It may be, however, that pathogenic organisms find their way to the injured tissues, and then serious results may be set up. In tuberculous subjects the tubercle bacillus may reach the part and tuberculous osteitis supervene; in other cases pyogenic organisms may be introduced, and acute suppuration follow. In old people a bruise is sometimes followed by atrophy of the bone, and consequent shortening. The treatment in these cases consists in keeping the part absolutely at rest and applying warm fomentations ; of which perhaps warm Goulard and opium lotion is the best. If any periosteal thickening and pain remain after the acuter symptoms have subsided, the internal administra- tion of iodide of potassium and counter-irritation locally are indicated. Bending of bones.—Bones may sometimes be bent in the very young, as the result of injury, without any structural disease. But in the adult it can hardly occur except in cases where some change has taken place in the bone which diminishes its firmness. Even in young children bending of bone is usually associated with a partial solution of continuity, constituting that form of injury which is known under the name green- stick fracture, and the two conditions can scarcely be distinguished from each other. Bending is, however, believed sometimes to occur in the skulls of young children without the rupture of any of the bony fibres. Greenstick fracture.—By the term greenstick fracture is meant a fracture in which there is only a partial separation of the fibres of a bone, the rest remaining unbroken. The same thing occurs in these cases as when a green bough or branch is snapped across the knee. The fibres on the convex surface of the bend give way, and then if any more force is applied, the bough splits longitudinally, and the fibres on the concave surface remain unbroken (fig. 125). These fractures almost always occur in children, when the bones contain a larger percentage of animal matter, and principally in the clavicle and the bones of the forearm. Treatment.—When a bone is bent or a greenstick fracture has taken place, a little force will generally remedy the deformity ; after which the limb should be kept on a splint, or some fixed apparatus should be applied to prevent its recurrence. Fractures.—A fracture may be defined as a solution of continuity of bone, produced by violence. D D 2