6ro INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS The olfactory nerve is not infrequently injured m fractures 01 uic this pgint. This is to allow of its being replaced after the operation is over. " If this is done it will retain its vitality and become adherent to surrounding parts, sometimes by bony union (fig. 227). Of recent years, ^Vagner and other surgeons have adopted a different plan in opening the skull, with the object of replacing the portion of bone removed. Instead of trephining after the horseshoe-shaped incision has been made, the soft parts are not reflected from the bone, but a gutter is cut in. it, following the line of incision in the scalp, by means of a small gouge. The piece of bone is prised up by an elevator, the base of the bony flap is broken, and adhering to the scalp, is turned up with it. The operation is a tedious one, and the force necessary to gouge through the bone must be injurious to the structures beneath, which are also in much danger of being injured by a slip of the gouge. After the crown of bone has been removed, if sufficient room has not been obtained, a second crown must be taken out, and the triangular pieces of bone between the two removed with a saw or chisel; or the opening in the bone may be enlarged by Hoffman's gouge forceps. If the dura mater requires incising, it should be opened with the point of a scalpel about a quarter of an inch internal to the hole in the bone, and then divided with blunt scissors for two- • u • fi,. thirds of the extent of the line of the Fig. 227.—Drawing showing the bony i-innao union of the crown of bone removed opening in the bone_. in trephining. (From the Museum The brain, having been exposed, of St. George's Hospital.) must be examined as to bulging, pulsation, resistance, and colour. If it bulges into the trephine hole, it is an indication of increased intra cranial tension; if it does not pulsate, it is also an indication of intra-cranial tension • if the bulging, non-pulsating brain feels on palpation softer than normal, the presence of fluid beneath would be suspected, and an exploring director should be introduced to verify this. If, on the other hand, it feels harder and firmer than natural, a new growth or chronic inflammatory induration would be indicated. Sometimes an alteration in colour may be noticed, and if it presents a yellowish tinge, this would, according to Horsley, indicate a sub-cortical tumour. After the operation is complete, the dura mater is sutured in position, and the bone replaced. Some surgeons recommend, before doing this, to cut it up into small pieces and place these on the surface of the dura mater; but there seems no object in doing so. The scalp flap is then laid down and accurately adjusted with sutures, and the wound dressed. Injury of the cerebral nerves—Before concluding the subject of injuries of the head, it is necessary to say a few words on injury to the cerebral nerves. These nerves may be injured in a variety of ways, ot which perhaps the most common is when they are torn across in fissured fractures of the base of the skull, where the fissure extends across the canal or foramen in which they are lodged. They may also be cut across by a bullet traversing the base of the skull, or they may be torn from thtu connection with the brain in cases of laceration. _