299 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES When the ligature is tied tightly the internal and middle coats are cleanly divided (fi'g. 84, a), separated to a slight extent from the external coat, and curled upwards and downwards in the lumen of the tube. An internal clot then forms both above and below the ligature, and the same changes occur as have already been described as taking place in ligature of the cut end of an artery, and the part of the vessel filled by the clot is converted into a fibro-cellular cord. The internal clot formed below the ligature is seldom so abundant or large as that formed above it. In addition to these changes which take place in the inner coats of the artery and in the interior of the vessels, changes are to be noted in the outer coat. Sometimes, if the ligature is applied very tightly, the external coat may be partially or completely divided, but at all events it is bruised and strangled, and the strangled zone is absorbed, so that the artery is eventually completely divided at the point of ligature, whether this latter is absorbed, encysted, or thrown off. If the divided ends are not perfectly sealed, this division of the vessel may prove to be a source of danger from secondary haemorrhage, and there has been a growing feeling in the minds of surgeons of late years that it is safer to apply a ligature in such a way that there shall be no injury done to the coats of the artery; that is to say, that in tying the ligature the noose should only be drawn sufficiently tight to arrest the flow of blood through the tube, and not so tight as to rupture the internal and middle coat or strangulate the external. Experience has shown that where this is done it is quite sufficient to cause permanent occlu- sion of the vessel, for an internal clot forms, proliferation of the cells of the intima takes place as a result of the com- pression of the ligature, and a connective tissue cicatrix is formed in the artery on each side of the ligature. There are two objections which may be urged against this mode of applying a ligature. The one is, that it is extremely difficult to estimate how much force should be employed to completely arrest the flow of blood through the vessel, and still not to tear or lacerate its walls ; for if insufficient force is applied the vessel will soon become pervious again, and the object for which the ligature was applied, frustrated. But with care this can be overcome. After the ligature has been made to encircle the vessel and the knot formed, the two ends should be very gendy and gradually tightened until all pulsation has ceased in the vessels below, and then no further force should be applied. The other objection is, that after this has been done and the first knot tied, the force of the current of blood against the ligature is apt to make it slip before the second knot has been tied. To obviate this, Ballance and Edmunds have recommended that a double figature should be passed. The ligature on the cardiac side is then tied in a single knot, which is held taut and acts as a ' stay,' while the other one is also tied in a single knot: the two ends on the one side are then tied to the two ends of the other to form the second knot (fig. 89). In operating in this way only the least absorbable ligatures should be used, such as silk or tendon, for if too rapid absorption of the ligature takes place the vessel will become pervious again. Fig. 89.—The stay knot of Ballance and Edmunds.