TREATMENT OF CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS 73 Mortification. It must always be attended with suppuration, and therefore contused and lacerated wounds, except those border-land cases of which I have just spoken, must unite by second intention. After the dead tissue has separated, a granulating surface is left behind, which cicatrises in the way which has already been described. ^ Complications.—There are certain complications which attend this class of wounds, (i) Secondary hemorrhage. This is due to the fact that the contusing force may have so injured a large blood-vessel, without actually causing a solution of continuity in it, that its vitality is destroyed and it dies and separates, just as the other tissues at the edges of the wound of which I have spoken. When the injured coats separate, an opening is made in the vessel, and secondary haemorrhage is the result. h) Gangrene. As we have seen, a certain amount of death of tissue takes place in all cases of contused and lacerated wounds ; but m addition to this we may have gangrene from such damage to the main vessels of the part as arrests the circulation through them, and so death of the tissues which they supply. Or, we may have an acute infective gangrene, proba- bly arising from the putrefactive changes in the extravasated blood of the bruised tissues, which rapidly spreads up the cellular planes, and speedily kills the patient, unless the part can be removed. This will be described in the sequel. (3) All forms of infective inflammations are peculiarly liable to attack contused and lacerated wounds. This is due to the fact that the tissues around the wound are more or less damaged and their vitality lowered, so that if any infective organism effects an entrance, it finds a suitable soil in which to grow and multiply ; or in whicn, if we accept the doctrine of phagocytosis, the defending organisms are not in a condition to repel the invaders, which effect a lodgment in the tissues, where they grow and multiply and set up some form of infective disease, according to the nature of the organism. Thus erysipelas is more likely to attack a contused and lacerated wound, than a clean, incised wound. .... UP Treatment.—Perhaps there is no class of cases in which more benefit may be obtained by antiseptic treatment than in the contused and lacerated wound. We have seen that in these cases certain tissues are killed and have to separate by sloughing ; but if antiseptic measures are thoroughly carried out, the sloughing process is reduced to a minimum and the dead tissues separate with the smallest amount of inflammation and suppura- tion ; whereas if they are neglected the inflammation is great, the suppuration profuse, and the febrile disturbance considerable. Great patience and labour must therefore be expended in thoroughly steriHsing the wound, and this after all is not a very difficult matter, if it is recent. All foreign bodies which may be impacted or ground into the tissues must be carefully removed, and the part thoroughly scrubbed with a strong antiseptic solution : i in 1,000 perchloride of mercury solution, or i in 20 carbolic acid solution. If the external wound is small, so that all parts of the cavity cannot be reached, it must be enlarged, so that the whole injured surface can be brought under the manipulation of the .surgeon. As a rule, it is not wise to remove any portion of skin, however contused and torn it may be, as it is impos- .sible always to be sure whether the vitality has been entirely crushed out of it, and it is astonishing sometimes how tissues, which are apparently destroyed, will recover themselves. As a general rule it is not necessary nor advisable to adapt the edges of the wound with sutures, for as the part must heal by granulation, no object