363 VARIETIES OF THROMBI IN VEINS was formerly supposed that every case of*thrombosis was the direct outcome of inflammation. This, however, is now known not to be so, for though inflanmiation of the coats of a vein, when it affects the intima, ahvays causes thrombosis, nevertheless thrombosis may occur quite independently of any inflammation, and therefore, though the two conditions are intimately associated, they must still be regarded as two distinct diseases and must be considered separately. Thrombosis may be defined as the coagulation of the blood in the vessels during life. It may occur in the arteries or in the veins ; but inasmuch as it is more common in the veins and leads to more important results, it is usually considered with diseases of these structures. In the arteries it occurs most frequently as a reparative process after injury, as we have already seen. Causes of venous thrombosis—The causes of thrombosis are'numerous, and may be classified under three different heads : (i) Alterations in the physiological integrity of the wall of the vessel; (2) Alterations in the physiological integrity of the blood ; (3) Partial or complete arrest of the blood stream. 1. Integrity of the wall of the vessel.—We have already pointed out (page 9) that when the wall of a blood-vessel is in a state of physiological mtegrity, there is no tendency on the part of the leucocytes to adhere to it; but that \vhen the intima is damaged by disease or injury, then they tend to adhere, and, losing their vitality, disintegrate, and, setting free the fibrin ferment which they contain, cause the blood in the vessel to coagulate. Any alteration or change in the wall of a vein, especially any change which is attended by a diminution in its vitality, excites coagulation, such as injury, inflammation, or degeneration of the coats. 2. Integrity of the blood.—The changes in the constitution of the blood which lead to thrombosis are not very well understood. It has been proved experimentally that the introduction of ' fibrin ferment' into the blood in considerable quantities will cause wide-spread coagulation, and It is believed that thrombosis may be due to the setting free of fibrin ferment by the disintegration of the leucocytes. In certain diseases, as pytemia and septicemia, in which it is known that disintegration of the leucocytes goes on to a considerable extent, thrombosis is of common occurrence, and it is thought that this may be due to coagulation induced by the free fibrin ferment circulating in the blood stream. Again, an alteration in the constitution of the blood is believed by some to be caused by an excess of excrementitious matter from defective elimination, as in gout. There is no doubt that gout is a frequent cause of thrombosis and It may be due to this alteration in the blood, but would appear to be due rather to an alteration in the walls of the vessel from a sjoutv phlebitis. * 3. Partial or complete arrest of the circulation may cause throm- bosis, i his retardation may arise from several difi-erent causes: a weak heart, either the result of old age or exhaustion after fever or loss of blood pressure of a tumour &c. on the vein, diminished vis a tergo after ligature of an artery, or division of a vein in surgical operations or injuries. Varieties of thrombi.-A thrombus varies in appearance according to the rapidity with which it is formed. AVhen a thrombus forms very rapidly as in cases where a vein has been divided across and the circulation through It IS completely obstructed, the clot is black or dark red in colour IS uniform m structure and lies loose in the vessel or is only slightly