7i8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Into the wound, the forefinger of the left hand being introduced into the mouth and pressure made upon the swelling. This acts as a guide, and the director is to be pushed onwards until pus appears in the groove. A pair of sinus forceps are now inserted along the director, and the opening .in the abscess cavity dilated. As much of the caseous material as possible should be scraped away with a blunt spoon, and the cavity irrigated and drained. The whole proceeding must be conducted antiseptically, and some fixation apparatus applied to the cervical spine. Retro-pharyngeal gumma.— Gummatous tumours sometimes form in the connective tissue at the back of the pharynx, and may be mistaken for retro- pharyngeal abscesses, but the absentee of any signs of cervical caries ought to be sufficient to enable the surgeon to distin- guish these cases. Tumours of the pharynx.— Some forms of innocent tumours are occa- sionally met with in the pharynx, as fibro- mata and papillomata. Of these the latter are the more common, and may generally be removed by snipping them off with blunt-pointed curved scissors, or by means of the galvano-cautery. Naso-pharyngeal polypi have already been described (page 632). Malignant tumours are more common, and may be either carcinomatous or sarcomatous. The squamous epithelioma is the form which is most frequently met with, and may be either primary or secondary to disease of adjacent parts, the tonsil or the tongue. It is attended vdth. intense pain on swallowing, with a constant hawking up of foul, bloody dis- charge, rapid emaciation and speedy implication of the glands in the neck. Death generally occurs from htemorrhage, from impHcation of some large vessel, or from exhaustion from starvation induced by inability to swallow. Sarcoma is not nearly so common, nor is it attended with the same amount of pain in swallowing. The condition is one rather of diffi- culty in swallowing, than of pain excited by the act. Quite recently attempts have been made to deal with these growths by operation, and certainly while the disease is confined to the phar)'ngeal wall the operation is perfectly justifiable, though hitherto it has not been attended with a large measure of success. The operation is best performed by means of a free incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The external carotid artery is first ligatured, and then the pharynx opened and the growth excised: any enlarged glands must be removed through the same incision. Formerly it was proposed to remove tumours of the pharynx by /lyoid pharyngotomy. This consisted in making a transverse incision immediately below the hyoid bone, cutting through the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and detaching the epiglottis from the back of the tongue. Fig. 274.—Retro-pharyngeal ab- scess, opening into the pharynx. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)