699 FRACTURE OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX should be bent forwards and fixed in this position by appropriate ban- daging. The patient should be placed in a warm room, the air of which is moistened by steam, and the strength maintained by fluid nourishment. If the patient is unable or unwilling to swallow, he can best be fed by a small tube passed through the nose into the stomach. It need scarcely be added that he must be strictly watched, since these patients are very apt to make a further attempt on their life. Contusions of the larynx are usually produced in attempts at strangulation. They may produce sudden death from spasm of the glottis or shock, but more commonly cause temporary insensibility, followed by great pain and swelling about the seat of injury, with partial or complete loss of voice, but often without difficulty in breathing. In some cases where blood has been extravasated into the submucous tissue there is urgent dyspiioea, accompanied, it may be, by cough and bloody expectoration. The treatment consists in applying warm anodyne fomentations, and performing intubation or tracheotomy if the dyspncea is urgent. Fracture of the hyoid bone is of rare occurrence. It is usually caused by direct violence, as in hanging ; forcible grasping of the throat in garrotting, or by a blow ; but cases are also recorded wheie it has arisen from muscular action. The fracture generally occurs about the junction of the greater cornu with the body of the bone. There is great pain mcreased by any attempt to swallow or speak, or upon turning the head. Upon examination some irregularity may be detected, and in rare instances crepitus may be felt, though this is not usual, as there is great displacement of the fragment. In some instances the broken end may per- forate the mucous membrane, when there is constant tickling cough accom- panied by great pain and bloody expectoration, and sometimes dyspncea ireatment.—The displaced fragment must be restored to its natural position by introducing one finger to the back of the mouth and mani- pulating it into place. A plaster of Paris collar, made of Bavarian flannel soaked in a solution of the plaster, should be adapted to the neck and over the back of the shoulders so as to support the head in the natural upright position. The patient should be kept abso- lutely quiet, and, if there is pain or difficulty in swallowing, should be fed for a few days with a nasal tube. If dyspnoea supervene, laryngo- tomy may be necessary. Fracture of the cartilages of the larynx.—This injury is more common than fracture of the hyoid bone. One or more than one cartilage may be broken by the same act of violence, but the thyroid in the great majority of cases is either broken alone, or Ks fractured in conjunction with some other ot the cartilages, more especially the cricoid (hg. 267). The injury is produced by direct vio ence, blows or falls on the part, or by for- cible grasping by the hand of an adversary, or by strangulation. There is great swelhng and bruising of the front of the neck, with pain, especially on swallowing or speakmg, and more or less difficulty in breathing On examination some alteration in the contour of the cartilages may be Fig. 267.—Extensive fracture of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. From the body of a woman who was stran- gled. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)