SOLID TUMOURS 231 who told me that his mother, his aunt, and two of his sisters suffered from a similar condition. y. Ovarian dermoids.—The ovarian dermoids differ in several respects from the other classes of dermoids. Unlike the rest, they are not con- genital, at all events no evidence has yet been brought forward to prove that they are so, and no instances have been recorded in which they have been found during the first year of life. They originate from the epithe- lium lining the ovarian follicles, and often attain a very large size, and in this also they differ from the other forms. They are also peculiar in the greater variety and greater development of the dermal structures which they contain: bone,"" cartilage, teeth, large quantities of hair of unusual length, gland structure, horn and nails are not uncommonly found in these cysts. Dermoids are sometimes found in the peritoneal cavity, connected to the mesentery and omentum. They are believed to be ovarian dermoids, which have become detached from the ovary. c: Cysts due to defects in the lymphatics.—These cysts, which are congenital, though not always noticed at birth, are named cystic ' hygromata. They are found most frequently in the neck, but may occur in any situation, being contained generally in the subcutaneous tissue, but occasionally found in the cellular tissue in the region of the kidney. They consist of a number of thin-walled .cysts, sometimes communicating with each other, at others forming completely closed sacs, held together by areolar tissue, in which there is often a certain amount of fat. The walls of the cysts are composed of areolar tissue lined by a single layer of endothelial cells. The contents are usually clear and serous, or it may be blood-stained, and occasionally solid masses of lymph are found lying loose in the cysts. They are supposed to be caused by dilatation of the lymphatic spaces. They form lobulated tumours, which distend the skin and are some- times translucent, especially when they occur in the neck, where they sometimes attain a large size, constituting what is called hydrocele of the neck. They are liable to be mistaken for subcutaneous nfevi, but they are not diminished by compression. Occasionally they may be cured by tapping, with or without the injection of tincture of iodine ; but their removal, when it can be undertaken without undue risk, is the plan of treatment to be advised (fig. 49). SOLID TUMOURS Solid tumours for purposes of classification and description may be conveniently divided into four groups, according to their anatomical structure: 1. A group in which are classed together all those tumours which are composed of one of the different forms of fully developed connective tissue. 2. Those tumours which are composed of one of the more complex tissues of the body, such as muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, or gland tissue. 3. Tumours composed of embryonic connective tissue ; and 4. Tumours composed of cells of an epithelial type in a fibrous stroma.