920 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Symptoms—The symptoms of the onset of cancer of the rectum are very insidious. There is a sense of uneasiness about the rectum and a feeling of want of relief after the bowels have acted, as if they had not been completely emptied. Then there is a tendency to diarrhc^a, espe- cially in the morning, with perhaps the passage of mucus and it may be a little blood. Pain in the back is another early symptom. As the disease advances and some obstruction takes place there is constipation, alternating with mucous diarrhoea; the passage of the ffeces is partially arrested at the seat of the disease, and the retained motion decomposes and sets up a catarrhal proctitis, attended by the secretion of mucus, which is constantly being passed. After a time, in some cases the pain becomes very severe, in others it is slight. The degree of pain appears to depend in a measure upon the situation of the growth, being most severe in those cases where it is low down and the anus involved. It is also very severe in those cases where the growth extends backwards and involves the sacral plexus, and then often assumes the character of an intense sciatica. The amount of hemorrhage vanes; in the tuberous form it is sometimes considerable, while in the annular form it is usually slight. The blood is mixed with mucus and pus and is very ottensive, constituting a foul, bloody discharge. . . , . As the disease progresses, in the majority of cases, symptoms of obstruction come on ; these may be very gradual, the descending colon becoming gradually distended and filled with faecal matter, until at last complete obstruction takes place; but in some cases the obstruction may be niore acute, owing to some impaction of a hardened mass of faeces, or some undigested portion of food in the narrowed portion of the gut. Uoon digital examination, if the disease can be reached by the hnger, different conditions may be felt. In some cases a large irregular mass, soft and easily to be broken down by the finger, may be noted growing from one portion of the wall of the rectum, generally the posterior. This may sometimes be so large as to completely fill the ^^Je and obstru^^^^^^^^^^ passage of the faeces along it. It will be found to be extensively ulcerated, and to present to the finger large crater-hke recesses or ca^.tles, into which the finger can be introduced, and which are lined by broken- down material. In other cases a distinct hard and sometimes ulcerated Sng of indurated tissue may be felt encircling the gut, and so contractmg it that the point of the finger cannot be introduced through t Beueen these two extreme conditions almost any intervening modification ma> be ^"""as the disease progresses, the patient emaciates; the countenance becomes anxious ; the spirits depressed; the l^^'^f^f^^^ unable to sleep, and dreads the suffering entailed by the action of the bowels, and frequently dies of exhaustion, worn out by his sufferings In other cases del may be induced by complete obstruction taking p ace, o in some cases perforation of the cancerous mass may occui into the I The paUiative treatment may consist simply in careful dieting, keep ing the stricture dilated as much as possible, and relieving pain ;^ or m he operation of colotomy. Much can be done to relieve a pa lei t suHer ng from cancer of the rectum by careful dieting and '^^dicine and b^ th. daily introduction of a bougie. The treatment <'2"tl t o T^^^^^^ olivary bougie through the stricture daily, and allowing it to lemain som