TERMINATION AND RESULTS 15 the granulation tissue were the leucocytes which had migrated from the vessels and under-one proliferation. Now, however, the views of those who have investigated the subject appear to have returned to the original idea that the cells of the granulation tissue are derived from the cells of the connective tissue of the part or their derivatives. It is necessary, therefore, to inquire into the fate of the white corpuscles after they have performed their office of scavengering the tissues and perhaps destroyed any invading microbes which may exist. The view that is pretty generally adopted that they are destroyed bv other phagocytes, derived from the ce s of the original tissues of the part. These latter phagocytes are the cells to which allusion has just been made as the cells derived from the connec- tive-tissue corpuscles or their derivatives by proliferation. They are con- siderably larger than the leucocytes, and are therefore sometimes termed macro-phagocvtes, while the leucocytes are termed micro-phagocytes. Their office appears to be twofold : they act as scavengers and destroy and digest the leucocytes, which having performed their allotted duty must be regarded as foreign bodies ; no doubt also they remove any fragments of tissue which have not been got rid of by the leucocytes ; secondly, they form granulation tissue, which, as we shall see hereafter, is the element of repair in those cases of inflammation where there has been actual destruc- tion of tissue. . r T ^ 1 -l- 1 Terminations and Results of Inflammation.—So far I have described the earlier stages of inflammation as they occur probably in every instance, and we now have to consider the ways in which this inflammation may terminate and the results to which it may give rise, and these will be seen to widely diff"er ; the difference depending in a great measure upon the. cause which gave rise to the process, and consequently to its intensity. If the cause is a slight one, of a very transient nature, resolution occurs —that is to say, the part returns to its normal condition. Let us take for example a very simple and momentary injury—the appUcation of a crystal of common salt to the web of a frog's foot under the microscope. We note the various phenomena of inflammation-the dilatation of the blood-vessels, preceded, it maybe, by a momentary contraction, and the acceleration of the bloodstream; then we note the slowing down of the current, the white corpuscles separat- ing themselves from the axial current and clinging to the walls of the vessels ; and, finally, we may note the leucocytes passing through the walls_ of the vessels into the peri-vascular spaces. But now, the cause which excited the inflammation having been trivial and momentary, the process comes to a standstill, and a series of changes take place which result in the restoration of the part to its primitive condition. The corpuscles which have emigrated disappear—probably most of them re-enter the lymphatics and wander away ; but it may be that others undergo a degenerative process and are absorbed by the lymphatics as debris. The exuded fluids become reabsorbed, passing into either the blood-vessels or, more usually, into the lymphatic vessels. The corpuscles within the vessels, which have become stationary, now begin to move again. At first they oscillate, then they break away from the wall of the vessel and from each other ; they seem to lose their tendency to stick together, and flow along in the blood stream, which now begins to move onwards again, if complete stasis has taken place, and thus the circulation is restored to its normal condition. But supposing the irritant which has caused the inflammation has been a little more severe than this, so that it has actually damaged the tissues and probably killed minute portions, then the emigration of leucocytes which takes place is much greater, and these