DISPLACEMENT OF A SEMILUNAR CARTILAGE 521 Treatment.—In order to reduce these dislocations, the thigh should be flexed on the pelvis, and extension made. Whilst this is being maintained, the surgeon must endeavour by manipulation and pressure to push the bones back into their normal position. In consequence of the fact that the knee joint owes its integrity mainly to its ligaments, and these have been ruptured, passive motion must not be commenced too early, probably not till the end of the second week, and must even then be conducted with the greatest care and gentleness. Massage may, however, be applied with advantage from the first. It is desirable for the patient for some considerable time to wear a knee-cap, as a recurrence of the dislocation is likely to occur unless some artificial means of support is employed. Displacement of a semilunar cartilage.—This by no means uncommon accident was first described by Hey under the name of intertial derangement of the knee joint. It consists in displace- ment of the whole or a part of one of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, the ligaments by which it is held in position being torn by violence, or the cartilage itself split. Sometimes a portion of one of the cartilages may be separated from all its connections and remain as a loose body in the joint. The varieties of the displacement are several : the cartilage may be separated from the head of the tibia by tearing of the coronary ligament, and may then be displaced either outwards or inwards; or the cartilage may be torn away from its anterior attachment, and be folded backwards into the intercondyloid notch. As a matter of clinical experience, the internal cartilage is much more frequently displaced than the external, though Godlee has brought forward several good anatomical reasons for supposing that the external one would be the more likely to be displaced. Causes.—'The cause of this accident is some sudden wrench or twist in the leg whilst it is in a position of flexion. Thus it may occur in swinging the body in making a stroke at golf, or in turning quickly in games of tennis or cricket, or in twisting the body from slipping off the kerb. It would appear that the position of flexion or semiflexion is necessary for the occurrence of this injury. During extension the cartilages are flattened out and squeezed between the two bones, and are immovably fixed; but during flexion the ligaments are somewhat relaxed, and there- fore the cartilages are to a certain extent movable on the upper surface of the tibia. Again, during extension of the knee, no rotation of the tibia is possible, and the semilunar cartilages remain fixed on the tibia; but when the knee is flexed a certain amount of rotation is possible. Symptoms.—The signs of this injury are a sudden severe and sickening pain in the knee, following some strain or muscular effort. The limb immediately becomes fixed in a position of flexion or semi-flexion, and the patient is unable to extend it. A certain amount of passive motion may be possible, but the patient is unable to voluntarily move his joint. If the cartilage has been displaced outwards, a smooth rounded projection will be felt on the inner or outer side of the joint, according as to whether the internal or external cartilage has been displaced. But if the cartilage has been dislocated inwards, no projection will be felt; but there may be a depression between the condyle of the femur and the upper end of the tibia, in the position from which the cartilage has been displaced. The injury is speedily followed by an attack of sub-acute synovitis, with effusion into the joint. Treatment.—The plan of treatment recommended by Hey is usually successful in restoring the cartilage to its natural position. It is generally