243 SARCOMA shapes and sizes, but all belonging to the connective tissue type, form the greater part of the growth. They have been defined by Billroth as tumours ' consisting of tissue which belongs to the developmental series of connective tissues, and which do not, as a rule, go on to the formation of a finished type of tissue, but tends rather to peculiar degenerations of the developmental forms.' In other words, it may be said that these tumours consist of embryonic or immature connective tissue, which retains the structure of embryonic tissue throughout its life history ; thus being unlike normal embryonic tissue, that in process of development becomes converted into fibrous tissue, cartilage, bone, &c. It is true that in parts, and sometimes in the major part of the growth, this tissue may undergo develop- mental processes, and become converted into structures of a higher grade, but this is not true of the tvhole growth; there are always some portions at the growing part of the tumour which retain their embryonic character throughout. The tumours of this group are all classed under the name Sarcomata, which has thus come to have a very definite meaning instead of being applied, as it formerly was, to any soft, fleshy growth. The sarcomata consist of cells, embedded in an intercellular substance. The cells are masses of protoplasm, without any distinct wall, and contain one or more nuclei. They vary very much in shape and size, and it is for the most part upon the shape of the cells that division of the sarcomata into sub-groups is based. The cells may be round and small, no larger than leucocytes, or they may be three or four times this size ; or they may be fusiform or spindle-shaped, and vary greatly in size in different tumours ; so that growths composed of these spindle-shaped cells are often further divided into small and large spindle-celled sarcomata; finally, the cells may be large plaques, which are granular, flattened, and contain from ten to forty or more nuclei. They have been likened to the cells which occur in the marrow of fcetal bones, and are therefore termed myeloid cells. The intercellular substance varies also : it may be fibrous or homogeneous, that is to say, there may be no definite stroma; it may be abundant or scanty. But wherever it can be recognised it always possesses this impor- tant characteristic, that it penetrates between the individual cells, so that it is uniformly distributed throughout the tumour. This constitutes an im- portant anatomical distinction between the sarcomata and the carcinomata, for in these latter tumours the cells are arranged in definite alveoli, with no stroma whatever between the individual cells. There is one division of the sarcomata, in which this distinction is not quite so clear, because the cells in this group are contained in separate alveoli, and this has earned for them the name of alveolar sarcomata; but even in these tumours, fine fibrous filaments may be observed coursing between the individual cells, in addition to the fibrous tissue forming the walls of the alveoli, and this is never the case in carcinomata. The arrangement of the vessels in these two classes of tumours is different, and affords another characteristic difference. In the sarco- mata, which are very vascular, the vessels are often merely intercellular channels, that is to say, passages the walls of which are formed by the cells of the_ growth, or, if true vessels are present, their coats are exceedingly thin and liable to be ruptured. Hence, extravasations of blood are of very common occurrence in sarcomatous tumours. In the carcinomata, on the other hand, the vessels ramify in the stroma of the tumour, and never course between the cells. No lymphatics have ever been found in the sarcomatous tumours, and dissemination does not take place, as a rule, by R 2