TREATMENT OF WHITLOW i6i of these two digits may spread widely up the forearm, whereas with the other three digits the inflammation is usually confined to the hand. The symptoms usually commence in these cases much in the same way as in paronychia cellulosa, with throb- bing pain, swelling, and redness of the terminal phalanx, but the inflammation soon extends and the whole finger be- comes involved. Then the palm becomes implicated; it becomes red and swollen, doughy and distended with pus, and if the thumb or little finger is the one in- volved, the inflammation may creep up- wards under the annular ligament into the forearm, and this may sometimes be- come involved almost to the elbow. The inflammation is not, however, confined to the palm of the hand, for even in those fingers where the sheaths of the tendons terminate at about the level of the meta- carpo-phalangeal joints, an extension may take place by the pus bursting through the caecal ends of the sheath and, infil- trating the tissues of the hand, extend beneath the annular ligament into the forearm. The back of the hand becomes red, swollen, and puffy, and if radical treatment is not adopted the whole of the lower part of the extremity becomes involved in a suppurative inflammation; matter burrows in every direction, points and bursts; joints become involved, and suppurative arthritis is set up and the articulations destroyed; tendons slough and are thrown off, and the limb becomes a useless member, for which amputation is the only resource. The pain and constitutional disturbance which attend this con- dition are very severe, and if early treatment is neglected the patient develops a low, irritative form of fever, which is a further inducement to the surgeon to recommend amputation as the only means of saving the patient's life. Treatment—All this serious condition of things can be averted in most cases by an early and free incision. If as soon as the disease is recog- nised no temporising is allowed, but a free incision into the sheath of the tendon is made, and a ready exit for the evacuation of the products of the inflammation is aff"orded, these untoward results in the vast majority of cases will not occur. A little care must be exercised in making these incisions. In the finger the incisions should be made in the middle line, opposite the middle of each phalanx and not over the inter-phalangeal joints, for fear of accidentally opening them. In the palm they should be made over the metacarpal bones in their distal half, so as to avoid wounding the palmar arch, or the digital vessels and nerves which lie in the interdigital spaces. In the later stages of the disease, if the case has not been seen till then, incisions must be made wherever there is an inflamed boggy swelling; the only chance of obtaining a useful arm is by free incision, thorough drainage, and careful antiseptic treatment. In the after treatment of these cases, the application of warmth and moisture in the Fig. 36.—Diagram showing the ar- rangement of the sheaths of the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers and thumb.