375 CONGENITAL DEFECTS OF LYMPHATICS it to slough off. Many different methods were in vogue for using the ligature, but it is scarcely necessary to allude to them, as this plan of treating nsevi is in the present day scarcely ever resorted to. It leaves a large scar, which often causes deformity from its contraction ; it is attended with suppura- tion, with all its attendant risks; and it frequently necessitates the sacrifice of healthy tissues. Injection of coagulants, such as perchloride of iron, pure carbolic acid, and solution of tannin, have been recom- mended, but are dangerous on account of the risk of embolism. One method which I have adopted in one or two instances when the treatment by electrolysis or excision seemed to be contra-indicated, may be mentioned. It consisted, in encircling the nfevus, or a part of the njevus, when it was of very large size, with a subcutaneous ligature, applied sufficiently tightly to constrict the vessels, but not to completely strangulate the tumour, and then passing threads soaked in perchloride of iron through the growth in every direction. By this means I succeeded in curing a ntevus which involved the whole of one side of the face, and was growing very rapidly, without any very serious amount of deformity. This method should be, however, reserved for very exceptional cases. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF LYMPHATICS "Wounds.—Being widely distributed, lymphatic vessels must, of course, be frequently injured, but as a rule no serious results follow. Their walls collapse from pressure of surrounding tissues, and the valves prevent any backward flow until the ends are firmly sealed by the lymph which coagulates on their surface. Occasionally this does not take place, and lymphatic fistulee may be formed, producing a condition which is known under the name of lytnphorrhosa—a discharge of a thin, colourless fluid, which speedily coagulates into a gelatinous film. LymphorrhcBa may also be caused by obstruction taking place in the lymphatic vessels or glands from inflammatory changes, and the sub- sequent discharge of the lymph from the engorged vessels, which are opened up by ulceration. The discharge issues from many points, is intermittent in character, being mcreased by exercise and diminished by rest and elevation of the limb. It may amount to several ounces in the twenty-four hours. Injury to the thoracic duct.—Cases have been recorded in which the thoracic duct or receptaculum chyli has been injured in gun- shot wounds and bayonet thrusts ; and also cases in which it has given way from obstruction to the passage of its contents by the pressure of a tumour, or by constriction from inflammatory changes, or from its orifice, where it opens into the subclavian vein, becoming blocked by a fibrinous vegetation. In these cases it is the receptaculum chyli which usually bursts. Sir Astley Cooper tied the thoracic duct in a considerable number of dogs, and in every case but one the receptaculum chyli gave way. The diagnosis in these cases is impossible, except where there is an external wound and a milky fluid escapes. Deatli may take place rapidly from peritonitis, or the patient may live some weeks, finally succumbing to marasmus. Congenital defects of the lymphatics.—Certain congenital defects of the lymphatics occasionally give rise to the formation of a variety of cystic tumour, which has already been described (see page 231) under the name of cystic hygroma. Another form of congenital defect of the