TALIPES CALCANEUS I 121 piece of the tarsus, consisting of part of the os calcis and part of the cuboid, has now been separated. This is to be seized with Hon-forceps, and with sUght touches of the knife separated from the soft parts in the sole of the foot and removed. The two cut surfaces of bone are to be brought into apposition. If sufficient bone has not been removed to allow of the foot coming straight, more must be removed with the chisel from the cuboid. When the foot can be got into its normal position, any tendons which have been accidentally divided must be joined again with catgut suture, and the flaps of skin brought together with interrupted sutures, the wound dressed with gauze and put up in a plaster of Paris casing. As regards the choice between the two operations, I prefer the ex- cision of the astragalus in cases where this bone is very prominent and deformed. Tarsectomy leaves the foot much shortened and flattened, and in many cases rigid and stiff, whereas the deformity after excision of the astragalus is very slight. But in some cases it will be found that after excision the position of the foot cannot be quite rectified. Under these circumstances the surgeon may succeed in getting the foot into good position by dividing the external malleolus. Talipes calcaneus (fig. 420).—This is a very rare form of club foot, which may be either congenital and associated with spina bifida or acquired. When ac- quired, it is generally due to infantile para- lysis of the muscles of the calf, giving rise to unbalanced action of the extensor muscles. In a minor degree it may also arise after division of the tendo Achillis, from stretching of the bond of union, when care has not been taken to prevent undue tension on the tendon before the union is firm. In this form of talipes the toes are drawn up- wards, and the patient walks on his heel, over which thickened skin and subcutaneous tis- sue, and sometimes a bursa, form, giving an appearance of undue elongation of the heel. The structures in the sole of the foot become contracted and produce an exaggeration of the normal arch, and on the dorsum of the foot the extensor tendons can be felt tense and tightly stretched. The toes are usually flexed, on account of the long flexor tendon being stretched as it passes round the internal malleolus. In the congenital form talipes calcaneus is usually associated with a certain amount of valgus, constituting the condition known as calcaneo-valgus. In these cases the foot merely retains the position which it assumes during the later period of intra-uterine life, and, as a rule, at 4 c Fig. 420.—Talipes calcaneus.