I078 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Paget as a form of eczema, but which is now believed to be due to the presence of psorosperms. Ordinary eczema of the nipple usually arises from the same cause as cracked nipples, and is closely associated with it. From want of cleanli- ness, and attention to the part after suckling, the nip])le becomes swollen and raw looking ; it discharges, and the discharge dries and forms yellow crusts, and burning pain and itching is complained of. The condition may spread to the surrounding skin, and it then [)resents all the characters of eczema. The treatment is the same as that of eczema in other parts, but it is essential that the child should be weaned. Paget's disease.—This disease of the nipple is not a true eczema, but a destructive dermatitis of the papillary layer of the skin ; scrapings from and sections of the skin show under the microscope large vacuolated cells, which are believed by some to be psorosperms, but the question cannot be regarded as definitely settled. The disease terminates in a peculiar form of carcinoma of the surrounding skin, and frequently, but not invariably, carcinoma of the breast follows. It presents an excoriated, bright red surface, which discharges a viscid, yellowish fluid, and spreads until the whole of the areola is involved. Burning pain is complained of in the part. Later on ulceration may occur, and the whole of the nipple may be destroyed. If the mamma becomes secondarily affected, the form of cancer is usually of the squamous carcinoma type, the disease originating from the epithelium of the larger ducts. It is important to diagnose between ordinary eczema of the nipple and Paget's disease, as this latter is not amenable to treatment by local measures such as are successful in the former; and it may be mentioned as an aid to diagnosis that the patches in Paget's disease are sharply defined at their margins, and do not present a gradual shading off as is the case in eczema. The result of treatment is, however, the best indication of the nature of the disease. As regards treatment, no local measures are of any avail, and when the diagnosis is established with certainty, and all palliative measures have failed, the wiser course would appear to be to remove the breast, especially if the tissues at the base of the nipple are beginning to be infiltrated. Abscess of the nipple sometimes occurs in nursing women, in association with a cracked nipple, or in unmarried women from a suppurat- ing sebaceous follicle. It is usually circumscribed, and shows little tendency to spread. In the early stages it must be treated with glycerine and belladonna, with warm fomentations, and, when matter has formed, by a small incision, which should be made in the long axis of the nipple. Chancre of the nipple is usually seen in a wet nurse—that is, a non-syphilitic woman—from nursing a syphilitic infant. Colles's law that a mother cannot be infected by her syphilitic offspring, even though she has apparently no syphilitic taint, prevents a mother being afiected with chancre from her child when nursing it. A chancre on the nipple does not always present the characteristics of a Hunterian sore. It generally appears as a small circular ulcer, without much induration around, and without any great amount of tenderness. Any sore on the nipple of a woman who is nursing a child other than her own should excite suspicion, and the child and its parents should be carefully examined for any syphilitic lesions. Tumours of the nipple.—The nipple is occasionally the seat of pendulous papillomatous growths, or of sebaceous cysts; more frequently of epithelioma or rodent ulcer. They require no special description.