991 GONORRHCEA times assuming the form of a bow, with the convexity upwards. The prepuce in these cases has the same hood-like form as in hypospadias of the glans. Gradations may sometimes occur between these two forms, the urethra opening at different situations on the under surface of the urethra. Great discomfort is induced during micturition from this malformation, the patient being unable to project the stream away from his body. Connection is also_ impossible, and the patient impotent. It may be remedied by a series of operations, but these should not be attempted until the patient has reached the age of puberty, as the parts are previously too small for the necessary proceedings. The penis must first be freed by division of the fibrous bands on the under surface. The main part of the urethra is then formed by two flaps taken from the skin on either side of the median furrow. On the one side, say the right, a longitudinal incision is made from the glans penis to the scrotum, on the under surface of the penis, about three-quarters of an inch from the median furrow; at either end of this a transverse incision is made inwards nearly to the median furrow, and the flap thus formed dissected up until it reaches the furrow. On the left side a similar longitudinal incision is made, but close to the furrow, and transverse incisions outwards from either extremity. This flap is now dissected outwards to the extent of about three-quarters of an inch. The right flap is now folded over and the left flap pulled inwards over it, so that the two rawed surfaces of the flaps are in apposition, and one skin surface, that of the right flap, forms the floor of the urethra. The flaps are fixed in this position by a number of fine horsehair sutures. When union takes place, the greater part of the urethra will have been formed. A transverse incision is then made on the dorsum of the hooded prepuce, closp to its junction with the glans, sufficiently large to allow of the glans penis being passed through. The prepuce is brought down beneath the glans, and the posterior border—which was originally the free border—of the prepuce is rawed and sutured to the anterior extremity of the new urethra, i.e. the bridge of skin which has been formed by the two flaps. The final operation consists in rawang the skin of the scrotum around the orifice of the urethra and the posterior margin of the bridge of skin, and suturing the two together, so as to complete the urethra behind. 3. Perineal hypospadias. — In these cases the urethra is deficient as far back as the perineum, and the scrotum is cleft. The penis is small and bound down between the two halves of the scrotum, so as to resemble an hypertrophied clitoris. The testicles are often retained. The condition of parts, therefore, very much resembles the external organs of generation of the female, and male children the victims of this complete form of hypospadias have been brought up as girls. The halves of the scrotum deficient of testicles resemble the labia, the cleft between them looks like the orifice of the vagina, and the diminutive penis is taken for an enlarged clitoris. There is no remedy for this condition. Urethritis is generally due to gonorrhoea, but may arise from many other causes : (a) from contagion of leucorrhoea; (b) from injury; (c) from gout; {d) from tuberculosis ; and, though less frequently, from {e) excessive beer drinking; (/) irritation of worms; {g) the ingestion of turpentine, cantharides, and asparagus ; and (//) sometimes in secondary syphilis. Gonorrhoea is an infective inflammation due to the action of a specific micro-organism, the gonococci/s, which attacks the urethra of the