LIGATURE OF THE SCIATIC 357 Cases of spontaneous cure have been recorded, but they are very few. Compression of the abdominal aorta or of the common iliac, or digital compression of the internal iliac from the rectum, have been tried, but without much success. In those cases where the sac of the aneurism is partly within the pelvis, ligature of the internal iliac by the transperi- toneal operation is to be recommended, though some cases have been ■ successfully treated by galvano-puncture or coagulating injections. Ligature of the gluteal artery.—In cases where it is determined_ to perform the old operation for gluteal aneurism, or its more recent modification—excision of the sac—the first point to consider is the method of controlling the circulation through the vessel during the opera- tion. I have no doubt that the most efficient means of doing this is by Davy's lever introduced into the rectum. In the only case in which I have seen this operation per- formed,' the bleeding was so thoroughly controlled by the lever that the artery was ex- posed as cleanly and clearly as it would have been in the dead subject. The position of the patient during the opera- tion precludes the use of Lister's abdominal tourniquet. The patient is turned two- thirds over on to his face, and an incision almost parallel with the fibres of the gluteus maxi- mus should be made in a line drawn from the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the junction of the upper and posterior bor- ders of the great trochanter (fig. no). When the gluteus maximus is exposed, its fibres should be separated through the whole thickness of the muscle and well pulled apart with retractors. The contiguous margins of the gluteus medius and Piriformis are now to be separated from each other, and the ar ^^ wil be exposed emerging from the sciatic notch. If there is simply a up reel vessel, without any aneunsmal sac, the artery must be isolated a^K £d o either side of the opening If, on the other hand, there is a c isdnc aneunsmal sac, the artery should be secured as far wi hin the sciatic no ch as possible, and then the sac excised if this is practicable ; if not ^he ac Lii'^ ^J:'lf ^'v!' ^^^"^^d above and bebw. to aHsc^fmm it 5 artery.-When the aneurism is believed to ansc from the sciatic artery, the incision should be made parallel with Fig no.—Lines of incision for ligature of the gluteal and sciatic arteries. (Modified from MacCormac.) ' C7///. Soc. Tn aiis. vol. XVII. p. 172.