1148 AMPUTATIONS are o be savvn in the following manner : after the flaps have been formed thev arc to-be well retracted, and the saw is to be applied to the crest of the t i7 abou three-quarters of an inch above the point where it is proposed to make a section of the bone and an oblique cut downwards and backwards is made until lie Ime of intended section is reached. The saw is then withdrawn and leapphed to the crest at the point which has been previously determined uS for the line of section, and the bone sawn through directly backwards The wedge-shaped portion of bone formed between the two cuts will now bo separated and the prominent crest of the tibia removed. In sawing througl' he ,bia, the fibula is to be divided at the same time. As soon as a groove lias been formed in the tib.a, the saw is applied to the fibula and the sectSii continued ; in consequence of the smaller size of the latter bone, its section i completed long before that of the tibia. ^^^uon is There is one amputation of the leg which has recently been spoken of verv favourably by some surgeons, which requires special description. This is Faraboeuf s amputation a hand's breadth below the knee joint Faraboeuf's amputation (fig. 438) is performed by a large external flap, which IS U-shaped, with limbs of unequal length. The flap is made by commencing the incision on the front of the leg, at the level at which it is intended to divide the bone — that IS to say, a hand's breadth below the knee joint—and carrying it down the front of the tibia and round the outer side of the leg to its posterior surface, where it terminates at a point an inch and a half below the level of the commencement of the incision m front. The flap thus formed must be equal in length to the diameter of the limb at the point where the bones are to be divided. From the extremity of the incision behind, a transverse cut is made round the back and inner side of the leg to meet the incision in front, an inch and a half from its commencement. The external flap is then dissected up, separating all the-tissues down to the bone and interosseous mem- brane ; but care must be taken not to carry the dis- section too high, so as to endanger the anterior tibial artery as it passes between the two bones above the upper border of the interosseous membrane. After the flap has been reflected, the rest of the tissues are divided by a circular sweep of the knife, the bones cleared and sawn through. In dissecting up the flap the muscles must be cut through obliquely, and it then forms a very efiicient covering to the ends of the bones. Amputations through the ankle joint (fig- 439)-—Syme's amputation consists in a re- moval of the foot at the ankle joint, together with the lower end of the tibia and fibula. The operation is available in most cases of disease of the ankle joint and tarsus, and also in many cases of injurv. It forms a most excellent stump, the tissues of the heel being capable of sustaining a considerable amount of pressure, so that the patieiit can usually walk almost as well as he could before the loss of his foot. The operation is thus performed, if we follow the directions of Syme : The patient lies on his back, with the foot projecting over the end of the table and elevated, and the surgeon is seated below the foot. He makes a ti "ansverse cut across the sole, from the tip of the external malleolus to the corresponding point on the opposite side, i.e. below and behind the internal malleolus. This incision is carried right down to the bone. He then inserts his thumb nail to the bottom of this incision, and guarding the soft parts with it, he dis- sects the flap backwards over the point of the heel and over its posterior Fig. 438. Faraboeuf's amputation.