66i EXCISION OF THE TONGUE considerable difference of opinion. Some surgeons advocate the removal of the whole tongue in every case, others are content in cases where the disease is localised to remove only a small portion or one half. The removal of a small portion of the tongue is not, as a rule, to be recom- mended; but if any operation is undertaken, at least one half of the tongue should be removed, for by this means the lymphatic vessels, which accompany the lingual artery and vein, and three or four lymphatic glands, into which they empty and which lie on the superficial surface of the hyo- glossus muscles, are also removed. But there is something to be said in favour of removal of one half of the tongue. If the whole of one lateral half of the tongue is removed, when the growth implicates merely the margin of the organ, there is little tendency for the disease to return on the other side, and the after comfort of the patient is much greater, as speech and swallowing are not so much interfered with. The operation, therefore, which I advocate in cases of cancer of the tongue, where the disease is seen and recognised in an early stage, and before the floor of the mouth has become implicated, is first of all to make a preliminary incision in the submaxillary region, and remove the lymphatic glands from this region, as well as the submaxillary gland, and tie the lingual artery, which much facilitates the subsequent removal of the tongue. After this has been done, the half of the tongue is removed by the intra-buccal method, by first splitting it down the centre, and then snipping through its base, close to the hyoid bone, with scissors. The steps of the operation are as follows : the patient being in the supine position, and the head turned to the opposite side to that on which the disease is situated, a curved incision is made from near the symphysis of the jaw to the level of the hyoid bone and back to the edge of the sterno-mastoid, and the submaxillary triangle exposed. The whole of the cellular tissue and glands from the space are to be removed, and it is also advisable to remove the submaxillary gland, so as to diminish the secretion of the saliva. In doing this the facial vessels will probably be divided and will require ligature. When the space has been cleared the lingual artery is to be sought for in the triangle between the hypoglossal nerve, the free border of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and the curved tendon of the digastric, beneath the fibres of the hyo-glossus muscle. The muscular fibres over the artery must be divided, and a ligature passed round the vessel (see page 342). The external wound may now be closed and loosely covered with gauze, while the surgeon proceeds to extirpate the half of the tongue. The mouth IS well opened with a Mason's gag, and a stout silk ligature passed through each half of the tongue near its tip, by which it can be held, and the tongue is pulled out of the mouth. The mucous membrane of the dorsum of the tongue is then to be divided in the middle line throughout Its whole length, the incision being carried over the tip, dividing the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth as far as the bone. By now seizing the ligatures which have transfixed the tongue and pulling them apart, the halves of the tongue may be torn from each other along the median raphe, the separation being aided by the forefingers tearing the muscular fibres apart. AVhen this separation has been made as far back- wards as possible, the surgeon holds the ligature which transfixes the half of the tongue which has to be removed in his left hand, and by pulling on It tenses the reflection of the mucous membrane from the tongue to the lower jaw, and divides it with curved scissors close to the bone He divides also the attachment of the genio-hyo-glossus to the upper denial