COMPLICATIONS OF LITHOTOMY 971 forceps, it can generally be extracted by a scoop, in which it is held by the tip of the forefinger. After the stone has been removed, the bladder must be carefully searched 'to see whether there is another stone All hfemorrhage having been arrested, the patient is wrapped up in blankets and taken back to bed. It is advisable after the operation to introduce a lithotomy tube through the wound into the bladder and tie it in By this means the bladder is kept drained, and the urine, at all events to a very great extent, is prevented from passing over the raw surfaces of the wound The after treatment consists in keeping the patient quiet and dry An ordinary bottle urinal may be arranged so that the urine flowing through the tube may pass into it, and the wound should be packed round with wood wool padding. The diet should be light and unstimulating and the patient should be encouraged to drink plenty of diluents The wound should be washed out twice a day, and when it has begun to granulate the tube may be removed. The water will at first be passed entirely through the wound; but as it contracts the passage through the natural route will return, and there is usually no difficulty about the final closing of the wound, which generally takes place in about three weeks. Complications.—There are numerous complications and accidents which may attend the lateral operation of lithotomy, i. HcEinorrha're may arise from three sources : (a) either from the superficial vessels of the perineum, when it is easily dealt with; or {b) from wound of the artery of the bulb^or some other deep branch of the internal pudic. This is frequently very difficult to deal with ; the artery must be seized with forcipressure torceps and tied if possible, otherwise the forceps must be left in the wound, compressing the vessel until they separate. In some cases where the vessel cannot be reached, it has been necessary to compress the mterrial pudic artery against the tuberosity of the ischium with the finger mtroduced into the wound, {c) Occasionally severe venous bleeding takes place from the prostatic sinuses, especially where the prostate is enlarged. In these cases dark venous blood wells up from the deeper parts of the wound, and the bladder may become filled with clots. The treatment in these cases is to plug the wound with a tube en chemise. 1 his consists of a straight lithotomy tube, around which is tied about an mch from its extremity a piece of lint or gauze which forms a sort of bag or petticoat around the tube, which is then introduced into the bladder, and the space between the tube and the petticoat stuffed with gauze. This by pressure arrests the hemorrhage, while the urine which is secreted Tf^K^li^^ ^^'^ tampon, if at hand, may be used instead. It the bladder becomes filled with clot, it must be broken up and washed away by syringing with hot solution of boric acid. 2. VVoiind of the recium.—This may arise from the knife slipping out of the groove of the stall as It IS thrust onwards into the bladder; or in children, in cutting too far backwards in withdrawing the knife. The accident is not always discovered at the time of the operation, and it only becomes evident upon the subsequent escape of flatus and fseces from the wound. When wounded by the point of the knife as it is thrust onwards, the opening m the gut is often small, and is situated just above the external sphincter, and under these circumstances may heal without difficulty. ' "owever, the opening is larger and higher up, a recto-urethral fistula is very apt to ensue. 3. The posterior wall of the bladder has been wounded by thrusting the knife too far onwards after reaching the bladder. 4- In young children there is always a danger of the urethra being torn