TREATMENT OF H/EMOPHILIA 217 the bleeding part can be examined, it will be found that there is a general oozing from the whole surface, and the blood does not spout out from vessels of any size. Its persistency is more its characteristic than its amount. As the bleeding goes on the patient becomes antemic, with blanched lips and pufifiness about the face, and the blood becomes more and more watery, but as a rule the case does not terminate fatally ; when the patient seems to be sinking into a hopeless condition and his vessels to be drained of all their blood, the bleeding will spontaneously cease, and in many cases the patient will recover his natural condition with surprising rapidity. But in this there are variations : some cases recover rapidly and soon appear again in a condition of robust health ; others become profoundly anaemic and remain so and often succumb to some intercurrent disease, or after repeated attacks of hccmorrhage die from loss of blood. The disease when it occurs in the female is hardly ever so pronounced as in the male. Females are rarely the victims of joint complications, and seldom suffer from those extreme conditions which are met with in the male. Treatment.—The treatment has first to be considered as regards prophylaxis. And it seems right to say, considering the distinct evidence of heredity, that no man who is a bleeder or woman who has brothers who are bleeders, ought to marry. Beyond this all that can be done is to main- tain the health by a nutritious, non-stimulating diet; by warm clothing, gentle exercise, &c., and to avoid as far as possible any accident. The individual who is a bleeder should never use any sharp, cutting instrument— should eat his meals with a silver knife and not even use a pin or a needle. This, however, \vill not guard him against the spontaneous form of the disease. As regards the treatment of the bleeding when it occurs, it is generally very unsatisfactory. The general treatment consists in keeping the patient perfectly quiet in bed and freely purging him with saline aperients, unless the haemorrhage is from the bowel. And although internal medication seems to do little good, it is well to administer either acetate of lead or ergot. Chloride of calcium, which is believed to increase the coagulability of the blood, has also been recommended in these cases. Where the hjemorrhage is external and can be treated locally, pressure combined witVi the application of perchloride of iron holds out the best hope of arresting it. In the case of bleeding after the extraction of a tooth, the socket should be carefully plugged with lint, saturated with the liquid perchloride of iron, a large plug of lint placed on the top of this, and the jaws bandaged together. When the bleeding is from a wound a tampon of wool soaked in the perchloride should be placed over the wound and firmly bandaged in position, and if the wound is on one of the limbs this should be elevated. It is scarcely necessary to add that all operations, except those of absolute necessity to save life, should be avoided in an individual who is known to be a bleeder.