892 INJURIES AND DISEASES OE SPECIAJ. 0R(;ANS symptoms, {c) It occasionally happens that a minute perforation may exist in the linea alba or one of the lineje semilunares, and through this the sub-serous fatty tissue finds its way into the subcutaneous tissue. It here begins to grow, and forms a small localised fatty tumour. As it grows, it draws the part of the peritoneum from which it originally sprung through the perforation, and thus a sac is formed outside the abdominal wall, into which a knuckle of intestine may find its way. In these cases a small circumscribed swelling is to be felt in one of these situations, which is partially, but not completely, reducible. It often gives rise to very con- siderable pain, especially during the movements of the body, and in some cases to colic and symptoms of abdominal disturbance. Treatment.—The treatment of the traumatic ventral hernia consists in either applying a supporting belt, or, if the condition gives rise to any inconvenience, in incising the skin and other structures over the hernia and exposing the peritoneum. The edges of the divided or separated muscles are to be defined and refreshed, and brought into apposition by buried sutures. The external skin wound is then closed, with or with- out removal of superfluous skin. There is no necessity to open the peritoneal cavity. In the cases of separation of the recti muscles, the only treatment that is necessary is a well-fitting abdominal belt. In those cases of ventral hernia which are due to the protrusion of the sub-serous fat, the tumour should be exposed by incision, the fatty mass removed, and the opening closed by deep suture, (d) A special form of ventral hernia is known as lumbar hernia. This is a hernia which protrudes in the loin, either through Petit's triangle—a space between the borders of the external oblique and the latissimus dorsi, just above the crest of the iUum—or through a space just below the last rib, where the aponeurosis of the transversalis is supported only by the latissimus dorsi. It may arise from wound or abscess, or it may be spontaneous. It presents the ordinary signs of hernia, and care must be taken not to mistake it for a lumbar abscess. The treatment of these cases usually consists in applying a suit- able truss. The other forms of hernia—sciatic, perineal, ischio-rectal, pudendal, vaginal, and diaphragmatic—are so rare that they require no special description. Post-peritoneal or internal hernia.—Occasionally a hernia of the gut takes place into one of the peritoneal fossae. This may occur either in the neighbourhood of the duodenum, the caecum, or the sigmoid flexure, or into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum through the foramen of Winslow. Duodenal hernia may occur in two situations, (i) The most common variety is situated to the left of the abdomen, and takes place into the fossa of Landzert—a fossa formed by the raising of a fold of peritoneum around the inferior mesenteric vein. This fold is called the plica venosa, and forms the anterior margin of the sac of the hernia, which lies in contact with the posterior abdominal wall to the left side of the lumbar vertebrae. When a large quantity of gut finds its way into the pouch, it projects behind the descending colon and appears on its outer side. (2) The other form of duodenal hernia is situated to the right of the abdomen, and the gut finds its way into the fossa of Waldeyer—a fossa situated in the hrst part of the meso-jejunum, immediately behind the superior mesenteric artery, and below the duodenum. Duodenal hernia, unless strangulated, practically gives rise to no