5o8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OK SPECIAL TISSUES In.cases of old dislocations of the shoulder which cannot be reduced, an open operation, in which all the resisting structures are divided and the head of the bone replaced, has been attended with the most favour- able results in modern surgery. And the question is one which should always present itself to the surgeon when called upon to treat such a case. The ones in which it is especially indicated are those in which the head of the bone presses on some of the nerves of the brachial plexus, causing great pain and loss of muscular power in the limb. The operation is by no means an easy one, for after division of all apparently resisting structures, it is still sometimes impossible to effect reduction. Under these circumstances the head of the bone should be removed. Dislocation of the elbow joint is by no means uncommon, and is peculiar inasmuch as it frequendy occurs in young children, on account of the small size of the coronoid process; whereas dislocation of any other joint is very uncommon, the bones more usually fracturing upon the application of any violence. The dislocations at this articulation may be either dislocation of both bones of the forearm or of one bone only. Dislocation of both radius and ulna may take place either backwards, forwards, or to either side. Dislocation backwards is by far the most common, and is generally produced by falls on the palm of the hand with the forearm extended. It is usually unattended with any fracture, but in some cases the coronoid process is broken ofi (fig. i8r). When this is so, there is great liability for the dislocation to recur after reduction. In the complete form of the dislocation the bones of the forearm are dis- placed backwards, so that the coronoid process is lodged in the olecranon fossa (fig. 182); but in many cases the displacement is not so great, and then the coronoid process rests against the trochlear surface of the humerus. Symptoms.—In dislocations at the elbow joint there is great swelling and bruising of the sur- tissues, which render the often a matter of con- siderable difficulty: but in these cases of backward displacement there is always a manifest defor- mity about the joint. The forearm rounding diagnosis Fig. 182.—Dislocation backwards of the elbow joint. The head of the radius is lodged at the back of the external condyle, and the coronoid process in the olecranon fossa. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) is semiflexed and generally in a position midway between supination and pronation, and is considerably shortened. The olecranon can be felt to stand out prominently behind the elbow, and above it there is a hollow in which the triceps can be felt. The lower end of the humerus can usually be defined in front, forming a round broad prominence. The head of the radius can generally be made out as a globular swelling behind the external condyle (fig. 183). The injury may