996 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS Later on, when the disease has becolTie chronic, the irrigation should still be continued, and between the periods of irrigation pledgets of wool soaked in glycerine of tannin should be introduced into the vagina and between the vulva. Urethritis from injury.—Inflammation of the urethra may be excited by the passage of a catheter, or by a stone expelled from the bladder along the urethra. In these cases there is a history of pain during micturition immediately following the injury, and this is succeeded by swelling of the lips of the urethra and a muco-purulent discharge. The condition may be complicated by epididymitis, or by inflammation of the bladder or prostate. The case should be treated by rest, diluents, an aperient, and the administration of five minims of tincture of belladonna in camphor mixture every four or six hours. Gouty urethritis.—Inflammation of the urethra is occasionally set up in a gouty subject. It is characterised by great irritability of the bladder, scalding on passing water, and a small amount of purulent dis- charge, occurring in a patient in whom there is a history of gout. In some cases it may be due to an eczematous condition of the glans penis, which spreads to the urethra. Under these circumstances the glans penis and orifice of the urethra are bright red, and there is a milky white discharge. The treatment consists in attending to the gouty condition. Tuberculous urethritis.—This form of the disease usually attacks the prostatic portion of the urethra and the neck of the bladder. There is a scanty discharge, which is often bloody, and there is severe burning pain and spasm in the perineum after the passage of urine. The disease rapidly spreads to the bladder, when the irritabiUty of the organ becomes excessive, the patient wanting to pass water constantly, and the urine becomes foetid and ammoniacal. The disease may spread to the kidneys by the ureter. The treatment consists, in the early stage, of the general treatment for tuberculosis ; after the bladder becomes involved the treatment is the same as for tuberculous bladder (page 957). Stricture of the urethra.—By the term stricture of the urethra is understood a persistent diminution in the cafibre of the canal, from a deposit of lymph within its walls ; this becomes organised, and by its sub- sequent contraction causes a reduction in the lumen of the tube. Causes.—(i) Gonorrhea. The inflammation set up in the mucous membrane by the infective organisms spreads to the submucous tissue, and is attended by the pouring out into this tissue of an inflammatory exudation, which becomes organised and converted into dense fibroid or scar tissue, and forms a firm hard ring or band around the tube. This, like scar tissue elsewhere, contracts, and so the stricture is formed. (2) Traumatism. A rupture of the mucous membrane takes place as the result of injury. Lymph is eff"used to repair the injury, becomes converted into cicatricial tissue, which contracts, and forms a stricture. (3) Ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane of the urethra causes stricture. I his form of stricture usually occurs near the orifice, and is for the most part the result of a urethral chancre; this, in the process of healing, forms scar tissue, which by its contraction causes stricture. (4) Urethritis from othei causes besides gonorrhoea may be followed by stricture. The mannei in which it is caused is the same as in those cases where it is the result 01 gonorrhoea. Sometimes, when there is no evidence of any stricture, a patient may be attacked with retention of urine from spasm ot tne muscular coat of the urethra, or from congestion of the mucous mem-