8o6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS harm and it would be a fatal mistake to overlook an injury to the intestine. In those cases where it has been definitely ascertained that penetration has taken place, but that there is no injury to any of the contained viscera, the wound is to be treated as a simple one. The skin around must be carefully cleansed, and the peritoneum first sutured, then the muscles, and finally the skin. ^ (b) Penetrating wound with protrusion—The viscera which have the greatest tendency to protrude are the omentum and the small intestine. The protrusion is always large in comparison with the aperture by which it escapes, so that it speedily becomes congested and may even become strangulated. If left unreduced, it loses its polish and bright colour, and becomes dull and livid from congestion, and may eventually become black from gangrene. The treatment will vary according to the condition of the protruded mass If the wound has been recently inflicted and the protrusion is not much congested, it should be carefully cleansed with some weak antiseptic solution as corrosive sublimate (i in 4,000), and returned ; the wound being enlarged if necessary for this purpose. If omentum is protruding, it is wiser perhaps under all circumstances to remove it, whether it is congested or not. If gut is protruding and it is slightly congested or bruised, it may still be returned, but it is a safe precaution to attach it to the margin of the wound by a single catgut suture, and not completely close the external wound but insert a drainage tube, so that if the gut gives way and fasces are extravasated, they may find their way out through the external wound. c Penetrating wounds with injury to the viscera- In these cases the injured viscus may either protrude or not. When it does not there is often difficulty in knowing whether a viscus has been injured, unless ftecal matter, urine, or bile is seen escaping horn the wound, and this is not common ; the rule, therefore, laid down m speakmg of penetrating wounds without injury must be rigidly carried out, of makmg a thorough examination, with enlargement of the wound if necessar)' The great danger in these cases is septic peritonitis, and this will almos certainly occur if any of these fluids are extravasated and the case is not promptly dealt with by the surgeon. If the intestine has been wounded and the opening is small it may be closed by a Lembert's suture and the abdominal cavity having been thoroughly cleansed the external wound may be closed. If, however, the gut is hopelessly dainaged the injured portion must be excised; or possibly, if Patients genera condition is very bad, an artificial anus may be made (see on this pomt ^""^Gunshot wounds of the abdomen are formidable injuries belong- ing to this class—namely, penetrating wounds, where there is "i^ry ^ J^'^ intestine without protrusion-and are almost universally fata . ihe imeb tine may be perforated in two or more places by the bullet. J" jnese cases, whether there is any definite symptom of ^'^t^^Zlnt^ not, the wound should be enlarged and the abdominal cavity freely openea and the extent of the injury ascertained. DISEASES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL There is nothing special to be said about diseases of tl.e ab^omuial wall in this place, except in regard to some affections of the u Other conditions will be spoken of in the.r appropriate place , thus