ARTIFICIAL ANUS 837 no control over the discharge of the fa2ces, and in many cases prolapse of the bowel to a very considerable extent takes place through the opening. Further, the constant irritation of the skin from the faeces flowing over it produces eczema. If the upper part of the small intestine is the part involved, the patient undergoes a process of semi-starvation, because the greater part of the contents of the tube is discharged before absorption of its nutritive elements has taken place. To remedy this defect one of two operations may be undertaken. The old-fashioned plan had for its object the destruction of the t^peron, so as to permit the passage of faecal matter directly from the upper to the lower bowel. This was effected by the gradual pressure of Dupuytren's entero- tome. This instrument consists of two blades, which can be approximated by a screw (fig. 329). One blade is passed up each tube, and the two are then brought together by the screw, thus embracing the spur. This causes the spur to ulcerate, and eventually the instrument drops off. The con- tents now pass from the upper bowel into the lower, and the external wound may heal of itself; or, if not, it may be closed by a plastic opera- tion. The other operation consists in the resection of the involved piece of bowel. The abdomen is opened; the portion of bowel implicated is isolated and removed, and the two cut ends united by end-to-end anastomosis. The advantage of this operation is that the dangers of it can be to a great extent guarded against, whereas in the former operation there are dangers which are beyond the control of the surgeon : a coil of bowel may lie in the receding angle between the two coils of intestine and may be nipped by the enterotome, or adhesion between the two coils of intestine may be imperfect, and when the instrument separates fsecal matter may escape into the peritoneal cavity and fatal peritonitis be .set up. In some cases of artificial anus, especially when it has originated from the sloughing of the gut in femoral and inguinal hernia which has become strangulated, it is hazardous to attempt to resect the damaged portion of the bowel, on account of its close relation and adhesion to surrounding structures. If this is found to be the case, after the abdomen has been opened, a lateral communication should be made between the bowel above and below the opening by the operation which is known as short circuiting or lateral anastomosis. An attempt may subsequently be made to close the external opening by a plastic operation. Fig. 329.—Dupuytren's enterotome.