SIGNS OF FRACTURE 409 Fig. 130.—Partial fracture and partial separation of the epiphysis of the lower end of the tibia. (From the Museum of St. George's Flospital.) bone in the growing end of the diaphysis. This becomes separated from the epiphysial cartilage ; but in many instances only partially so, tne reparation in the rest of the lesion taking place through the bone itselt, a portion of it still remaining adherent to the cartilage (fig. 130). i he injury generally occurs between the ages of 10 and 16, ■ though cases have been recorded in which it has occurred up to the ages of 21 or 22, and, on the other hand, even infants have suffered from this lesion. The bones most frequently injured are the two extremities of the humerus, the lower extremity of the radius, and the lower extremity of the femur. The chief importance of the accident is that it is liable to be followed by arrest of growth in the bone, as the result of the injury which has been done to the epiphysial cartilage. In addition to this there is always a fear that the functions of the neighbouring joint may become impaired either from permanent displacement of the fragments, which it is exceedingly difficult to avoid, or from an exuberant amount of callus being thrown out, a condition which is very likely to occur in these cases. Signs of fracture.—The presence of a fracture is not always easy to detect, for though there are numerous signs by which it may be recognised, and thoucrh some of these signs are pathognomonic of the injury when they exist, they are by no means always present in every case, and under these circum- stances, until quite recently, it has been impossible in some instances to give a positive diagnosis. The introduction of the Rontgen rays has, however, set this difficulty on one side, and it is now possible by means of a skiagram to at once determine the existence of a fracture. In all cases of doubt, therefore, the limb should be skiagraphed. This can always be done without removing the splints, unless they are made of metal. The ordinary signs of fracture are : (i) deformity; (2) increased mobihty in the continuity of the bone; (3) crepitus; (4) impaired function; (5) ecchymosis. . In examining a case of supposed fracture the patient will usually give the history that, as the result of a sudden accident, he was conscious of something having given way, and in many cases he will further add that he heard a distinct snap at the moment. This was followed by intense pain in the part, and he found himself unable to move the limb, if the fracture is in one of the extremities. Most of these symptoms are, of course, common to many injuries, but they serve to guide us to the seat of the lesion. Upon inspecting the part there will be found in most cases further evidence of some severe injury in the presence of swelling from extravasated blood, and perhaps bruising of the skin. The degree of this swelling will depend upon the amount of laceration of the soft parts which has taken place, and the length of time which has elapsed since the occur- rence of the accident; when the fracture is seen immediately after the injury the swelling may be very slight, whereas if some hours have elapsed considerable extravasation may have taken place, and the resulting swelling renders the examination of the limb more difficult. I. The defortnity or alteration in the shape of the limb is a most