SECONDARY SHOCK 41 promoting warmth and restoring the circulation, and is infinitely less likely to do harm. If, however, the patient appears to be in danger of instant death, active measures must be resorted to. Here, again, rest and warmth are essential; the head should be kept low, and surrounded with flannels wrun<^ out in very hot water and constantly renewed ; the body should be swathed in blankets, and hot-water botdes should be applied to the ex- tremities. Small quantities of brandy should be administered by the mouth at short intervals, if the patient can swallow, and by the rectum, diluted with hot water, if he cannot, and ammonia applied to the nostrils. Galvanism over the preecordial region is often efficacious in stimulating a fla^<^ing heart. Perhaps the most useful agents which we possess m rallying patients from extreme shock are the subcutaneous injection of strychnia and ether. Of these, strychnia is the better, and of a grain injected hypodermically is often followed by the most satisfactory results. Ether, injected in half-drachm or drachm doses, is also a potent agent, but its use is often followed by the formation of troublesome sores at the spot of injection. When shock is combined with loss of blood, normal saline soludon (a drachm of common salt to a pint of sterilised water at a tem- perature of 100° F.) should be injected into the veins or rectum. For my own part I strongly advocate its injection into the rectum, and in my hands the introducrion of two or three pints of sahne solution into the rectum has been followed by the most satisfactory results. Prevention of Shock during Operations—The first essential pomt in preventing shock during operations is the maintenance of the warmth of the patient's body. The room in which the operation is performed should be warm and the table heated. This can easily be done by placing on the table a water pillow containing hot water. No unnecessary exposure of the patient's body should be allowed ; all parts except the one to be operated on should be swathed in flannel. In children it is a good plan to swathe the whole body, except the part required for operation, in a thick layer of cotton wool, fixed on with flannel bandages. No unnecessary delay or protraction of the operation should be permitted, everything hkely to be required being at hand before the operation is begun ; the proceedings commenced as soon as the patient is thoroughly under the influence of the anesthetic, and proceeded with as rapidly as is com- mensurate with its proper performance. In cases where shock may be expected, it is a good plan to inject a dose of strychnia under the skin before the operation is commenced, and it is often of advantage to introduce three or four ounces of hot brandy and water into the rectum as a means of averting shock. As regards the question whether operations should be performed whilst a patient is in a condition of extreme shock, I think it is better and wiser not to operate, unless there is some urgent necessity for it, such_ as hfemorrhage which is endangering life, and which requires an operation for its arrest, and under these circumstances no anaesthetic should be given. I have seen operations performed upon patients in a condition of extreme shock, without the slightest manifestation of pain. Secondary Shock.—The older authors described a condition which they termed secondary shock, in which a patient, some twenty- four or forty-eight hours after rallying from the shock of an injury, again suddenly developed marked symptoms of this condition, and usually died in a few hours. The condition is rarely seen now, and was probably due to intense septic intoxication.