229 TUBULO-DERMOIDS from the rest of process of growth it the surface epithelium in the deeper tissues, it comes to be buried, in the Here, isolated from the tissue from which it originated, it undergoes developmental processes and becomes converted into a closed cavity lined internally with structures proper to the skin, and thus forms a dermoid tumour. I'hese tumours are therefore found in situations where this coalescence of skin sur- faces takes place, namely, in the middle line of the body and at the points of coalescence of the branchial clefts. The accompanying figure by Cusset shows where these junctions take place, and where these tumours may be expected to be found (fig. 47). The most common situation of all is in the fronto-orbital fissure at the outer angle of the orbit (fig. 48). In the middle line of the body the most common situation for them to appear is in the lumbo-sacral region, where they may be mistaken for spina bifida. Sequestration dermoids consist therefore of cysts, the wall of which is formed by the buried epidermis, and their contents may consist of hair, the secretion of sebaceous and sweat glands in the wall of the cyst, and desquamated epithelium. Very frequently, however, it will be^ found that they contain nothing but a clear fluid, in which is a ball of coiled-up hair. These tumours continue to grow with the growth of the individual, but rarely give rise to much inconvenience. They to a great extent resemble in appearance the atheromatous cyst, but they may be diagnosed from them by their situation, by their not being connected in any way with the skin, and by their deeper position in the subcutaneous tissue. Another form of sequestration dermoid is known under the name of Implantatio7i cysts. These are small cysts exactly resembling the dermoid cysts just described both in structure and contents, but occurring on the limbs, trunk, head, and face, in situa- tions where there has been no coales- cence of skin-covered surfaces during development. The exact origin of these was for a long time doubtful, but there now seems every reason to believe that they are caused by small particles of epidermic structures being driven into the deeper tissues on the point of some instrument which inflicts a punctured wound, such as a bradawl or a pin, &c. The small portion of implanted epidermis develops in the process of time into a cyst. These tumours are especially common in the hands and fingers, which are positions in which such injuries are liable to occur, and cases have been recorded where they have been punctured wounds of the eye. /3. Tubulo-dermoids.—A second form of dermoids is the .tubulo- dermoid, which consists of a collection of fluid in an embryonic canal, which under normal circumstances undergoes obliteration, but having failed to do so, an accumulation of fluid takes place in its interior. According to Bland Sutton, three of these obsolete canals are occasion- FlG. 48.—Dermoid cyst at angle of the orbit. (From in the Museum of St. Hospital.) the outer a drawing George's found in the iris and cornea, after