4o8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES They are more tedious in their cure than the transverse, owing to the extent of surface over which the process of repair has to be carried on. There is also usually more displacement, and more difficulty in keeping the frag- ments in position. They are more dangerous on account of their greater liability to be compound, owing to the sharply pointed broken end penetra- ting the skin. There is also a danger of the pointed end perforating a large blood-vessel or nerve. A loHgltndiiial fracture is a .splitting or Assuring of a long bone, and occurs especially in direct fractures, as, for example, in gunshot wounds. A spiral fracture is where a fissure winds round 'the shaft of a bone more or less obliquely. It is produced by violent twists • thus, if a person jumps from a carriage or train in motion, the moment hi.s Fig. 12S.—Longitudinal fracture of the tibia in a child, traversing the upper third of the shaft of the bone. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) Fig. 129.—T-shaped fracture of the lower end of the femur. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) feet touch the ground they become to a certain extent fixed points, while the momentum of the body carries it onwards, and if this is accompanied by a twist a spiral fracture of the femur or tibia is likely to occur. A J-skaped fracture (fig. 129) usually occurs at the extremity of a long bone, especially the lower end of the humerus or femur, and implicates the joint. There is a transverse fracture across the bone some little distance above its articular surface, and a vertical fracture descending from this into the joint, so that the lower fragment is separated into two parts. These fractures are of importance because they are liable to be followed by impaired mobility of the joint. Separation of epiphyses.—No allusion has hitherto been made to another condition in which there is a solution of continuity in a bone as the result of applied violence. This is a disunion of the bone at the site of the epiphysial cartilage, and therefore occurs only in young people. The solution of continuity usually takes place through the soft spongy