HEMORRHAGE vein happens to be partially divided in the angle of a wound. If the edges of the wound are held apart, the edges of the opening in the vem are stretched wide open. It may also occur in removmg a tumour, the parts being held on the stretch as they are divided. If a large quantity of air is sucked in, it may cause mstant paralysis of the heart and sudden death, but generally the quantity is less, and passing to the ri^ht side of the heart it is churned up with the blood in the cavities into a frothy fluid, which cannot be forced through the pulnionary capillaries, hence there is deficient supply of blood to the brain and syncope, which may or may not be fatal. In addition to this, the^ frothy fluid, being much lighter than blood, has not power to close the flaps ot the valves, and the action of the heart may altogether be arrested from this C3.1.1SC Symptoms.—At the moment of the introduction of the air into the vein a sudden hissing sound is heard and bubbles of air appear about the wound. The patient becomes suddenly pale and the pupils dilate. The heart's action is turbulent, and on hsteningover it a peculiar churning sound can be heard. The pulse is scarcely perceptible. The air can be heard entering the lungs freely. Death may take place in a few minutes or may be delayed for a longer period. If the patient recovers from the immediate danger, there is a risk of subsequent pneumonia or bronchitis. Treatment.—The obvious thing to do in the first instance is to prevent the entrance of any more air into the vein. This is to be done by com- pressing the wounded vein with the finger, and if possible applying a ligature, or, what is more convenient and speedy, a pair of forcipressure forceps on the cardiac side of the wound. Then every effort should be made to keep up the supply of blood to the brain. This is to be done by maintaining the body in the recumbent position, with the head hanging over the end of the table, and compressing the abdominal aorta and the two subclavian arteries, so that all the blood circulating may be diverted from the extremities. At the same time the action of the heart must be maintained by stimulants, ammonia to the nostrils, the subcutaneous injection of ether, enemata of hot brandy and water, and galvanism to the prfecordial region. HEMORRHAGE Haemorrhage is the natural consequence of wounds of vessels, whether inflicted accidentally or by the surgeon's knife, and may vary in amount, according to the nature of the lesion, from a few drops to sufficient to cause the death of the patient. When occurring suddenly and in large quantities it taxes, more than anything else, the courage and resources of the surgeon, and therefore its full consideration forms a most important part of practical surgery. The character of the haemorrhage difl"ers according to the nature of the vessel which has been wounded, whether artery, vein, or capillaries. It is necessary, therefore, to distinguish these varieties. In arterial hfemorrhage the blood is of a bright scarlet colour, and is expelled in a forcible stream in jerks, which are synchronous with the systole of the heart; between the jerks the stream does not cease, but is propelled less forcibly. As the bleeding continues the column of blood falls in height and becomes less forcible, until at last it simply trickles from the wound. The height and force of the