7i6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS iDveatHing laboured and difficult. The disease usually terminates in death, and upon post-mortem examination the, mucous and submucous tissues are found infiltrated with purulent fluid and sometimes gangrenous. Treatment.—The fauces and wall of the pharynx, as far as it can be reached, should be well scarified, and the patient should inhale steam and be kept in a hot moist atmosphere. If the breathing becomes difficult, laryngotomy or intubation should be performed. As much fluid nourish- ment and stimulants as can be taken should be given. Erysipelatous pharyngitis—A very similar condition to the foregoing may be set up by the extension of erysipelas from the face. The condition does not, however, appear to be so uniformly fatal. The chief danger to apprehend is oedema of the glottis, and the effects of this must be averted by a timely laryngotomy. Painting the throat with strong solu- tion of perchloride of iron is often beneficial, and the patient should inhale steam and his strength be supported by plenty of fluid nourishment and stimulants. , Chronic pharyngitis may be the sequel of an acute attack or repeated acute attacks of pharyngitis, or it may commence as a_ chronic condition, especially in smokers and individuals who drink raw spirits, it also arises from errors of diet, especially in the gouty. The condition is attended by a vascular condition of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, which will be seen to be red and covered by enlarged vessels, which course across it The surface is usually covered with a quantity of thick greenish tenacious mucus, which clings to the wall of the pharynx and can only be dislodged by constant hawking. The disease is accompanied by a teeling of discomfort and irritation of the throat, with constant cough, pain in swallowing and alteration in the voice sounds, which become husky, nasal, and finally lost, the patient being only able to speak in a husky whisper. The breath is sometimes off'ensive, from the decoiTiposition of the mucus which becomes dry and clings to the walls of the pharynx in the form ot scabs Two forms of this condition are usually described. I Chronic follicular pharyngitis occurs principally in mdi viduals who make excessive use of the voice, and hence is popularly known as cler^ymaj^s sore throat. It is characterised by marked enlargement of the mucous folUcles of the pharynx, and this condition often extends to the mucous membrane of the opening of the glottis, and is accompanied by redness and swelling of the larynx, and especially the vocal cords as visible by the laryngoscope. The mucous membrane is seen to be dottea by httle rounded elevations, which occasionally coalesce into streaks 2. Chronic atrophic pharyngitis IS a chroi c condition which is often associated with repeated attacks of catarrh, i ne mucous membrane becomes thin and smooth, and the exudation to ms thin scabs. The throat feels abnormally dry, and there is huskiness oi The treatment of chronic pharyngitis is often tedious and unsatisfactory. In the first place, every endeavour must be made to ascertain the cause and this must if possible be removed The throat should be spo.^ed ; * astringent lotions, or inhalations of fir-wood oil employed The geneia health must be attended to, and impi-ov;ed by ^^If warm, dry atmosphere when possible. In the follicular ^/'^ °f '^^^^^^^^^^ the greatest benefit is derived from destroying J'^^^/Sf f";;/;-^^/u ed galvano-cautery, or by touching them with a bead of chromic aad tuse on to the end of a probe. In the dry form the inhalation of chlonde