5 [2 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES T'he carpal bones are sometimes displaced from eacli otlier by great violence. These injuries are generally the result of machinery accidents, and are often compound, and are to be treated on general principles. The only one which requires special mention as a definite lesion is dislocation of the head of the os magnum backwards from the scaphoid and semilunar bones. This occurs from great violence to the hand when the wrist is flexed. The head of the bone can be easily recognised as a globular prominence on the back of the wrist, especially prominent during flexion, and disappearing somewhat during extension. It can usually be reduced by extension and making direct pressure over the head of the bone. Dislocation of the metacarpal bones and phalanges.— The only one of these which requires separate mention is dislocation of the first phalanx of the thumb. This may be dislocated from the head of the metacarpal bone, either backwards or forwards, the former being the much more common dislocation of the two. It is usually caused by falls on the hand with the fingers and thumb out- stretched, the phalanx being driven backwards and its base becoming lodged behind the head of the metacarpal bone. The dislocation produces the most characteristic deformity. The proximal phalanx is bent backwards almost to a right angle with the metacarpal bone, and at the same time the terminal phalanx is flexed. The head of the metacarpal bone can be felt in front. This dislocation owes much of its interest to the difficulty which is often experienced in effecting reduction, owing to the fact that the head of the meta- carpal bone becomes driven for- wards between the two bellies of the flexor brevis pollicis, which tightly grip the neck and so ' buttonhole' the head of the bone and prevent its reduction; for traction on the thumb tenses the two bellies of the muscle, and so tightens the gap between them and prevents the head of the bone escaping (fig. i86). Treatment.—Reduction is to be effected by forcibly adducting the metacarpal bone to the palm, so as to relax as much as possible the flexor brevis pollicis, and then making extension with the thumb hyper-extended, and finally suddenly flexing the phalanx on the metacarpal bone, whilst extension is still kept up. If this does not succeed it is better to expose the parts and hook on one side or divide any resisting structures. Of course this must be done with careful antiseptic precautions. Fig. 186.—Dislocation of the metacarpo- phalangeal joint of the thumb. The head of the metacarpal bone has been forced forwards between the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis. (From Pick's ' Frac- tures and Dislocations.')