546 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES the borjes are implicated the periosteum is included in the inflammatory changes. The inflammation in this structure is sometimes to a certain extent of a developmental, rather than of a destructive, character, and goes on to the formation of osteophytic outgrowths around the joint. These outgrowths are very dissimilar from those found m osteo-arthritis ; instead of being rounded and nodular, they are sharp and pointed, like stalactites. Their mode of formation is also dissimilar : the outgrowths in osteo-arthritis are formed by the ossification of cartilage, those in tuberculous disease by developmental changes taking place in granulation tissue. This formation of osteo- phytes in tuberculous disease is by no means of constant occur- rence. After the granulation tissue which has replaced the natural tissues of the joint has attained a certain thickness, it begins to un- dergo degenerative changes from malnutrition. These changes begin in those parts which are farthest removed from the blood supply, and consist in a process of fatty degeneration and caseation of the tissue, which eventually liquefies, and thus caseous foci filled with curdy material are formed in the substance of the granulation tissue. As the disease progresses, the degenera- tive changes implicate more or less the whole of the granulation tissue, the localised caseous foci coalesce, and the whole joint is converted into a caseous cavity containing the remains of the broken-down tissue and bounded by the carious ends of the bones entering into its formation. It must be borne in mind, however, that sometimes these caseous foci may not implicate the joint, but may form extra-articular abscesses, which discharge externally without opening into the joint ca\aty. This, however, is not common, and, as a rule, the caseous foci penetrate the joint and the whole articulation is destroyed. Tuberculous arthritis commencing in the bones.—ine disease in these cases commences as a deposit of tubercle in the bone, and around this destructive changes take place, such as have already been described in speaking of tuberculous disease of bone (page 47^^)-. [^'^ deposit most frequently takes place in the vascular growing bone in ttie neighbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage, and is often the result o a slight strain or wrench, which causes a certain amount of change in tnc Fig. 194.—Tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane of the knee joint, showing the granulation tissue creeping over the carti- lage. (From a drawing in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)