GENERAL INJURIES io8 that the picnc acid stains the bedclothes and night-dress of the patient and therefore caution must be exercised in its application. As cicatrisation advances, every care will have to be observed by 'the surgeon to prevent contraction and the serious deformities which result therefrom. This may be done to a certain extent by properly adjusted splmts and weights, but much more is to be done in preventing them by employing the method of skin grafting recommended by Thiersch, and which will be described on a future page. By doing thi.s, non-contractile natural_ skin is substituted for the contracting cicatricial tissue which would otherwise fill up the wound. Not only does skin grafting prevent in a oreat measure the deformity, but it also hastens the process of cicatrisation.'' General treatment.—In the stage of collapse a full dose of opium in some hot brandy and water must be administered by the mouth, or, what perhaps is better in most cases, as an enema by the rectum! If the collapse is very extreme, hypodermic injection of strychnine and ether, as recommended in the section on Shock, must be resorted to. During the second stage, whilst the patient is in a condition of reaction, all that is necessary is to attend to the secretions, and keep the patient on a fluid nutritious diet, husbanding his strength for the stage of exhaustion through whicli he will have to pass. In the third stage, the patient must be treated on general principles with tonics—quinine, bark and ammonia, or the mineral acids—stimulants, and nutritious, easily digestible food. Occasionally, if there is much irritability of the nervous .system, opium or the bromides are indicated. Primary amputation is seldom called for in burns, unless it be of a single finger or toe, for if the burn has been so severe as to disintegrate a limb the condition of the patient is such as to negative the performance of an opera- tion. Contraction of cica- trices after burns.—As we have already stated, the cicatrices of burns are liable to undergo a great amount of con- traction, and produce the most unsightly and distressing de- formities, particularly when the burn has been on the front of the neck or at the flexures of the joints. In the former case the lower lip is depressed, pre- senting its mucous surface externally; very often the chin is drawn down and the mouth cannot be closed, causing con- stant dribbling of the saliva, ^..p. Where the burn is at the flexure of a joint, bending of the limb takes place, and it cannot be straightened. For P"iG. 22.—Deformity produced by the contrac- tion of a cicatri.K from a burn. (From a cast in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) and a very hideous deformity (fig. 22)