97 GUNSHOT WOUNDS nausea and vomiting; diarrhoea ; low muttering delirium and twitching of the muscles. The urine is scanty, high-coloured, and may contain albumen ; the bowels are constipated, and if they act, the motions are offensive. The treatment must be local and general. The local treatment must be free incisions wherever there is swelling and tension, followed by immersion in a hot boracic or corrosive sublimate bath for two or three hours once or twice a day, with hot boracic fomentations in the intervals. The general treatment must be stimulating, wine and brandy given in small and frequently repeated doses. Bark, and ammonia or quinine, and such fluid nourishment as the patient can take ; beef tea, eggs, milk &c., are powerful adjuncts which will do much to carry the patient through his attack. The convalescence in these cases is often very tedious, and the patient's constitution is sometimes shattered for life. GUNSHOT WOUNDS Under the term gunshot wounds we include all injuries caused by shot or other missiles discharged from fire-arms, all wounds produced by stones, splinters of wood, set in motion by a shell or bullet, and wounds caused by the bursting of a shell or fire-arm. It is. customary, therefore, to divide gunshot wounds into direct, i.e. caused by a body which is projected by the force of the explosion itself, and indirect, i.e. those caused by some body 5et in motion by the projectile. The distinction is not, however, of any great practical importance, since all gunshot wounds, in whatever way produced, belong to the class of contused and lacerated wounds. It will be convenient to divide what we have to say on this subject into three heads, according to the nature of the missile which produced the wound, viz. (i) bullet Avounds; (2) wounds from the bursting of explosive shells; and (3) wounds from small shot. And in doing this we must necessarily be very brief, as these injuries are rare in civil practice, and those who propose to enter the army or navy will receive adequate instruc- tion in this subject elsewhere. Only so much, therefore, will be said as is indispensable to the general surgeon. I. Bullet wounds.—The character of the wounds produced by rifle bullets in the present day is very different from what it was some thirty or forty years ago, on account of the altera- tions which have been made in the character and shape of the bullet. At that time the only bullet used was the round leaden bullet, which varied much in weight, varying from three-quarters of an ounce to as much as an oujice and a half. This has now been super- seded by the conoidal bullet, of which the latest development in the British Army is the Lee-Metford, consisting of a central core of lead and antimony, with an outside casing p^^, jg _B„iiets The old of copper and nickel (fig. 18). Its weight ro^nd leaden bullet and the is 217 grs. and its calibre "303 inch. Its Lee-Metford bullet, velocity is stated to be two thousand feet per second. Its weight and size is, therefore, considerably less, and its velocity greater, than the Snider, which is composed of pure lead, or the H