CANCRUM ORIS i45 antiseptic precautions taken. The gangrenous tissue should all be scraped away, and the whole surface of the wound well swabbed out with fummg nitric acid or seared with the actual cautery. The part is then to be dressed with an antiseptic dressing, and the patient's strength supported by plenty of fluid nourishment. Phagedeena.—There is another form of disease which is closely allied to hospital gangrene and by some is regarded as the same thing. It is, however, a disease of a far milder type than the former, and is not characterised by the same amount of prostration, nor is it so frequently fatal. It seems, therefore, better to mention it under a separate heading, though fortunately it is, like hospital gangrene, practically banished from surgery. Formerly it was very common, and during the time I was House Surgeon to St. George's Hospital, I had an op- portunity of watching nearly a hundred cases. The disease pre- sents itself in two forms : in one, the gangrenous form, the wound becomes dry, and the surrounding parts swollen, tense, and of a bright red colour. Then the wound becomes covered with a black slough, which rapidly extends, and large pultaceous sloughs are formed, implicating muscles, vessels, and bones &c. (fig. 33). In the other form, the ulcerative, a pulpy membrane appears on the wound, under which there is a rapid liquefaction or ulceration of the (From a drawing in the'kuseum of St Gemge's llospiU^ tissues. To this the name of rooimd diphtheria is sometimes given. The disease is accompanied by considerable depression. Unlike hospital gangrene, in the majority of cases, the process is arrested after a time, a line of demarcation is formed, and the wound eventually cicatrises. Treatment.—In the treatment of this affection the destruction of the gangrenous tissues by fuming nitric acid or the actual cautery is generally advocated. The constant irrigation of the wound with sulphurous acid, and the free administration of opium internally, was the plan of treatment which seemed to be attended with the best results in the cases which came under my own observation. Cancrum oris.—Cancrum oris is a form of gangrene which attacks the mouth, and is due to the infection of a bacillus, which has been isolated and cultivated, and which can be found in the tissues at the edges I,