TREATMENT OF HYDROPHOBIA 85 of any dogs into the country without undergoing a lengthy period of quarantine. The preventive treatment of hydrophobia in those who have been bitten by a mad dog may be general or local. The general treatment is that introduced and advocated by Pasteur, which has done so much to prevent the occurrence of this fearful disease ; for, as I have already said, the percentage of deaths from hydrophobia after the bite of a rabid animal was formerly something like 15 per cent. ; but now, by adopting the preventive treatment of Pasteur, the mortality is reduced to about one- half per cent. Pasteur started with the idea that hydrophobia was due to the presence of a micro-organism, though this has never been demonstrated, and conceived the notion that, as is the case with many other organised ferments, these organisms in their growth produce a chemical substance which is hostile to their own development. He then, after a number of experiments, found that by simply drying portions of the nervous system of rabid animals, in which the virus is constantly present, he could progressively weaken it, until at length he rendered it quite inert, without destroying its products; or, in other words, he destroyed the living organisms, without altering the chemical product, which was, as I have said, hostile to the development and growth of the organism. This material he first of all injected into dogs in gradually increasing doses, and found that after a time they were rendered immune to rabies. Taking now into consideration the length of the incubation period of hydrophobia, and noting that it much exceeded the period which he required to render an animal immune by his inoculations, he conceived the idea that he might prevent the development of the disease by the inoculation of this material, provided always that he could commence his proceedings within a short period of the introduction of the virus. He tried the experiment in the first instance on a boy, aged fourteen, who had been bitten in fourteen places by a mad dog, and seven years afterwards the boy was alive and well. Since this time (1886) thousands of patients have been subjected to this treatment. For his material Pasteur uses the spinal cords of rabbits which have been rendered rabid by inoculation. These he dries by suspension over a piece of potassa fusa, in a sterilised flask maintained at a temperature of 70° F. for varying periods of time. Portions of this cord, of the required degree of attenuation, are then rubbed up in a mortar with sterilised broth, which has been rendered slightly alkaline, and injected into the flank. The injections are made once or twice a day with solutions of gradually increasing strength, that is to say, with solutions which have been subjected for a .shorter and a shorter period to desiccation. Two solutions are employed : (i) for ordinary cases, of a single wound, where the treatment is begun early; and (2) the 'intrusive,' for multiple wounds, or where the treatment has not been begun so early, and for bites of cats and wolves. In all cases the earlier the treatment is begun the better, and under no cir- cumstances .should it be delayed beyond the fourteenth clay. The local preventive treatment of bites of rabid animals is excision or cauterisation. A ligature should be tied tightly round the limb abovp^ the injured part so as to encourage bleeding. The tissues around the wound should then be freely excised, taking care to cut wide of the injured struc- tures. If the bite is on a finger, it is .safer to remove it. Youatt strongly recommends the application of nitrate of silver, and this is a plan of