157 PHLEGMONOUS ERYSIPELAS this time the inflammation is gradually spreadmg, until m the course of two or three days the whole of a limb, most frequently the lower, extreinity, is involved It is swollen to perhaps twice its natural size, the skm is tense and shining, becoming mottled with purple patches.- About the fourth or fifth day from the commencement of the attack, or it may be sooner, a further change takes place in the swelling; it. is no longer hard and brawny, but becomes soft and boggy, and pittmg again takes place on pressure. This is due to suppuration and sloughing having taken place in the subcutaneous tissues. If an incision is made into the affected part, the tissues will be found to be gelatinous in appearance, and to be infiltrated with an opaque, sero-purulent fluid, which shortly becomes pus. The skin becomes purple and finally black and gangrenous, and gives way. Large masses of foul gangrenous tissue in a state of putrefaction protrude from the openings and are thrown off. And thus in extreme cases the greater part of a limb may be denuded and the deep fascia exposed, beneath which as a rule the inflammation does not extend ; but the disease may destroy the periosteum covering subcutaneous bones, as the tibia, and cause necrosis, or it may extend into joints, causing suppuration in them and destroying them. The great characteristic in the process is that the suppuration, after it has taken place, does not tend to point and burst like an ordinary abscess, but extends laterally, and it is not till the skin has died, from its blood supply having been cut off, and separated, that a dis- charge of the pus and sloughs takes place. If the patient survive, a large denuded surface is left, which takes long to cicatrise, and leaves a dense cicatrix, which contracts and produces deformity and permanent disablement of the limb. The constitutional symptoms of this condition are very severe. The fever at first may be of the sthenic type, with a full, bounding pulse, a hot, burning skin, and a high temperature, 103° to 105° F. Rigors are also of common occurrence and are often repeated. When, however, suppuration and sloughing set in, the fever, often suddenly, undergoes a change, and this change is due to septic absorprion. The pulse continues quick, but it becomes weak, irregular and intermittent; there is great restlessness, inability to sleep, and delirium, usually of a low muttering kind; nausea and vomiting, and very often diarrhoea with offensive motions. The patient lapses into a semi-conscious condition and death supervenes. Or some complication may occur, such as pneumonia or pleurisy, which may carry him off. Treatment.—The general treatment of cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas must be carried out on the same lines as the cutaneous form, except that support and stimulants require to be more freely given. Bark and ammonia as medicine, and as much fluid nourishment as the patient can take and digest, with stimulants, such as brandy, port wine, egg and brandy mixture, are the principal indications for treatment; and some- times, especially in those cases where the patient has been in the habit of taking large quantities of alcohol, the stimulants have to be given with a free hand, and the issue of the case will depend in a great measure upon whether he is able to take large quantities of stimulants without upsetting his digestive organs. The local treatment consists in a great measure in making incisions to relieve tension. As soon as the skin becomes hard, brawny, and indurated, incisions should be made some two or three inches in length over all parts of the inflamed tissue, so as thoroughly to relieve the tension of the skin ; if this is not done the skin will slough, and