5i8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES of the.deformity, the Hmb should be put up with weight extension, and an outside long splint applied. Dislocations of the patella.—The patella may be dislocated outwards, inwards, and edgewise—that is, vertically rotated. In addition to these, a dislocation upwards is occasionally described. This is, however,'really a rupture of the ligamentum patellar, and a consequent dragging upwards of the patella from muscular action, and can scarcely be regarded as a dislocation. . . , , Dislocation outwards.—This is by far the most common dis- location and its greater frequency is due to the oblique direction of the femur, so that the quadriceps extensor does not act in quite a straight hne but'drags the patella outwards. This is compensated for, in a measure, by the greater prominence of the external condyle, which counteracts this tendency; but any sudden or violent contraction of the muscles may overcome this obstacle and produce a dislocation. It will be readily understood, therefore that in cases of knock-knee, where the angle which the tibia forms with the thigh bone is increased, this tendency to dislocation of the patella outwards from muscular action is vev)' much greater. In addition to dislocations from muscular action, which is the most common cause, the patella may also be displaced outwards by direct violence A blow on the inner border of the patella, which is more prominent than the outer border, may force the bone outwards over the external condyle and produce a dislocation. The dislocation always takes place when the leg is extended, since during flexion the bone is lodged in the intercondyloid notch. It may be complete or incomplete. In the complete form the bone is thrown entirely off the articular surface ot the femur and undergoes a partial rotation on a longitudinal axis through its own centre ; and the cartilage-clad surface of the bone is directed mwards in contact with the outer surface of the external condyle, while the internal border is directed forwards. In the partial or incomplete dislocation the internal articular facet of the patella rests against the cartilaginous surface of the external condyle and its inner border in the intercondyloid notch. In these cases there is also a partial rotation of the patella, but m the opposite direction, the outer border being the most anterior. Partia dislocation, and probably also complete dislocation, may occur without any laceration of the capsule, and it therefore seems probable that an important predisposing factor in the causation of these dislocations is relaxation of the ligaments. _ ^ • u •^„. Symptoms.—The signs of this dislocation are sufficiently obvious. The knee is flattened and broader than natural, and a depression is telt in the position the patella normally occupies, in which, on deep pressure, the intercondyloid notch can be felt. In the complete dislocation the bone can be felt on the outer side of the joint, and in the incomplete form the external border can be seen and felt projecting prominently under the ^^'"Dislocation inwards.—The dislocation inwards is exceedingly rare and is always the result of direct violence, that is to say, from blows on the outer border of the bone; and as this border i.s protected by the prominent external condyle, blows in this situation, sufficiently severe to cause dislocation, are infinitely rare. Like the former dislocation it ma> be complete or incomplete, and the symptoms are much the same excei t that the position of the bone as regards its displacement and its rotation is reversed.