I054 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS permanent hypertrophy when not called upon to undergo the temporary hypertrophy attending pregnancy. In a large number of cases the disease rise to no symptoms which justify operative interference. At the the hard fibro-myoma ceases to grow, and either dwindles gives menopause or remains soft tumours may, pause and cause stationary, and in old age may undergo calcification. The on the other hand, continue to grow after the meno- great loss of blood. Fig. 397.—Uterus with numerous fibroid tumours sub-peritoneal, intra-mural, and sub-mucous. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) Uterine fibroids are frequently multiple, and in the same uterus sub-peritoneal, intra- mural, and sub-mucous growths may exist (fig. 397). Symptoms.—The main symptom of uterine fibroids is menorrhagia. It is also the earliest sign. The patient finds that she commences to lose more blood than for- merly at each catamenial period, and that these periods are prolonged, lasting five, six, eight, or ten days ; then that the intervals between the periods are shortened; so that at last she is scarcely ever free. This, combined with aching, weariness, and pain, often acute just before the commencement of a period, is often all, until on examination a pelvic tumour is discovered. This is usually situated in the hypogastric region after it has risen out of the pelvis, but may be found in the inguinal region or even the lumbar. It is firm, hard, rounded, and usually smooth, but may be tuberculated. It is distinctly Occasionally in a rapidly growing Upon bimanual examination its circumscribed, and dull on percussion, tumour a distinct bruit may be heard. continuity with the uterus can be made out, and by the introduction of a sound the position of the uterus in relation to the tumour can be ascertained. In the earlier stages, before the tumour can be felt externally, it will generally be found that the cavity of the uterus is enlarged, as indicated by the sound, and this will be strong evidence of the presence of a fibroid tumour. Another symptom which is often present in these cases is incontinence of urine; either from the pressure of the tumour on the bladder or from dragging on its neck, when the growth is on the anterior wall of the uterus. The constitutional effects are mainly due to the loss of blood, which may be sufficient to cause death directly, or induce it from the anfemia it sets up. Death may also be caused by pressure on neighbouring viscera; on the rectum, leading to obstruction;