APPENDICITIS 857 peritoneal cavity. Again, in other instances, the inflammation, bemg an infective one, tends to spread and to continue; the mucous membrane of the appendix becomes ulcerated, interstitial suppuration takes place within its walls, and sloughing or perforation follow, leading to a diffuse septic peritonitis which in the majority of cases proves fatal. In the milder forms of the disease, after recovery has apparently taken place, some thickening of the tube may remain and cause a narrowing of it, so that the mucus secreted by it cannot escape, but becomes collected in the cffical end of the tube and gives rise to attacks of intermittent pain and the persistence of a hard swelling in the right iliac fossa. This condition is sometimes known as chro7iic appendicitis. Symptoms—Many cases of appendicitis begin with an acute attack of pain, of a crampy, colicky character, which is usually at first referred to the umbilicus. It may last some hours, and is often attended by vomiting and shock. The symptoms are the result of the severe inflammation in the resisting and inelastic walls of the appendix, producing an intense impres- sion on the abdominal nerve plexuses. After a lapse of time the pain becomes altered in character and in locality, and a fixed pain is complained of in the right iliac fossa, and on examination marked tenderness will be found in this situation. In other cases the advent of the symptoms is quite different: a feeling of abdominal discomfort sets in, accompanied by nausea and vomiting and usually constipation, though there may be diarrhoea. This may be regarded as a bilious attack, until somewhat_ suddenly the patient is seized with pain in the right iliac fossa. This pain is in a definite spot, at the junction of the outer third with the inner two-thirds of a line drawn from the anterior superior process of the ilium to the umbilicus (McBurney's spot), and is accompanied by distinct tenderness in this situa- tion. Upon examination, a hard lump may be felt, if the patient is not very fat; this may be no bigger than the thumb, or may be as big as the fist. In some cases, upon examination by the rectum, or the vagina in the female, a swelling can also be felt. In some instances, instead of a definite hard tumour, a difl"used swelling may be felt in the right iliac region, caused by coils of intestine becoming matted together around the inflamed appendix. The temperature varies ; it is generally raised to about 101° to 102° F., but in some cases it is scarcely above normal, so that it does not constitute an important sign. In the mild cases (catarrhal appendicitis) no further symptoms appear. Under appropriate treatment, in three or four days the pain subsides, the symptoms clear up, and the patient recovers. When suppuration is about to take place, the symptoms do not subside. There may possibly be a rigor, and the temperature mounts to 103° or 104° F., the skin is hot, and the tongue furred. There is generally constipation, and frequently vomiting. The hard lump, if one has been detected, disappears, and is replaced by a diffuse tense swelling, which occupies the whole of the iliac fossa and is exquisitely tender. After matter has formed, it may gra- dually reach the surface ; the skin becomes red and oedematous, and at last fluctuation is perceptible; or in rarer cases it may travel backwards and point in the loin, or may extend behind and above the liver, forming one variety of subphrenic abscess ; or, finally, it may pass downwards into the pelvis and point by the side of the rectum. The course which the abscess takes appears in a great measure to be due to the position of the appendix. In a certain number of cases, the matter, after its formation, may burst into the bowel, when there is a sudden relief to the symptoms, the pain