76o INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS hare-lip ; or it may be associated with other abnormalities, a stunted condition of the lower limbs, paralysis, and, it rnay be, hydrocephalus. | Prognosis.—The prognosis in spina bifida is not good. There is in a 1 large proportion of cases a tendency for the sac to increase and finally rupture, causing death from spinal meningitis, or exhaustion from continual ^ draining away of the fluid. Death may also take place from convulsions. S In some few cases, however, the tumour ceases to grow, and may even ▼ shrink and become solid; or, where it is pedunculated, the communication with the spinal canal may become closed. The larger the tumour and the higher up it is situated, the graver will be the condition of the patient. i Treatment.—The treatment of spina bifida depends mainly upon f whether the tumour is increasing in size. Where there is little or no ' tendency to increase, the cases are best left alone; the tumour being guarded by a carefully moulded metal or gutta-percha cap, which protects it, and making a certain amount of equable pressure upon it, may prevent its increase. If the sac is gradually increasing in size, and there seems reason to believe that it will eventually burst, then more active measures must be taken. Favourable results in some cases follow the injection of Morton's fluid, which consists of ten grains of iodine, half a drachm of iodide of potassium, and an ounce of glycerine. The object of the glycerine is to prevent a too rapid diffusion of the fluid. The child is laid on its side, and a small sterilised trocar and cannula is entered obliquely through the healthy skin at one side of the tumour. A smaU quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid is withdrawn, and not more than a drachm of Morton's fluid is injected with a syringe, the nozzle of which accurately fits the cannula. The fluid is allowed to remain in, the cannula is withdrawn, and the puncture sealed. The injection has usually to be repeated at intervals of a week or ten days, and is sometimes followed by persistent leakage. • • n Excision of the sac has of late years been advocated. It is principally applicable to children who have survived at least a year since birth, in whom there is threatened rupture, and in whom there is no_ tendency to hydrocephalus. The operation is performed by raising the child's buttocks to a higher level than the head, and making an incision vertically over the tumour in the middle line, or, if the tumour is large and the skin in the middle line unhealthy, a semi-elliptical incision on either side, bkin-tlaps are raised from the sides of the tumour and the neck of the sac exposed. If the case is one of meningocele, the neck of the sac must be ligatured ii small, or sutured if large, and the sac cut away. If the case is one o meningo-myelocele, the sac must be opened and ' all portions ot it ^y^i^'cn are free from nerve tissue excised, while the remainder is cut into ribbons, by incisions made from the interior, parallel with the nerves incorpoiateo with it and thoroughly roughened with the point of the knite. inc slashed and roughened sac is then placed in the patent spinal cana • (Nicoll.) The edges of the wound in the membranes_ are accuiaieiy sutured with fine intestine silk. The muscles of the spine are b ougn together with buried suture, and finally the skin and subcutaneous tissue are sutured. The strictest asepsis is required, as primary union '''The'child, after the operation, should be kept with the head low, and if any leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid takes place, the wound sho^^^^ covered with a bag of gauze containing bone acid powder, into fluid may drain.