CANCER OF THE RECTUM 919 under ordinary treatment, but the stricture will remain, and the lower part of the rectum will become contracted into a canal, which may probably barely admit a No. 12 catheter, so that the artificial anus will have to be retained for the rest of the patient's life. CANCER OF THE RECTUM Cancer of the rectum is a disease of common occurrence, and is an affection of middle life and advanced age, occurring more frequently in the male than in the female sex. Pathology.—The form of cancer met with in the rectum is the columnar epithelioma. It consists essentially of closely packed masses of tubes, lined by columnar epithelium, resembUng en- larged crypts of Lieber- kiihn, and inclosed in a cellular stroma, infiltrated with round cells, in which the vessels ramify. The structure varies according to the relative amount of cells and stroma. In the tuberous form the cells are greatly in preponderance, and the growth is very rapid. It appears as one or more nodules projecting into the bowel. It is soft and speedily ulcerates, and forms broken-down, crater- like cavities, into which the finger can be introduced (fig. 356). It rapidly ex- tends to other structures, spreading to the tissues outside the bowel, and im- plicating the bladder in the male and the vagina in the female. The other or annular form presents microscopic- ally a greater amount of fibrous stroma, and a less amount of glandular element. It is much more chronic in its growth. It invades the submucous and muscular coats of the bowel, and following the course of the vessels it spreads circularly round the gut, so that it forms a ring which contracts and diminishes the lumen of the tube. To the finger it presents the sensation of a hard flat ring, infiltrating the coats of the bowel. In consequence of its hardness the term scirrhus is some- times applied to this form of cancer of the rectum ; but it must be distinctly understood that this does not imply that it is identical with scirrhous cancer elsewhere, as in the breast for example. Y\G. 356.—Cancer of the rectum. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)