TREATMENT OF PRIMARY SYPHILIS 183 where the skin is thin and contains few hairs, so that the ointment may be rapidly absorbed, and a fresh part of the body being selected for each day s rubbing in order to avoid setting up dermatitis. The advantage of this plan of treatment is that it rapidly brings the patient under the mfluence of the mercury ; but it is a dirty method, and possesses this distinct disadvantage, that absorption of mercury still goes on after the rubbing has been discon- tinued, from the ointment collecting in the hair follicles and sweat glands, so that salivation sometimes occurs without the surgeon being able to ^''^ The o'ther method of giving mercury through the skin is by calomel fumigation. The patient is seated naked on a cane-bottomed chair, and is enveloped in a mackintosh cloak which covers all his body but the head and face, and the chair on which he is seated. Beneath the chair is placed an apparatus by which calomel is volatilised in the presence of the vapour of A^ter The combined vapour surrounds the patient s body, and the calomel is deposited upon it in the form of a white powder. After all the calomel is subUmed the patient goes to bed, wrapped in a blanket or the cloak which he has used for the bath, and without rubbing the powder oft his body. This plan of treatment, extensively employed some thirty years aeo, is now, I believe, rarely resorted to. The plan of treatment by injections is still recommended by some surcreons, but is never likely to be extensively employed ; in the first place on account of the difficulty of graduating the dose, and secondly because the plan of treatment is not altogether devoid of risk. Many mercurial preparations have been advocated for the injection, but the two best would appear to be a solution of perchloride of mercury or a solution ot sal alembroth, a double chloride of mercury and ammonium. One-third ot a grain of either drug is dissolved in a few drops of water and injected into the muscular tissue of the buttock once a week. Care must be taken to preserve strict asepticity, ... . • Recently the treatment of syphiHs by intravenous injection ot cyanide of mercury has been advocated. It is claimed for this method that the patient is rapidly brought under the influence of the drug, and that the exact quantity of mercury introduced into the system is known. It is said to be especially useful in cases which have not responded to the ordinary methods of treatment, such as pills, inunctions, &c. The operation is performed as follows : the bend of the elbow is rendered surgically clean; a bandage is applied to the upper part of the arm and a fine needle of a hypodermic syringe, containing 20 minims of a i per cent, solution of cyanide of mercury, is thrust into the vein. The bandage is then removed and the fluid injected. The needle is withdrawn, and pressure is maintained for a few minutes, with an aseptic pad. The injection is repeated every morning. The action of mercury is rendered much safer and more speedy by keeping the patient in bed, but of course this can rarely be done. The patient should be cautioned, however, to avoid catching cold by exposing himself to sudden changes of temperature, getting his feet wet, &c. He should live regularly, take simple abundant food, and avoid any alcoholic excesses. It is unnecessary to produce salivation, in fact it is wrong to do so - the patient's gums should be carefully watched, and as soon as the slightest sponginess appears, the mercury should be stopped for a day or two, and then resumed in diminished doses so as to keep the gums in this condition, just on the borderland of sponginess. The treatment should be