215 CHAPTER VII HAEMOPHILIA Haemophilia or the hsemorrhagic diathesis is a curious disease, which is characterised by a tendency to severe and obstinate hemorrhages, occurring spontaneously or after sHght wounds or injuries. The disease is therefore sometimes termed the ' bleeder's disease,' and those who suffer from it ' bleeders.' Etiology.—The only known factor in the production of this disease is heredity, though many other causes, such as gout, tuberculosis, arid blood relationship of the parents, have been accredited with producing it. In nearly every case it is possible to trace in the history of the patient his connection with a family of ' bleeders.' The transmission of the disease is, however, very peculiar; for whereas it is much more common in males than in females, the disease is almost always transmitted through the latter, so that it is not handed down by the bleeders, but by the non-bleeders, in a bleeding family. For example, supposing a woman belonging to a family of bleeders bears a number of children of either sex, the boys will, be bleeders, the girls in all probability will not; and supposing these children grow up and in their turn beget children, the offspring of the males will not be bleeders, but the offspring of the females will; but of the offspring of the males, the females in their turn will bear bleeders. Bleeders as a rule are very prolific, but all the males of a family are not necessarily the subjects of haemophilia, and these do not transmit the disease to their children, so that in this direction the condition dies out; and as the majority of bleeders die before they reach adult life, the disease is not a very common one, at all events in this country. It is more common in Germany, and is said to occur frequently amongst the Jews. Though the disease is hereditary it seldom shows itself at birth, but not infrequently occurs at the first dentition. The most common' period for it to show itself is between the ages of 12 and 17. After this the disease appears to decline, at all events cases are more rarely met with; but this in all probability is due to the fact that bleeders rarely attain adult life, but die of some other disease, which proves fatal on account of the debilitated condition of the patient induced by the haemophifia. Pathology.—Nothing is known about the pathology of this disease, and no constant morbid change has been found in those who have died of it. In some instances the heart, and especially the left ventricle, has been found to be hypertrophied ; in other cases the walls of the smaller arteries have been believed to be thinner than they are normally. But in the majority of cases these morbid conditions have not been found, and there- fore it is probable that they are in no way connected with the disease. Again, the blood shows no peculiarity, and coagulates just as well as the blood from a healthy individual.