IIII GENU VALGUM Etiology.—In considering the causes of this disease, we must divide it into two varieties: (i) The rachitic genu valgum of young children; and (2) the static genu valgum of adolescents. _ 1. The rachitic genu Yalgum, as its name implies, is due to rickets, and for the most part makes its appearance between the ages of two and four. It may be caused in two different ways : (a) by irregularity of growth at the epiphysial line ; and by bending of the shaft of the bone. (a) Irret^ularity of growth at the epiphysial hne is one of the commonest features of rachitic disease in bones, and in genu valgum consists in an unequal growth at the inner and outer parts of the growing tissue in the nei'^hbourhood of the epiphysial cartilage, consisting of defective growth at the outer side and excessive growth at the inner, so that the line of the epiphysis becomes oblique in a direction downwards and inwards, and the two condyles are not on the same horizontal plane, the internal one being on a lower level than the outer, and consequently causing a similar altera- tion in the plane of the articular surface of the tibia and in the direction of the axis of this bone, which is displaced outwards. Superadded to this there is in many cases a similar condition of the tibia—that is to say, excessive growth at the inner side and deficient growth at the outer side of the epiphysial line, and a consequent curvature of the upper end of the tibia with the result that the shaft of the bone is still further directed outwards. The cause of this inequality in the growth would appear to be unequal pressure. In the natural condition of parts, in consequence of the obliquity of the femur, the pressure of the outer condyle of the femur on the outer tuberosity of the tibia is greater than the pressure of the inner condyle on the inner tuberosity, and when the growing end of the bone is, in rickets, in its characteristic condition of abnormal excess of growing tissue, with imperfect ossification, the growth is defective where there is great pressure, excessive where there is slight pressure. It will easily be seen that, when once the deformity has begun, the cause will be increased, and the deformity proceed more and more rapidly until ossification takes place. . r 1 1- r f u (l>) Genu valgum may be produced by a bending of the shatt ot the bone. All bones in rickets are soft and have a tendency to bend, but especially the bones of the lower extremity from the weight of the body. The femur is usually bent forwards and outwards in the direction of its greatest curve, but this is accompanied by a bending of the lower end of the bone, with its convexity inwards, probably partaking of the nature of a compensatory curve, and when this takes place the internal condyle is displaced downwards, the leg thrown outwards, and genu valgum produced. 2. Static genu valgum of adolescents.—This occurs much in the same way as lateral curvature of the spine and flat foot, with which this condition is often associated. It usually occurs about the age of puberty in weak individuals with deficient muscular power. When the muscles are weak and inefficient in bracing up the joint, the whole strain is thrown on the internal lateral ligament, for on account of the centre of gravity from the hip joint falling on the external condyle and external tuberosity of the tibia, or, at all events, outside the centre of the knee, there is a natural tendency for the knee to yield in an inward direction, and if there is flat foot this tendency is increased. In consequence of this, great strain is thrown on the internal lateral ligament, and it gradually yields. Then similar changes take place in the lower end of the femur, as in the rachitic form of the disease ; the parts which have to bear the pressure grow slowly,