715 in the pharynx. The results of the operation of St. George's Hospital.) PHLEGMONOUS PHARYNGITIS well-ascertained fact that no indications of the condition present them- selves until the patient has, at all events, attained adult life. The symptoms are very marked. There is dysphagia, the patient complaining that when he attempts to swallow, the food appears to be arrested at a certain point in the gullet, and that after a time it is regurgitated in an undigested condition. In this respect it resembles stricture,_but there is in addition to this the appearance of a swelling on the left side of the neck when the patient takes food, which can generally be both felt and seen. This swelling can be made to disappear on pressure, the food in it sometimes being forced backwards into the mouth; at other times, especially if the pres- sure is gently applied, passing down the oeso- phagus into the stomach. Where the pouch has attained a large size, serious symptoms may be produced by pressure on the air passages or the great vessels and nerves of the neck. Treatment.—Until recently these cases have appeared to be beyond the reach of surgery; but within the last few years a radi- cal cure has been obtained by removing the diverticulum. An incision is made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid on the left side of the neck; the pouch is exposed and freed from its connections and then cut off at its neck. The opening thus left in the pharynx is then accurately sutured and the external wound closed, a large drainage tube being left at its most dependent part, in case any leakage should take place from the wound have been most encouraging. Simple acute pharyngitis, or ordinary sore throat, is usually of a catarrhal nature, due to 'catching cold.' It is usually associated with a similar catarrhal condition of the nasal mucous membrane, tonsils and soft palate. It may also owe its origin to the exanthemata. The symptoms are pain and a sensation of dryness about the throat and fauces, accom- panied by irritable cough and sneezing. The pain is much increased on attempting to swallow. Upon examination the mucous membrane of the throat looks swollen and red, and covered with a muco-purulent secretion. Ihe treatment consists in confinement to bed, the inhalation of steam, and some medicine, (e.g. pulv. ipecac, co.) to produce a profuse diaphoresis. Phlegmonous pharyngitis.—This is a far more dangerous, but nappily a rare, condition. It generally arises from injury, but may occa.sio_nally be set up without assignable cause, some authorities believing that It is due to the invasion of the streptococcus of erysipelas, while others are of_ opinion that it is caused by a poison of a virulent character, which IS entirely distinct from erysipelas. It is attended with rapid infiltration 01 the submucous tissue, which often spreads early to the glottis, causing clyspnaa and death from oedema glottidis. The symptoms are in the early stage very similar to those of the simple form, swelling, redness, and pain in swallowing, but they are accompanied by severe constitutional aisturbance and high fever, and soon deglutition becomes impossible and Fig. 273.—Pouch in the pha- rynx. (From the Museum