ADENOIDS OF THE NASO-PHARYNX 633 common occurrence, especially in tuberculous children, and is often associated with enlargement of the tonsils. The mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx is rich in lymphoid tissue, either collected into a special mass, the pharyngeal tonsil, or diffused over the whole of the mucous surface ; and the disease under consideration consists in an hypertrophy of this tissue, caused by exposure to damp, unhealthy hygienic surroundings, or any condition which tends to cause a chronically inflamed state of the throat. The adenoids form masses of soft vegetations, growing principally from the roof and posterior wall of the pharynx. They are sometimes pedunculated, but for the most part form broad sessile spongy masses, which may completely block the posterior nares. Symptoms.—The symptoms are for the most part due to the obstruc- tion to nasal respiration which they produce. The mouth is half open, so as to allow the child to breathe through it, and the lips are dry and cracked ; the teeth are often carious from exposure to air in mouth breathing. The nostrils are drawn in and pinched. This gives to the child a very characteristic appearance, so that the existence of adenoids may be dia- gnosed by the vacuous, semi-idiotic expression produced. In addition to this the child is reported to snore at night, and sometimes to wake up with sudden attacks of choking and ' night terror.' In many cases deafness is a complication of this disease, from an extension of the chronic inflamma- tion to the mucous lining of the Eustachian tubes, and this condition may extend to the tympanum, and perforative otorrhcea result. Upon examina- tion of the mouth the soft palate may be found to be depressed, and occasionally portions of the growth may be seen projecting behind it, or lumps of stringy mucus may be seen clinging to the back of the pharynx. On introducing the index finger behind the palate, the soft growths can be readily felt, and usually slight bleeding is produced by the examination, so that the finger is tinged with blood when withdrawn. It is seldom pos- sible to obtain a view of the growths in children by posterior rhinoscopy. In neglected cases of long standing, considerable deformity of the chest wall may result from the defective power of inspiration. Treatment.—The only treatment for this condition is removal of the growths. And if the disease is sufficient to produce impediment to nasal respiration, the operation should at once be recommended. It is true that the growths have a tendency to disappear when adult age is reached; but then the rnischief is done, the development of the child has been interfered with, possibly permanent deafness may have been induced, and the chest may have become deformed. The results of the operation are most satisfactory, and if the growths are entirely removed there does not seem to be much liability to recurrence, though, if any portions are left behind, a recurrence is far from uncommon. The operation may be performed as follows. Chloroform should be admmistered, and if the tonsils are also enlarged they should first be removed. The child is then placed on its back on a table, so that its head hangs over the end. The mouth is held open with a Mason's gag, and the tongue drawn out of the mouth with a pair of tongue forceps. Several different instruments are used for removing the adenoids, of which the principal are Gottstein's ring knife, Lowenberg's forceps, and the artificial nail. Each surgeon will probably use the instrument with which ffi'^ "^ost^familiar, but in my hands the ring knife has proved the most efficient. This knife is rapidly introduced through the mouth behind the palate, and is pressed firmly against the posterior wall of the pharynx and