DERMOID CYSTS OF THE OVARY 1067 connective tissue. The mode of origin of these cysts has given rise to very considerable discussion, and it cannot be regarded as in any way settled. This question cannot be entered into here, and it will be sufficient to say that the germinating epithelium on the surface _ of the ovary, after it has dipped into the ovary to form the Graaiian follicles, is probably the seat of origin of the cysts. 2. The papillomatous or proliferating papillary cysts differ from the preceding in that the cysts contain exuberant papillary growths (fig. 402). The connective tissue of their wall forms buds that project into the cystic cavity, pushing the epithelium in front of them, and divide into slender papilliform branches. These buds may completely fill the cavity, and cause its walls to give way ; they then project on its sur- face, and appear like cauliflower masses, and may invade the peri- toneum, and form dis- seminated papillary growths. They develop from the hilum of the ovary, and are often enclosed in the broad ligament, which they may afterwards perforate. The origin of these growths, like that of the proliferating glandular cysts, is uncertain. Some pathologists believe that their mode of origin is the same; others believe that they spring from some remains of the Wolffian body. 3. Dermoid cysts (fig. 403) are generally small, and may for a long time remain latent, and, in fact,, may not be suspected or discovered until post-mortem examination. They may, however, after a period of latency begin to increase in size, and may then attain great dimensions. Their inner surface is lined by a membrane which resembles skin in microscopic structure, and is separated from the fibrous envelope of the sac by fatty tissue. This layer presents papillfe, sebaceous and sweat glands, and hairs implanted in hair follicles, the hairs being sometimes two, three, or even more feet in length. The cysts are filled with fatty Fig. 402. — Papillomatous cyst of the ovary. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) Fig. 403. —Dermoid cyst of the ovary. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)