247 LYMPHO-SARCOMA ling.' This may finally be perforated, and the tumour invades the sur- rounding soft parts. Microscopically these tumours are found to consist of round and spindle-shaped cells such as are present in other sarcomata, but in addition to these there are the characteristic myeloid cells—large, multi-nucleated masses of protoplasm—which resemble those which occur in the marrow of foetal bones. The appearance under the microscope is that of large myeloid cells embedded in a matrix of round and spindle- shaped cells. The nuclei in the cells vary from ten to forty or more in number: they are oval in shape, and have a distinct and highly refracting nucleolus. Myeloid tumours are usually firm and fleshy in consistence, but some- times soft and jelly like. On section they present a deep red or maroon colour, not unlike the muscular structure of the heart, but blotched with bright patches of crimson or dark purplish brown, the result of recent or old extravasations of blood. They frequently contain cysts, often of con- siderable size. They are the most innocent of all the sarcomatous tumours, and show very little tendency to recur if thoroughly removed. Fig. 58.—Lympho-sarcoma. Fig. 59.—Alveolar sarcoma. Diagrammatic. Diagrammatic. Besides these typical varieties of sarcomatous tumours there are some other forms which require a passing notice. These are : 1. The mixed celled sarcoma. 2. The lympho-sarcoma. 3. The alveolar sarcoma. 4. The melanotic sarcoma. 5. The psammoma. 6. The plexiform sarcoma or cylindroma. 7. Sarcomatous blood cysts. 1. The mixed celled sarcoma occurs more often in connection with the bones than elsewhere. It consists of a mixture of both spindle-shaped and round cells, and cannot anatomically be included in either of the first two divisions of sarcoma. It is not possible to distinguish it without a microscopical examination. 2. The lympho-sarcoma (fig. 58) grows in the lymphatic glands, mucous membranes, tonsils, and testicles. It consists of a reticulum exactly resembling the reticulum of lymphoid tissue, in which are contained the sarcoma cells which resemble in size and appearance the leucocytes of the blood.