DISEASES OF THE BRAIN 615 addition to this, tertiary syphiHtic disease is exceedingly common in the skull; the gummatous deposit .taking place either on the surface beneath the pericranium, or in the diploe, and leading to caries and necrosis. Tuber- culous disease is also sometimes found in the cranial bones; rarely as a primary affection, more commonly as a secondary result of lupus It may involve the whole thickness of the bone and cause perforation, or it may destroy only the external table and part of the diploe, and produce a non-perforating ulcer of the bone. Tumours of the skull.—The most common forms of tumour of the skull are the osteomata and sarcomata; but in addition a few cases oj hydatid cysts, probably originating in the diploe, have been recorded. Osteomata have already been described (page 237). The ivory exostosis is the one which is most commonly found in connection with the cranial bones, though cases of spongy exostosis do occur. Sarcomata of the skull may arise either from the pericranium or the diploe, and they may be either primary or secondary growths. AVhen growing from the peri- cranium they are of the spindle-celled or round-celled variety, and often undergo partial ossification, constituting an ossifying sarcoma (page 244). \\ hen growing from the diploe they are usually myeloid. These two con- ditions can scarcely be distinguished from each other, except at one period of the growth when ' egg-shaped crackling' may be detected in the myeloid form. 1 hey both, as they grow, involve the skin and fungate, and in some ins ances perforate the bone and implicate the dura mater AVhen seen early, and especially if the disease is primary, an attempt should be made to remove the growth and the surrounding bone. If the tumour has attained no great size, this can be effected by including the whole in the crown of a large trephine. Sarcoma of the dura mater (fungus of the dura mater) may occur without apparent cause, or may follow a blow, but most frequently is secondary to sarcoma elsewhere. It springs from the outer layer of the dura mater, absorbs the bone, which becomes thinned and then perforated and the growth protrudes, implicates the skin and fungates. In the early stage these tumours cause fixed pain in the head and symptoms of cerebral disturbance, such as convulsions, double vision or loss of si^ht from ootic neuritis and deafness. This is followed by the somewhat sudden appear- ance of a swelling at the seat of pain. Sometimes the sharp edge of the perforated bone can be felt. The treatment consists in exposing the tumour, enlarging the hole in the bone, and dissecting the tumour off the dura mater. The result is not however, satisfactory, and if the swelling has attained any size it is perhaps wiser not to attempt operative interference. DISEASES OF THE BRAIN fr. ou" ^ on surgery, the only diseases of the brain which it is necessary to al ude to are abscess, cerebral tumours, hydrocephalus, and microcephalv^ ana these only because they may require operative interference. Kr.; f n °^ brain.—We have already seen that abscess of the Dram may follow certain injuries of the head (page 603), but a far more whTn".T T''^ ^""d'tion is chronic suppuration in the middle ear, rer^L 1 ^ t ' Tf>^'^^ temporo-sphenoidul lobe or in the cerebellum. In addition to these, syphilitic and tuberculous disease of the