525 SUB-ASTRAGALOIL) DISLOCATION superior border of the navicular. In both forms the astragalus usually undergoes a partial rotation, so that the head is directed forwards and outwards, or forwards and inwards, the former being the more common. The injury is generally the result of severe violence applied to the foot, while it is fully extended on the leg. Symptoms.—The signs of the injury are unmistakable. The rounded globular head of the astragalus is readily recognised under the tense and stretched skin, and behind this can be felt the upper articular surface of the bone in front of the tibia. Dislocation backwards is uncommon. It would appear to be caused by violence applied to the foot whilst in a position of extreme flexion. The dislocation is usually complete, and the astragalus rests on the posterior part of the upper surface of the os calcis. The marked sign of this dislocation is the presence of the astragalus just above the heel, between the tendo Achillis and the malleoli. The tibia is prominent in front, and the foot is shortened. Lateral dislocations of the astragalus are almost always com- pound, and are usually accompanied by fracture of one or both malleoli. Version of the astragalus.—In this peculiar accident the astragalus, separated from all its articulations, undergoes a rotation either on a horizontal or vertical axis. It is produced by violent strains or wrenches to the foot, when it is in a position of neither extreme flexion nor extension. Symptoms.—The diagnosis of this injury is generally difficult, because it is accompanied by so much swelling that the parts of the astragalus can- not be defined. The history of the accident, the loss of motion in the ankle joint, and the evidence of severe injury without any great deformity, would lead the surgeon to suspect this injury, and the diagnosis would be established by the R5ntgen rays. Treatment.—The treatment of dislocation of the astragalus must de- pend upon whether the dislocation is complete or not. In the complete form, any attempt to reduce the bone will probably fail, and the best plan would appear to be to remove the bone, as these dislocations are almost always compound. This adds in no way to the danger of the accident; in fact, far otherwise, as it enables the surgeon more thoroughly to cleanse the wound and render it aseptic, and the use of the foot after removal of the bone is not materially impaired. In cases of incomplete dislocation reduction is to be attempted by traction from the foot while the leg is flexed, and by making pressure on the displaced bone. If this does not succeed, the tendo Achillis should be divided and another attempt made. Failing this, the proper treatment would be to cut down and remove the bone with antiseptic precautions. Sub-astragaloid dislocation.—In the sub-astragaloid disloca- tion the astragalus remains in situ in the tibio-fibular mortise, and the other bones of the tarsus are dislocated from it. The displacement is usually described as taking place either backwards, forwards, or laterally; but the first of these is very much the more common, and is the only one which requires description. In the so-called dislocation backwards there is always a_ certain amount of lateral displacement as well, the foot being dis- placed either backwards and outwards, or backwards and inwards, from the astragalus. The injury is produced by severe twists or wrenches of the foot: a not uncommon way for it to occur is when an individual is thrown from his horse and is dragged along the ground with the foot fixed in the stirrup.