INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS Loose bodies in j oints were formerly known as loose cartilages. The name is, however, not a good one, as these bodies may be either cartila- ginous, fibro-cartilaginous, bony, or fibrinous. The cartilaginous or fibro- cartilaginous loose body may originate in two different ways. The most common form is where some of the normal synovial villi or fringes become hypertrophied and subsequently developed into cartilage. Even in the natural condition cartilage cells are frequently to be found in these fringes, so that the cartilaginous body is merely an hypertrophy of the normal condition. The enlarged villi become pedunculated and finally detached, and so constitute ' loose bodies.' These bodies may undergo sometimes a partial ossification, when they constitute one variety of the bony form. A second way in which cartilaginous or fibro-cartilaginous loose bodies may occur in joints is by the chipping off of a portion of the articular or interarticular cartilage from mechanical violence. The most common example of this form is where a portion of one of the semilunar fibro- cartilages of the knee joint becomes detached. The bony loose bodies in joints are usually the osteophytic outgrowths occurring at the borders of the bones in cases of osteo-arthritis, which become broken off and remain in the joint as loose bodies. But, in addition to these, cases have been recorded where a portion of the articular surface of a bone has been broken off by mechanical violence and remains loose in the cavity. And, finally, portions of sclerosed bone have been known to separate from the surround- ing bone by a process of quiet rarefying ostitis, without suppuration, and to lie loose in the articular^cavity. These last two conditions are of exceed- ing rarity. The fibrinous loose bodies may be formed in two ways. They may be the so-called melon-seed bodies, which are composed of a fibrinous exudation from the synovial membrane due to tuberculous disease, and are similar to those found in ganglia (page 397). They are usually of small size, often very numerous, and resemble in shape the seeds of a melon. The other form of fibrinous loose body is the result of extravasation of blood into a joint from injury. The fibrin derived from this is not absorbed, but becomes rounded and moulded by the movements of the joint, and constitutes the loose body. Of all these varieties the common forms are the cartila- ginous nodules of the hypertrophied fringes and the osteophytic outgrowth of osteo-arthritis. The joint most frequently affected is the knee, but loose bodies are also occasionally found in the elbow, the shoulder, and the temporo-mandibular joints. Symptoms.—The symptoms produced by this affection are very characteristic, and consist in a sudden acute pain when the_ foreign body gets between the ends of the bones in the movements of the joint. Hence it almost always happens that the pain is felt whilst the patient is walking, when the loose body is in the knee joint; during the act of flexing the leg on the thigh the foreign body gets drawn between the articular surfaces, and then, during the act of extension of the leg, is squeezed between the two surfaces, stretching the Ugaments and causing the pain. The pam 1^ of a very acute agonising character, producing faintness, and the patient falls to the ground. The joint becomes fixed from muscular contraction, but after the pain has subsided motion returns. The attack is often followed by more or less synovitis, with effusion in the joint. When this subsides, the loose body can generally be felt in the sac of the synovial membrane;