GENERAL DISEASES 192 vault o£.- the skull. It corresponds to the diffuse outgrowth of fibrous tissue in other parts, but in these cases goes on to the formation of dense osseous tissue, both on the surface of the bone and in its interior, so that the medullary cavity may be entirely obliterated. In other cases we may have the same changes, instead of extending over the whole bone, in a localised portion of the periosteum. It consists in an inflammatory exuda- tion into and under the periosteum, which develops into fibroid tissue and then becomes converted into bone. This is called a node, and principally attacks the subcutaneous bones, as the tibia, the sternum, clavicle, and ulna. It is, Hke the more diffused form, an instance of sclerosing ostitis, and in both there is severe pain of an aching or boring character which is especially great at night. In addition to this we get in bones the circumscribed form of tertiary syphilitic inflammation, resulting in the formation of a true gumma, and this may take place either in the periosteum or the medulla. When it occurs in the periosteum it is not to be distinguished, in the early stage, from the node, just alluded to, but in the later_ stages it, hke gummata elsewhere, degenerates, and eventually dies, forming a slough, whereas the true node has no tendency to suppurate. When gummatous swellings occur in the medullary substance they lead to expansion of the bone. The softening and breaking down of a gumma leads to caries and necrosis, but the condition is not quite an uncompUcated one, for the gummata are almost always associated with a certain amount of sclerosis,_and in all probability the death of the bone may be partly due to the obUteration of the Haversian canals, the result of the sclerosing process. Gummata may occur in any bone, but the ones most frequently affected are the bones of the vault of the-skull, the frontal and parietal, and the disease may begin on the surface of the bone or in the diploe ; in the nasal bones or septum nasi, leading to necrosis and falUng in of the bridge of the nose; and in the hard palate, causing perforation. Unlike tuberculous disease, it rarely attacks the cancellous tissue of the short bones. Tertiary syphilitic disease of the joints is not common; but occasionally a gumma may form in the synovial membrane or capsule of a joint, especially the knee. It is attended by effusion into the joint' and pain, especially severe at night. The burste are also sometimes the seat of gummatous deposit. Tertiary syphilitic disease of the muscles.—Gummata are frequently formed in the muscles. They form ill-defined swellings, which slowly go through the process of softening, and are accompanied by much aching pain and tenderness. Tertiary syphilitic disease of the skin and subcuta- neous tissue.—Gummata not infrequently form in the subcutaneous tissue and go through the ordinary course of a .gumma elsewhere. They soften, break down, the skin over them gives way, and they extrude a slough leaving an ulcerated surface. They occur for the most part on the lower extremities, but, unlike the varicose or indolent ulcer, they may occur on any part of the extremity. They appear first as an indolent, ill-defined lump, the skin over which becomes after a time of a dusky red colour. The swelling, which at first is hard, becomes soft and fluctuates, and the skin, gradually thinning, gives way and exposes a wash-leather slough, which separates and comes away, leaving an ulcer with sharp-cut, under- mined edges, around which is considerable induration. This, under the influence of treatment, heals, leaving a puckered cicatrix. Another tertiary