INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS at the time of the operation of nephro-lithotomy, and may be removed by an incision through the coats of the ureter, if it cannot be pushed backwards into the pelvis of the kidney. 2. At the brim of the pelvis, where the ureter presents a sharp bend. In this situation a stone was removed by Kirkham by an incision from the tip of the last rib to the anterior superior iliac spine. The ureter was opened, the stone extracted, and the patient recovered. No sutures were inserted in the ureter. 3. The stone may be lodged at the vesical orifice; it can then sometimes be detected by vaginal or rectal examination, and has been removed by inci- sion through the vagina, and by dilatation of the urethra in the female, and by supra-pubic cystotomy in the male. Other calculi, low down in the ureter, have been removed by an incision similar to that for tymg the common iliac artery, and the ureter has been reached without openmg the peritoneal cavity. On referring to the literature on the subject, it is noticeable that in a large number of cases no sutures were employed to close the ureter, which appears to have healed without difficulty, and no fistula resulted. DISEASES OF THE BLADDER Extroversion of the bladder {ectopia vesiccR) is an arrest in development of the anterior wall of the bladder and the corresponding part of the abdominal panetes; in consequence of this, the posterior wall of the bladder presents at the lower part of the abdominal wall and is pushed forwards by the pressure of the viscera behind, and protrudes as a red velvety tumour (fig. 361). The _ exact etiology of the condition is not perfectly known, but it is believed to be due to a want of develop- ment of the anterior part of the allantois and the corresponding part of the ventral plates, which by their junction form the ab- dominal wall. There is in these cases no true umbilical cord, but the placenta and the tissues which ought to form the cord are spread out over the front of the abdomen, and constitute the anterior wall of the bladder during foetal life. At birth, when these tissues separate, the posterior wall of the bladder is exposed. In after life the superficial structures around the extroversion present the appear- ance of cicatricial tissue where the placenta was adherent during foetal life, and there is no umbilicus. The condition is usually associated with other abnormalities : there is epi- FiG. 361.—Ectopia vesicce. (From a cast in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)