377 LYMPHADENITIS appearance of erysipelas, and is often accompanied with more or less oedema. The glands into which the inflamed lymphatic vessels empty themselves speedily become enlarged. When the deeper seated lymphatics are implicated there is cedema along the whole or part of the limb, and deep- seated pain, and in some cases this may occur without any superficial red- ness. In these cases where the deep lymphatics are affected, without much implication of the superficial vessels, the glandular enlargement is often the first indication of the disease. The disease may terminate in a few days in resolution, and the parts return to their normal condition. But if pyogenic organisms have been introduced with the poison, suppuration may occur either in the form of localised abscesses along the course of the lymphatics, or, what is perhaps more common, suppuration may ensue along the Avhole course of the vessel, and spreading widely may cause the formation of cellulitis ex- tending up the limb. When this occurs a condition of solid cedema is apt to be left, which is very intractable and hard to cure. In some cases of lymphangitis, death results from general blood poisoning. Diagnosis.—The only conditions for which lymphangitis is likely to be niistaken are erysipelas and phlebitis. From erysipelas it can at once be distinguished by the absence of the abrupt raised margin to the redness which characterises this disease; and from phlebitis by the brighter colour of the redness, the absence of the hard cord-like plugged vein, and the presence of the enlarged and painful glands. Treatment. —In conducting the treatment of a case of lymphangitis, the wound from which the infection was derived must be thoroughly cleansed, and exit given to any locked-up pus. This must be done by removing any scabs which may be present, providing for free discharge, and by washing out the wound with a strong solution of corrosive sublimate (i in 500); it should then be dressed with hot boracic lint. The super- ficial lymphatic inflammation is best treated by painting the inflamed area with a mixture of equal parts of extract of belladonna and glycerine, and then applying a hot fomentation. Or as an alternative treatment warm Goulard lotion with opium may be applied on lint under oil silk. The hmb should be raised. In most cases it is desirable to commence treat- ment with a brisk mercurial purge, after which quinine or bark and ammonia should be given. As the.fever has a tendency early to assume an asthenic form, the administration of a small quantity of stimulant may be called for. If abscesses form, they must be opened early. The cedema which sometimes follows this condition is best treated by the pressure of a Martin's bandage. Lymphadenitis.—Inflammation of the lymphatic glands is almost always due to some septic material which is carried to them by the lymphatic vessels, and which, becoming lodged in them, sets up irritation and inflammation. This noxious material may be carried in the lymph without exciting any inflammation of the lymphatic vessels along which it is carried, and therefore no trace of its passage along these vessels may be evident. It has been proved by experiment that solid particles can pass a ong the lymphatic vessels, but that they cannot pass through lymphatic glands, but are arrested in their substance. In most cases of lymphadenitis the.se solid particles are definite microscopic organisms, which, being taken up into the lymphatic vessels, are carried along in the lymph stream until they reach the first lymphatic gland in the course of the vessels, and here they are arrested, and, setting up irritation, inflammation of the gland is the