550 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL TISSUES 1891 ..introduced the treatment of injecting into the tissues near the tuberculous focus a solution of chloride of zinc (i in 10). The irritation produced leads to a migration into the tissues of leucocytes, which are supposed to destroy the tuberculous nodules. The injection is performed by means of an hypodermic syringe, and four minims of the solution are injected into different situations in the tuberculous infiltration until half a drachm has been introduced. Care is to be taken that none of the fluid is injected into the cavity of the joint. The cannula of the syringe is to be wiped perfectly dry between each injection, otherwise the skin and tissues along its track will be injured. Under its influence the tuberculous foci are said to be converted into a fibroid material, and hence the name ' Sclerogeny' is given to this procedure. On the whole, it would appear that more favourable results are obtained from the injection of iodoform than from the chloride of zinc. The other method of treating tuberculous joints rests on the high authority of Professor Bier of Kiel, who recommends that a condition of venous engorgement should be induced in the joint, by applying an elastic bandage above and below but not over the joint, or, if it is applied over the joint, only very lightly. This treatment is said to produce rapid subsidence of the swelling and improvement in the condition of the joint. There is every probability that one or other of these measures may prove useful adjuncts in the treatment of tuberculous affections of the joints; but I think most surgeons will agree that, after all our mam reliance must be placed in absolute and complete rest in the treatment of these affections. Whilst local measures are being carried out, the general treatment of the patient must not be neglected. The hygienic surroundings must be rendered as perfect as possible. The child should be kept in the fresh air as much as the weather will permit: residence at the seaside is especially desirable. The diet should be carefully regulated, and the digestive organs attended to. The child should be warmly clad, with woollen clothing next the skin, so as to promote its action, and tonics, especially cod liver oil and iron, administered. When, in spite of treatment, the disease continues to progress, and chronic suppuration has occurred or is threatening, operative interference will be required. The various operations which may be adopted are arthrotomy, erasion, excision, and amputation. Arthrotomy consists in laying the joint freely open, washing it out and draining it. In cases where the disease is confined to the soft structures, and the ends of the bones are not much involved, this plan ot treatment is often followed by very satisfactory results. If the wound is kept aseptic, a cure with ankylosis may result. The operation consists in freely opening the joint in one or more places in the most dependent position, and in such a manner that no important structures are wounded. The joint is then thoroughly washed out with some antiseptic solution and a drainage tube inserted. The subsequent treatment consists in daily flushing the joint with an antiseptic solution; a solution of tincture ot iodine (3j to Oj) having proved the most useful in my hands. Erasion or arthrectomy was introduced as a substitute lor excision. It consists in laying the joint freely open by an incision planned to expose the whole of the cavity, and removing the diseasea tissues without interfering with the healthy parts. In these cases tne whole of the diseased synovial membrane is dissected or scraped awa) as