io68 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS mattgr, containing epithelial cells, crystals of cholesterine, and fatty acids. Teeth, bones, horn, and nails are not infrequently found in these cysts; and more than one case has been recorded where a mammary gland has been discovered. The question of the origin of dermoid cysts of the ovary has long been the subject of controversy, and many theories have been brought forward at different times to explain their occurrence. The most probable explanation would appear to be the most simple one that the dermal structures contained in the cyst are developed from the epithelium lining the ovarian follicles, and that, unlike other dermoid tumours, they are not due to inclusion or incarceration of portions of the epiblast. The fact that ovarian dermoids are not found in an elementary condition in the ovaries of infants is confirmatory of this. The dermoid tumour of the ovary cannot be regarded as a congenital condition. 4. Parovarian cysts. — These cysts are, strictly speaking, not ovarian cysts, since they do not originate in the ovary, but in the broad ligament, in which they are enclosed, in close proximity to the organ of Rosenmiiller, which lies between the ovary and the Fallopian tube. It is Fig. 404.—Hyaline parovarian cyst. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.) necessary to divide these cysts into two varieties, because there is a strong belief on the part of some pathologists that soine of the cysts do not originate from the organ of Rosenmiiller, and that others do. These two varieties may be distinguished as the hyaline parovai-ian cyst, or cyst of the broad ligament, as it is sometimes called, and the papiUajy par- ovarian cyst. The hyaline parovarian cysts (fig. 404) are unilocular, and it is very generally believed that they are simple, serous cysts, developed from the lacunEe of the connective tissue of the broad ligament; though others believe that they are due to an enlargement of the outer end of the horizontal tube of the parovarium. These cysts may attain a considerable size. Their cyst wall is very thin, and lined by cylindrical epithelium. Their contents is a thin, clear, watery fluid, of a low specific gravity, con- taining no albumen. They lie between the folds of the broad ligament, with which they are only loosely connected, and appear as rounded, translucent tumours with regular outline. Papillary parovarian cysts.—These cysts are not so common as the preceding variety, and there seems to be a pretty general consensus of