172 GENERAL DISEASES the temperature between the rigors does not reach normal, serves to distinguish this disease from ague, in which there are also repeated rigors. In addition to these, the characteristic symptoms of pyaemia, there are also others. There is rapid emaciation, and the countenance looks worn and anxious, with sunken eyes and hollow cheeks. The skin presents a yellowish tinge, the so-called pysemic jaundice, though the colour is not so marked as in true jaundice ; the pulse is very quick and weak, the tongue is dry and brown, and the teeth become covered with sordes. The secretions are arrested, there is usually constipation, but diarrhoea may occur towards the close of the case. The urine is high-coloured, scanty, and may be albuminous or contain blood. The breath and exhalations from the body have a peculiar sweetish odour, which has been compared to a faint odour of apples. The patient is despondent of himself, and frequently becomes deli- rious. In these cases, as in septicaemia, eruptions some- times appear on the skin; of these a form of erratic erythema is perhaps the most common, but papules, . sudamina, and urticaria are occasionally met with. The secondary abscesses may form in the viscera, in the joints, and in the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue, and give rise to special symptoms, though some- times these symptoms are very slight, and abscesses may form without pain or other sign to draw one's attention to the part, and therefore are often over- looked until the post-mortem exammation. Where abscesses form in the lungs there is perhaps a sharp sudden pain, which possibly may arise from the lodgment of the embolic block, followed by dyspnoea, and subsequently prune-juice coloured sputum. A careful examination may discover a dull spot on percussion. When the abscess is in the liver, there may be pain under the lower ribs on the right side, and jaundice ; in the spleen, enlargement of the organ ; in the kidneys, albumen and blood in the water and the micro-organisms of suppuration. When the joints are affected they become swollen, painful, and red, and when abscesses form in the subcutaneous tissue the skin becomes red and swollen, and the swelling fluctuates. Chronic Pyaemia.—In chronic pyaemia the fever is less intense, and the disease may be protracted over weeks or months, and in some cases even years. It is frequently the result of some suppurative process about the genito-urinary organs, and occasionally occurs after parturition or abortion ; it is also not uncommon in cases of disease of bone attended with caries or necrosis. The secondary abscesses most usually attack the joints and subcutaneous tissues, more rarely the viscera. The rigors occur at long