T40 GENERAL DISEASES arterioles, but the pathology of the disease is uncertain. Upon post- mortem examination, no changes have been found in the vessels, which are apparently healthy. Many of the cases occur in neurotic females, who suffer from uterine troubles, and therefore it has been believed that the spasm is due to reflex irritation from the uterine condition; but that this cannot be the sole cause is evidenced by the fact that it occurs in young children and in boys. It shows itself in three stages, which have been named respectively, local syncope; local asphyxia; and gangrene. In the first stage, local syncope, the part, generally one or more fingers, becomes perfectly white and very cold. It ' feels dead,' and is quite insen- sitive to the prick of a needle. This may last a few minutes, or may con- tinue for an hour or two and then pass off, or it may pass into the second stage, local asphyxia, when the fingers first become swollen and red, then more and more dusky, and finally black. This condition may last for a day or more, and then pass off and leave the part exactly as it was before the attack. It may be repeated at longer or shorter intervals. Or, on the other hand, this local asphyxia may continue and terminate in the third stage, gangrene; bullae form on the surface, and a dry slough slowly forms and separates, generally not extending deeper than the skin (fig. 32). The ulcers which result are sluggish and slow to heal. The treatment must con- sist in improving the general health, and preparations of iron are especially indicated. Any uterine irregularity, if it exists, should be corrected. Warm woollen gloves should be constantly worn, and care taken not to expose anyone liable to this disease to any great cold. Raynaud advised the constant current, and this or placing the part in an electric bath is stated by some to have been followed by beneficial results. If the disease runs on to gan- grene, it must be treated on general principles, with a view to maintaining asepticity of the part. {b) Gangrene in diabetes.—Gangrene is very liable to occur in the diabetic subject, and usually occurs during middle life. There would appear to be several causes which conduce to the production of gangrene in these cases, but undoubtedly the most important is the changes which take Fig. 32.—A case of Raynaud's disease or symme- trical gangrene. (From a photograph in the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)