437 FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS a pad placed over the projection beneath an anterior angular splmt will press it into position. Passive motion must not be commenced too early for fear of stretching the soft callus and causing a return of the displace- Fractures of the shaft may be caused by either direct or indirect violence, and are of frequent occurrence. They require to be considered under two heads, viz. fractures above the insertion ot the pronator radii teres, and fractures below the insertion of this muscle, in the former class the displacement is peculiar, inasmuch as the two principal supinators, the biceps and supinator brevis, are attached to the upper fragment and the two pronators to the lower. Hence it follows that the upper fragment is in a position of supination and at the same time Hexed, while the lower fragment is in a state of pronation and drawn towards the ulna. If such a fracture is put up in the ordinary position, midway between pronation and supination, union will take place with the upper fragment fullv supinated and the lower semi-pronated, and the movements ot the wrist and hand will be materially impaired. When the fracture is below the insertion of the pronator radii teres the same extreme supination of the upper fragment is not present, as the action of the supinators is counteracted by this muscle, and therefore the fragment is in a condition midway between supination and pronation, and the fracture may be. put up in the ordinary way. The lower frao-ment is, however, drawn Fig. 146.—Fracture of the shaft of the radius, fnrrihlv inwards towards the below the insertion of the pronator radii teres, 1 Dl) ln^^ aras towai as mc ^ ■ ^^^^ displacement which takes place and ulna by the pronator quadratus ™;:;S^les by which it is caused. (From and by the supinator longus Gray's ' Anatomy.') tilting the upper end inwards, 1 • 1 -i and therefore union of the lower fragment to the ulna is the evil to contend against (fig. 146). The signs of these fractures are fixed pain, inability to rotate the bone, crepitus, and increased mobility. Irregularity in the outline of the bone can generally be detected. Treatment.—In fractures above the insertion of the pronator radii teres the hand and lower fragment must be brought into a position of supination and maintained there, since it is impossible to deal with the upper fragment and overcome its position of supination. The forearm is to be flexed to a right angle and placed on a posterior angular splint with the palm upper- most ; a short straight splint is then to be applied to the flexor surface of the forearm and the two splints bandaged. In the fracture below the insertion of the pronator radii teres the fracture may be put up in the ordinary way with two short splints, palmar and dorsal, and the forearm midway between supination and pronation, but a thick intero.sseous pad should be placed between the limb and the splint to prevent union of the lower end of the fractured bone with the ulna. d. Fracture of the lower end of the radius is generally known as Co//es' fracture; it is a fracture across the lower end of the bone, about an inch from its articular extremity. It is of common occur- rence, and occurs most frequently in women of advanced age, but may occur at any age or in either sex. It always arises from falls on the palm