8s8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS subsides, the swelling disappears, the temperature falls, and a quantity of pus is discharged per anum. Finally, the circumscribed abscess may suddenly become diffused and burst into the general peritoneal cavity, and diffuse peritonitis result. Diffuse septic peritonitis may be set up in these cases either by the bursting of a circumscribed intra-peritoneal abscess, with the symptoms above mentioned, or by perforation of the appendix, when the symptoms of peritonitis may be present from the commencement. The symptoms in these cases very much resemble those of acute intes- tinal obstruction. There is severe colicky pain; early, copious, and per- sistent vomiting, and more or less absolute constipation. The abdomen becomes distended and tympanitic, and the abdominal wall hard and rigid and tender all over, but with marked tenderness in the right iliac region, and probably dullness in this situation. The patient becomes collapsed, with great depression of strength and the ordinary general signs of peritonitis (page 809). It has been stated above that in the simpler forms of appendicitis the tendency is to recovery, but in a large number of these cases the recovery is not permanent, and the patient is liable to get a second and third attack. He apparently perfectly recovers, there is no pain and no swelling to be felt; but after a time, it may be months or years, there is another attack of exactly the same character as the first. These cases are known as relapsifig appendicitis. Treatment.—In the milder forms of appendicitis, where the temperature is not high, the treatment consists in absolute and perfect rest: the patient must be kept in bed, on his back, with his thighs flexed and supported by a pillow. The part may be smeared with belladonna and glycerine, and hot fomentations applied; the lower bowel should be emptied by a large enema, and no food, except small quantities of beef tea and milk, should be given. If the pain is very severe, opium and belladonna may be administered internally; but they are better avoided, as they tend to mask the symptoms. In a large number of cases this will be all that is necessary ; the pain will subside, and the case go on to recovery. If it does not, and the symptoms persist and the temperature rises, the question of operative interference will have to be considered. The greatest difference of opinion exists as to the propriety of operating under these circumstances. On the one hand, it is an undoubted fact that a considerable number of cases clear up, even where there is evidence of grave local mischief, without any operation ; but there is, on the other hand, the danger of the peritonitis becoming diffuse, or of the patient becoming exhausted and pro- foundly toxcemic, so that the operation undertaken at a later period of the case might result in disaster. My own opinion is that it is wiser, under these circumstances, not to decide too hurriedly upon performing an opera- tion, but rather to wait a few days, unless the pulse rate shows a tendency to increase. This is always an indication of the necessity for operation, and a rule has been laid down by Meyer that a pulse of over 120 after the first twenty-four hours calls for removal of the appendix. When the increasing pulse rate is accompanied by continuous vomiting, rigidity of the abdominal muscles, and tympanitis, the case has assumed a very grave aspect. When there is no accelerated pulse and these other symptoms are not present, we must be guided by circumstances as to whether we shall operate or not. 1 nc continuance of the symptoms and the increase in the temperature "i'^) very probably due to the disease taking on the suppurative form ; and una