1023 ATROPHY OF THE TESTICLE Treatment.—If the condition is recognised early enough the cord and testis must be exposed, and the cord untwisted. As a rule, however, the condition is not recognised until it is too late to do this, when the testicle must be removed, for if left it will either die or atrophy. Injuries of the testis and cord.—Contusions of the testicle are not uncommon, and may be caused by blows, kicks, or squeezes, or not unfrequently from a rider striking the pommel of his saddle. I'hey are attended with a very severe, sickening pain, with a considerable amount of shock, which in some cases is so severe as to lead to a fatal issue. The injury may be accompanied by laceration of the coverings of the testicle, and extravasation of blood into the tunica vaginalis (haematocele). A contusion of the testicle is often followed by orchitis, and this in its turn may give rise to atrophy, or, on the other hand, atrophy may result from a coiitusion of the testicle without any intervening inflammation. The treatment consists in keeping the patient on his back, with the testicles well raised by means of a scrotal sling, and applying hot Goulard lotion with opium. Wounds of the testicle may be either punctured, incised, or lacerated. The punctured wound is the most common, and is sometimes produced by the surgeon inadvertently sticking his trocar into the gland i:i tapping a hydrocele. It is accompanied by great pain, and may be followed by acute orchitis, but in many cases no serious harm ensues. Incised wounds, if not very deep, usually heal without any untoward symptoms ; but if the instrument which produced the wound is septic, suppuration ensues, and the tubules protruding produce a condition of hernia testis. Lacerated wounds are often produced by gunshot injuries, and are always attended with very severe shock, which may prove fatal. If the gland is quite disorganised it must be removed, otherwise it must be treated on ordinary principles. Sutures are rarely required. Hypertrophy of the testicle only occurs as a compensatory con- dition ; where one testicle has been removed, or been destroyed from any cause, or has failed to be developed, the other undergoes compensatory enlargement, and may attain twice its natural size. Atrophy of the testicle may occur in two different ways, (i) As a result of some inflammatory condition, more especially the orchitis of mumps, but also from other forms of orchitis, as the traumatic or syphilitic, the testicle may undergo a fibroid degeneration; the connec- tive tissue, which has been infiltrated with inflammatory deposits, contracts, and by its contraction presses upon and obliterates the tubules, so that at last the testicle becomes very small, hard, and nodular, and is composed of nothing but a mass of fibroid tissue, with a few scattered tubes. (2) In other instances the testicle undergoes a fatty degeneration, as the result of defective blood supply. This occurs occasionally after the operation for varicocele, and in cases of nerve lesion. The glandular structure under these circumstances undergoes fatty changes, and becomes soft, small, and flabby. A very similar condition is set up in cases of retained testis, especially if subjected to pressure. The result of atrophy, if both testicles are involved, is sterility, and the development of certain feminine characteristics, such as enlargement of the breasts and a general deposit of subcutaneous fat. This is often accompanied or succeeded by mental depression and melancholia, due, according to the views of Brown Sequard, to a want of re-absorption into the system of the testicular secretion.