SYMPTOMS OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION 35 often of considerable amount, and consists of a material which is very lowly organised, and it is very liable to undergo degenerative changes. It often leads in the first instance to great increase in size and thickening of the part, and then subsequently to diminution from contraction of the newly formed tissue. To this process is sometimes given the name of ' fibroid substitution.' Other changes which take place in the cells which infiltrate and destroy the tissues in chronic inflammation are of a degenerative nature, (i) They may undergo fatty degeneration and form a cheesy mass. This may subsequently soften and acquire irritating properties, which leads to true suppuration. (2) Or the cells may perish from inanition, become withered and filled with fat granules, and form a granular mass, which subsequently softens and Uquefies, forming a fluid which resembles pus, but in which there are no pus corpuscles. This process is known as caseation, and the collection of fluid thus formed is termed a cold abscess. (3) Again, in other cases, the mass of cells may shrink and dry up, and have lime salts deposited in it. It then forms a cretaceous mass which is harmless, and the process is known as cakificatmi. Causes of chronic inflammation.—The causes of chronic inflammation must be considered as predisposing and exciting, and of these the former are much the more important, as it is generally owing to the constitutional condition of the patient that a chronic inflammation is determined, for it is generally the result of some morbid process going on in the tissues. Thus we find that by far the most common cause of chronic inflammation is the presence of some infective disease, such as tuberculosis or syphilis, in the patient; that is to say, given some irritant, such as a slight injury, which in the healthy individual would be followed by a response, termina- ting in a few days in resolution ; in a tuberculous and syphilitic constitution it terminates in chronic inflammation, which may last an indefinite period of time and result in the most disastrous consequences. Again, certain conditions of the blood, such as rheumatism and gout, may be the pre- disposing causes of chronic inflammation. As regards the exciting causes, chronic inflammation may be said to be due to the result of an irritation of a low degree of intensity acting for a prolonged period of time. Thus the presence in the body of a foreign substance, as a bullet or a piece of dead bone, may be the exciting cause of chronic inflammation; or the obstruction of the duct of a secreting gland, or the retention of pus in some pocket or pouch after an abscess has been opened, so that it cannot readily make its escape, may act in the .same way and set up chronic inflammation. Symptoms of chronic inflammation.—The symptoms of chronic in- flammation are the same as those which are met with in the acute form— viz. pain, heat, redness, and swelling, with modification of function. But they differ in degree, and are for the most part much less marked, and some of them may be altogether absent. In fact, in chronic inflammation the condition is often recognised more by the effect it produces rather than by the signs to which it gives rise. The pain of chronic inflammation is very variable; in some instances it is very slight, and partakes more of the character of tenderness than pain ; in others it is very considerable, as in inflammation of hard, unyielding structures, such as bone or fibrous tissue. The heat is never very great, but there is always some increased heat over a chronically inflamed area, and this often becomes an important diagnostic sign. Take, for instance, a chronically inflamed knee joint in 1) 2