FOREIGN BODIES IN THE OESOPHAGUS which is acute, as in oedema of the larynx and scalded throat; it is not so applicable to cases of membranous laryngitis, when the trachea is filled with membrane. It has, however, been successfully used in cases of stenosis, after tracheotomy or ulceration of the larynx. It requires considerable skill and practice to accomplish quickly; the tube is liable to be expelled by coughing at any time, and the proceeding is not devoid of certain special risks, such as extensive ulceration and even necrosis of the cartilages, falling of the tube into the trachea or swallowing of the tube. The tube is often now left in position for three, four, or five days, but another inconvenience which follows its use is tlie difficulty which the child experiences in swallowing its food. In quite young children the act ot deglutition is accomplished most easily when the child is made to lie on its back, with the head in a dependent position. Fig. 271.—Skiagraph of a halfpenny in the oesophagus. Foreign bodies in the oesophagus.—Foreign bodies not infrequently become lodged in the oesophagus, especially in children. The most common are coins, pieces of bone, fish bones, plates of false teeth, and pins. In the majority of cases, when any hard substance is swallowed, it passes down the oesophagus into the stomach, and is then got rid of through the intestinal canal. Frequently patients will come saying that they have swallowed a foreign body, and they can feel it sticking in the oesophagus. The sensation is produced by some slight scratching or injury to the mucous membrane, the foreign body having passed downwards into the stomach; but in some cases it may be lodged in the oesophagus, and is then generally impacted about the level of the cricoid cartilage just beyond the reach of the finger, though it may become fixed at a much lower level, just above the cardiac orifice of the stomach. Frequently where the body is smooth, and especially in the case of coins, it may give _ rise at first to very few symptoms, and therefore these cases should not be lightly regarded.