TUMOURS OF THE THYROID 739 removal of one lobe, and it is stated that good results have followed this proceeding. The dangers, however, attending operative interference are very great, for not only is the hnemorrhage often excessive, but patients have been known to die comatose within forty-eight hours after the opera- tion ; it is believed from excessive thyroid toxjemia. In addition to this, patients who are the subjects of exophthalmic goitre take anesthetics very badly. The operation, therefore, ought not to be undertaken lightly or without the gravest consideration. Jaboulay recommends in these cases division of the cervical sym- pathetics, and cases have been recorded of favourable results following this operation. A long incision is made down the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid ; the muscle, with the internal jugular vein and common carotid artery, is drawn forward, the cord of the sympathetic exposed, and the middle cervical ganglion removed. The operation is repeated on the opposite side. Acute goitre.—Goitre is usually a very chronic condition, the enlargement occurring very slowly and gradually, but it is necessary to mention that occasionally, especially in young children, the enlargement may be very rapid, and these cases are known as acute goitre. They are of especial interest because the enlargement is so rapid that the fasciae of the neck have not time to stretch, and there is danger of asphyxia from pressure on the trachea. In these cases, should sudden dyspnoea set in the surgeon must be prepared to perform tracheotomy. An incision must be made in the middle line, and the isthmus exposed. This should be divided between two ligatures and the trachea opened, a long tracheotomy tube being introduced, so as to extend beyond the level of the gland. _ Inflammation of the thyroid.—This usually arises from the infection of pyaemia, but may also arise as the result of an injury. It is a rare condition, and generally occurs in those cases where the gland is already chronically enlarged. The symptoms are those of ordinary inflam- mation - sxN-^lhng of the gland, with acute pain, heat and redness of the skin over It. There is usually considerable constitutional disturbance, attended by a rigor when suppuration takes place, as it frequently does. The treatment in the early stage consists in keeping the patient in bed, hot fomentations, and careful dieting. If suppu- ration is suspected, an incision should be made. As this is often attended with very pro- fuse haemorrhage in those cases where the pus is deeply seated in the gland, after the super- naal structures have been in- cised, the gland tissue should be perforated with a Paquelin's cautery. Tumours of the thy- roid (fig. 285).-A large num- o^fh '^^i ''^^ formerly regarded as parenchymatous enlargement "I tne thyroid body is now known to be adenomatous enlargement; that c^nrh.^'n-'' ''^^'enomatous growth, starting in one part of the gland, which braciualiy spreads until it involves the whole organ ; and this cannot be 3 U 2 Fig. 2S5.—Cystic adenoma of the thyroid gland. (From the Museum of St. George's Hospital.)