1094 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF SPECIAL ORGANS closely fixed to the underlying tissues. It is almost painless, and the general health does hot suffer. Scirrhus en cuirasse.—A peculiar form of scirrhus is sometimes met with in which the disease, beginning in the gland tissues, implicates the skin, and seems to exert all its influence on disseminating itself in this structure, the disease in the breast not making great inroads, and, in fact, in some cases undergoing an atrophying process. The skin covering the breast, and for some distance around, becomes thickened and indurated, so that it is impossible to wrinkle it. The pores become enlarged, so as to be visible to the naked eye, and give it the appearance of being covered all over with pin-holes. This, from its resemblance to the skin of a pig, is known as 'pigskin.' There is at first no discolouration, and this may continue throughout, but after a time the skin may become discoloured, brownish, or purple. Its surface may become covered with crusts or scabs, from the drying of an abundant secretion, which takes place from the surface, but there is no ulceration. The disease may extend until the whole of the front of the chest is covered with a hard, leathery, indurated skin, and during the whole of this process there has been no extension of the disease in the breast. It is very chronic, and is due to an extension of the disease along the cutaneous lymphatics, but, in spite of this, the lymphatic glands only become infected at a late period of the disease, and the general health is not nearly so early affected as in the ordinary form of cancer of the breast. In fact, it is no uncommon thing to see a woman who has been suffering from cancer en cuirasse, even for years, stout, red- faced, and apparently in the enjoyment of perfect health. b. Duct cancer.—The other form of cancer which attacks the breast takes its origin in connection with the ducts of the gland. The disease begins as papillomatous growths in a duct (page 1089). These increase and fill the cavity in which they originate, and then, finding their way through the wall of the duct, spread as an infective growth. These papillary growths are very vascular, and are covered with columnar epitheliuin, and the disease may be regarded as a columnar carcinoma, beginning in the columnar epithelium of the ducts, and the disease spreads by the advance of their proliferated epithelium into surrounding structures. To the naked eye the growth bears some resemblance to soft cancer, but differs from it in presenting numerous minute cystic cavities, partly formed by the dilata- tion and obstruction of the ducts, and partly due to the coalescence of papillary processes enclosing spaces. These cystic cavities are often filled with altered blood, from giving way of the vessels of the vascular papillae. Microscopically the tumour consists of spaces lined by columnar epithelium, held together by a fibrous stroma, and containing villous processes, also covered by columnar epithelium. Duct cancer usually occurs in the breasts of elderly females. It is characterised at first by the sign of duct papilloma, a bloody discharge from the nipple. This is followed by the appearance of a small tumour, generally towards the centre of the breast, beneath the areola. The swelling is rounded, and the skin over it often dusky red. The tumour as a rule grows slowly and does not often attain a large size. It is usually moderately hard, but may sometimes present softish projections from it, like cysts. The nipple is not retracted, and the axillary glands are not always implicated. The disease is not so malignant as the acinous form, but local recurrence may take place after removal, in many cases the diagnosis can only be made by microscopic examination