ETIOLOGY OF SUPPURATION 113 consist of a mass of nucleated protoplasm without any cell wall The protoplasm is coarsely granular, and contams a large nuinber of highly refracting particles—fat granules-especially in old pus, which may corn- pletely obscure the nucleus. On the addition of acetic acid this body becomes visible, and in the typical cell is seen to be a lobed or tripartite body with- ^ ^ out nucleolus (fig. 23). ^ !1 ^ Etiology of suppuration.—I have said ^ f j|) t^) that suppuration may be regarded as being ^ ^ ^ due to the continuance of an inflammation, W ^ and the essential cause of this continuance is the presence of micro-organisms of a yig. 23.—Pus cells. Those on the specific nature, to which the term pyogenic left-hand side of the diagi-am are is eiven These organisms are constantly ' before the addition of acetic acid ; fou^d in the pus of acute suppurations 3S?„ o"f .Er-Sf' not only free in the hquor puns, but also embedded in the protoplasm of the pus , • • 1 cells They present considerable variety, but there are three principal ones which are the most common and which it will be sufficient to describe in this place. The others, such as the micrococcus pyogenes tenuis, the bacillus foetidus and pyocyaneus or organism of blue pus, would appear to be less virulent and to occur much more rarely. Of the three principal varieties, two belong to the class of Staphylococci and one to the class ot Streptococci. , . . , The Staphylococci consist of organisms heaped together in an irregular mass, and have received their name from their fancied resemblance to a bunch of grapes. The two principal varieties which are concerned in the production of pus are S. pyogenes aureus and the S. pyogenes albus, and they are distinguished by the colour which they produce under artificial cultivation. They give rise to localised suppurations, and therefore may be regarded as the causal agent of acute circumscribed abscesses. The S. pyogenes aureus is more commonly met with than the albus. The Streptococci are found in about 16 per cent, of all acute suppurations. They tend to arrange themselves in the form of a chain, and hence their name. They spread widely along the lymph spaces and give rise to diffused suppuration, and therefore are always present in the diffuse suppuration of cellular tissue. The pyogenic organisms may find their way to the part by several different routes. If there is an open wound they may be introduced from without, either from the air, or the water which has been used to bathe the wound, or, what is more probable, from the skin of the patient or the hands of those who have touched the wound. If there is no wound, the micro-organisms may be conducted to the inflamed part in different ways : they may effect an entrance through the alimentary canal or air passages, and be carried by the blood to the part; or they may find their way into the lymph stream, through some accidental abrasion of the skin, and be carried by it to the affected part; or finally, as in mammary abscess, they may find their way down the ducts which open on the surface of the body. ^Ve have now to say a word or two on the part these organisms take in causing suppuration. Having reached the inflamed part, where the tissues have been vitiated and weakened by the inflammatory process which has been going on, they find a condition of things which is favourable to their growth; for it must be mentioned that though suppuration cannot occur