2 Dr. Finlayson—Eponymic Structures in Anatomy. fragments of Herophilus collected by Marx, and went on to the works of living men. Marks were often inserted in the volumes where the structures were described or delineated. The volumes arranged in this way gave a vivid idea of the progress of anatomy; and the illustrations were, of course, of very special interest to those who had never seen them before. So much labour had been expended on this demonstration that it seemed desirable to expend a little more in making the list even more complete, so that it might be published for the use of others, although, no doubt, the sight of the books and plates was really the specialty of the demonstration. In printing this list, an alphabetical rather than a chrono- logical order seemed to be more useful and practicable. The dates given are those of the birth and death when these were ascertained. In the case of living authors, a dash (—) after the date of birth indicates that death had not occurred, or was not known to have occurred. In some cases, only the date of birth or of death was known; in others, the date of graduation was all that was available; in a few, the date of the paper concerned with the name of the structure was the ■only clue; or perhaps the date of a professorial appointment. In some cases, the nationality as judged by birth is different from that acquired by residence or professorial duties—in a few cases this correction has been added when it was known. Indications of the locality of some of the less known structures have been added in brackets to aid the memory of the reader, or to guide him; but no attempt, of course, at precise definition is made in such a list. The structures included in the list are those only which pertain to human anatomy. Purely microscopic terms, and those found only in comparative anatomy and embryology, and many terms in anthropology, have been omitted; but the line of demarcation cannot be drawn absolutely, and the general interest or currency of the term has determined the inclusion of some names near the border line. The data here given, however bald they may seem, are not always readily obtained; very possibty errors of various