,.x LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden A Uf\] 0 ■ linn 06022704398MSC 550 870804 London oorough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library Tel: 01 278 4444 88 Avenue Road Extensions: LONDON Book Renewals 3021 NW3 3HA Lending Library 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538591'Breakfast Dishes A Breakfast Dish for every day in the year Selected from MRS. LINCOLN, MRS. LEMCKE, TABLE TALK, BOSTON COOKING SCHOOL MAGAZINE AND OTHERS LONDON DEAN & SON, LIMITED 160 A, FLEET STREETHDRAWN FROM CAMDEN PUBLIC LIBRARIES Entered at Stationers* Hal) All Rights Reserved Copyrighted and Printed in U. S. A, 64-1 T870804 17 A if f'‘Sc)1 JANUARY,; i.—Pork Chops, Sauce Robert. Take 8 or 9 rib chops, and trim them neatly; have ready some finely chopped onion and parsley, sprinkle each chop on both sides with this, also salt and pepper, and beat lightly with a broad knife or wooden paddle, to make all adhere. Dip each one into slightly beaten egg, then roll in fine bread crumbs; let stand for 5 minutes, then dip into melted butter, and roll again in the crumbs. Arrange in a wire broiler and broil for from five to seven minutes over a clear fire. Chop fine 2 large onions, place in a stewpan with 1 tablespoonful of butter, and cook very slowly until well colored; add 1 tablespoonful of flour and stir and brown again, then add slowly 1 y2 cups of beef stock, and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. When smooth and thick simmer until re- duced to 1 cupful, then add 1 scant tea-January. 2 spoonful of mixed mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Pour this around the chops as they are dished.—From “Table Talk,” Philadel- phia. 2.—Creamed Oysters. One pt. of cream, i qt. of oysters, a slice of onion, a tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste and a pinch of mace. Let the cream with the mace and onion come to a boil. Mix the flour with a little cold water, and stir it into the boiling cream. Let the oysters come to a boil in their own liquor, drain off all the liquor, and turn the oysters into the cream, and serve with strips of toast. 3.—Breakfast Chicken. Cut the chicken in pieces as for fricassee. Dip the pieces in beaten egg, and then in fine bread crumbs. Season with pepper, salt and a very little fine sage (if you like the flavor). Put them in the dripping-pan with bits of butter over them, and a little water in the pan. Bake slowly until they are done. Make a rich gravy in the dripping-pan after the chicken is taken out.January, 4.—Lobster Cutlets. Boil a lobster, keep the fat and coral by themselves. Chop the meat fine; rub it still finer with a wooden spoon ; moisten it with a tablespoonful of butter, and cream enough to make it moist; add a handful of bread crumbs; season with mace, salt and pepper. Make it into shape, roll in egg and cracker dust, and fry in hot fat. Make a sauce of the green and white fat with the coral rubbed very fine, to give it color, and smooth it with a tablespoonful of butter; season with mace and pepper. Have a gill of drawn butter in a cup set in hot water; stir the lobster mix- ture into the drawn butter; heat it hot, but do not let it boil; add the juice of half a lemon the last thing. Put the cutlets on a hot dish and pour the sauce around them. 5.—Liver and Bacon. Saute the liver in a little bacon fat, and when done make a little gravy from it with flour and hot water. Heat a clean pan, drop in slices of bacon of wafer-like thickness. If the pan is very hot they will curl up into rolls,January. 4 and by turning with a fork will be brown in a few minutes. Arrange around the liver and add a garnish of parsley. 6.—Beef Heart Saute. Soak a beef heart in cold water for an hour, changing the water several times in order to draw out all the blood. Cover with boiling water, add i teaspoonful of salt and simmer gently until tender, which will re- quire about two hours. Take out and set aside until cold. Cut into half inch slices and with a sharp knife cut out the tough muscle in the centre. Dip each slice into slightly beaten egg, with which has been mixed a little salt and pepper, half a tea- spoonful of onion juice and 2 teaspoonfuls of warm water; roll in dry bread crumbs and let stand ten minutes. Fry golden brown in deep fat. In a frying-pan melt 1 table- spoonful of butter; when brown add 1 table- spoonful of flour and brown again. Add gradually ^ of a cupful of the water in which the heart was cooked, ^ of a cupful of the vinegar from piccalilli and 1 table- spoonful of the pickle chopped fine, salt and pepper to taste. Simmer 2 or 3 minutes andJanuary. serve separately.—From “ Table Talk,” Phil- adelphia. 7.—Poached Eggs on Toast, No. i. Put as many muffin rings in a frying-pan as you require. Fill the pan with salted boiling water. Drop an egg into each ring being careful not to break the yolk. Cook for three minutes. Have the bread cut in fancy rounds before toasting; when the eggs are done slip one on to each piece of toast and serve. 8.—Sausage and Apple. Prick the skin of the sausage many times, then let simmer in a frying-pan fifteen minutes, drain and brown in the oven. Make a syrup of i cup each of sugar and water, and in it cook pared apples, cut lattice fashion a few at a time to preserve the shape. Serve the sausage on the apple.—From “The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 9.—Fried Smelt. Clean, wash and dry the fish with a soft towel. Dip each fish in egg (well beaten with 1 tablespoonful of hot water) then in fine breadJanuary, 6 crumbs, and fry in smoking hot oil. When done and brown lift and place on soft brown paper to drain. Dust with salt and serve. io.—Fricassee of Rabbit. Cut a young rabbit into joints in the same way that you cut up chicken and wipe each piece well with a damp cloth. Cut up fine of a lb. of fat salt pork (or bacon) and try it out; add 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of flour and mix well; then add slowly i scant qt. of boiling water, stirring until thick and smooth. Add to this the rabbit, 2 dozen peeled button onions, 1 scant teaspoonful of salt, '/$ of a teaspoonful of white pepper and a bouquet made of a stalk of celery, 4 sprigs of parsley, y2 a bay leaf, 4 cloves and a blade of mace; cover and simmer until the rabbit is tender. Skim off the fat once during this time and again when the meat is done, then draw to the side of the fire, add.)^ a cupful of cream mixed with the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, stir for a moment and take from the fire. Arrange the meat on a platter, pour some of the gravy around it and sprinkle with chopped parsley. —From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia,January. 7 ii.—Ham Steak. Put slices of raw ham in a frying-pan with ]/2 a cupful of water to make them tender. When the water has boiled out and the ham is a light brown on both sides, dust with flour and pour on the following dressing, previ- ously made : A cup of milk and cream mixed, a little butter, teaspoonful of mustard, cayenne pepper. As soon as it boils serve. 12.—Minced Veal Moulded. Mince about ^ of a pound of cold veal very fine; chop a small slice of bacon ; mix well together; add ]/2 an onion chopped very fine and browned in a little butter; salt, pepper, minced lemon peel and a slice of toast soaked in milk. When thoroughly blended, beat up an egg, and add it to the rest. Butter a mould, and put in the meat, and bake half an hour. Turn out and serve with a good brown gravy. 13.—Bacon and Apples. Core and peel the apples and cut into y2 inch slices. Cut the same amount of bacon into very thin slices. Fry the bacon in its ownJanuary, 8 fat until crisp and put it on a hot dish. Fry the apple in the bacon fat until a light brown and arrange around the bacon. Serve very hot. 14.—Scrambled Mutton. Two cupfuls of cold minced mutton, a small piece of butter and 2 tablespoonfuls of hot water. Heat until hot, and then break in 3 eggs, and stir until the eggs begin to set. Add salt and pepper to taste. 15.—Hamburg Steak. Two lbs. of the round of beef chopped very fine; press it into a flat steak, sprinkle with salt and pepper and a little onion juice; flour it lightly and broil the same as beefsteak. Make a brown gravy with a little soup stock ; thicken with flour. 16.—Scalloped Oysters. Take the oysters contained in two qts. and wash them in their own liquor to remove any particles of shell; roll twelve soda crackers very fine; butter a deep dish, and put in a layer of cracker, a layer of oysters, a little mace and pepper; then cover it with bits ofJanuary.. 9 butter, then repeat until the dish is full; pour a cupful of oyster liquor over it, and lastly, cracker crumbs and bits of butter. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 17.—Beefsteak and Mushrooms. Broil the steak about 12 minutes, turning often. When done, lay it on a hot platter. Put 1 tablespoonful of flour and 1 tablespoon- ful of butter in a pan, and cook and stir un- til a golden brown; add 1 y2 cups of boiling water, a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, and y2 a can of mushrooms; season with salt and pepper, and boil 15 minutes; pour around the steak and serve. 18.—Creamed Chicken, Potatoes and Peppers. Saut6 half a green pepper in 3 tablespoon- fuls of butter five or six minutes. Add 3 tablespoonfuls of flour and half a teaspoonful of salt. When frothy, add gradually a cup of chicken stock and half a cup of cream ; stir until smooth and at the boiling point, then set over hot water and heat in the sauce 1 cup of chicken cut in cubes and half a cup ofJanuary, 10 cold cooked potatoes, also cut in cubes.— From “ The Boston Cooking School Maga- zine.” 19.—Scallops Saute. Use large scallops for this recipe. Wash and scald them for five minutes, then drain, dry and dip them into milk and roll in flour, or use egg and bread crumbs. They should be quickly sauted in a little butter and serve with lemon. 20.—Lamb Chops and Hominy Hearts. Have the chops cut thick; dust with salt and pepper, and broil over a quick fire; pile neatly on a hot platter, and put a very small bit of butter on each one. Hominy hearts are made by packing boiled hominy very closely in a bread pan; then when cold cut in thick slices, and then cut again with a heart-shaped cutter ; fry in hot fat and serve around the chops. 21.—Plain Omelet. Beat the whites of 5 eggs to a stiff froth. Beat the yolks light, and add a spoonful of the beaten whites to make them more frothy; add *4 a teaspoonful of salt and a little pep-January. 11 per, and cut in well together. Put a table- spoonful of butter in a frying-pan, and when quite hot, turn in the eggs. Cook about a minute on the stove, and then for about 5 minutes in the oven. Take the pan out and slip a knife under the omelet to loosen it, and fold over and send to the table at once. 22.—Steak a la Bordelaise. Brown 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and brown again; then stir in gradually 1 pt. of good beef stock. When thick and smooth, add 3 tablespoon- fuls of chopped raw ham, a bay leaf and 1 tablespoonful of chopped onion. Cover and simmer gently for an hour, then strain. Add salt and pepper to taste, x tablespoonful of tomato catsup and y2 of a cupful of finely chopped canned or fresh mushrooms, and keep hot at the side of the fire. Broil a sir- loin steak, arrange on a hot platter, and pour the sauce around it.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 23.—Spaghetti and Ham Timbales. Into a large kettle of rapidly boiling water plunge y of a pound of spaghetti, bendingJanuary. 12 the long sticks round in the kettle as they soften. Cook at a quick boil until tender, about twenty minutes, then drain, rinse and place in a bowl of cold water until chilled. Drain; with a sharp knife cut into y2 inch pieces. Put through a meat chopper suffi- cient cold boiled ham to measure i cupful and mix it with two cupfuls of the prepared spaghetti. Make a thick cream sauce with one heaping tablespoonful each of butter and flour, and i scant cup of milk. Season highly with salt and cayenne, y2 a teaspoonful of onion juice and a grate of nutmeg. When partly cool mix with it the spaghetti, ham and stiffly beaten whites of 4 eggs. Fill well buttered timbale moulds and steam until firm in the centre. Serve with tomato or cream sauce.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 24.—Dropped Codfish Balls. One pint of raw fish, 2 pints of pared po- tatoes, 2 eggs, butter size of an egg, a little white pepper. Pick up the fish very fine, measure lightly in a pint bowl; put the po- tatoes into the boiler; put the fish on top of them ; boil half an hour; drain off all the water, and mash fish and potatoes togetherJanuary. until very fine and light; add the butter, pep- per and the egg well beaten. Have a deep ket- tle of boiling fat; take up a spoonful of the mixture, shape it carefully, and drop into the hot fat; two minutes will brown it. Have the fat very hot and don’t crowd the balls. Dip the spoon in the fat every time you take up a spoonful of the mixture. 25.—Beefsteak and Onions. Broil the steak over the fire, being careful to turn it often ; after it is cooked place on a hot platter and put in the oven with little dabs of butter on it. Put two ozs. of very finely chopped suet in a frying-pan and fry a light brown ; into that put 3 onions sliced very fine. Cover the pan and cook until tender, then remove the cover and continue the cook- ing until the onions are a light brown. In serving pour the onions and gravy over the steak. 26.—Broiled Oysters. Use large oysters. Wash and dry them on a soft towel. Dip each oyster into melted butter and roll in cracker crumbs. Lay them in an oyster broiler. Dredge lightly with salt i:sJanuary. 14 and pepper and broil over a clear fire. Serve on toast. 27.—Beef Croquettes. To 1 cupful of chopped cold beef, add 2 of mashed potatoes, beat an egg and work it into the beef and potato; form it into croquettes and fry in hot fat. Garnish with parsley. 28.—Baked Scallops. Scald the scallops for five minutes and drain. Cook 1 tablespoonful of chopped onion in 1 tablespoonful of butter until tender, add of a cupful of chopped mushrooms and cook until all begin to color; then add 1 pt. of cream sauce, the drained scallops (1 qt.) and a high seasoning of salt and pepper. Turn into a shallow baking dish, sprinkle with crumbs (which have been browned in a little butter) and place in a hot oven for ten minutes.—From “TableTalk,” Philadelphia. 29.—Mrs. Clay’s Beefsteak Pie. (A Bermuda Recipe.) Three pounds of lean steak will make a good sized pie. Cut it into strips 3 inchesJanuary, 15 long and 4 inched thick; put it to stew in suf- ficient boiling water so that it does not cover the meat. After stewing slowly y2 an hour, add sweet thyme and parsley chopped fine, pepper and plenty of onion cut in thin slices. After the seasoning is added, continue stew- ing until the meat is very tender. Now add cornstarch to make the gravy as thick as cream, adding at the same time salt and Worcestershire sauce. Have ready 6 hard- boiled eggs sliced and place them in alternate layers with the meat in a pie dish; pour the gravy over all, cover with pastry and bake. 30.—Veal Souffle. To every pint of finely chopped cold veal, allow 1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 cups of cream or milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 2 eggs and y2 a cup of bread crumbs. Melt the butter without browning ; add the flour and stir until smooth, add the milk or cream ; stir until it thickens. Then add the bread crumbs and cook about 3 minutes. Just before taking from the fire, add the yolks of the eggs. Mix well. Take from the fire, add the veal, 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of salt and 2 or 3 dashes ofJanuary. 16 pepper. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth; add the mixture carefully. Turn into a greased baking dish and bake for 20 minutes in a quick oven.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 31.—Mutton Cecils. To 1 pt. of chopped cold mutton, allow the yolks of two eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 tablespoonful of bread crumbs, 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Mix all the ingredients together, and stir over the fire in a saucepan, until heated through. When cold form into small round balls; dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia.17 FEBRUARY,. i.—Eggs in Boxes. Cut slices of bread iy2 inches thick; trim them off neatly and scoop out the centre to make a box. Dip them in beaten egg and fry them in hot fat until a light brown. Drain on brown paper. Into each of these boxes drop an egg, dust lightly with salt and cook them in the oven for 2 or 3 minutes. 2.—Hashed Brown Potatoes and Bacon. Slice the bacon very thin and lay on the ice for half an hour to make it crisp. Chop fine 1 pint of cold boiled potatoes; season with a little salt and pepper. Into a frying- pan put a tablespoonful of butter; when it is hot add the potatoes. Turn them until they begin to brown. Have a border mould but- tered and heated hot; pack the potatoes tightly into it and put into the oven for 10 orFebruary, 18 15 minutes. Broil the bacon quickly and when the potatoes are done turn out on a platter and put the bacon in the centre. 3.—Chicken Souffle. Make x cup of cream sauce and season with parsley chopped fine and a little onion juice. Stir into this ^ cup of chopped chicken and 34 cup of chopped mushrooms. When it is hot add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Cook one minute and put away to cool. When cool stir in the whites of the eggs well beaten. Bake 20 minutes in a buttered dish. 4.—Eggs Baked With Cheese. In a flat earthen dish melt 1 teaspoonful of butter and let it run over the bottom of the dish. Cover with thin slices of cheese and dust with white pepper and a little salt. Break in carefully as many eggs as the dish will hold and place in a hot oven until the whites are set; then serve at once.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 5.—Sweetbreads a la Newburg. Heat 1 cup of cream, add 1^ cups of sweetbreads parboiled, cooled and cut inFebruary. 19 cubes. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs ; add a scant y teaspoonful of salt and a few grains of cayenne; dilute with y of a cup of sherry, and stir into the cream. Stir until thickened slightly then serve at once.—From “ The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 6.—Salt Codfish in Egg Cups. Let salt codfish picked in bits (not shred- ded) stand over night or some hours in cold water, then drain and wring out all the water. To each y of a cup of fish add y a cup of cream or thin white sauce and a beaten egg. Turn into a buttered cup, egg stirrer or poacher, and cook standing in hot water until nearly firm. The water should not boil. Serve in the cup or turn out as de- sired.—From “The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 7.—Tripe a la Lyonnaise. Cut 2 lbs. of tripe into thin strips. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan ; when hot add a slice of onion and fry until a light brown. Then turn in the tripe, add a little salt and pepper. Cook gently until tender. Thicken the gravy with a little Hour.February. 20 8.—Beef and Rice Croquettes. One pt. of cold chopped beef, i pt. of boiled rice, i teaspoon celery salt, ]/2 cup of chopped celery. Mix these together and add i beaten egg and enough cream sauce to mois- ten them. After this mixture is cold form into croquettes and fry in deep fat. 9. —Curried Mutton. Cut 1 lb. of cold cooked mutton in slices. Brown 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, add 2 tablespoon- fuls of curry powder, and 1 saltspoonful of salt; stir all well together over the fire. Add the slices of mutton and enough stock to make the sauce of the consistency of rich cream. 10. —Columbus Eggs. Remove the shell from 6 hard-boiled eggs. Take a small slice off the end of each so it will stand upright. Make a cream sauce with 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour; mix until smooth; add 1 cup of cream or milk, dash of cayenne and pinch of salt. Stir until it boils and thickens. Stand the eggs on rounds of toasted bread. Pour the sauce around and serve.February, ii.—Chicken in Rolls. Take as many round baker’s rolls as there are persons to serve. Cut a slice off the top and scoop out all the inside, leaving just the crust. Crumb the inside very fine, and fry in a little melted butter. Add to this i cup of cream sauce and as much chopped chicken as will fill the rolls. Season with cayenne and salt. Fill the rolls with this mixture and put i slice of hard-boiled egg on the top of each. Serve very hot. 12.—Dried Beef. Cut dried beef very thin; cover with hot water to take out the salt; throw this water away, and put the beef into a saucepan with boiling water; let it simmer on the stove a few minutes; add a little butter. Put the beef on slices of toast and pour a thin tomato sauce over them. 13.—Sweet Potato Boulettes and Bacon. Boil and mash the sweet potatoes; add a little salt and pepper and 1 tablespoonful of butter to each pt., mixing while hot. Mould into small round balls and fry in deep hot fat. Drain for a moment on brown paper. Then 21 VFebruary. 22 pile them neatly on a dish, and serve bacon cooked crisp around them. 14.—Valentine Toast. Cut bread into heart-shaped slices with a cutter; toast a light brown and butter very slightly. Cut slices of calves’ liver into ]/2 inch slices, cut with the heart-shaped cutter. Roll them in flour and salt slightly; fry them in 1 tablespoonful of butter and a little onion juice; serve 1 liver heart on each heart of toast; thicken the gravy and pour around. 15.—Oyster Omelet. Beat 6 eggs very light, and to them add a cup of sweet cream, salt and pepper to taste, and pour the mixture into a well greased frying-pan, with 1 tablespoonful of butter; chop fine 12 large oysters and a few sprigs of parsley; add this to the egg mixture; cook until done, then fold over and serve. 16.—Fricassee of Cold Beef. Cut the beef into very thin slices ; season with pepper and salt; shred an onion very fine, also some parsley; put all together in a stewpan with a piece of butter and ^ of aFebruary. 23 pt. of stock. Let all simmer together slowly, then stir in the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a wine-glass of cooking wine. Stir briskly on the fire and turn into a hot dish. The broth should be warmed before the meat is put in. 17. —Brown Stew. Two lbs. of veal from the knuckle or the breast. Cut the meat into bits and roll in flour. Put 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped veal suet into a pan; when hot, put in the meat and stir constantly until lightly browned. Draw the bits to one side, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat, mix and add 1 pt. of water; stir constantly until it boils; add a teaspoon- ful of salt, a dash of pepper, a slice of onion, a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet and a bay leaf. Cover and simmer gently an hour.— From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 18. —Shirred Eggs. Break an egg into a buttered cup ; set the cup in hot water into the oven, and cook un- til the yolk is set. Serve in the cup. The cup may be lined with bread crumbs, mixedFebruary, 24 with cream and seasoned before the egg is put into it. Cover the top of the egg with more mixture and cook as before. Serve one for each person.—From “The Boston Cook- ing School Magazine.” 19.—Chicken Baked with Rice. Cut cold chicken in pieces. Cover the bottom of a baking dish with cold boiled rice, a layer of chicken, and then dust with celery salt; then more lice, chicken and salt, until the dish is full. Cover with a cup of chicken stock if you have it, or white cream sauce. Cover the top with the yolk of a well beaten egg ; bake in the oven about y2 an hour. 20.—Veal Cutlets. Cut the cutlets in pieces about 4 inches square ; dip them in egg and then in crumbs ; fry for about five minutes. Have a pan of boiling water on the stove. Put the cutlets carefully into this, and let them simmer for about y or y of an hour. Then dish and serve with bits of lemon. They will be very tender and delicate done in this way.February. 21.—Curried Eggs. Cut 6 hard-boiled eggs in slices; make a curry sauce with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 of flour, 1 oz. of curry powder; stir until the flour is cooked; then add 1 cupful of stock; let it come to a boil. Put into it the slices of egg, and pour all over rounds of toasted bread. 22.—Chuck Steak Fried with Tomato Sauce. Place a frying-pan over the fire; add enough suet to grease the pan; cut a 2^ pounds chuck steak into 6 pieces; let the pan get very hot; put in the steak; fry 4 minutes on each side. Place the steak on a hot dish, season with salt and pepper, pour over 1 pt. of tomato sauce. Tomato Sauce a la Franqaise.—Place a small saucepan with 1 tablespoonful of butter or poultry fat over the fire ; add 2 tablespoonfuls fine cut carrots, 1 fine cut onion, a bay leaf, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 6 whole peppers, 1 sprig of thyme; stir and cook 10 minutes; add 1 tablespoonful of flour and cook 2 min- utes ; add a can of tomatoes, 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 even teaspoonful pepper, 1 teaspoonful sugar; 25 C y> p <February. cook slowly io minutes, stirring constantly, then strain and serve.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 23.—Fillets of Fish, Ambassador Style. Remove the fillets from 2 or 3 small flounders and cut into small pieces. Put the head and trimming an onion and half a carrot, sliced, a stalk of celery, sprig of parsley and thyme and six peppercorns, over the fire in water to cover. Let boil, then simmer about an hour; drain off the broth and set aside. Put the pieces of fish in a gratin dish, sprinkle with salt and lemon juice, add 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of water and cook 10 or 12 minutes in the oven. Then cover with a sauce made of 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, 2y? tablespoonfuls of flour, y of a teaspoonful of salt, 1 cup of fish stock, and y of a cup of cream. Flavor with 1 teaspoon- ful of essence of anchovy and the juice of y2 a lemon. Sprinkle over the sauce 4 table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese (or use American cheese) and return the dish to the oven to melt the cheese. Decorate the dish with a circle of bread croutons (fried) dusted with more of the cheese.—From “ The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 2(5February. 27 24.—Nests (eggs). For 6 people use 6 eggs. Toast 6 slices of bread cut neatly in rounds. Beat the yolks of the eggs (slightly salted) very light, heap in a circle on the toast, put y2 a teaspoonful of melted butter in the centre and drop the whole yolk of one egg in the middle of each. Put them in the oven until the whites are slightly browned. 25.—Lamb Croquettes. Place a saucepan with 2 ozs. of butter and 1 finely chopped onion over the fire, cook 5 minutes, add 1 heaping tablespoonful flour; stir and cook 2 minutes; add 1 cupful of boil- ing milk, a small bouquet, 1 even teaspoon- ful salt, y2 even teaspoonful white pepper; cook 5 minutes, remove the bouquet; add 1 pt. of finely-minced cooked lamb, y2 cupful of finely-minced mushrooms, and table- spoonful finely-minced parsley; cook 10 minutes; add the yolks of 3 eggs; turn the mixture into shallow tin plates and set aside to cool. When ready to cook form the prep- aration into cork-shaped croquettes, dip them in beaten egg, then roll in grated bread crumbs and fry in hot fat to a delicate brown.February, 28 Serve with bechamel sauce. Bechamel Sauce.—Place a saucepan with i table- spoonful butter over the fire; add i table- spoonful flour, and stir for 5 minutes; then add 2 cups of boiling milk, season with y2 teaspoonful nutmeg, 1 even teaspoonful salt, a small bouquet, 6 whole peppercorns, y2 cup- ful mushroom liquor; boil 10 minutes; strain and serve.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 26.—Frankfurter Sausage. Put the sausage in a saucepan of boiling water; draw the saucepan to the side of the stove, and let them remain 10 minutes with- out boiling, then serve.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 27.—Oysters and Celery on Toast. Cut into y2 inch pieces sufficient celery to make 1 pint; the coarser pieces maybe used. Pick over 1 solid pint of small oysters, rinse in cold water and drain well. Put the celery in a small saucepan ; add just sufficient boil- ing water to cover and y of a teaspoonful of salt and boil rapidly until tender, about 12 minutes. In a second saucepan melt together 1 tablespoonful each of butter and flour; drain off, measure and add the water in whichFebruary. 29 the celery was cooked ; if there is not i cup- ful make up the deficiency with milk. Stir until smooth and thick, add seasoning to taste, the celery and the drained oysters. Simmer until the oysters are plumped and gills ruffled ; add 3 tablespoonfuls of hot cream, take at once from the fire. Pour over thin slices of buttered toast which have been spread on a hot platter and garnish with blanched celery tips.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 28.—Veal Scallop. Make a white sauce with the proportions of 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 of flour, y2 a cup of broth and a cup of milk or cream. Season to taste. Grease a baking dish and fill with alternate layers of finely chopped and seasoned veal, bread crumbs and sauce. Because of the bread crumbs which should be used in thin layers, there should be a pint of sauce to every cup of the veal used. The top layer should be of bread crumbs mixed smooth with the yolk of 1 egg, 2 tablespoon- fuls of milk and 1 of butter melted. Cover the baking dish and bake in a moderate oven for 35 minutes. Take off the cover and serve at once.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia.30 MARCH; i.—Wine Croquettes (Chicken). Put Yz a cupful of rice into a farina boiler and cook until soft and dry. Stir into this a tablespoonful of butter, then turn out on a dish to cool. Meanwhile, put the minced chicken into a saucepan with y2 a cupful of water and season to taste. Into the cold rice beat 2 raw eggs and mix into the chicken when it (the chicken) is very hot, to which add a good tablespoonful of good sherry wine. Make into oblong rolls. Dip each in Hour, then in beaten egg, and lastly in cracker dust. Fry to a golden brown and serve with a sauce made up of 1 wine-glass full of sherry; a piece of butter the size of an egg. To this add finely chopped parsley and pour over the croquettes.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia.March 31 2.—Parsley Omelet. Drop 2 eggs into a bowl; beat until broken but not light; add 2 tablespoonfuls of cold or lukewarm water. Turn into a hot pan well greased with butter; then with the spatula, lift off the cooked egg from the edges, letting the uncooked part run under on to the pan, continuing the lifting until the whole is of a soft, creamy consistency. Place where it will brown; just before folding, sprinkle with 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Fold, season and serve.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 3.—Broiled Pigs’ Feet. Cream two tablespoonfuls of butter. Work gradually into it 1 scant tablespoonful of lemon juice, yz a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne and y2 of a table- spoonful of finely chopped parsley. After removing the cloth from each piece brush with melted butter and dust with salt and pepper. Place in a broiler and broil over a clear fire for 6 minutes. Transfer to a hot platter and spread with prepared butter. Preliminary Treatment of Pigs’ Feet.— Scrape the feet and wash them thoroughly,March. 32 soak in cold water 2 hours, then wash and scrape again. Split each in half lengthwise, and tie the pieces separately in pieces of cheese-cloth. Place in a deep saucepan, cover with boiling water, add 1 tablespoonful of salt and simmer slowly until the feet are tender, usually about 4 hours. Take them from the liquor and set aside until cold. Remove the cloths. They are then ready to be broiled. They may be prepared the day before needed.—From “ Table Talk,” Phil- adelphia. 4.—Veal Kidney Omelet. Remove the fat and tubes from a veal kid- ney and chop it fine. Place in a frying-pan with 1 tablespoonful of butter, y2 a teaspoon- ful of salt and a dash of pepper, and shake over a hot fire until the meat is a golden brown. Then draw off to one side where it will keep hot. Beat 4 eggs without separa- ting ; add 1 tablespoonful of warm water. Heat 1 teaspoonful of butter in a clean fry- ing-pan. When very hot pour in the eggs and shake and stir over the hottest part of the fire until the mixture begins to set. Draw back a little that the omelet may set withoutMarch. 33 burning; turn the cooked kidney over the centre, fold up and serve on a hot platter.— From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 5.—Shepherd’s Pie. Brown an onion, sliced in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and cook until frothy ; add salt and pepper and 1 pint of stock made from bones and trim- mings ; after boiling a few minutes add 3 cups of meat, nicely trimmed, turn into a baking dish and cover with hot mashed po- tato (reheated) ; brush over the potato with the yolk of an egg diluted with a little milk, brown in the oven and serve at once.—From “ The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 6.—Tomato Pie. Three cups of chopped cold beef or lamb. Line a baking dish with cracker crumbs, then add a layer of chopped meat seasoned with salt, pepper and bits of butter, then a layer of stewed tomato, then crumbs, meat and tomato; have the top layer cracker and bits of butter; moisten with gravy or milk to about the consistency of scalloped oysters.March. 34 7.—Fricassee of Ox Tails. Wash and clean thoroughly 2 small ox tails. Cut them into pieces about two inches long, put them into stock and simmer until tender. Do this the day before they are to be used. Dip them in beaten egg and crumbs, season with salt and pepper and fry a light brown. For the sauce thicken the stock the ox tails were cooked in with flour and add a wine-glass of sherry; pour over the meat and serve. 8.—Chicken with Almond Sauce. Cut up a young chicken as for fricassee ; fry a golden brown in hot lard. Put the chicken on a hot platter and make the sauce. Thicken 1 tablespoonful of the lard (in which the chicken was fried) with 1 tablespoon of flour; when the flour is cooked add 1 pint of cream, r tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley and 1 cupful of chopped blanched almonds. Let it boil for 5 minutes and pour around the chicken. 9.—Croquettes a l’ltalienne. Mix one pound of finely minced veal with a bit of garlic and chives and a littleMarch. chopped parsley; pour y2 a gill of scalded milk over 8 ozs. of bread crumbs, letting it stand io minutes. Add a lb. of finely chopped almonds, salt and pepper to taste. Form into croquettes, dip into egg and cracker dust and fry. Pile neatly on a hot dish and pour tomato sauce around them. io.—Flounders a la Dresden. Remove the fillets from a two lb. flounder, season them with y2 a tablespoonful of salt and y teaspoonful pepper; roll them up cork-shaped, and tie with a string or fasten with a toothpick. Melt i tablespoonful of butter in a pan; put in the fillets; add i slice of carrot, 2 slices of onion; cover and cook until done; remove the fillets; add ]/2 table- spoonful flour to the sauce, stir and cook 3 minutes; add y of a cup of water, y, a tea- spoonful beef extract, y2 an even teaspoonful pepper, y2 a bay leaf; cook 5 minutes; mix the yolks of 2 eggs with y2 gill of cream or milk; add it to the sauce ; add y2 tablespoon- ful lemon juice, stir 2 minutes, then strain the sauce over the fillets and serve.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 85March. 36 ii—Eggs with Bread Sauce. Put i heaping cupful of bread crumbs (the centre of the bread) into a saucepan with a cupful and a-half of milk, y2 a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne and y2 a teaspoon- ful of onion juice and simmer slowly until thick and smooth, beating several times with a spoon. Pour the sauce into a broad shallow dish and break carefully over it y2 a dozen eggs. Place in a hot oven until the eggs are set, then send quickly to the table. —From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 12.—Kippered Herrings. Wash the herrings and then dip in boiling water for a few minutes. Broil over a clear fire and serve on strips of toast. 13.—Ham Balls. Into a double boiler put y2 a cupful of milk and two tablespoonfuls of fine dry bread crumbs; cook, stirring occasionally, until it is a smooth paste. Add y2 a cupful of finely chopped cold boiled ham, 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley, 10 drops of onion juice and the beaten yolk of 1 egg. StiiMarch, 37 until thickened, then turn out and set aside until cold. Form into small balls, dip each one into slightly beaten egg (the white diluted with a teaspoonful of warm water may be used) and roll in fine bread crumbs. Place in a frying-basket and plunge into smoking-hot fat. When a golden brown drain on unglazed paper, pile on a dish on a napkin and garnish with parsley.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 14.—Tripe a l’Espagnole. Place a saucepan with 3 tablespoonfuls of oil or 2 ozs. of butter over the fire, add y2 a cupful finely chopped onion, y2 a finely chopped green pepper, 1 bruised clove of garlic; cook 5 minutes without browning, (if you have them add y2 a cupful of finely chopped mushrooms). Wash and cut iy pounds of tripe into inch-sized pieces, season with 1 even tablespoonful of salt, y2 a tea- spoonful of pepper; mix the tripe well with the seasoning; add them to the saucepan, cover and cook 10 minutes; add 2 finely cut tomatoes; cook 5 minutes; dust over 1 tea- spoonful of flour; add 1 cupful boiling water with 1 teaspoonful beef extract, cook a fewMarch. 38 minutes longer, then serve on a warm dish ; sprinkle over i teaspoonful fine chopped parsley.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 15.—Chicken Boudins. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter in a pan, heat and add to it 2 tablespoons of dried bread crumbs and a cupful of stock or water. Remove from the fire and add the chicken (about 1 pint) chopped fine, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, % of a nutmeg grated, salt and pepper, and lastly the yolks of 2 eggs beaten slightly. Mix all thoroughly and place the mixture in small cups, 2/i full. Set the cups in hot water and bake in the oven 20 minutes. When done turn out on a hot dish and serve with cream sauce. 16.—Devilled Clams. Drain 25 clams, pour a cupful of water over them to rinse them. Scald 1 cupful of milk or cream, add 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 of flour, stir until smooth and then add the raw yolks of 2 eggs, a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Chop the clams and add them to the sauce. Fill small dishes or the clam shells with the mixture, cover withMarch. 39 beaten egg and bread crumbs and brown in a hot oven. 17.—Fillets of Turkey with Forcemeat Ereaded. Cut the breast of a cold cooked turkey into slices yfa of an inch thick; trim into pieces of uniform shape. Cook ]/2 a cup of soft bread crumbs to a paste in half a cup of milk, stirring frequently; add 2 tablespoon- fuls of butter, ^ of a cup of the breast of raw chicken or raw veal, pounded smooth, the white of a large egg, a few grains of cayenne and a generous of a teaspoonful of salt; mix, and with a wooden pestle press through a puree sieve. Spread the mixture smoothly upon one side of the fillets, then egg and bread crumb and fry in deep fat. Serve one overlapping another crown fashion, around a mound of canned peas.—From “The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 18.—Mutton Hash. To 1 pt. of thin slices of cold mutton, neatly trimmed, add the juice of y2 a lemon, a teaspoonful of onion juice, a tablespoonful of fine chopped parsley, ]/2 a cup of coldMarch. 40 stock (that in which the mutton was cooked will do) and a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce; let the meat stand two or three hours. Make a cup and a half of rather thick sauce ; add the meat and such liquid as has not been absorbed, salt and pepper, and a tablespoon - ful of capers or fine chopped cucumber pickles. Let stand without boiling until very hot. Serve on toast.—From “ The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 19.—Stewed Squabs. Clean, tie down the legs and wings and put a piece of bacon on the breast of each bird. Put a few slices of bacon in the bot- tom of a kettle and put the squabs on them; cover with stock and let them stew gently until tender. Serve on toast and pour the stock slightly thickened around them. 20.—Minced Calf’s Liver. Cut liver into small dice and fry with a little salt pork ; cover with boiling water and simmer gently for 15 or 20 minutes. Take out the liver, lay it on slices of toast. Thicken the gravy with flour and ]/2 cupful of fine- cut celery.March. 41 21.—Codfish on Toast. Soak a cupful of shredded codfish in cold water for an hour; let it come to a boil, drain through a colander; put it into a saucepan with i cup of milk, season with pepper, a little butter and a little flour to thicken; let it boil up once and serve on slices of toast. 22.—Broiled Ham and Eggs. Slice the ham very thin, take off the rind, and wash the slices in cold water. Broil carefully and place on a hot platter. Break as many eggs as you require into a pan of boiling water ; when the white of the egg is done dip out carefully and lay the egg on the bacon. Sprinkle pepper and salt over each egg and serve. 23.—Lamb Chops with Truffles. Make a deep cut in the centre of each chop used and insert a slice of truffle; season with a little salt and pepper, dip the chop in egg and bread crumbs, fry in deep fat until a golden brown; place each chop on a slice of fried bread neatly trimmed and pour the fol- lowing sauce around them. Madeira Sauce. —Place 2 ozs. of butter in a saucepan, mixMarch in 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and cook quickly for 5 or io minutes until it is a rich brown ; then add i wine-glass of Madeira wine. 24.—Shad Roe. Cook the roe in salted boiling water for about 10 minutes, to which has been added 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Drain, roll it in beaten egg and then in crumbs; season with salt and pepper and fry until nicely browned. 25.—Braised Beef in Gravy. Chop y2 a green pepper, after removing the seeds. Cook in a tablespoonful of butter, a few minutes; then add a cup of the brown sauce made for the meat when it was first served. When boiling add a few drops only of Worcestershire sauce and a cup of thin slices of meat from which all skin and gristle have been removed. Do not let boil but serve as soon as thoroughly heated.—From “ The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 26.—Cod Baked with Tomato Sauce. Make a pint of tomato sauce, lay on a baking pan a thick slice of codfish, baste with part of the sauce. Bake in a hot ovenMarch. 43 until done, basting frequently. Serve the sauce around the fish. 27.—Hungarian Kidney. Wash a good-sized beef kidney and with a sharp knife cut off the outer part of each lobe, rejecting the central, purplish portion and tubes. In a saucepan put 1 tablespoon- ful and a half of butter, of a teaspoonful of salt, Yi of a teaspoonful of white pepper. When hot add the pieces of kidney, shake and cook fast for 5 minutes, add 4 table- spoonfuls of good beef stock, 2 tablespoon- fuls of sherry and 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped mushrooms; cover and simmer for 10 minutes. Mix together the yolks of 2 raw eggs and 2/i of a cupful of milk; add to the contents of the saucepan; stir until the sauce begins to thicken, then take at once from the fire and serve in a hot dish.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 28.—Fillets of Sole. Bone 3 medium-sized flounders. Butter the bottom and sides of a frying-pan, lay in it the fillets and pour over them ^ of a cup- ful of white wine and 3 tablespoonfuls of theMarch. 44 liquor from a can of mushrooms, ^ of a teaspoonful of salt and of a teaspoonful of white pepper. Cover, heat quickly and simmer for 6 minutes; then skim out the fillets, arrange them on a hot platter and keep hot over hot water. Boil down the liquor in a pan very rapidly until reduced In a saucepan melt i heaping tablespoonful of butter, add i heaping tablespoonful of flour and a dash of salt and pepper. Add a cup- ful of stock made from the bones of the fish, stir until smoothly thickened, then add the reduced wine. Beat together 2 egg yolks and 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Over this pour slowly the sauce, stir until well mixed; then strain it over the fillets.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 29.—Cream Toast with Cheese. Sprinkle hot toasted bread thickly with grated cheese, and set in the oven until the cheese melts. Pour over hot cream or white sauce made with milk and serve at once. A beaten egg may be added to the sauce if de- sired.—From “ The Boston Cooking School Magazine.”March, 45 30.—Ragout of Veal. Cut the meat into thin slices, put a large piece of butter into a pan, dredge the meat with flour and fry a light brown in the butter. Take out the meat and put into the pan a cupful of cold gravy or stock, season with salt and pepper and a wine-glass of tomato catsup. Then lay a few slices of cold ham in the gravy and add the veal. Serve very hot. 31.—Ham Toast. Chop a quarter of a pound of boiled ham and mix it with the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs, 1 oz. of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, a little cayenne pepper; stir over the fire until it thickens. Spread on hot toast.APRIL. i—Lobster Croquettes. Pick the lobster very fine, mix with bread crumbs and season with pepper and salt; moisten with cream or white sauce; add a little butter. Shape, dip in egg and crumbs and fry. 2.—Breaded Chops. Wipe and trim the chops, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep fat 5 or 6 minutes. Sprinkle finely chopped parsley over them and serve. 3.—Boiled Eggs. Have a large saucepan containing boiling water. Put into it the number of eggs de- sired. Put the saucepan on the back of the stove where the water will not boil. Cook eight minutes if desired soft boiled, forty if hard boiled. These are delicious. 4GApril. 47 4.—Scalloped Turkey. Cut the turkey into small pieces. Sprinkle a buttered baking dish with cracker crumbs. Put in the turkey and pour in a cupful of white sauce ; sprinkle the top with fried bread crumbs. Bake in a hot oven. 5.—Irish Stew. Cut the lamb in dice. Cover with boiling water and cook slowly until tender. When about half cooked add y2 a cup each of car- rot and turnip cut in small pieces and one onion sliced. Fifteen minutes before serving add potatoes cut fine. Thicken with flour. Season with salt and pepper and chopped celery. 6.—Fish Hash. Chop equal parts of cold fish and potatoes, season with salt and pepper. Put a piece of fat salt pork in a frying-pan. When melted take out the scraps and put in the fish and potatoes, stir and then brown. Fold over like an omelet.April, 48 7.—Sweetbread Fritters. Parboil the sweetbreads, cut them iiv small pieces, season with salt, pepper and chopped parsley ; dip in fritter batter and fry in deep fat. 8.—Oysters in Brown Sauce. Parboil and drain 1 pt. of oysters, keep the liquor. Brown 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and stir until brown. Then add the liquor, ]/2 a cup of milk, salt and pepper. Put in the oysters and heat hot. Serve on toast. 9.—Broiled Liver. Cut liver into inch slices, cover with boil- ing water, let it stand 5 or 6 minutes, drain and wipe dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and broil in a well greased broiler 5 minutes. Put it on a hot platter and spread with bits of butter. Serve very hot. 10.—Vegetable Curry. Pour y2 a pt. of boiling water mixed with 1 tablespoonful of curry powder into 2 table- spoonfuls butter in which a large onion has been fried and add salt and lemon juice.April. 49 After cooking this for 5 minutes, add 1 pt. of green peas, 1 turnip, 3 carrots, and 3 pota- toes, all having been cooked previously. Let them remain in the curry for 10 minutes and serve all together.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 11.—Broiled Fresh Mackerel. Split a mackerel through the back, remove the spine, score it slightly, and rub with a tablespoonful of olive oil; season with salt and pepper and broil on a brisk fire for 10 minutes on the split side and 1 minute on the other. Lay it on a hot dish, spread butter over it and fine chopped parsley. 12.—Beef Omelet. Chop 1 lb. of raw beef very fine ; roll three crackers to a dust and mix with them y2 a teaspoonful of baking powder. Add 2 well beaten eggs and mix all together thoroughly with a seasoning of salt, pepper and powdered herbs ; put a lump of butter in a baking dish, let it melt and then put in the mixture; let it bake *4 an hour. Turn out on a very hot platter, fold over as you would an omelet and pour any kind of a meat sauce around it.April. 50 13. —Stuffed Eggs. Cut 6 hard-boiled eggs in two, take out the yolks. Mash the yolks and mix with them y?, their amount of finely chopped ham or bacon. Moisten with enough cream and a little butter to make soft enough to mold into round balls. Put 1 in each y2 of white, arrange them on a hot platter and pour a cream sauce around them. 14. —Minced Lamb. Fry 2 finely chopped onions in 2 ounces of butter for 5 minutes, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; mix well. Moisten with 1 pint of stock, stir until it comes to a boil. Then add to it 2 lbs. of chopped cold lamb. Cook this 15 or 20 minutes and serve with chopped pars- ley over it. 15.—Clams Stewed With Cream. Chop 25 small clams and season with pep- per and salt. Put into a stewpan butter the size of an egg, and when it bubbles, sprinkle in a teaspoonful of flour, which cook a few minutes ; stir gradually into it the clam liquor, then the clams, which stew about 2 or 3 min- utes ; then add a cupful of boiling cream and serve immediately.April, 51 16.—Broiled Turkey Legs. Make deep incisions in the turkey legs and fill them with French or German mustard. Broil over a clear fire; if very large, put them in the oven for 20 minutes, before you broil them, basting with a few spoonfuls of stock. 17.—Chicken and Egg Scallop. Put 1 pint of finely chopped chicken in a saucepan, a piece of butter and y2 a cup of cream, salt and pepper to taste; let it boil up once, then simmer for a few minutes. Turn out on a hot platter. Cut hard-boiled eggs in slices and arrange in a circle around the meat. 18.—Cod Steaks Fried. Wipe the steaks off, carefully season with salt and pepper and dip in corn meal; fry in hot salt pork fat. 19.—Greek Hash. Put alternate layers of finely chopped veal, stewed tomato and broiled spaghetti in a baking dish, having the top layer veal. Cover with bits of butter and crumbs. If very dry add '/2 a cup of stock. Bake in the oven for 20 minutes.April. 52 20.—Stuffed Peppers. Take 3 green peppers, wash them, then put them in hot grease and blanch until tender. Remove from the fire and again wipe the skins with a cloth. Cut off the tops and take out the seeds. Take x oz. of butter, chop up a few shallots and fry in the butter, adding a few chopped mushrooms. Season with tomato pur6e, thickened with bread crumbs, and put this filling into the peppers. Place on the dish and serve with bechamel sauce.—From “Table Talk,” Phil- adelphia. 21.—Corn Beef Hash. Chop fine sufficient cold corn beef to make 1 pt. Cold boiled potatoes in the same quantity. Mix meat and potatoes together ; put them in a saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, teaspoonful of onion juice, a cup of stock and saltspoonful of pepper, stir con- stantly but carefully until it just comes to the boiling point; serve at once on buttered toast. —From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia.April. 53 22. —Ham Croquettes. Take 2 cups of fine-minced ham, or better 1 cup of ham and 1 of veal, mix well with ^ cup of bread crumbs. Add 2 tablespoonfuls of stock and season with 1 teaspoonful of salt and ^ teaspoonful of pepper. Add the yolks of 2 eggs, make into small balls, cover with egg and bread crumbs and fry.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 23. —Devilled Oysters. Put the oysters (about 50) into a saucepan and bring to the boiling point. Drain them, saving the liquor. Chop the oysters fine, add them to the liquor. Rub together 2 table- spoonfuls each of butter and flour. Stir this into the oysters until smooth and boiling. Add 4 tablespoonfuls of cream beaten with the yolks of 4 eggs. Take from the fire be- fore adding the last ingredients. Add a tea- spoonful salt and a grain of cayenne. Fill into individual dishes, cover lightly with crumbs and brown in the oven. They must be browned very quickly or they will curdle. Serve at once.—From “Table Talk,” Phila- delphia.April. 54 24.—Ragout of Beef and Tomato. Cut cold beef into small cubes ; to each pt. allow a gill of strained tomato. Put the tomato into the pan with a tablespoonful of butter, a pinch of salt and a little onion juice ; bring these to boiling point, add the beef, let it get very hot and serve. 25.—Mutton Cutlets with Mushrooms. Take the bones from mutton chops, and use the round lean portions. Brush them with melted butter and broil. Serve them on rounds of toasted bread, with mushroom sauce poured over. Sauce.—One pint of mushrooms, peel them and cut them in pieces, season and cook them in cream or milk for 10 minutes. 26.—Cream Hash. Make a cream sauce with 1 tablespoonful each of butter and flour and ^ a pint of milk. Stir until it boils; add salt and pepper, then stir in carefully 1 pint of cold meat (veal or chicken). Heap the hash on toasted bread and cap each with a poached egg; serve at once.April. 55 27.—Tongue and Tomato Sauce. Chop cold tongue very fine, put it in a saucepan, with 1 tablespoonful of butter. When very hot heap on toasted bread and pour thin tomato sauce over it. 28.—Onion Omelet. Make a plain omelet with 6 eggs, and before folding over, add 1 small Spanish onion, chopped fine and fried in a little butter; serve at once. 29.—Tripe with Oysters. Simmer l/2 a ft. of well-washed tripe for Y[ of an hour in slightly salted water; take out the tripe ; add to the water in which the tripe was cooked, a little butter, flour, salt and pepper. Return the tripe and a dozen oysters, simmer until the oysters are cooked and serve. 30.—Duck and Currant Jelly. Cut cold roast duck into small pieces; put them into a saucepan, with a tablespoonful of butter; let it simmer until very hot; add 2 tablespoonfuls of jelly and a ]/2 teaspoonful of mixed mustard stirred into the jelly ; mix all together; serve with toast points.56 MAY. i.—Egg Timbale. Beat six eggs without separating ; add to them y2 a cup of rich cream, a y2 teaspoon- ful salt, a saltspoonful of pepper; grease or- dinary custard cups; pour in the mixture; stand in a pan of boiling water, and cook in the oven slowly until timbales are set in the centre. Turn into a heated dish and pour around cream sauce.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 2.—Beef Balls. One pt. of cold chopped beef, i scant pt. of bread crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, y of a teaspoonful of pepper, a tablespoonful of but- ter, i egg, a tablespoonful of chopped onion, and 2 of chopped celery; enough milk to moisten the whole. Add the seasoning to the bread crumbs, then the onion and celery; mix well and add the meat, then the egg57 beaten; lastly stir in the milk; make into balls, flour them and fry 5 minutes in very hot fat. 3.—Creamed Fish. Pick cold cooked fish to pieces and remove all the bones. Make a cream sauce with 2 tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, 2 cups of milk and a dash of cayenne and ]/2 a teaspoonful of salt. Butter a pudding dish, put in a layer of fish, a layer of sauce, and continue until the dish is full. Spread crumbs and bits of butter on top, and bake 20 min- utes in a hot oven. 4.—Hash Piquante. Fry 2 sliced onions in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter until well browned. Add y2 a pt. of stock, 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, 1 of tarragon vinegar and 1 of curry powder, a pinch of sugar, salt and pepper. Let this come to a boil and then simmer for half an hour. Thicken with 1 tablespoonful of flour. Put into this sauce a pound of cold sliced mutton. Serve with croutons of toast.May. 58 5.—Creamed Liver. Cut 2 lbs. of liver into small pieces; cover with cold water for 10 minutes and drain. Heat 3 tablespoonfuls of butter and put in the liver; season with salt and pepper, and cook slowly for 10 minutes, browning it on all sides; then take up the liver and put where it will keep warm. Put 1 slice of onion in the frying-pan and cook 1 minute; add 3 teaspoonfuls of flour and cook con- stantly, stirring until it begins to froth. Draw the pan back and add 1 pint of warmed milk to it, stirring carefully; let it come to a boil. Put the liver in this and serve. 6.—Boudins. Heat 1 tablespoonful of butter in a sauce- pan, and add 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs and a cupful of stock. Take this from the fire and add 1 pt. of finely chopped chicken meat, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a % of a nutmeg grated, salt and pepper, and the yolks of 2 eggs slightly beaten. Mix thoroughly and pour into small cups. Half fill a baking-pan with boiling water, set the cups in and bake 20 minutes.May. 59 When done turn out on a hot platter and pour a cream sauce around. 7.—Blanquette of Veal and Ham. Mix together over the fire 1 tablespoonful each of butter and flour. Add ^ of a tea- spoonful of salt, y of a teaspoonful of pepper, a dash of celery salt and 1 y2 cupfuls of milk. Stir until thick, then add y2 of a cupful of finely chopped cooked lean ham, and il/2 cupfuls of diced cold veal. Simmer gently until the meat is very hot, then add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten together with 3 tablespoon- fuls of cold milk. Stir for a moment longer, turn out on a heated dish, and garnish with toast points, slices of lemon and a few sprigs of parsley.—From “Table Talk,” Philadel- phia. 8.—Beefsteak and Oysters. Let 1 pt. of oysters come to a boil in their own liquor; strain and chop fine; add 3 tablespoonfuls of butter and flour enough to thicken slightly. Broil a small steak, and when done put on a hot platter and pour the oysters over.May♦ 60 9.—Fish Pie. Remove any bones or skin from cold fish, pick it up fine and season. Butter a baking dish and cover the bottom with hot mashed potato, then put in the fish and bits of but- ter, then a top layer of potato. Bake in a hot oven 10 minutes. 10.—Fried Sweetbreads. Parboil and when cold dip them in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, sprinkle salt over them and fry in hot fat. Take 1 tablespoon- ful of this fat, and stir into it 1 tablespoonful of flour, then set the pan back a little and add gradually 1 cupful of milk, stir until smooth. Season with salt and pepper, a little very finely chopped celery and cook about 2 min- utes. Pour over the sweetbreads. 11.—Scalloped Eggs. Butter a baking dish, put in a layer of bread crumbs, a layer of sliced hard-boiled eggs, then bits of butter; if you have cold meat, then a layer of that chopped fine. Continue this until the dish is full. Then pour over all a cup of milk or soup stock. Sift grated crumbs over the top and bake in the oven for 10 minutes.May. 12.—Beef Kidneys. Cut the kidneys in slices, soak an hour in salted water, then wipe them dry, dip them in beaten egg and then in crumbs and broil over a hot fire. 13.—Rechauffe. One pint of cold meat chopped fine, 1 can of mushrooms cut in pieces. Make a cream sauce and when smooth add the meat and mushrooms to it, cover and set on the stove to become very hot, but do not let it boil, as that toughens the mushrooms. Serve on slices of buttered toast. 14. —Devilled Eggs. Cut 6 hard-boiled eggs in half lengthwise, take out the yolks and mash them, add 1 teaspoonful of prepared mustard, a teaspoon- ful of butter, a little salt and pinch of sugar. Mix well and form into balls and put one in each half of the white of egg. Serve on slices of fried hominy. 15. —Frizzled Beef. Have the dried beef cut as thin as possible. Put it in a frying-pan with enough cold water G1May. 62 to cover it, simmer but do not boil; pour off the water, return the meat to the pan and heat gently until rather dry. Add one table- spoonful of butter, stir and cook until the meat curls; then add sufficient milk for a dressing. Moisten y2 a tablespoonful of flour in a little cold milk and when smooth add this to the mixture. 16—Normandy Hash. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, add to it gradually 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of stock, y2 an onion and a sprig of herbs. When well boiled strain and put into the liquor, mutton cut in dice. Stew for y2 an hour. Just before serving add a y a glass of sherry. 17.—Panned Chicken. Prepare the chicken as for broiling, slightly flatten it and cover with bits of butter and place in a moderate oven. When it is nearly done sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge with flour; return to the oven and brown, first on one side then on the other. Keep hot while you make the sauce. Pour a cup- ful of hot milk into the pan and add 1 table-May. spoonful of grated bread crumbs, add a few drops of onion. Stir the sauce vigorously, let it boil i minute, turn it over the chicken, garnish with parsley and serve. 18.—Salt Mackerel Creamed. Soak the fish over night, wipe dry the next morning and broil on a buttered grid- iron. Lay it on a hot dish and make the following sauce : i cup of hot milk thickened with two teaspoonfuls of cornstarch rubbed smooth in 2 teaspoonfuls of butter; add salt, chopped parsley and a pinch of pepper; let it stand a few minutes, then add 1 egg well beaten; pour over the fish and serve. 19.—Baked Hash of Rice and Beef. Into a stewpan put 1 cupful of chopped cold beef, 1 cupful of cooked rice, 1 cupful of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, % of a teaspoonful of pep- per. Stir for 1 minute, then add a well- beaten egg. Turn the hash into a baking dish and bake 20 minutes. 20.—Veal and Ham. Fry thin slices of ham in a very hot pan. When it is cooked place on a platter and G364 keep hot. Cook slices of veal in the fat left in the pan. When the veal is done add a little water to the gravy, season and pour over the veal and ham; garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. 21.—Creamed Eggs. Take the shell off of hard-boiled eggs, cut them in half, stand them on rounds of toasted bread. Cap each egg with a mushroom previously cooked in a little butter. Pour a cream sauce around and serve. 22.—Heart Stew (French). Wash 3 lambs’ hearts and cut them in slices cutting across the grain of the meat. Dry slightly and dust with flour. Put i table- spoonful of butter in a stewing-pan and when hot add the meat; stir and cook about io minutes. Then add enough hot water to nearly cover the meat, % of a. peeled lemon cut in slices and 2 bay leaves. Cover the kettle and cook gently for *4 an hour, stir- ring often and adding more water if needed ; add salt and pepper; remove the bay leaves and lemon and serve.65 23.—Clam Toast. Chop 2 dozen clams up very fine; cook them gently for half an hour in a little boil- ing water. Add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, a dash of cayenne, a cup of milk, enough flour to thicken slightly. Let all cook to- gether for a minute, pour over buttered toast; serve. 24.—Curried Oysters. Simmer a dozen and a half of oysters in just enough water to cover them for three min- utes and drain. Put an ounce of butter in a pan with a teaspoonful of curry powder and a very little water; stir this and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour. Add the oysters and a pinch of salt; serve. 25.—Chicken Pilau. Warm one pint of cold chicken in a pint of water until the meat is very tender. Skim out the meat and add to the liquor one pint of strained tomatoes. Season highly with salt, pepper, fine chopped onion and curry or chutney sauce. When boiling, add one cup of well washed rice, and cook 20 min-utes or until the ru e is soft \dd the pieces of chicken and half a cup of butter ox cream When hot. turn out on a platter and garnish with triangles of toast.—Mrs. Lincoln. 36. - Lamb’s Liver Curried. Cut a lamb's liver in slices, soak m salted water for 5 minutes, take the liver ftom the water and dry in .1 cloth. Slice an onion and fry it in a pan with slices of salt pork. Take out the poik and ft y the li\er in this Brown well and add L- a teaspoon curry powder to the sauce . stir smooth and serve. 37. —Oysters a lit Poulette. Scald a do.-on ovsters in their own liquor . drain them. Save the liquor and add tv' it a pinch of salt, a cup of cream, the juice of ». a lemon and a tea.qwnful of dour made smooth with a little of the cream; add also a well beaten, egg Stir until the sauce thickens, and pour over the oysters. 3S.—Eggs on Rice. Butter a baking dish, till it half full with well seasoned boiled rice ; make as many de- pressions in the rice as there are people to beMay. 67 served; break an egg into each of these, sprinkle with salt and strew with bits of but- ter. Bake until the eggs are set. Serve hot. 29.—Veal Kidneys Devilled. Split three veal kidneys in half lengthwise and take out the fibrous parts. Spread both sides with a thin layer of made mustard, roll them in bread crumbs, add a little melted butter to each side and brown over a hot fire. Serve at once. 30.—Turkish Croquettes. Stew y2 a can of tomatoes fifteen minutes with one slice each of onion, carrot and turnip, one teaspoonful of herbs, one sprig of parsley, two cloves, two peppercorns, one teaspoonful salt and one saltspoonful of pepper. Rub through a strainer. Take one cup of the strained tomatoes, one cup of brown soup stock, season highly and when boiling add one scant cup of uncooked rice. Cook until the liquor is absorbed. Add a quarter of a cup of butter and cook on the back of the stove until the rice is soft. Add one beaten egg and a little cream sauce or thick tomato sauce, using enough to make it quiteMay. 68 moist. When cool, shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, then in egg, then in crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat. Sometimes it is better to parboil the rice for five minutes, as it is more difficult to soften it in the stock than in clear water.—Mrs. Lincoln. 31.—Mutton and Oyster Sausage. Ingredients for this. One fb. cooked meat chopped fine, y2 a tablespoon of salt, saltspoonful of pepper, y2 lb. of beef suet chopped fine, 1 pt. of fine chopped oysters, y2 pt. of bread crumbs, 2 eggs, 1 onion and 1 tablespoonful of herbs. Mix all well to- gether, form into balls and fry in hot fat.69 JUNE. i.—Beef Olives. Cut thin slices from cold roast beef, 2*4 by 4 inches. Chop the trimmings and fat, allow- ing i tablespoonful of the chopped mixture for each slice. Season highly with salt, pepper, and herbs and mix with as much cracker crumbs as meat. Spread this on each slice nearly to the edge. Roll and tie. Dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and fry brown in drippings or salt pork fat; put in a stewpan and make a brown gravy by adding 2 table- spoonfuls of flour to the fat left in the pan and when brown pour on 1 pint of hot water. Season with salt and pepper, pour over the rolls and simmer until they are tender. Re- move the strings, place the rolls on a platter, season the gravy and pour it over them.— Mrs. Lincoln.June. 70 2.—Lamb Fricassee with Farina Dumplings. Dip 2 breasts of lamb into boiling water, then instantly into cold water; cut the meat into 2 inch pieces. Melt 2 ozs. butter in a sauce- pan, add 2 tablespoonfuls fine chopped onions, and cook 5 minutes without browning ; sea- son the meat with 1 tablespoonful seasoning salt, add it to the saucepan; cook 10 minutes ; then cover with boiling water, put on the lid and cook until done. Shortly before serving, melt y2 a tablespoonful butter, add y2 table- spoonful flour, stir and cook a few minutes ; add it to the fricassee, boil for a few minutes longer; then serve on a warm dish with farina dumplings. Farina Dumplings.— Place a small saucepan with y2 cupful milk over the fire ; add y2 tablespoon ful butter; as soon as it boils add 3 tablespoonfuls farina, stir and cook until it forms into a smooth paste and loosens from the bottom of sauce- pan. Remove from the fire, turn the paste into a bowl, and when nearly cold mix it with the yolks of 2 eggs. Season with y teaspoon- ful salt, y teaspoonful nutmeg ; add last the whites beaten to a stiff froth ; mix all well together; take with a teaspoon small portionsJune. 71 from this, drop them into boiling salted water, boil 5 minutes; then carefully remove the dumplings with a skimmer, lay them in the dish.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 3.—Milk Toast. Toast as many slices of bread as are re- quired ; butter carefully and stand in the oven to keep hot. Take 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and 2 of butter and stir them in a saucepan until the flour is cooked ; add a pinch of salt and y2 a pint of hot milk gradually stirring all the time. Let it boil up and pour over the toasted bread. 4.—Tomatoes Stuffed with Meat. Plunge 10 tomatoes into boiling water for an instant, peel off the skin and let them get cold. Cut the tops off and scoop out the inside which put into the chopping bowl with a cup of cold meat and y2 a cup of bread crumbs. Chop all together, add salt and pepper and fill the tomatoes with this mixture. Put a small piece of butter on the top and put them into the oven to get hot. Serve on slices of toast.June. 72 5.—Queen Omelet. Beat 8 yolks of eggs and 6 whites separately; add y2 a teaspoonful of salt and cut the whites into the yolks thoroughly but lightly. Have an omelet pan or frying-pan very hot; put a piece of butter into it and as soon as it is melted pour in the omelet. Lift up the edges and let the liquid part run under. As soon as it is set put it in the oven for a few minutes and serve. 6.—Potato Croquettes and Cold Meat. Mix well together, 2 cups of cold mashed potatoes, 2 eggs, salt to taste, y2 a cup of bread crumbs. Make into long rolls, dip in cracker dust, then in the egg and lastly in fine grated bread crumbs ; fry in hot fat. Slice cold roast beef or lamb in thin slices and pile neatly in the centre of a dish; arrange the croquettes around it. 7.—Devilled Kidneys. Split 6 lamb kidneys, remove the white part in centre and chop the kidneys fine; place a saucepan with 1 oz. of butter overJune. 73 the fire, add 2 tablespoon fills fine chopped onions, x/2 a bruised clove of garlic, cook 3 minutes ; add the kidneys and x teaspoonful of seasoning salt, stir and cook 3 minutes ; then add 1 gill of sherry wine, 1 gill of boil- ing water with y2 a teaspoonful of beef extract or broth ; cook 3 minutes longer. Remove from the fire, add the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful fine chopped parsley and a little cayenne pepper. Fill this mixture into 6 shells, sprinkle over each y2 a table- spoonful fresh grated bread crumbs and a little melted butter. Place the shells in a shallow tin pan and set the pan in a hot oven and bake brown.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 8.—Scotch Collops. Mince 1 l/2 lbs. of steak very fine, season it highly. An onion can be added if liked, chopped very fine. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a stewpan, put in the mince and stir it frequently to keep it from getting into lumps. In about 8 minutes dredge a little flour over it, and pour upon it a little stock, boiling hot. Let it simmer for a few minutes and serve hot.June. 74 g.—Meringue Toast. Dissolve i teaspoonful of butter in ^ a cup of boiling milk, and just before taking it from the fire add the well-beaten white of i egg. Pour this on toasted bread which has previously been dipped in slightly salted water. Put it in the oven 5 minutes and slightly brown the meringue. 10.—Meat Souffle. Make 1 cup of cream sauce, and season with chopped parsley and onion juice. Stir 1 cup of chopped meat into the sauce. When hot add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, cook 1 minute and set away to cool. When cool, stir in the whites of the eggs stiffly beaten. Bake in a buttered dish about 20 minutes and serve immediately.—Mrs. Lincoln. 11.—Mushrooms on Toast. Put 2 cups of mushrooms in a stewpan with 2 tablespoons of butter rolled in a little flour; add 1 teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne and a squeeze of lemon juice ; stew gently until the mushrooms are tender. Serve on toast.June. 75 12.—Fried Hominy. Cut cold boiled hominy into shapes, rounds, diamonds or in plain slices. Dip in egg, roll lightly in flour and fry a golden brown. Serve with broiled bacon or ham. 13.—Ham With Noodles. Place y2 pint of flour on a pastry board; make a hollow in the centre; put in 2 well beaten eggs, ]/2 teaspoonful butter, a sprinkle of salt, 2 tablespoonfuls of water; work this with sufficient flour into a stiff paste until it does not stick to the hands; then divide it into 8 equal parts; roll out each part as thin as paper and let lie for 15 minutes ; then cut each part into long strips il/2 inches in width ; lay 4 strips on top of one another, and cut as fine as possible. Shake the noodles apart and spread on the board to dry. These may be well dried and they will keep for several weeks. Boil some of these noodles in salted water and drain through a colander; mix them with 1 lb. fine-minced boiled ham, r cup of cream or milk, 3 eggs, a small grated onion, and a little nutmeg. Put the mixture in a baking dish, lay small pieces of butter on topJune. 76 and bake about *4 an hour.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 14.—Rice Waffles. Two eggs, y2 a cup boiled rice, cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, butter the size of a walnut, a little salt, cups of milk; mix well and bake at once. 15.—Meat Cakes. Chop cold meat fine, season it well with pepper, celery salt, and make into a paste with the yolks of eggs; form in cakes and fry brown in hot fat. 16.—Curry of Chicken and Rice. Make a white sauce as follows: Melt 1 tablespoonful of butter without browning ; add 1 tablespoonful of flour and stir until smooth ; add 1 cup of milk and stir continually until it thickens; add 1 teaspoonful of curry pow- der, y2 of a cup of boiled rice, ^ of a cup of cold chopped chicken. When heated serve.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia.June, 77 17.—Fried Cucumbers and Broiled Ham. Peel and slice the cucumbers and soak them in cold water y2 an hour, drain and dry the slices on a cloth, dip the pieces in egg and then in crumbs and fry in hot fat. Slice the ham very thin and broil over a hot clear fire. 18.—Fried Soft-Shell Crabs. Clean the crabs and dip them into beaten egg, then in rolled bread dust; season with salt and pepper. Have the frying-pan hot and enough butter in it to keep the crabs from burning. Fry quickly; garnish with parsley. 19.—Rice and Chicken Croquettes. Take 1 cup of cold boiled rice and 1 of chopped cooked chicken, season with pepper and salt, heat and add a little cream or milk; when hot stir in a well-beaten egg. Take from the fire and when cold shape into balls and egg and bread crumb them and fry in hot fat.June. 78 20.—Salpicon of Fish. Take any kind of fish with firm meat, either baked or boiled, and cut it into small dice-shaped pieces; place a saucepan with i oz. butter over the fire ; add i lablespoonful flour, stir and cook 3 minutes ; then add 1 pint of cream or milk, 1 even teaspoonful of salt, 1 gill of mushroom liquor, a small bou- quet, 12 whole peppercorns and ]/2 a nut- meg ; cook 5 minutes; remove the bouquet and continue the cooking 5 minutes longer; strain in a clean saucepan, add 1 pint of fine-cut fish and y2 a cup of fine-cut mush- rooms, and if you have them, 2 fine-cut truffles.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 21.—Baked Hash. Chop equal parts of cold meat and cold boiled potatoes rather fine, season with pep- per and salt and a little onion juice. Put in a baking dish, add 1 cup of soup stock and bits of butter and bake until browned. 22.—Vermicelli Toast. Pass the whites of hard boiled eggs through a vegetable squeezer on to slices ot buttered toast. Then the yolks of the eggs inJune. 79 the same way. Season and heat very hot in the oven and serve. 23. —Veal Croquettes. Chop cold veal fine; season highly with salt, pepper, cayenne, onion juice, celery salt and parsley. Moisten with beaten egg and white sauce. Shape into rolls. Roll in fine bread crumbs, egg and crumbs again, and fry in smoking hot fat.—Mrs. Lincoln. 24. —An Italian Dish. Chop cold meat fine, season with salt, pepper, chutney sauce, nutmeg, grated Par- mesan cheese and mushrooms chopped fine ; heat well and spread on a dish to cool; cut in small squares when cold, dip in egg and then in bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. Serve on a bed of hot macaroni. 25.—Chicken Croquettes. Mix together 2 cups of fine chopped cold chicken, 1 cup bread crumbs, 2 well-beaten eggs, pepper and salt to taste. If not soft enough add a little cream. Form into cro- quettes, dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat.June. 80 26.—Ham Hash. Take equal parts of cold boiled potatoes, fine chopped cold ham and fine bread crumbs. Mix well and fry for about 10 min- utes. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg- ay.—Scrambled Eggs with Shrimps. Place a saucepan with y2 a tablespoonful of butter over the fire. Add half a pint of fresh boiled shrimps, stir and cook a few minutes. Scramble six eggs, add the shrimps, stir for a minute and serve.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 28.—Fried Tomatoes and Bacon. Slice the tomatoes, dip in egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat. Broil the bacon and pile neatly in the centre of a hot dish. Put the fried tomato around each piece overlapping the other. 2g.—Rice Omelet. To 1 cup of cold boiled rice add 1 cup of milk, 3 well beaten eggs, salt, pepper and a teaspoonful of butter. Pour into a hot well greased omelet pan. Cook until a light brown. Garnish with parsley.June. 81 30.—Scalloped Lobster. Season 1 pint of lobster, cut into dice with salt, pepper and cayenne. Mix with 1 cup of cream sauce; fill the lobster shells, using the tail shell of 2 lobsters. Cover the meat with cracker crumbs and moisten with melted butter. Bake until the crumbs are brown. Put the two shells together on a platter, with the tail ends out, to look like a long canoe. Lay the small claws over the sides to represent oars. Garnish with pars- ley.—Mrs. Lincoln.82 JULY. i.—Croustade of Kidney. Line 6 tartlet moulds with puff paste, cover with wax paper, fill with dry peas, and bake in a hot oven till done; remove paper and peas and fill them with this preparation. Split and remove the white fatty part of 8 medium sized mutton or lamb kidneys; cut the kidneys into slices, put with i oz. butter in small saucepan over the fire, add i even teaspoonful salt, ]/2 even teaspoonful pepper, cook 6 minutes. In the meantime cook i tablespoonful fine chopped onion and carrot in ]/2 a tablespoonful butter 5 minutes; add y2 tablespoonful flour, cook 2 minutes; next add y2 cupful boiling water, 3 tablespoonfuls sherry wine, 1 gill mushroom liquor, 1 tea- spoonful beef extract, a small bouquet, y2 even teaspoonful salt, and a little pepper; cook 10 minutes; add the juice of y a lemon, strain,83 and add it to .he kidney. Toss for a few minutes and use as directed.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 2. —Vegetable Hash. Chop equal parts of boiled vegetables, such as potatoes, beets, carrots, onions, parsnips, etc. Mix well together. Put slices of salt pork in a frying-pan, and when well cooked take them out and chop fine ; add to the hash. Turn the hash into the pan in which the pork was fried and cook until very hot. Turn out on a hot platter and garnish with parsley. 3. —Devilled Crabs. Take the meat out of 12 boiled crabs, save the shells and wash them clean. Scald 1 cupful of milk and thicken with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour and x of butter. Take it from the fire and add the finely mashed yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley, cayenne pepper to taste and a pinch of salt; mix well, then add the crab meat. Fill the shells with this mixture, sprinkle crumbs on top and bits of butter. Bake until brown in a medium oven.July, 84 4 Broiled Chickens. Clean and singe the chickens, split them down the back and wipe with a damp towel. Put the chickens in a dripping-pan and butter them and let them roast for about 15 minutes, then take them out. Save the drippings for the gravy. Put the chickens in a well-greased broiler and broil until done over a clear fire, turning frequently. Serve on a very hot platter. Add 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley to the drippings and pour over the chickens. 5.—Veal Oysters. Cut 1 Yz lbs. of veal cutlets into pieces the size of large oysters; season them with 1 tablespoonful seasoning salt, dust with flour, then dip into beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs, and fry in pork or lard and butter, light brown on both sides. Dress on a hot dish, garnish with lemon quarters.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. * 6.—Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef. Shave the beef very fine and in very small pieces; pour boiling water over it and let cook for 1 or 2 minutes. Scramble 8 eggs,July, and when done add the smoked beef; garnish with toast points. 7.—Crab Croquettes. Take the meat of boiled hard shell crabs, about 1 lb., and gently press out the juice ; add 1 tablespoonful of fine crumbs, ]/2 a tea- spoonful of salt, 14 a saltspoonful of pepper, the yolks of 2 eggs and a very little water. Form into croquettes, roll in crumbs, then in eggs, and then in crumbs again and- fry in hot fat. 8.—Pilau of Cold Beef. Melt one tablespoonful butter or drippings in a saucepan, add 2 fine chopped onions, cook 3 minutes without browning, then add 1 quart fine cut cold roast beef, 1 even table- spoonful salt, 1 even teaspoonful pepper, cover and cook 10 minutes, stirring occa- sionally. In the meantime place 1 cupful of rice covered with cold water in a saucepan over the fire, boil 3 minutes, drain in a sieve, rinse off with cold water, add the rice to the beef, add 2 fine cut tomatoes, cover with stock and cook until the rice is done. Serve and garnish with fried potatoes.—Mrs. Gesine Lenrcke. 86July. 86 g.—Shrimps in Peppers. Cut off the tops of 6 or 8 peppers and re- move the seeds. Soak them in cold water while making the stuffing, i pt. of shelled shrimps, y2 a cup of grated bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, y2 a teaspoon- ful of celery salt, a saltspoonful of pepper. Mix these well together. Drain the peppers and fill with the mixture. Set them carefully in a pan and bake for 20 minutes in a hot oven. 10.—Beef Hash. Chop rather fine cold roast beef and twice the amount of cold boiled potato. Put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and when melted put in the meat and potatoes. Add enough beef gravy or stock to moisten; stir occasionally; let it brown on the bottom of the pan, and then turn out like an omelet on a hot platter. 11.—Marrow Bones on Toast. Have the marrow bones cut into lengths from 3 to 4 inches long, wrap them separately in acloth; place them in a saucepan ofboiling salted water; boil slowly about 25 minutes;July. 87 then remove, take off the doth, arrange the bones on a dish in the folds of a napkin, and serve with toasted bread.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 12.—Eggs a la Cuba. Cook 4 tablespoonfuls of sausage meat with i teaspoonful of minced onion for 5 minutes over a hot fire. Beat 8 eggs until light, and add to the meat and onion ; season with salt and pepper; stir until the eggs become thick. Pour this over slices of hot buttered toast. 13.—Creamed Codfish. Heat 1 y2 cups of milk in a double boiler and add \]/2 cups of salt codfish (which has previously been picked into small pieces and soaked over night in cold water). Cook 10 minutes. Mix 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 of flour to a smooth paste, then stir it into the milk. When smooth and cream-like take from the fire, add a well-beaten egg, stir well and serve without cooking the egg. 14.—Chicken Hash. Chop 1 y2 cupfuls of cold chicken, 1 cup- ful of cold boiled potatoes, separately; thenJuly. 88 put them together lightly. Put a piece of butter into a frying-pan; add the potatoes and chicken, ]/2 a cupful of stock, a pinch of celery salt, and a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Stir all together and let brown. Serve very hot. 15 Eggs and Mushrooms. Peel and wash carefully a lb. of fresh mush- rooms. Place them in a saucepan and cook gently, with a tablespoonful of butter, a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon juice. Cook for ten minutes, then add a glass of sherry wine; thicken with flour and let come to a boil; then pour on a hot platter immediately. Have 6 poached eggs ready, and serve these on top of the sauce, the mushrooms being in the middle. 16.—Stewed Mussels. Stew 1 qt. of mussels 5 minutes in their own liquor, and then add 1 tablespoonful of flour and 2 of butter rubbed well together, and 6 whole peppercorns. Stew 10 minutes and add l/2 a cup of heated cream. Set back on the range and stir in the yolks of 2 eggs. Season with salt and serve.July. 89 17.—Ragoutaut. Place a saucepan over the fire with 1 oz. of butter and 1 tablespoonful of flour; stir and cook 3 minutes ; add % of a pint of boiling milk, a small bouquet, y2 teaspoonful nut- meg, 1 gill of mushroom liquor, 12 whole peppercorns, 1 even teaspoonful salt; cook 5 minutes, then strain into a clean saucepan. Season 1 chicken liver with salt and pep- per; fry it 5 minutes in butter; stew also y pt. of canned mushrooms 10 minutes in 1 oz. of butter; then cut into small pieces; cut also the liver fine, add to this 1 pint of cooked chicken meat; add the 3 ingredients to the sauce; add from 2 to 4 tablespoonfuls of cream. Then fill the preparation into 6 table shells, and sprinkle over some grated bread crumbs, with a few drops of butter, and bake until a light brown in a hot oven, about 10 minutes.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 18.—Anchovy Eggs. Butter as many cups as you need eggs, and sprinkle over them chopped parsley, a grat- ing of lernon peel, salt and pepper. Break an egg into each cup ; set the cups into a pan of hot water, and steam until the eggs are set.July. 90 Spread circles of hot buttered toast with anchovy paste; turn an egg on each and serve. 19. —Fish Croquettes. Mix together 1 pint of cold flaked fish and 1 pint of hot mashed potatoes and 1 table- spoonful of butter ; mix this well; then add ]/i cupful of milk, 1 well beaten egg, Yi tea- spoonful of pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, Yt. teaspoonful chopped parsley. Mix again and put away to cool. When cold make into balls, roll in egg and crumbs, fry in deep hot fat. These may be made the previous day all but the frying. 20. —Wiener Schnitzel. Procure 2 lbs. veal from the leg; cut it in slices Yz an inch thick and 3 inches square ; pare the corners round ; beat lightly to flatten them ; then season them with 1 tablespoonful of seasoning salt and dust with flour; dip each cutlet into egg, cover with fine crumbs and pat smooth with a knife. Fifteen min- utes before serving place a pan with 1 oz. butter and Y* oz• ^ar<^ over ^re ’> as soon as hot, put in the cutlets, fry light brown andJuly. 91 well done. Arrange them on a warm dish ; lay in the eenlre of each schnitzel y2 tea- spoonful capers. Soak 6 anchovies in cold water; remove the skin and bones, divide them in halves, roll them up ; place two of these rolls on each schnitzel with y of a lemon cut in two. Garnish with watercress or parsley and serve.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 21.—Lobster Farce. The meat from 2 small lobsters will be needed for this. Put y2 a pint of milk on to boil in the double boiler and when hot, stir into it 1 tablespoon each of butter and flour rubbed well together. Stir until smooth and cook three minutes ; then remove from the fire and add 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 1 of chopped parsley, the lobster, salt and pepper and the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs mashed fine. Mix all well together. Butter a baking dish and fill. Brush over the top with beaten egg and crumbs. Bake in a quick oven about 20 minutes. 22.—Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus. Boil the asparagus in salted water using just the tops, either canned or fresh. HaveJuly, 92 a platter heated hot and put slices of buttered toast down the centre; on this put the boiled asparagus in a neat row. Scramble 6 or 8 eggs and make a border of them around the asparagus. 23.—Veal Birds. Cut very thin slices of veal into pieces 2^ by 4 inches. Chop the trimmings of the meat fine with 1 small slice of fat salt pork and y2 as much cracker crumbs as there is meat. Season highly with salt, cayenne and onion juice, and moisten with 1 beaten egg and a little hot water. Spread each slice of veal with this mixture and roll tightly ; fasten with a small wooden tooth or pick or tie with string. Dredge with flour, pepper and salt, and fry slowly in hot butter. Add *4 CUP of cream and simmer 15 or 20 minutes. Re- move the fastenings; put the “birds” on toast, pour the cream over them and garnish with points of lemon and serve. 24.—Fillet of Eggs. Mix in a baking dish the yolks of 10 eggs with a spoonful of wine and a pinch of salt. Cook for five minutes in a hot oven, and letJuly. them cool; cut this preparation into io pieces and dip each one in fritter batter ; fry them in hot fat for about 2 minutes. Drain and serve on a napkin garnished with parsley. 25.—Fried Soft Clams. Remove the shells and turn off the dark tough part from a dozen large Guilford clams. Cut into small pieces of a lb. of salt pork and fry it. In this fat fry the clams, first dredging them with flour. Serve with slices of broiled bacon. 26.—Beef Pie with Potato Crust. Into a stewpan put slices of cold roast beef, (enough to half fill the baking dish you will use), a little gravy or stock, a lump of butter, a slice of onion, salt and pepper ; if there is not enough gravy add hot water; dredge in 1 tablespoonful of flour; cover and stew gently. Put this into a baking dish and cover the top with hot mashed potato. Brush over with egg and place in the oven long enough to brown the crust.July, 94 27 Fried Frogs’ Legs. Skin and wash the legs in cold water and dry them well on a towel or napkin. Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice; dip the legs into beaten egg, then in crumbs and fry in hot fat. 28.—Parsley Eggs. Poach 6 eggs and put them on slices of toast and pour over them the following sauce : 1 cup of cream or milk, 1 sprig of parsley chopped fine, 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 of flour mixed smoothly together; boil until it thickens. 29.—Trolly Beef. One qt. fine-chopped cooked soup meat, y? cup of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tea- spoonful of pepper, y teaspoonful allspice, y tablespoonful mace, 2 fine-chopped onions. Place the onions, vinegar, salt, pepper and spice in a saucepan over the fire; stir and cook 5 minutes; then add the meat and cook 5 minutes longer; turn the meat into a form and set in a cool place. Serve cold and gar- nish with hot fried potatoes.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke.July. 95 30.—Baked Soft-Shelled Crabs. Season the crabs with salt and pepper ; dip in melted butter, dust with flour and bake in a quick oven ten minutes. 31.—Chicken Cutlets. Put y2 a cup of cream into a large frying- pan. When it begins to boil, add 1 table- spoonful each of flour and butter ; stir until thick and smooth. Add to this 1 cup of cold chopped chicken and cook for 3 minutes; then 2 well beaten eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, salt, pepper and a little onion juice and y2 pt. of fine bread crumbs. Let this boil up and then pour it out into a flat dish. Let it get very cold ; then cut into even pieces, dip in egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat.AUGUST. i.—Nun's Toast. Put butter the size of an egg into a sauce- pan. and when it begins to bubble, add i fine chopped onion and let it cook a little without browning ; then stir in i teaspoonful of flour ; add a cup of milk and stir until smooth. To this add 4 sliced hard-boiled eggs and let them get hot. Pour this over buttered toast. 2.—Grilled Beef. Soak slices of cold meat in the following sauce for rj an hour: i1^ tablespoon fills each of salad oil and Worcestershire sauce, 3 teaspoonfuls of made mustard, pepper and salt to taste, and a little sliced onion fried in butter. Broil the meat after it has soaked yj an hour, and if liked the sauce can be thick- ened with a little flour and poured over the meat when ready to serve. 90August. 97 3.—Potato Omelet. Fry some slices of bacon brown ; take them out, leaving the fat in the pan. Chop fine 2 cups of cold boiled potatoes ; let them brown in the bacon fat. When done turn carefully on to a platter and garnish with the bits of bacon. 4.—Peas in Potato Cases. Mash 6 or 8 boiled potatoes. Add butter and milk in the usual way. When well mashed add a little flour to slightly stiffen them. Fill greased patty pans with the po- tato, putting a piece of bread in the centre of each. When they are browned turn them out carefully ; take out the bread and in the hollow made by it, fill with young well cooked peas, which have been seasoned with a little cream, pepper and salt. Serve on a hot platter. 5.—Spanish Hash. One cup of cold meat, 3 potatoes, 1 onion, 1 stalk of celery, chopped fine, 1 cup of toma- toes, 1 egg, pepper and salt. Mix thoroughly and bake and brown in a hot oven.August. 6.—Corn Oysters. Grate the corn from the cob into a large dish, and to *4 a pint of pulp, add i well beaten egg, a tablespoonful of Hour, i of but- ter, salt and pepper to taste. Drop by spoon- fuls into hot lard and fry a golden brown. 7.—Beef en Matclotte. (A Recipe of Alex. Dumas.) Pare and slice two small onions and put in a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Put over the fire where they may brown slowly; when delicately browned, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, stir and brown. When the flour is browned, add of a cup of claret or sherry or 2 tablespoonfuIs of orange juice, 1 tablespoonful of stock, a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley. Simmer for 15 min- utes ; then pour it over thin slices of cooked beef. Let it stand in a farina boiler for 20 minutes that the meat may become heated and saturated with the gravy without cook- ing. Season and serve.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia.August. 99 8.—Chicken Oysters. Cut cold boiled chicken into small pieces the size of an oyster; dip each piece in egg and roll in crumbs and fry in hot fat. Serve with cream sauce poured over them. 9.—Egg Croquettes. Chop the whites of 6 hard-boiled eggs fine with y2 a can of mushrooms, which should be drained free from all liquor. Mash the yolks of the eggs through a press. Scald 1 pt. of milk; rub together until smooth 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 of flour; add to the scalded milk, and stir until it thickens ; add the yolk of 1 raw egg and the whites and yolks of the boiled eggs, mushrooms, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir quickly and care- fully together, take from the fire and put away to cool. When thoroughly cold form into cylindrical croquettes ; dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. Garnish with parsley and serve.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 10.—Salpicon a la Toulouse. Cook x blanched and prepared sweetbread 10 minutes in 1 oz. of butter; then cut itAugust. 100 into small dice; add an equal portion of cooked beef tongue, mushrooms, and 3 truf- fles all cut the same way. Then place a saucepan over the fire with 1 oz. butter; add 1 tablespoonful flour ; stir and cook 3 min- utes ; add y2 pint chicken broth, 1 gill of mushroom liquor, y2 even teaspoonful of salt and y2 a gill of Rhine wine ; cook slowly 5 minutes ; then add to the sauce all the above ingredients; cook 5 minutes longer. Mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 gill of cream ; add them to the salpicon, stir for a minute; then serve.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 11.—Apple Toast-and Bacon. Stew peeled and quartered apples in 1 tablespoonful of butter, 2 of water and 1 of sugar. Cook in this until tender. Fry slices of bread in hot butter until golden brown. Pile the apples neatly on these and serve hot with a garnish of broiled bacon. 12—Broiled Herrings. Let them stand 10 minutes covered with boiling water. Then skin, wipe dry, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve on a hotAugust. 101 dish; brush over with melted butter and serve. 13.—Corn Beef Hash. Chop very fine 1 pint each of cold corn beef and cold boiled potatoes. Into a sauce- pan put 1 tablespoonful of butter and an onion chopped fine ; cook slowly 5 minutes ; add y2 a cup of stock and into this put the meat and potatoes. Stir well for a minute, then let brown. Turn on a platter so the brown side is up ; garnish with parsley. 14.—Sweetbreads Saute. Procure 2 large sweetbreads; prepare and blanch them ; season with salt, dust lightly with flour, dip into beaten egg, and cover with fine sifted bread crumbs. Melt 1 y2 ozs. butter in a low saucepan, just large enough to receive them. As soon as the butter is melted put in the sweetbreads, cover and cook slowly 30 minutes, turning them care- fully once during that time. When ready to serve, lay 2 pieces of buttered toast on a warm dish ; dress the sweetbreads over them, and garnish with water cress.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke.August. 102 15.—Hominy Fritters. Mix together 1 pint of boiled hominy, 2 well-beaten eggs, y2 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of flour, a little milk ; when cold add 1 teaspoonful baking powder ; stir well. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry a light brown. 16.—Fillet of Bass. Split the bass through the back; remove the skin and bones, cut the flesh into pieces about 4 inches square ; season with salt and dust lightly with flour; dip in beaten egg, then roll in fine bread crumbs ; fry in hot fat. Garnish with potato chips and points of lemon. 17.—Stew of Mutton and Cucumbers. Peel 2 large cucumbers ; slice them and dry them on a cloth. Dip each piece into egg and cracker crumbs and fry in hot fat. Cut 1 pint of cold mutton into dice ; place this in the frying-pan in which the cucumbers were fried; toss the meat over until all sides are browned. Take them out and pile in the centre of a platter ; arrange the fried cucum- ber around the edge. To the gravy left inAugust. 103 the pan add i teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, a squeeze of lemon and thicken with i tablespoonful of flour. Let this boil up and pour over the meat. 18.—Beef Kidney a la Baden-Baden Split a beef kidney in half; remove the white fat and all stringy parts; cut the kidney in small % inch-square pieces. Place a sauce- pan over the fire; add 2 ozs. butter; as soon as hot, put in the kidney; season with 1 even tablespoonful salt, 1 even teaspoonful pepper ; stir and cook 5 minutes; add 2 tablespoon- fuls fine-cut mushrooms, the same of truffles, and y2 cupful sherry wine; cover and cook 6 minutes. Mix the yolks of 2 eggs with y pt. of sweet cream; add to it the kidneys; stir and beat until nearly boiling; add a lit- tle cayenne pepper, and serve on a warm dish.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 19.—Broiled Salmon (Smoked). Into a pan of cold water put 1 lb. of smoked salmon ; let it boil up; then drain and rinse off with cold water. Wipe the salmon dry and brush over with melted butter. Broil carefully for 5 minutes. Make a sauce forAugust. 104 this, with i tablespoonful of melted butter, juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Pour over the fish and serve. 20.—Potato Pancake. Pare, wash and grate 12 large raw potatoes. Mix with 1 tablespoonful of salt and the yolks of 3 eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth ; add the potatoes slowly to the whites. Place a large frying-pan with 1 tablespoonful of fat over the fire as soon as hot. Put small por- tions from the mixture with a spoon into the hot fat to form cakes the size of a saucer; bake light brown on both sides. Serve on a hot plate.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 21.—Stuffed Mutton Chops. Trim 8 or 10 mutton chops which have been cut very thick. With a sharp knife split each chop in two, without separating the meat from the bone. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter into a pan; add 1 tablespoonful of chopped onion and let it cook for 5 minutes; then add to this y2 cup chopped mushrooms, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and cook 5 minutes longer. Add 1 tablespoonful ofAugust. 105 flour and 2 tablespoonfuls of stock. Let all cook together for a few minutes; then stuff each chop with this mixture after it has cooled ; press them tightly together and broil. 22.—Veal Hash. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 table- spoonfuls of chopped onion over the fire ; let this cook for 5 minutes; add 1 tablespoonful of flour and stir and cook a few minutes longer ; then add 1 pint of fine chopped veal, 1 pint of chopped boiled potatoes, salt and pepper, and 1 cup of stock. Let simmer for 10 minutes and serve on slices of buttered toast. 23. —Spanish Omelet. Beat 6 eggs very light; add to them 1 cup- ful of fine chopped ham and 2 small onions chopped fine. Pour into a buttered dish and let cook until set; turn out on a hot platter. 24. —Rice Croquettes. Put 1 pt. of cold boiled rice in the double- boiler, and add to it 3 tablespoonfuls of milk ; mix lightly. When soft add a well-beaten egg, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 heaping tablespoonful of fine chopped parsley, salt andAugust. pepper to taste. Shape and dip in egg and crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 25.—French Veal, No. 1. Trim the crust off a small loaf of bread. Cut out the inside, leaving a box. Fry the box in deep fat until a golden brown. Into a saucepan put 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 of fine chopped onion; let it fry for a few minutes. Thicken this with 1 tablespoonful of flour. Chop fine 1 pt. of veal and 1 table- spoonful of parsley; add this to the sauce and stir well, but do not boil; then add 1 cup cream or stock, and when hot remove from the fire and add 1 yolk of egg, and the juice of ]/2 a lemon. Pile this into the box and garnish with lemon points and parsley. 26.—Smoked Beef a la Bechamel. Melt 1 oz. butter in a saucepan; add ^ tablespoonful flour; cook and stir 3 minutes; add 1 cup of milk, a small bouquet, 1 gill of mushroom liquor; cook 6 minutes, then strain into a clean saucepan. Place y2 lb. of smoked beef in a saucepan ; cover with boil- ing water ; let it cook 2 minutes; then drain and chop fine. Add the beef to the sauce; 100August. 107 cook for a few minutes; then pour over slices of buttered toast.—Mrs. Gesine Lemcke. 27.—Creamed Corned Beef. For 1 pt. of chopped corned beef, make a cream sauce with 1 tablespoonful each of but- ter and flour and 1 cupful milk. Season well with salt, pepper and onion juice; stir into the meat. Simmer for 3 minutes, and in serving sprinkle thickly with coarse bread crumbs which have been browned in a little butter.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 28.—Liver a la Quebec. Boil or steam y2 a lb. of calf’s liver; chop it fine, seasoning well with salt, pepper and 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce. Let boil up once. Take out the liver, lay it on slices of shredded wheat biscuit which have been previously toasted. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour, thicken and pour over the whole. Take the hard-boiled yolks of 2 eggs and slice and garnish the dish. 29.—Mutton Chops with Puree of Peas. Broil loin chops, cut an inch thick, over bright coals for eight minutes, turning every xo seconds; season with salt and set againstAugust. 108 triangles of toast. Pass cooked peas through a sieve to remove the skins; reheat with a few grains of sugar and salt, and a little cream; cook until dry, then with forcing bag and tube press a star of pulp upon each chop. Serve very hot.—Janet M. Hill. 30.—French Minced Veal, No. 2. Fry a chopped onion until a pale yellow, in a little butter; add 1 tablespoonful of flour and a little stock; add 1 pint of fine chopped veal and 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley; season with salt and pepper. Mix well and heat hot, but not boil. Remove from the fire and stir in the yolk of 1 egg and the juice of a lemon beaten together. Pile the meat in the centre of a dish and make a fence of strips of toast around it. 31.—Hash Fritters. Stew gently pieces of cold veal or lamb in a little stock or gravy. Cut in small pieces. Add some bread crumbs and 1 beaten egg, salt and pepper. Make into small balls and cover the outside with mashed potato. Dip in crumbs, then in beaten egg and in crumbs again. Fry in hot fat.109 SEPTEMBER. i.—Panned Oysters. Into a stewpan put i tablespoonful of but- ter, and when it melts add i tablespoonful of flour. Stir until smooth and add y2 pt. of oyster juice. When this has thickened to the consistency of cream, add 18 or 20 oysters, salt and pepper to taste. When the gills ruffle the oysters are cooked. Serve on toast. 2.—Chipped Beef. Cut dried beef in thin shavings. Pour boiling water over and let stand 10 minutes. Make a sauce of 1 cup of water, 1 of milk, a beaten egg and 1 tablespoonful of flour. Stir well. Season. Add the beef; let boil for 5 minutes. Serve. 3.—Tomato Omelet. Beat very well 12 eggs seasoned with a little salt and pepper. Into a frying-pan putSeptember. 110 2 ozs. of butter; let it melt, then pour into it a pt. of freshly stewed tomatoes. Cook for 2 minutes ; then turn in the beaten eggs ; stir gently for 3 minutes ; then let it cook until done and turn out on a heated dish. 4.—Smothered Veal. Place in the bottom of a baking-pan two slices of salt pork cut very fine, a layer of sliced potatoes, a layer of fine chopped un- cooked veal, pepper and salt. Continue this until the dish is full. For the top layer, chop 1 onion very fine; spread over the whole with bits of butter. Bake in the oven until done about 45 minutes. 5.—Chicken Fricassee. Cut the chicken into pieces as for fried chicken ; put in a saucepan and just cover with cold water; cover the pan and stew gently until tender ; season with salt, pepper, a little butter, and 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped celery. Take out the chicken and lay- on a hot platter. Add two tablespoonfuls of flour made smooth with a little of the stock and the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs; bring all to a boil and pour over the chicken.September. 111 6.—Curried Roast Beef. Fry one large onion, chopped fine, in i tablespoonful of butter, until slightly browned; add i tablespoonful each of flour and curry powder; cook gently for a few minutes; add to this i cupful of beef gravy, stir until smooth. Slice cold roast beef thin, and heat hot in this sauce. 7.—Sweetbread Croquettes. Prepare 2 sweetbreads; parboil them and cut them in small pieces; cut 1 can mush- rooms into small pieces also. Put into a saucepan 1 tablespoonful each of flour and butter, and when made smooth add *4 a cup of cream ; heat and add the sweetbreads and mushrooms. When very hot take from the fire and add 2 well-beaten yolks of eggs. When cool form into croquettes and dip in egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat. 8.—Aurora Eggs. Pound to a paste in a mortar the yolks of 10 hard-boiled eggs, 1 oz. of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, small pinch each of nutmeg and of ground spice, and 3 raw egg yolks. MakeSeptember. 112 a white sauce with 2 tablespoonfuls each of flour and butter and a pint of hot milk. Sea- son with salt and pepper and a tablespoonful of mushroom liquor. Cook well for 10 minutes. Cut the whites of the hard-boiled eggs in small pieces; add them to the white sauce. Pour this on a platter; lay the pounded yolks on top and garnish with points of fried bread. 9.—Green Corn Omelet. Grate 6 ears of corn ; add 4 well-beaten eggs, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 cup of milk. Season with salt and pepper, beat all together and bake for y2 an hour. 10.—Clam Fritters. Wash the clams and put them in a pan in the oven to open ; take out the meat and strain the liquor, keeping it separate. To 1 pt. of meat allow three eggs, y2 teaspoonful of salt, y of a teaspoonful of pepper, 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, 2 cupfuls of the liquor, or if there is not as much as that add milk to make that amount; flour to thicken. This will make a large quantity. Drop into hot fat and fry.September♦ 113 ii.—Broiled Salt Codfish. Soak the codfish in cold water to remove the salt; dry with a cloth, broil over a clear fire for io or 15 minutes. When cooked serve on a hot platter with melted butter poured over. 12.—Polpetti. Chop 1 pt. of cold meat fine ; season with grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, salt, pepper and chutney sauce. Heat hot; add ]/2 pt. fine chopped mushrooms. When all is very hot, turn out on a platter to cool. When cold cut in small squares ; dip in egg and crumbs and fry in hot fat. Serve with a border of boiled macaroni. 13.—Chicken and Corn Timbale. Grate 3 ears of green corn; to this add 3 well-beaten eggs, ^ teaspoonful of salt, of a teaspoonful of pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of fine crumbs. Butter small timbale moulds ; dust with fine chopped parsley. Fill these part full of the corn mixture, leaving a hol- low in the centre for the chicken. Prepare the chicken in the following manner : Mince y2 a pt. of cold chicken and 4 tablespoonfulsSeptember, 114 of mushrooms very fine, y? a teaspoonful of salt, pinch of cayenne, and the yolks of 2 eggs. Make a white sauce with 1 table- spoonful each of flour and butter and a cup of cream or milk ; put the chicken, etc., into it, and when very hot fill the centre of the moulds; place the moulds in a pan of hot water; cover with a sheet of buttered paper and bake 20 minutes. Turn out carefully on a hot platter. Garnish with parsley and serve. 14.—Salmon Cutlets. Cut slices of salmon y$ of an inch thick ; remove all skin and bones. Season with salt and pepper, dust with flour, dip in beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. 15.—Egg Gems. To 1 cup of fine chopped meat add 1 cup of fine bread crumbs, 1 spoonful of fine chopped onion. Season with pepper and salt and a spoonful of melted butter ; add enough milk to bind together. Have large gem pans well greased and nearly fill with the mixture; break an egg carefully on the top of each one ; dust with salt and bake 8 minutes.September. 115 16.—Veal Toast. Into a saucepan put i cupful of chopped veal, a cup of hot water, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, y2 teaspoonful of salt and a pinch of pepper. Let boil up once and serve on slices of buttered toast. 17. —Fresh Fish Cakes. Take cold fish, pick up fine; add an equal quantity of mashed potatoes; season with pepper and celery salt; add 1 well-beaten egg ; form into cakes and fry. 18. —Eggs with Onions. Cut into quarters y2 a dozen hard-boiled eggs. Thinly slice 2 large white onions, place them in a saucepan with il/2 tablespoon- fuls of butter; cover and cook slowly with- out browning for 10 minutes ; then add y2 of a teaspoonful of salt, y of a teaspoonful of white pepper and r tablespoonful of flour. Stir gently until the flour is absorbed; then add gradually 1 cupful of hot milk, stirring until thick and smooth. Add the prepared eggs, cover and simmer for 10 minutes longer, adding just before taking from the fire, xSeptember. tablespoonful of fine-chopped parsley.— From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 19.—Creamed Calf’s Liver. Into a pan put 5 tablespoonfuls of butter. When it is melted, put into it 1 lb. of calf’s liver cut fine, salt and pepper; brown care- fully and cook for 18 minutes. Take up the liver and place it on a hot platter. Add 1 slice of onion to the gravy and let it cook 1 minute. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour and cook, stirring until it begins to froth. Draw the pan back and gradually add 1 pint of milk and cook 1 minute, stirring all the time. Put the liver in the pan with the gravy and stew very slowly 5 minutes longer. 20.—Omelet Rudolph. Into a saucepan put 1 oz. of butter and 1 raw onion chopped very fine. Take 1 table- spoonful of fine cut salt pork which has been slightly cooked, 1 tablespoonful of fine cut cold roast beef, the same of ham, 2 fine chopped mushrooms and a pinch of fine chopped parsley. Stir in a tablespoonful of thick tomato sauce and a tablespoonful of grated bread crumbs. Make a plain omelet lltiSeptember. 117 and when cooked spread with the above mix- ture and turn over carefully. 21.—French Kidney. Soak the kidney and take out the centre cords and fat. Slice thin, dip each piece in flour and fry in butter until brown. Take the meat out, and make a sauce by adding i tablespoonful of flour browned thoroughly. Return the meet to the pan; add y2 cup of boiling water stirring until all is well mixed. Add i bay leaf, salt and pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Let stew for y2 an hour and take out the bay leaf, and serve on a heated dish. 22.—Oysters in Potato Case. Take i qt. of mashed potatoes and pile on a hot platter. With a spoon scoup out the centre leaving a basket, or box. With a knife decorate the edges ; brush over with beaten egg; put the dish in the oven to brown, while you make the filling. Into a pan put 2 ozs. of butter and 2 of flour ; stir until smooth; add gradually y2 pt. of hot cream, stirring all the time; salt and pepper. W hen the sauce is smooth add 1 qt. of oys-September. 118 ters and cook until the gills curl. Pour care- fully into the potato case and serve hot. 23.—Spanish Mackerel. Broil the mackerel on both sides ; place it on a hot platter and make the following sauce: Beurre Noir.—Put 2 tablespoon- fuls of butter in a frying-pan; when melted add 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice, y2 teaspoonful of salt, ^ of a teaspoonful of pepper. Boil up once and turn over the fish. 24.—Bracciolette (Italian). Take 1 ft. of tender beef and chop very fine, mixing with it a little powdered cloves, a teaspoonful of olive oil and a little chopped fat bacon, sweet herbs and parsley to taste. When well mixed, roll it out and form into small balls. Dip each one into butter and then in crumbs. Broil them over a good fire. Serve at once. 25.—Veal Stew. Cut up about 3 lbs. of breast of veal and fry a light brown in a pan with 3 spoonfulsSeptember. 119 of butter; drain off most of the butter; sprinkle 2 spoonfuls of flour over the meat; mix it well and fry a little longer ; add a pt. of water and let it boil; then with a fork take out the pieces of meat and put them in an- other pan and strain the sauce over it. Add a bunch of parsley chopped fine and 2 car- rots also cut very fine, a pint of cooked green peas; let all boil up again and serve. 26.—Bobble Gash. One ft. of lean pork and 1 of veal cut in small pieces. Put a tablespoonful of lard in a kettle; when hot add 2 or 3 good sized onions, sliced. When they commence to brown drop in the meat and stir constantly until quite brown ; then cover with water and boil 24 °f an hour. Season with salt and pepper. Pare and cut in small dice 4 or 5 potatoes, which when boiled add to the meat, with 1 cup of sweet cream or milk. Thicken with 1 tablespoonful of flour. 27—Fricassee of Eggs. Cut xo hard-boiled eggs in slices. Cut 2 onions in thin slices; put them in a saucepan with 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; stirSeptember, 120 and fry slowly until a light brown ; sprinkle i tablespoonful of flour over them ; dilute with a little cream. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg; stir and boil a few minutes ; add the eggs; heat hot without boiling. 28.—Calf’s Tongue with Tomato Sauce. Take two calves’ tongues, soak them in warm water for an hour; drain and parboil for ten minutes; cool, pare and scrape the white skin off. Into a saucepan put 1 table- spoonful of flour ; stir into it gradually 1 cup of water. When it boils, add 1 wine-glass of vinegar, 1 bunch of parsley and an onion with three cloves stuck in it. Cover and cook slowly for an hour. Drain on a cloth ; dish up and serve with tomato sauce over it. The tongue can be boiled the day before and then reheated for breakfast, and the tomato sauce made and poured over. 29.—Broiled Striped Bass. Wash and clean the fish ; cut it open on one side; baste with sweet oil and broil for fifteen minutes. Serve with the following sauce: Maitre D’Hotel Sauce.—Take 1 table- spoonful of blitter and knead into it 1 table-September. 121 spoonful of fine chopped parsley, and a squeeze of lemon juice. 30.—Currant Jelly Fritters and Cold Duck. Cut slices of bread and spread thickly with currant jelly; put two together, press gently, but do not let the jelly squeeze out; cut them with a fancy cutter; dip in batter and fry quickly in hot lard. Pile slices of cold duck neatly in the centre of a platter and lay the fritters around in a circle.122 OCTOBER. 1. —Minced Beef. Put butter the size of an egg into a sauce- pan. When it is melted fry a sliced onion until light brown; add i cup stock, i bunch fine chopped parsley; stir in i tablespoonful of chutney sauce and 2 cups of beef chopped fine; let it get very hot, but not boil. Serve with toast points. 2. —Sausage Roll. Make a dough as for baking powder biscuit; roll out and cut in large rounds with a biscuit cutter; lay sausage meat on half of each piece; turn the other half over and pinch together; bake y2 an hour. Serve with brown sauce, poured around. 3.—Fried Fish. Clean and wash the fish; roll in corn- meal ; sprinkle with salt and pepper and fry in pork fat.October, 123 4.—Chicken Tarts. Chop cold chicken very fine and season to taste. Boil an onion and 1 qt. of milk; when it is scalding hot, take out the onion and thicken with a teaspoonful of flour; wet with cold milk. When it has boiled, add 2 cups of chopped chicken. Serve in patty cases. 5.—Breakfast Veal. Butter a small dish very thoroughly, and fill it with layers of stewed veal and bread crumbs; season with salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. Put a little gravy in and cover the top with bits of butter. Do not have it very moist. Bake for about 20 minutes and turn out on a platter and garnish with parsley. 6 Chicken Terrapin. Chop together 1 qt. of cold chicken, 3 hard-boiled eggs and the chicken liver if you have it; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Into a frying-pan put 3 tablespoonfuls of but- ter; when melted, add 2 of flour and stir until smooth; add gradually 1 cupful of chicken stock; stir well for three minutes; then add 1 cupful of cream all but 4 table-October. 124 spoonfuls; stir a minute and add the chicken mixture. Simmer for io minutes. Into this stir the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs and the remaining cream. Stir x minute; add 4 tablespoonfuls of sherry and 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Serve at once. 7.—Stewed Lamb and Mint Sauce. Cut cold lamb into 2 inch pieces. Into a saucepan put 1 tablespoonful of butter and fry the meat until slightly browned; add 1 cup of hot water and let simmer 10 minutes. Take out the meat and place on a hot platter. Add % of a cupful of very fine chopped mint, ^ a cupful of vinegar, and a tea- spoonful of sugar; let simmer for 5 minutes and pour over the meat. 8.—Chicken in Shells. Chop cold chicken into dice and mix with a hot cream sauce. Turn into the shells and sprinkle crumbs over them and brown in a hot oven. Serve immediately. g.—Cheese Omelet. Put 1 tablespoonful of butter into a frying- pan, and when heated add 10 well-beatenOctober. 125 eggs and 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Swiss cheese, a pinch of salt and pepper. When done turn out carefully on a hot platter and dust the top with a little grated Parmesan cheese. ' Put back in the oven for 2 seconds and serve. 10.—Stewed Calf’s Liver. Wash and cut a calf’s liver in slices. Into a deep saucepan put 1 turnip, 1 carrot, 1 stalk of celery and 1 onion (all sliced); lay the liver on top of the vegetables, sprinkle salt and pepper over all and pour on a pint of boiling water; cover and let stew until the liver is tender. When done take out the liver and put it on a hot platter; strain the gravy and thicken with 1 tablespoonful of butter and 1 of browned flour; stir, and when it boils take from the fire and pour over the meat. 11.—Turkey Legs with Chestnut Puree. Broil the second joints of the turkey, and if more is required slices of the white meat (dipped in olive oil first). Make the follow- ing sauce : Put 1 pt. of shelled chestnuts into a pint of white soup stock ; season with whiteOctober, 126 pepper, nutmeg, ]/2 teaspoonful of sugar and a small piece of butter; cover and cook slowly for ]/2 an hour. Press through a sieve and pour over the meat. 12.—Italian Croquettes. Fry 2 tablespoonfuls of fine chopped shal- lots in 2 of butter; add to it i lb. of fine chopped beef and half a pound of stale bread which has been softened with a little cold broth, salt and pepper, a little chopped pars- ley and the yolks of 4 eggs ; stir on the fire until nearly boiling ; turn on to a platter; when cool form into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs and fry. 13. —Creamed Veal. Cut cold veal in thin slices. Into a sauce- pan put 1 tablespoonful each of flour and but- ter; stir smooth; add gradually 1 cup of warm milk ; let it boil up, and season with salt, pepper, a small pinch of mace, and a little onion juice. Put in the veal, and when hot turn out on a platter. 14. —Spanish Eggs. Boil 1 cupful of rice until tender; season with celery salt and a little pepper; add 1October. 127 tablespoonful of butter. Mix well but lightly and spread on a hot platter. Poach 6 eggs and put them on the rice ; garnish with pars- ley. 15.—Kidneys a la Maitre d’ Hotel. Split and cut in two, lengthwise, lambs’ kidneys. Run a skewer through them to keep them flat. Dip them in melted butter and fine bread crumbs; season with salt and pep- per. Broil for about 5 minutes. Serve with Maitre d’ Hotel butter. 16.—Stewed Tripe and Tomato Sauce. Wash 1 lb. of tripe ; cover with hot water ; add 1 onion cut in slices; cover the sauce- pan and let cook slowly for half an hour. In another saucepan put 1 pt. of tomatoes and cook them for xo minutes ; strain through a fine sieve and return to the pan. Wet 2 tablespoonfuls of flour in ^ of a cupful of cold water; add it to the strained tomatoes, stirring all the time. Lastly add salt and pepper to taste. Place the tripe on a hot platter and pour the sauce over.October♦ 128 17.—Scalloped Fish. Remove all bones and pick into small pieces 1 pt. of cold fish. Butter a pudding dish ; put in a layer of the fish, then a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of stewed to- mato ; continue in this order until the dish is full, having the last layer crumbs; put bits of butter over and bake about 20 minutes. 18.—Duck and Olive Sauce. Put 2 doz. olives into a china bowl and pour hot water over them ; let them remain in this for 20 minutes to draw out the brine. Put 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil in a frying- pan and add 1 slice of onion, and when this commences to color, add 1 oz. flour. Stir until smooth ; after it has cooked for 2 min- utes, add 1 pt. of stock and let simmer. Pare the olives around, taking out the stone. Place the olives in the sauce ; add the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper. Have slices of cold duck ready and put them in the sauce. When hot turn out on a platter and serve. 19.—Veal Olives. Chop a little salt pork with some bread crumbs, 1 onion and season with salt, pepperOctober, 129 and a little sweet marjoram ; mix in x egg well beaten. Cut a y2 inch thick veal fillet into 3 inch pieces. Spread some of this mix- ture on each piece ; roll up and skewer with wooden toothpicks. Cover the bottom of a pan with veal stock ; put in the olives, dredge them with flour and set the pan in a hot oven. When brown, put a bit of butter on each one and leave them in the oven for about 15 minutes or until tender. Serve at once. 20.—Oyster Balls. Stew 1 qt. of oysters and chop them fine. Take 6 potatoes, boil and mash them and pass them through a colander; work into them 1 gill of cream, the yolks of 4 eggs, some finely chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and lastly add the oysters. When well mixed form into balls, flour them and fry in deep fat. 21.—Salmi of Partridge. Take the breasts of cold partridge and put them into a stewpan with y2 pint of stock; add 2 small onions and a little thin lemonOctober. 130 pee], i teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Stew until the sauce is reduced y, then strain. Serve the meat on slices of fried bread and pour the sauce over. 22.—Venison Steak. Flatten the steak slightly ; season with salt and pepper; baste with olive oil and broil over a brisk fire. 23. —Brunswick Stew. Cut a squirrel in pieces, as for a fricassee ; add a little salt and boil 5 minutes in 1 qt. of water. Put in y2 an onion, minced fine, 1 cup each of butter beans, tomatoes and corn, 1 slice of chopped salt pork, salt and pepper; let all boil until tender; take out the meat and thicken the gravy with a little flour. 24. —Oysters Sauteed. Drain the oysters ; season with salt and pepper ; roll in fine corn-meal and fry in deep fat. Garnish with bits of lemon. 25.—Beefsteak Hollandaise Sauce. Heat a china bowl very hot; into it put y cup of butter and beat to a cream; addOctober, 131 to this the yolks of 4 eggs, beating them in one at a time ; then add the juice of a lemon, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt and 1 of paprika. Beat well and set the bowl in a basin of hot water; add to the sauce of a cup of boiling water and stir until the consistency of cream. Broil the steak in the usual way and serve the sauce with it. 26.—Chicken with Pea Sauce. Cut a young chicken as for fricassee and place it in a baking-pan. Cover with a pt. of stock; season with salt and pepper and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley; cover with another pan and let it cook for ^ an hour. After it has been in the oven about 15 minutes add to the gravy 1 can of French peas. When the chicken is cooked take it out and lay on a hot platter. Strain the gravy and peas through a sieve and pour over the chicken. 27.—Chestnut Croquettes. Shell, blanch and boil sufficient chestnuts to make 1 pt. While hot add 1 teaspoonful salt, same of onion juice, dash of cayenne and 1 tablespoonful of butter. Mix; makeOctober. 132 into tiny rolls; dip into egg then in crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 28.—Devilled Lobster. After a lobster is boiled cut up in small pieces and season highly with salt and cay- enne pepper, chopped parsley, onion juice and a little mustard if liked. Put the mix- ture in the shell; sprinkle over bread crumbs and bits of butter and bake until well browned. 29.—Meat Fritters. Take slices of cold meat; cut in neat pieces and lay them in lemon juice for 10 minutes ; drain ; season with salt and pepper; dip each piece into fritter batter and fry in hot fat. 30.—Mutton Chops with Tomato Sauce. Season 6 mutton chops with salt and pep- per ; baste with melted butter; roll in bread crumbs and broil slowly; arrange in a circle on a hot platter and pour tomato sauce in the centre. Tomato Sauce.—Put 2 table-October, 133 spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan ; add i chopped onion; let fry until brown. Stir in i oz. of flour and i pt. of canned tomatoes; let boil for 5 minutes and strain through a fine sieve. 31—Goose and Apple Sauce. Take slices of cold roast goose. Put them into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of but- ter, and let them get very hot; pile neatly on a hot platter. Serve with a border of hot apple sauce on slices of fried bread.134 NOVEMBER. i.—Mock Sausage. Chop i lb. of cold beef fine; add 3 tablespoonfuls of mashed potatoes, 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of flour and a small slice of moistened bread; stir all together ; add salt, pepper and a little sage. Make in small cakes and fry first on one side and then on the other. 2.—Rice and Mutton Scallop. Cut cold mutton into dice (about 1 pt.). Add 1 pt. of cold boiled rice. Into a sauce- pan put 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; when it is melted put in the meat and rice; season with salt and pepper ; when it is hot stir in 2 slightly beaten eggs; stir until the whole is very hot and serve. 3.—Salt Codfish Omelet. Soak 1 cup of codfish flakes for half an hour; drain very dry. Beat 8 eggs veryNovember. 135 light; add the codfish and turn into a but- tered omelet pan ; when cooked turn over on a platter and garnish with parsley. 4.—Baked Hominy and Ham Chips. Into a saucepan put 1 pt. of cold boiled hominy; break it up with a fork; add 2 well-beaten eggs, a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of sugar; beat well until smooth; if not moist enough, add a little milk. Butter small timbale moulds ; fill with the hominy and bake in the oven for 15 or 20 minutes. Slice ham in thin square pieces; broil on an oyster broiler to keep it from curling. Place these on a hot platter and turn out a hominy timbale on each slice. 5.—Sweetbreads and Macaroni Sauce. Parboil 2 beef sweetbreads for 10 or 15 minutes; cut into small pieces. Boil 12 sticks of macaroni; when tender, with a sharp knife cut the macaroni in tiny pieces, making little rings. Into a saucepan put 2 table- spoonfuls each of butter and flour ; stir until smooth ; add 1 cup of cream or milk ; when very smooth, add the macaroni and the sweet-November, 136 bread. Season with salt and white pepper. Let boil up and serve. 6.—Fried Perch. Clean and wipe the fish ; roll in butter and cracker crumbs, and fry in salt pork fat. 7.—Broiled Quail on Toast. Split the birds down the back ; season with salt and pepper; baste with oil and broil over a clear fire. Arrange slices of buttered toast on a platter ; lay a bird on each slice. Gar- nish with watercress. 8.—Mutton Chops a la Cleveland. Fry 8 mutton chops in 3 tablespoonfuls of sweet oil and 3 of butter. Put them on a hot platter while you make the sauce. Chop 1 onion and 1 pint of mushrooms very fine; put them into a saucepan with a little butter and fry until brown ; add y2 pt. of strained tomatoes and boil five minutes ; add a pinch of cayenne, salt and chopped parsley. Lay the chops around in a circle ; pour the sauce in the centre, and garnish with points of toast.November. 137 9.—Turkey and Cranberry Jelly. Lay slices of cold turkey in a saucepan with 1 cup of gravy if you have it, or soup stock. Let get hot and pile neatly in the centre of a hot platter. Thicken the gravy with a little flour, and pour a little of it over the turkey. The day before you wish to use this make a cranberry jelly with 1 pt. of cranberries nearly covered with water; boil half an hour and strain through a sieve; to a cupful of juice put a cup of sugar; let boil, and when jellied turn into small heart-shaped moulds. When ready to use make a border of these around the turkey. 10.—Fillet of Sole with Normandy Sauce. Cut each flounder into 4 fillets; season with salt and pepper; put them into a sauce- pan with a little butter, a gill of white wine, a chopped onion ; boil and cook ro minutes; then make a sauce as follows: Put 2 ozs. of butter and 2 of flour in a saucepan ; stir and cook a little without browning; dilute with the fish gravy and boil 10 minutes; skim and thicken with the yolks of 2 eggs, and stir on the fire without boiling; add the juice of aMovember, 138 lemon ; stir well and strain. Place the fillets on a dish and pour the sauce over. ii.—Lucanian Eggs. Cut 5 hard-boiled eggs in eighths, length- wise. Add i cup of cooked macaroni, y2 a cup of grated cheese and i y cups of white sauce ; season with salt, paprika, onion juice, and anchovy essence. Turn into a buttered baking dish ; cover with buttered crumbs and set into the oven long enough to brown the crumbs.—From “ The Boston Cooking School Magazine.” 12.—Ham with Cream Sauce. Heat a frying-pan very hot, and into it put slices of raw ham. Do not use any fat to fry it. When crisp take it out and lay it on a hot platter. Add i cupful of milk to the fat in the pan; when it boils, thicken with i tablespoonful of flour ; season with salt and pepper. Pour the sauce over the ham and serve. 13—Golden Eggs. Into a frying-pan put 2 tablespoonfuls of lard; when very hot, drop in 8 eggs care-November. 139 fully, one by one, and let them cook for 2 minutes. Then with a skimmer take each one up separately and lay on a dry cloth. Have some fritter-batter ready and dip each egg into it; fry in deep fat until a golden brown. Serve at once. 14.—Salmon Toast. Take a can of salmon and pick it over care- fully, taking out all pieces of skin and bones. Put it into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, a teaspoonful of salt and ]/2 a cup of cream; let boil up once and serve on hot buttered toast. 15.—Portuguese Hash. One pt. of cold chicken chopped fine; put it into a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Into another saucepan put y2 cup of chicken broth, chopped parsley and 1 stalk celery chopped fine, salt and pepper ; let this boil up and then thicken with flour. Turn the chicken into the broth; mix well and turn out on a hot platter. Into a frying-pan put the whites of 4 unbeaten eggs ; cover with salted boiling water; when cooked (as for poached eggs), cut into small fancy shapes; decorate the hash with these and serve.November. 140 16. —Fried Chicken with Tartar Sauce. Cut up a chicken as for fricassee ; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg; dip each piece in melted butter and bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. Tartar Sauce.—Make a mayon- naise dressing, and add to it i finely chopped gherkin, i tablespoonful chopped parsley, and a few capers. 17. —Scalloped Oysters and Macaroni. Drain about 25 oysters; put a layer of boiled macaroni, cut in small pieces, into a baking dish; then a layer of oysters, a seasoning of salt and pepper; continue so doing until the dish is full; cover the top with bread crumbs and bits of butter and bake y2 an hour. 18.—Chops with Flemish Sauce. Broil the chops and lay on a hot platter. Flemish Sauce.—Cut a cupful of the red part of the carrot into y inch dice and cook in boiling salted water until tender. Make 1 cup of brown sauce ; add the cooked carrot, y2 a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 1 table- spoonful each of chopped pickles and grated horseradish.—Mrs. M. J. Lincoln.November, ig.—Lobster Omelet. Take the meat from i boiled lobster and pick it into small pieces ; put it into a sauce- pan with y-2, a cup of white wine and a small piece of butter. Moisten with a little cream, and let it cook for 5 minutes. Make a plain omelet and fold the lobster mixture in the centre. 20. —Turkey Ragout. Cut cold turkey in neat slices. Into a saucepan put 1 cup of turkey stock, 1 stalk of chopped celery ; thicken with a thickening of butter and flour rubbed smooth. When the sauce is like cream add the turkey and cook 5 minutes. 21. —Fried Oysters. Slightly parboil 25 large oysters ; sprinkle with salt and pepper and when cool, roll each one in egg and crumbs. Fry in deep smok- ing hot fat; take out and lay on butcher’s paper to absorb the grease; garnish with lemon and serve. 22.—Ham Tarts. Chop fine 1 pt. of cold boiled ham; mix with it 1 pt. of bread crumbs which have 111November, 142 been soaked in milk; put this mixture in little patty-pans, dust with crumbs and bake until brown. 23.—Venison with Currant Sauce. Slice an onion and cook until browned in 3 tablespoonfuls of butter; add one of flour, 1 bay leaf, 1 stalk of celery, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar; cook 5 minutes; add 1 pt. of stock, strain and simmer 20 minutes; stir into it y2 glass of currant jelley. Heat slices of venison hot and pour the sauce over them. 24.—Tripe a la Creole. Into a saucepan put 2 tablespoonfuls of but- ter; add 1 dozen peppercorns, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace and 1 onion chopped fine. Cook slowly until the butter is light brown ; add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour and brown again. Add i% cupfuls of strained tomato and stir until smooth. Strain and return to the fire. Season to taste; add y2 of a pound of boiled tripe, cut into inch strips; cover and simmer gently for 20 minutes.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia.November. 143 25.—Salmi of Tongue with Olives. Brown 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan 3 add two tablespoonfuls of flour and brown again. Pour in 1 pt. of stock or water and stir until thick and smooth. Add 1 tablespoonful of Worcestershire, salt and pepper to taste, 1 pt. of boiled tongue, cut in neat pieces, 2 dozen olives, stoned, and simmer for 15 minutes. Take from the fire, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry, or Madeira and serve.—From “Table Talk,” Philadel- phia. 26.—Breslau of Beef. Chop up sufficient rare roast beef to meas- ure 1 pt. Put it in a bowl and add y2 a cupful of stale bread crumbs, 2 tablespoon- fuls of chopped parsley, % of a teaspoonful of thyme, salt and pepper to taste, 3 tablespoon- fuls of butter, melted, 1 cupful of stock or gravy and 3 well-beaten eggs. Mix well and fill into buttered molds or custard cups. Set these in a pan of hot water and cook in a moderate oven until the centres are firm, about 25 minutes. Serve with a brown sauce to which is added 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and 1 teaspoonful ofNovember. 144 walnut catsup.—Front “ Table Talk,” Phila- delphia. 27.—Turkish Pilaf. One cup of stewed and strained tomatoes, 1 cup of stock, seasoned highly with salt and pepper and minced onion. When boiling, add 1 cup of well-washed rice; stir lightly with a fork until the liquor is absorbed ; then add y?, a cupful of butter. Set on the back of the stove and add 1 cup of cooked meat cut into y2 inch pieces and shredded very fine. Steam 20 minutes. Remove the cover ; stir lightly ; cover with a towel and let the steam escape.—Mrs. M. J. Lincoln. 28.—Veal Hamburg. From lbs. of lean veal trim off all skin and fat and put through the meat chopper. In a saucepan melt 1 tablespoonful of butter and brown in it 1 heaping tablespoonful of chopped onion; then add 1 pt. of good stock; season to taste and simmer 5 minutes. In a frying-pan melt 1 tablespoonful of butter and when hot add the chopped raw meat. Stir until the butter is absorbed and the meatNovember. 145 begins to color; then strain over it the stock in the saucepan ; cover and drawback where it will simmer for 20 minutes, stirring occa- sionally. Open a can of green peas; wash them and let them stand in cold water for a few moments ; place in a clean saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and heat over hot water or a gentle fire. When the meat has absorbed the liquor turn it into the centre of a hot platter ; sprinkle with a very little finely-chopped parsley and surround with peas.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 29.—Stewed Beef Liver. Cut 1 lb. of beef liver into inch pieces, wash and scald. Drain, place in a saucepan with 1 slice of onion, y2 a teaspoonful of salt, of a teaspoonful of pepper, 1 tablespoon- ful of walnut catsup and just enough boiling water to keep from burning. Cover closely and simmer until tender. Brown 1 table- spoonful of flour in 1 tablespoonful of butter; add gradually the gravy from the liver and stir until smooth and thick. Turn over the liver; add more seasoning if necessary and simmer for 5 minutes longer. Serve on aNovember. 146 platter, garnished with parsley and toast points.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 30.—Pannikins. Warm minced ham or tongue or veal in a thick cream sauce, and pile it in the centre of a platter. Heat and butter some earthen cups; break an egg in each and bake until the egg is firm. Turn them out and arrange around the meat.—Mrs. M. J. Lincoln.147 DECEMBER i.—Shrimp Omelet. Prepare the shrimp and stew in a little butter for 5 minutes. Make an omelet with 6 or 8 eggs and y2 a cup of cream; season with 1 spoonful of fine chopped parsley, salt and pepper. When done lay the shrimp on and fold over. Garnish with parsley. 2.—Turkey Hash. Mince 1 pt. of cold turkey; add y2 cup of turkey stock. Heat it very hot in a sauce- pan. Lay a large spoonful on a round of toasted bread; continue, until all is used. Put a sprig of parsley on the top of each one and serve. 3.—Tomato Fricassee. Cook together, y2 a can of tomatoes, a tablespoonful of butter and a high seasoning of pepper and salt. When the tomatoes areDecember. 148 very soft, add a pinch of baking soda. When the foam passes off, add 3 beaten eggs ; stir and take from the fire as soon as they begin to thicken.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadel- phia. 4.—Curried Salmon. Put in a saucepan a tablespoonful of butter and a tablespoonful of chopped onion and cook slowly together until the onion changes color. Add a tablespoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of curry powder; mix with the butter ; then add ^ of a pt. of milk. When smooth add more seasoning if liked ; draw to one side and simmer 10 minutes. Add 1 lb. of canned or boiled salmon freed from bones and skin and broken in good-sized pieces. Gently cook 15 minutes longer.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 5.—Oysters a la Reine. Broil the number of oysters required on a well greased broiler; place them on a hot platter and cover with the following sauce: Rub 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 of flour together ; put them into a saucepan and when smooth add 1 pt. of hot milk; take theDecember. 149 yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs and rub them smooth with a little milk ; add them to the sauce; stir briskly until perfectly smooth, and quite thick. Season with mace, salt and cayenne, and a wine-glass of sherry. 6.—Mushrooms and Asparagus Tips. Make a white sauce, and into it put i can of asparagus tips; stand the pan over hot water and let the sauce and tips get very hot. Fry the mushrooms in a little butter ; season with salt and pepper. Pile them neatly in the centre of a dish and make a border of the asparagus. 7.—Shrimps a la Creole. Pick over and wash the shrimps. Into a saucepan put 1 heaping tablespoonful of but- ter and 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped green peppers and cook for 3 minutes 5 add 1 tea- spoonful of chopped onion and cook until the onion begins to brown. Add 1 cupful of to- mato pulp and Yi cupful of very rich beef stock. When boiling add the shrimps, season to taste and simmer for 5 minutes.— Prom “Table Talk,” Philadelphia.December. 150 8.—Rice and Sausage. Brown 3 large tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onion in 2 tablespoonfuls of butter or rendered suet. When light colored add ^ a dozen sausages; cover and cook very slowly for 10 minutes. Add a pound of rice which has been washed and cooked in boiling water for 10 minutes, 1 teaspoonful of salt, % of a teaspoonful of pepper and 1 pt. of boiling water; cover and cook slowly until the rice is tender but unbroken, turning through several times with a fork.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia. g.—Pork Rechauffe. Butter a baking dish ; into it put layers of fine-chopped, cold roast pork and of bread crumbs. When nearly full pour over 1 cup of stock, salt and pepper; cover the top with little oyster crackers, and bits of butter; brown in the oven. 10.—Smelt Broiled. Clean and wipe the fish and dip in melted butter; broil over a clear fire and serve tartar sauce with them.December. 151 11. —Southern Tripe. Melt a large tablespoonful of butter in an iron spider; add i fine-chopped onion ; cook slowly until colored; add i tablespoonful of flour and brown it; then stir in gradually y2 a pt. of strong beef stock and as much stewed tomato. Add iy lbs. of boiled tripe, cut into strips, and season well with salt, pepper and a little curry powder. Cover and simmer very gently for io minutes and serve. —From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 12. —Stewed Lobster. Cut the boiled lobster fine; put it in a stewpan with a little milk or cream. Boil up once ; add i tablespoonful of butter, a little pepper and serve plain or on toasted crackers. Cook the lobster just long enough to heat it, as cooking it longer renders it tough.—Mrs. M. J. Lincoln. 13.—Eggs in Bread Sauce. Slice 1 good-sized onion, cover with boil- ing water and let stand 5 minutes. Drain, add 1 pt. of milk, 2 cloves, y2 a blade of mace and y of a teaspoonful of salt and simmer for y2 an hour. Rub through aDecember, 152 sieve, pressing through as much of the pulp as possible. Into a saucepan put i heaping tablespoonful each of butter and flour. Set over the fire and when melted and mixed add the milk and onion and stir until smooth and thickened. Now add y2 a cupful of stale bread crumbs and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer for 5 minutes and turn into a but- tered baking dish. Drop in carefully 5 eggs and place in a hot oven until the eggs are set.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 14.—Gulasch. Cut tender steak into small pieces; put them into a frying-pan with some strips of bacon, some slices of onion, a little salt and pepper; fry until the gravy looks brown ; then add a little lemon juice and y2 a cup of water; cover and let simmer until the meat is tender. 15.—Fried Scallops. Rinse the scallops in cold water and dry on a napkin; dip them in cracker dust seasoned with salt and pepper, then in egg and then in cracker dust again ; fry in smok- ing hot fat.December, 153 16.—Fried Salt Pork, Cream Gravy. Wash l/2 a ft. of salt pork; trim off the rind, and with a sharp knife cut in thin slices. Spread in a large spider and place at the side of the fire until the fat is well fried out; then draw gradually forward until the slices begin to color. Transfer them to a heated platter and keep hot. Pour off most of the fat, leaving about 2 tablespoonfuls in the pan ; stir into this 1 cupful of cream, and when it comes to the boiling point thicken slightly with 1 heaping teaspoonful of flour blended with a little cold milk. Season with pepper; boil up once and pour over the pork.—From “Table Talk,” Phila- delphia. 17.—Mushroom Omelet. Cut into very small pieces 1 cupful of canned mushrooms. Put them into a sauce- pan with 1 tablespoonful of melted butter; when the mushrooms and the butter are well mixed, add y a cupful of cream, r tea- spoonful of salt and y2 teaspoonful of pepper. Thicken with a little flour; boil 10 minutes and set aside until you make a plain omelet. When the omelet is done fold the mushrooms in.December. 154 18.—Pigs in Blankets. Wash and wipe as many large oysters as you require. Have the same number of slices of thin bacon; roll one around each oyster and fasten with a small wooden tooth- pick. Put them into a saucepan and cook until the bacon is crisp. Serve on a very hot platter. 19.—Chicken with Peanuts. (A Spanish Dish.) Cut a young chicken into small pieces; roll in flour and fry brown in lard or butter. When the chicken is done, pour over it a cup- ful of sweet cream and sprinkle liberally with roasted peanuts coarsely powdered.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 20.—Mock Woodcock Toast. Take the livers of 4 chickens or 3 turkeys. Wash, cover with boiling water, and simmer until tender; drain and pound to a paste, adding by degrees 1 teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a dash of pepper, 1 saltspoonful of sugar, the yolk of 1 raw egg, and 1 table- spoonful of melted butter. Trim the crustsDecember. 155 from 4 slices of stale bread and fry in a little butter until golden brown. Spread with the paste and place where they will keep warm. Scald i cupful of cream; add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs and stir until the cream thickens. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; add to the thickened cream; beat together for a moment; then pour over the toast.—From “Table Talk,” Philadel- phia. 21.—Devilled Whitebait. Wash the fish through two waters; drain thoroughly and dry them on a soft cloth. Have ready a second cloth well floured. Drop the fish on this and roll them over and over until they are well and evenly floured. Transfer them to a wire frying-basket and plunge into smoking hot fat. When a pale golden color (which will take about 2 min- utes), drain them, sprinkle with salt and cayenne or paprika and serve on a napkin.— From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 22.—Chopped Veal, German Style. Put through a meat cutter 2 lbs. of lean veal; for this the shoulder is inexpensive andDecember. 156 well flavored. Season with i teaspoonful of salt, y2 teaspoonful of pepper, ]/2 teaspoonful of onion juice, and i tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Form into small chops, inserting a piece of bone or a stick of macaroni in the small end ; dip each chop into slightly beaten egg, roll in fine bread crumbs and immerse in smoking hot fat for 8 or io minutes. Serve with tomato sauce.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 23.—Sausage with Buckwheat Cakes. Prick the sausages well and fry in a little bacon fat. Put them on a hot platter in a circle on the outside, leaving space for the cakes in the centre. Cakes.—Mix thoroughly 2 cupfuls of buckwheat flour, 1 of wheat flour, a little salt and 3 teaspoonfuls of baking pow- der ; then add milk and water of equal parts to make the batter of the right consistency. Add a little molasses, which will give them a better color. Fry on a soapstone griddle and pile neatly in the centre of the ring of sausage. 24.—Egg Cutlets. Put 6 eggs in a saucepan ; cover with cold water and simmer for an hour. Scald 1 pt.December. 157 of milk in a double boiler; rub together to a paste 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 4 of flour; turn this into the scalded milk and stir slowly until it dissolves and thickens. Cover and cook 5 minutes, then season with 1 tea- spoonful of salt, y2 of a teaspoonful of pap- rika, a dash of cayenne, 1 teaspoonful of onion juice and a pinch of mace. Take from the fire, add the hard-boiled eggs, chopped rather coarsely, and 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Spread out on a buttered dish and set away to cool. Dust the hands lightly with flour and shape spoonful of the mixture in small cutlets, being careful to pat them out until of an even thickness; use as little flour as possible, or the creamy con- sistency will be lost. When all are shaped, dip each cutlet into slightly beaten egg, then in fine dried bread crumbs, and immerse in smoking hot fat until golden brown. Drain on unglazed paper and serve with tomato or cream sauce.—From “Table Talk,” Phila- delphia. 25.—Cod Steaks a la Cardinal. Have 3 lbs. of codfish cut into inch steaks and sprinkle each slice well with salt, pepperDecember, 158 and lemon juice; brush them with melted butter; let stand for io minutes; then ar- range in a large deep frying-pan. Pour over i cupful of fish stock and cover with buttered paper; then with a closely fitting lid. Sim- mer gently for 20 minutes ; take up carefully with a skimmer and arrange on a hot platter. Mask each steak with a spoonful of thick tomato sauce, which has been slightly flavored with essence of anchovy, and garnish with parsley and lemon.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia. 26.—Chicken and Oysters. Into a saucepan put 2 tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, y2 teaspoonful of salt and pinch of cayenne ; stir until smooth and then add slowly 2 cups of hot cream ; let come to a boil, stirring all the time; add 2 cupfuls of fine cut cold chicken and 2 cupfuls of small oysters; cook until the oysters are plump. Serve on buttered toast. 27.—Creamed Scallops. Pour boiling water over 2 cupfuls of large scallops ; drain. In a saucepan put 2 table- spoonfuls of butter and 2 of flour; stir untilDecember. smooth and add 2 cups of hot milk, salt and pepper to taste; stir until the boiling point is reached. Put in the scallops and simmer for 8 or 10 minutes. 28.—Turkey a la Royale. Take a stale loaf of bread and cut as many thick slices as you have persons to serve. Cut them into heart-shaped pieces. Make a raw custard with 1 cupful of milk, % of a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of pepper and 1 egg; lay the pieces of bread on a platter and dip the custard over them until they are well soaked. Then using a broad-bladed knife that they may not be broken, immerse them in smoking hot fat, until golden brown and drain on unglazed paper. For 1 pt. of turkey meat use double the quantity of sauce given, adding 2 tablespoonfuls of the liquor from a can of mushrooms, 10 mushrooms and 2 truffles, finely chopped. Add the cooked, chopped meat; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg; simmer for 10 minutes, take from the fire and add the yolk of 1 egg well beaten. Put a spoonful of this on each bread crouton and serve.—From “Table Talk,” Philadelphia.December. 29.—Sardines Saute. Drain the fish free from oil. Fry them quickly in melted butter. Dust with pap- rika and squeeze a little lemon juice over them. Heap hashed brown potatoes into a mound on a round platter; lay the fish up against the sides, tails up and garnish with lemon and parsley. 30.—Miroton of Beef. Into a saucepan put 1 tablespoonful of but- ter, and when melted add 1 cupful of boiled rice ; fry stirring all the time until a golden brown. Into a baking dish lay slices of cold roast beef to within x/2 an inch of the top; lay the rice over for a cover and add y2 cup- ful brown sauce. Bake y2 an hour in a hot oven. 31.—Veal Goulash. Fry 1 tablespoonful of chopped onion golden brown, in 1 tablespoonful of butter; add 1 lb. of lean veal cut into inch pieces, x/2 a teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pap- rika, 1 tablespoonful of Hour and stir until looDecember. 161 slightly browned ; then add i cupful of stock or water, cover and simmer for i hour. Add i cupful of diced raw potatoes, cook 15 min- utes longer and serve.—From “ Table Talk,” Philadelphia.163 INDEX; Anchovy Eggs, 89. An Italian Dish, 79. Apple Toast and Bacon, 100. Aurora Eggs, 111. Bacon and Apples, 7. Baked Hash, 78. “ “ of Rice and Beef, 63. “ Hominy and Ham Chips, 135. “ Soft-shell Crabs, 95- “ Scallops, 14. Beef Balls, 56. “ Croquettes. 14. “ Hash, 86. '• Heart Saute, 4. “ Kidneys, 61. “ “ a la Baden- Baden, 103. “ en Malelotte, 98. “ Olives, 69. “ Omelet, 49. “ Pie with Potato Crust, 93. “ and Rice Cro- quettes, 20. Beefsteak Hollandaise Sauce, 130. “ and Mushrooms 9- “ and Onions, 13. “ and Oysters, 59. Blanquette of Veal and Ham, 59. Bobble Gash, 119. Boiled Eggs, 46. Boudins, 58. Bracciolette, 118. Braised Beef in Gravy, 42. Breaded Chops, 46. Breakfast Chicken, 2. “ Veal, 123. Breslau of Beef, 143. Broiled Striped Bass, 120. “ Chickens, 84. “ Fresh Mackerel, 49. “ Ham and Eggs, 41. “ Herrings, 100. “ Liver, 48. “ Oysters, 13. “ Pigs’ Feet, 31.Index. Broiled Quail on Toast, 136. “ Salmon, 103. “ Salt Codfish, 113. “ Turkey Legs, 51. Brown Stew, 23. Brunswick Stew, 130. Calf's Tongue with Tomato Sauce. 120. Cheese Omelet, 124. Chestnut Croquettes, I3i- Chicken with Almond Sauce, 34. “ Baked with Rice, 24. “ Boudins, 38. “ Croquettes, 79. “ Cutlets, 95. “ and Egg Scallop, S>- “ Fricassee, 110. “ Hash, 87. “ Oysters, 99. “ and Oysters, 158. “ with Peanuts, 154- “ with Pea Sauce, 13I- “ Pilau, 65. “ in Rolls, 21. “ in Shells, 124. “ Souffle, 18. “ Tarts, 123. “ Terrapin, 123. “ and Corn Tim- bales, 113. Chipped Beef, 109. ltil Chopped Veal, German Style, 155. Chops with Flemish Sauce, 140. Chuck Steak with To- mato Sauce, 25. Clam Fritters, 112. “ Toast, 65. Clams Stewed with Cream, 50. Cod Baked with Tomato Sauce, 42. Codfish on Toast, 41. Cod Steaks S. la Car- dinal, 157. Cod Steaks fried, 51. Corn Beef Hash, 52, 101. Corn Oysters, 98. Columbus Eggs, 20. Crab Croquettes, 85. Creamed Calf's Liver, 116. “ Chicken, Pota- toes and Pep- pers, 9. “ Codfish, 87. “ Corned Beef, 107. “ Eggs, 64. “ Fish, 57. Cream Hash, 54. Creamed Liver, 58. “ Oysters, 2. “ Scallops, 158. Cream Toast with Cheese, 44. Creamed Veal, 126. Croustade of Kidney, 82.Index. 165 Croquettes A 1’ Italienne, 34- Currant Jelly Fritters with Cold Duck, 120. Curried Eggs, 25. “ Mutton, 20. " Oysters, 65. “ Roast Beef, 111. “ Salmon, 148. Curry of Chicken and Rice, 76. Devilled Clams, 38. “ Crabs, 83. “ Eggs, 61. “ Kidneys, 72. “ Lobster, 132. " Oysters, 53. “ Whitebait, 155. Dried Beef, 21. Dropped Codfish Balls, 12. Duck and Currant Jelly, 55- “ and Olive Sauce, 128. Eggs a la Cuba, 87. “ baked with Cheese, 18. Egg Croquettes, 99. “ Cutlets, 156. “ Gems, 114. Eggs in Bread Sauce, 15L “ with Bread Sauce, 36. “ in Boxes, 17. “ and Mushrooms, 88. “ and Onions, 115. Eggs 011 Rice, 66. Egg Timbale, 56. Fillet of Bass, 102. “ of Eggs, 92. “ of Fish, Ambassa- dor Style, 26. “ of Sole, 43. “ of “ with Nor- mandy Sauce, l37- “ of Turkey with Forcemeat Bread- ed, 39- Fish Croquettes, 90. “ Hash, 47. “ Pie, 60. Flounders A la Dresden, 35- Prankfurter Sausage, 28. French Kidney, 117. “ Veal No. I, 106. “ Minced Veal No. 2, 108. Fresh Fish Cakes, 115. Fried Chicken with Tar- tar Sauce, 140. “ Cucumbers and Broiled Ham, 77. “ Frogs’ Legs, 94. “ Hominy, 75. “ Oysters, 141. “ Perch, 136. “ Salt Pork, Cream Gravy, 153. “ Scallops, 152. “ Smelt, 5. “ Soft Clams, 93. “ Softshell Crabs, 77.Index, Fried Sweetbreads, 60. Fricassee of Cold Beef, 22. “ of Eggs, 119. “ of Ox Tails, 34- “ of Rabbit, 6. Fried Tomatoes and Bacon, 80. “ Fish, 122. Frizzled Beef, 61. Golden Eggs, 138. Goose and Apple Sauce, 133 Greek Hash, 51. Green Corn Omelet, 112. Grilled Beef, 96. Gulasch, 152. Ham Balls, 36. Hamburg Steak, 8. Ham Croquettes, 53. “ Hash, 80. “ Steak, 7. “ Tarts, 141. “ Toast, 45. Ham with Cream Sauce, 138. “ “ Noodles, 75. Hashed Brown Potatoes and Bacon, 17. Hash Fritters, 108. “ Piquante, 57. Pleart Stew, 64. Hominy Fritters, 102. Hungarian Kidney, 43. Irish Stew, 47. Italian Croquettes, 126. Kidneys a la Maitre, d’Hotel, 127. Kippered Herrings, 36. Lamb Chops and Hom- iny Hearts, 10. Lamb Chops with Truffles, 41. Lamb Croquettes, 27. “ Fricassee with Farina Dump- lings, 70. Lamb’s Liver Curried, 66. Liver A la Quebec, 107. Liver and Bacon, 3. Lobster Croquettes, 46. “ Cutlets, 3. “ Farce, 91. “ Omelet, 141. Lucanian Eggs, 138. Marrow Bones on Toast, 86. Meat Cakes, 76. « Fritters, 132. “ Souffle, 74. Meringue Toast, 74. Milk Toast, 71. Minced Beef, 122. <• Calf's Liver, 40. “ Lamb, 50. « Veal Moulded, 7, Mirotou of Beef, 160,Index, 167 Mock Sausage, 134. “ Woodcock Toast, 154- Mrs. Clay’s Beefsteak Pie, 14. Mushrooms and Aspara- gus Tips, 149. Mushroom Omelet, 153. Mushrooms on Toast, 74. Mutton Cecils, 16. Mutton Chops, a la Cleveland, 136. “ Chops with Pur ke of Peas, 107. “ Chops with Tomato Sauce, «32- “ Cutlets with Mushrooms, 54- “ Hash, 39. “ and Oyster Sausage, 68. Nests (Eggs), 27. Normandy Hash, 62. Nun's Toast, 96. Omelet Rudolph, 116. Onion Omelet, 55. Oyster Balls, 129. Oysters in Brown Sauce, 48. “ and Celery on Toast, 28. Oyster Omelet, 22. Oysters in Potato Cases, II7> Oysters a la Poulette, 66. “ “ “ Reine, 148. “ Sauteed, 130. Pannikins, 146. Panned Chicken, 62. “ Oysters, 109. Parsley Eggs, 94. “ Omelet, 31. Peas in Potato Cases, 97. Pigs in Blankets, 154. Pilau of Cold Beef, 85. Plain Omelet, 10. Poached Eggs on Toast, No. 1, 5. Polpetti, 113. Pork Chops, Sauce Robert, 1. “ Rechauffe, 150. Portuguese Hash, 139. Potato Croquettes and Cold Meat, 72. “ Omelet, 97. “ Pancake, 104. Queen Omelet, 72. Ragoutaut, 89. Ragout of Beef and To- mato, 54. Ragout of Veal, 45. Rechauffe, 61. Rice and Chicken Cro- quettes, 77. “ “ Mutton Scal- lop, 134. “ “ Sausage, 150.Index, 168 Rice Croquettes, 105. “ Omelet, 80. “ Waffles, 76. Salmi of Partridge, 129. “ “ Tongue with Olives, 143- Salmon Cutlets, 114. “ Toast, 139. Salpicon A la Toulouse, 99. Salpicon of Fish, 78. Salt Codfish in Egg Cups, 19. Salt Codfish Omelet, 134. Sardines Saute, 160. Salt Mackerel Creamed, 63- Sausage and Apple, 5. “ “ B uckwheat Cakes, 156. “ Roll, 122. Scallops Sautfe, 10. Scalloped Eggs, 60. “ Fish, 128. “ Lobster, 81. “ Oysters, 8. Scalloped Oysters and Macaroni, 140. Scalloped Turkey, 47. Scotch Collops, 73. Scrambled Eggs with Asparagus, 91. Scrambled Eggs with Shrimps, 80. Scrambled Eggs with Smoked Beef, 84. Scrambled Mutton, 8. Shad Roe, 42. Shepherd’s Pie, 33. Shirred Eggs, 23. Shrimp Omelet, 147. Shrimps a la Creole, 149. “ in Peppers, 86. Smelt Broiled, 150. Smoked Beef A la Bech amel, 106. Smothered Veal, 110. Southern Tripe, 151. Spanish Eggs, 126. “ Hash, 97. “ Mackerel, 118. “ Omelet, 105. Spaghetti and Ham Tim- bales, 11. Steak a la Bordelaise, ii. Stew of Mutton and Cucumbers, 102. Stewed Beef Liver, 145. “ Calf’s “ 125. “ Lamb and Mint Sauce, 124. “ Lobster, 151. “ Mussels, 88. “ Squabs, 40. <« Tripe and To- mato Sauce, 127. Stufled Eggs, 50. “ Mutton Chops, 104. “ Peppers, 52.Index. Sweetbread Croquettes, 111. “ Fritters, 48. “ and Maca- roni Sauce, *35- “ a la New- burg, 18. “ Saute, 101. Sweet Potato Boulettes and Bacon, 21. Tomato Fricassee, 147. “ Omelet, 109. “ Pie, 33. Tomatoes Stuffed with Meat, 71. Tongue and Tomato Sauce, 55. Tripe a la Creole, 142. “ a 1’Espagnole, 37. “ a la Lyonaise, 19. Tripe with Oysters, 55. Trolly Beef, 94. Turkey and Cranberry Jelly, 137- “ Hash, 147. “ Legs with Chestnut Puree, 125. Turkey Ragout, 141. “ a la Royal, 159. Turkish Croquettes, 67. “ Pilaf, 144. Valentine Toast, 22. Veal Birds, 92. “ Croquettes, 79. “ Cutlets, 24. “ Goulash, 160. “ and Ham, 63. “ Hamburg, 144. “ Hash, 105. “ Kidney Devilled, 67. “ Kidney Omelet, 32. “ Olives, 128. “ Oysters, 84. “ Scallop, 29. << Stew, 118. “ Souffle, 15. “ Toast, 115. Venison Steak, 130. “ with Currant Sauce, 142. Vegetable Curry, 48. “ Hash, 83. Vermicelli Toast, 78. WlERNER SCHUTZEL, 90. Wine Croquettes, 30. 1<J9;.*.v9*9*¥H*l / V • / ^ | .. G S-. ’ H V; • ■ jj^MI |