124 THE SKELETON. inferior border is continuous with the middle division of the linea aspera. Its sum- mit, which is directed inwards and backwards, is rough, and gives insertion to the tendon of the Psoas magnus. The Iliacus is inserted into the shaft below tlie lesser trochanter, between the "Vastus internus in front, and the Pectineus behind. A well-marked prominence, of variable size, which projects from the upper and front part of the neck, at its junction with the great trochanter, is called the tubercle of the femur; it is the point of meeting of five muscles, the Gluteus minimus exter- nally, the Vastus externus below, and the tendon of the Obturator internus and Gemelli above. Running obliquely downwards and inwards from the tubercle is the spiral line of the femur, or anterior intertrochanteric. line.; it winds round the inner side of the shaft, below the lesser trochanter, and terminates in the linea aspera, about two inches below this eminence. Its upper half is rough, and affords attachment to the capsular ligament of the hip joint; its lower half is less promi- nent, and gives attachment to the upper part of tbe Vastus internus. The posterior intertrochanteric line is very prominent, and runs from the summit of the great trochanter downwards and inwards to the upper and back part of the lesser tro- chanter. Its upper half forms the posterior border of the great trochanter. A slight ridge, sometimes, commences about the middle of the posterior intertro- chanteric line, and passes vertically downwards for about two inahes along the back part of the shaft: it is called the linea.quadrati, and gives attachment to the Qua- dratus femoris, and a few fibres of the Adductor magnus muscles. The Shaft, almost perfectly cylindrical in form, is a little broader above than in the centre, and somewhat flattened from before backwards below. It is slightly arched, so as to be convex in front; concave behind, where it is strengthened by a prominent longitudinal ridge, the linea aspera. It presents for examination three borders separating three surfaces. Of the three borders, one, the linea aspera, is posterior; the other two are placed laterally. The linea aspera (fig. 104) is a prominent longitudinal ridge or crest, presenting, on the middle third of the bone, an external lip, an internal lip. and a rough inter- mediate space. A little above the centre of the shaft, this crest divides into thiee lines : * the most external one becomes very rough, and is continued almost ver- tically upwards to the base of the great trochanter; the middle one, the least dis- tinct, is continued to the base of the trochanter minor; and the internal one is lost above in the spiral line of the femur. Below, the linea aspera divides into two ridges, which enclose between them a triangular space (the popliteal space, upon which rests the popliteal artery. Of these two ridges, the outer one is the more prominent, and descends to the summit of the outer condyle. The inner one is less marked, presents a broad and shallow groove for the passage of the femoral artery, and terminates in a small tubercle at the summit of the internal condyle. To the inner lip of the linea aspera, along its wdiole length, is attached the Vastus internus; and to the whole length of the outer lip, the "Vastus externus. The Adductor magnus is also attached to the whole length of the linea aspera, being connected with the outer lip above, and the inner lip below. Between the Vastus externus and the Adductor magnus are attached two muscles, viz., the Gluteus maximus above, and the short head of the Biceps below. Between the Adductor magnus and the Vastus internus four muscles are attached: the Iliacus and Pectineus above (the latter to the middle of the upper divisions); below these, the Adductor brevis and Adductor longus. The linea aspera is per- forated a little below its centre by the nutrient canal, which is directed obliquely upwards. The two lateral borders of the femur are only slightly marked, the outer one extending from the anterior inferior angle of the great trochanter to the anterior extremity of the external condyle j the inner one from the spiral line, at a point * Of these three lines, only the outer and inner are described by many anatomists: the linea aspera is then said to bifurcate above and below.