486 NERVOUS SYSTEM. in a curved direction downwards and forwards to join the calcarine fissure. It separates the quadrate from the cuneate lobe. The calcarine fissure commences, usually by two branches, at the back of the hemisphere, and runs nearly horizontally forwards, is joined by the parieto-occipital fissure, and continues as far as the posterior inferior extremity of the gyrus forni- catus. It separates the cuneate lobe from the uncinate gyrus. The collateral fissure is situated below the preceding, being separated from it by the uncinate gyrus. It runs forwards, from the posterior extremity of the brain nearly as far as the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius. It lies below the posterior and middle horn of the lateral ventricle, and causes the prominence known as the eminentia collateralis. The dentate fissure commences immediately below the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, and runs forward to terminate at the recurved part of the 271.—Convolutions and Fissures of the Inner Surface of the Cerebral Hemisphere. HOOK OF UNCINATE GYRUS uncinate gyrus. It corresponds with the prominence of the hippocampus major in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. The lobes or convolutions seen on the internal surface of the hemisphere are six in number, and are named : gyrus fornicatus, marginal, quadrate, cuneate, uncinate, and temporo-sphenoidal. The gyrus fornicatus, or convolution of the corpus callosum, is a well-marked lobe which begins just in front of the anterior perforated space at the base of the brain, it ascends in front of the genu of the corpus callosum and runs backwards along the upper surface of this body to its posterior extremity, where it joins the uncinate convolution. It is bounded above by the calloso-marginal fissure, which separates it from the marginal convolution. The marginal convolution is situated above the preceding, and has received its name from its position along the edge of the longitudinal fissure. It commences in front at the anterior perforated space, runs along the margin of the longitudinal fissure on the under surface of the orbital lobe, being bounded externally by the sulcus for the olfactory nerve : it then turns upwards to the upper surface of the