747 THE TESTIS. testis, as well as the epididymis, connecting the latter to the testis by means of a distinct fold. From the posterior border of the gland, it is reflected on to the internal surface of the scrotum. The parietal portion of the serous membrane (tunica vaginalis reflexa) is far more extensive than the visceral portion, extending upwards, for some distance in front, and on the inner side of the cord, and reaching below the testis. The inner surface of the tunica vaginalis is free, smooth, and covered by a layer of squamous epithelium. The interval between the visceral and parietal layers of this membrane constitutes the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The obliterated portion of the pouch may generally be seen as a fibro-cellular thread lying in the loose areolar tissue around the spermatic cord; sometimes this may be traced as a distinct band from the upper end of the inguinal canal, where it is connected with the peritoneum down to the tunica vaginalis; sometimes it gradually becomes lost on the spermatic cord. Occasionally no trace of it can be detected. In some cases it happens that the pouch of peritoneum does not become obliterated, but the sac of the peritoneum communicates with the tunica vaginalis. This may give rise to one of the varieties of inguinal hernia (p. 771). Or in other cases the pouch may contract, but not become entirely obliterated; it then forms a minute canal leading from the peritoneum to the tunica vaginalis.* The Tunica Albuginea is the fibrous covering of the testis. It is a dense fibrous membrane, of a bluish-white colour, composed of bundles of white fibrous tissue, which interlace in every direction. Its outer surface is covered by the tunica vaginalis, except along its posterior border, and at the points of attachment of the epididymis; hence the tunica albuginea is usually considered as a fibro-serous membrane, like the dura mater and pericardium. This membrane surrounds the glandular structure of the testicle, and, at its posterior and upper border, is reflected into the interior of the gland, forming an incomplete vertical septum called the mediastinum testis (corpus Highmorianum). The mediastinum testis extends from the upper, nearly to the lower border of the gland, and is wider above than below. From the front and sides of this septum, numerous slender fibrous cords (trabeculee) are given off, which pass to be attached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea : they serve to maintain the form of the testis, and join with similar cords given off from the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, to form spaces which enclose the separate lobules of the organ. The medi- astinum supports the vessels and ducts of the testis in their passage to and from the substance of the gland. The Tunica Vasculosa (pia mater testis) is the vascular layer of the testis, consist- ing of a plexus of blood-vessels, held together by a delicate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, sending oft' numerous processes between the lobules, which are supported by the fibrous prolongations from the mediastinum testis. Structure.—The glandular structure of the testis consists of numerous lobules (lobuli testis). Their number, in a single testis, is estimated by Berres at 250, and by Krause at 400. They differ in size according to their position, those in the middle of the gland being larger and longer. The lobules are conical in shape, the base being directed towards the circumference of the organ, the apex towards the mediastinum. Each lobule is contained in one of the intervals between the fibrous cords and vascular processes which extend between the mediastinum testis and the tunica albuginea, and consists of from one to three, or more, minute convoluted tubes, the tubuli seminiferi. The tubes may be separately unravelled, by careful dissection under water, and may be seen to commence either by free csecal ends, or by anasto- motic loops. The total number of tubes is considered by Munro to be about 300, * It is recorded that in the post-mortem examination of Sir Astley Cooper, this minute canal was found on both sides of the body. Sir Astley Cooper states that when a student, he suffered from inguinal hernia; probably this was of the congenital variety, and the canal found after death was the remains of the one down which the hernia travelled (Lectures on Surgery, 1830, p. 206).