THE EYE. S9i iris, round the margin of the lens. They vary between sixty and eighty in number, lie side by side, and may be divided into large and small; the latter, consisting of about one-third of the entire number, are situated in the spaces between the former, but without regular alternation. The larger processes are each about one-tenth of an inch in length, and hemispherical in shape, their periphery being attached to the ciliary ligament, and continuous with the layers of the choroid: the opposite margin is free and rests upon the circumference of the lens. Their anterior surface is turned towards the back of the iris, with the circumference of which it is con- tinuous. The posterior surface is closely connected with the suspensory ligament of the lens. Structure. The ciliary processes are similar in structure to the choroid : the vessels are larger, having chiefly a longitudinal direction. Externally, they are covered with several layers of pigment-cells; the component cells are small, rounded and full of pigment-granules. The Iris (iris, a rainbow) has received its name from its various colours in different individuals. It is a thin, circular-shaped, contractile curtain, suspended in the aqueous humour behind the cornea, and in front of the lens, being perforated at the nasal side of its centre by a circular aperture, the pupil, for the transmission of 322.—The Arteries of the Choroid aud Iris. The Sclerotic has been mostly removed. (Enlarged.) light. By its circumference it is intimately connected with the choroid ; externally to this is the ciliary ligament, by which it is connected to the sclerotic and cornea ; its inner edge forms the margin of the pupil, its surfaces are flattened, and look for- wards and backwards, the anterior surface towards the cornea, the posterior towards the ciliary processes and lens. The circumference of the iris is connected to the cornea by a reticular' structure denominated the lig'amentum pectinatum iridis. This reticular structure is derived from the membrane of Descemet, which at the margin of the cornea breaks up into fibres; some of Avhich are continued into the front of the iris, others are connected with the fore-part of the choroid and sclerotic. These fibres form a reticulated structure at the outer angle of the anterior chamber, the intervals between the fibres forming small cavernous spaces (the spaces of Fontana). These little recesses communicate with a somewhat larger space in the substance of the sclerotic close to its junction with the cornea. This is the Canal of Schletan, or sinus circularis iridis and according to Schwalbe and Waldeyer is a lymph canal, but according to the more recent investigations of Leber is a venous sinus. The anterior surface of the iris is variously coloured in different individuals, and marked by lines which converge towards the pupil. The posterior surface is of a deep purple tint, from being covered by dark pigment; it is hence named uvea, from its resemblance in colour to a ripe grape.