499 FORAMEN OF MONRO. fourth ventricle by a canal, the aqueduct of Sylvius, or iter a tertio ad quartum ven- triculum. The fourth, situated in the anterior part of the floor of the ventricle, is a deep pit, which leads downwards to the funnel-shaped cavity of the infundibulum [iter ad infundibulum.) The lining membrane of the lateral ventricles is continued through the foramen of Monro into the third ventricle, and extends along the iter a tertio into the fourth ventricle; at the bottom of the iter ad infundibulum, it ends in a cul-de- sac, i The foramen of Monro is the means by which the two lateral ventricles commu- nicate with the third ventricle. It may be regarded as a Y-shaped passage ; the two upper diverging limbs communicating with the lateral ventricles respectively, and 278.—Vertical Median Section of the Encephalon, showing the parts in the middle line. Convolution of corpus callosum. Above it is the calloso-marginal fissure, running out at 2 to join the Assure of Rolando. The parieto occipital fissure. 4 point to the calcarine fissure, which is just above the numbers. Between 2 and 3 are the convolutions of the quadrate lobe. Between 3 and 4 is the cuneate lobe. The corpus callosum. The septum lucidum. The fornix. Anterior pillar of the fornix, descending to the base of the brain, and turning on itself to form the corpus albicans. Its course to the optic thalamus is indicated by a dotted line. The optic thalamus. In front of the number and behind the anterior cms of the fornix, a shaded part indicates the foramen of Monro ; behind the number an oval mark shows the position of the grey matter continuous with the middle commissure. 10. The velum interpositum. 11. The pineal gland. 12. The corpora quadrigemina. 13. The cms cerebri. 14. The valve of Vieussens (above the number). 15. The pons Varolii. 16. The third nerve. 17. The pituitary body. 18. The optic nerve. 19. points to the anterior commissure, indicated by an oval mark behind the number. joining below to open into the third ventricle. Its roof is formed by the anterior ex- tremity of the body of the fornix, which dividing into its two crura, arches down- wards in front of the anterior extremity of the optic thalami. The crus is not, however, in contact with the thalamus, but an interval is left between the two, which is the foramen of Monro. Its boundaries are, therefore, in front, the anterior pillars of the fornix ; behind, the anterior extremity of the optic thalamus; above, the body of the fornix; and below, the groove where the corpus striatum and optic thalamus meet. K K 2