GENERAL AX ATOMY. yew distinct, and arranged with great regularity, in the abdominal aorta, inno- minate artery, and common carotid. The external coat consists mainly of connective tissue, and contains elastic fibres in all but the smallest arteries. In the largest vessels the external coat is relatively thin ; but in small arteries it is as thick, or thicker than the middle coat. In arteries of the medium size, and above it, the external coat is formed of two layers, the outer of which consists of connective tissue, containing an irregular elastic network, while the inner is composed of elastic tissue only. The inner elastic layer is very distinct in the carotid, femoral, brachial, profunda, mesenteric and e celiac axis, the clastic fibres bein- often arranged in lamella?. In the smaller arteries, the former layer of mixed connective tissue and elastic fibres composes the whole of the external tunic ; while in the smallest arteries, just above the capillaries, the elastic fibres are wanting, and the connective tissue of which the coat is composed becomes more homogeneous the nearer it approaches the capillaries, and is gradually reduced to a thin membranous envelope, which finally disappear-. Some arteries have extremely thin coats in proportion to their size ; this is especially the case in those situated in the cavity of the cranium and spinal canal, the difference depending on the greater thinness of the external and middle coats. The arteries, in their distribution throughout the body, are included in a thin fibro-areolar investment, which forms what is called their sheath. In the limbs, this is usually formed by a prolongation of the deep fascia; in the upper part of the thigh it consists of a continuation downwards of the transversalis and iliac fascia? of the abdomen; in the neck, of a prolongation of the deep cervical fascia. The included vessel is loosely connected with its sheath by a delicate areolar tissue; and the sheath usually encloses the accompanying veins, and some- times a nerve. Some arteries, as those in the cranium, are not included in sheaths. All the larger arteries are supplied with blood-vessels like the other organs of the body; they are called rasa vasorum. These nutrient vessels arise from a branch of the artery or from a neighbouring vessel, at some considerable distance from the point at which they are distributed ; they ramify in the loose areolar tissue connecting the artery with its sheath, and are distributed to the external and middle coats, and, according to Arnold and others, supply the internal coat. Minute veins serve to return the blood from these vessels ; they empty themselves into the vena; comites iu connection with the artery. Arteries are also provided with nerves, which are derived chiefly from the sympathetic, but partly from the cerebro-spinal system. They form intricate plexuses upon the surfaces of the larger trunks, the smaller branches being usually accompanied by single filaments. Microscopists are not absolutely agreed as to the mode of termination of the vascular (or vaso-motor) nerves. Frey, following Arnold, has figured an intricate plexus of simple fibres ramifying among the musevdar fibre-cells of an artery in the frog, and Dr. Beale has described minute ganglia seated on the ultimate fibres. According to Kolliker, the majority of the arteries of the brain and spinal cord, those of the choroid and of the placenta, as