285 OF THE HAND. opposite the interval between the radius and ulna. 6. For the tendon of the Ex- tensor carpi ulnaris, grooving the back of the ulna. The synovial membranes lining thesa sheaths are usually very extensive, reaching from above the annular ligament, down upon the tendons almost to their insertion. 1 The palmar fascia forms a common sheath which invests the muscles of the , hand. It consists of a central and two lateral portions. The central portion occupies the middle of the palm, is triangular in shape, of ' great strength and thickness, and binds down the tendons in this situation. It is narrow above, being attached to the lower mai'gin of the annular ligament, and receives the expanded tendon of the Palmaris longus muscle. Below, it is broad and expanded, and opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones divides into four, slips, for the four fingers. Each slip subdivides into two processes, which enclose* the tendons of the Flexor muscles, and are attached to the sides of the first phalan * and to the anterior ligament: by this arrangement, four arches are formed, under which the Flexor tendons pass. The intervals left in the fascia, between the four fibrous slips, transmit the digital vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the Lumbricales. At the points of division of the palmar fascia into the slips above mentioned, numerous strong transverse fibres bind the separate processes together. The palmar fascia is intimately adherent to the integument by numerous fibrous bands, and gives origin by its inner margin to the Palmaris brevis ; it covers the superficial palmar arch, the tendons of the flexor muscles, and the branches of the median and ulnar nerves ; and on each side it gives off a vertical septum, which is continuous with the interosseous aponeurosis, and separates the lateral from the middle palmar group of muscles. The lateral portions of the palmar fascia are thin fibrous layers, which cover, on the radial side, the muscles of the ball of the thumb; and, on the ulnar side, the muscles of the little finger; they are continuous with the dorsal fascia, and in the palm with the middle portion of the palmar fascia. Muscles of the Hand. The Muscles of the hand are subdivided into three groups.—1. Those of the thumb, which occupy the radial side. 2. Those of the little finger, which occupy the ulnar side. 3. Those in the middle of the palm and between the interosseous spaces. Radial Region. (Fig. 181.) Muscles of the Thumb, Abductor Pollicis. Opponens Pollicis (Flexor Ossis Metacarpi). Flexor Brevis Pollicis. Adductor Pollicis. The Abductor Pollicis is a thin flat muscle, placed immediately beneath the integument. It arises from the ridge of the os trapezium and annular ligament; and, passing outwards and downwards, is inserted by a thin flat tendon into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the palmar fascia. By its deep sur- face, with the Opponens pollicis, from which it is separated by a thin aponeurosis Its inner border is separated from the Flexor brevis pollicis by a narrow cellular interval. The Opponens Pollicis is a small triangular muscle, placed beneath the pre- ceding. It arises from the palmar surface of the trapezium and annular ligament, passes downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the thumb on its radial side. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Abductor pollicis. By its deep surface, with the trapezio-metacarpal articulation. By its inner border, with the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis is much larger than either of the two preceding