DEEP PERINEAL FASCIA. 7^7 Accelerator urine, the superficial perineal vessels and nerve, and more posteriorly the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels. The superficial and transverse perineal arteries are described at p. 403 ; and the superficial perineal and inferior pudendal nerves at pp. 562-564. The muscles of the perineum in the female are the— Sphincter vagine. Compressor urethre. Erector clitoridis. Sphincter ani. Transversus perinei. Levator ani. Coccygeus. The Sphincter Vaginae surrounds the orifice of the vagina, and is analogous to the Accelerator urine in the male. It is attached, posteriorly, to the central tendon of the perineum, where it blends with the sphincter ani. Its fibres pass forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the corpora cavernosa of the clitoris, a fasciculus crossing over the body of the organ so as to compress the dorsal vein. The Erector Clitoridis resembles the Erector penis in the male, but is smaller than it, arising from the tuberosity of the ischium, and being inserted on each side of the eras. The Transversus Perincei is inserted into the side of the Sphincter vagine. and the Levator ani into the side of the vagina and rectum. The other muscles are pre- cisely similar to those in the male. The Accelerator urine and Erector penis muscles should now he removed, when the deep perineal fascia will he exposed, stretching across the front part of the outlet of the pelvis. The urethra is seen perforating its centre, just behind the bulb; and on either side is the cms penis, connecting the corpus cavcrnosuui with the ramus of the ischium and puhes. The Deep Perinceal Fascia (triangular ligament) is a dense membranous lamina, which closes the front part of the outlet of the pelvis. It is triangular in shape, about an inch and a half in depth, attached above, by its apex, to the under surface of the symphysis pubis and subpubic ligament; and on each side to the rami of the ischium and pubes, beneath the crura penis. Its inferior margin, or base, is directed towards the rectum, and connected to the central tendinous point of the perineum. It is continuous with the deep layer of the superficial fascia behind the Transversus perinei muscle, and with a thin fascia which covers the cutaneous surface of the Levator ani muscle (anal fascia). The deep perineal fascia is perforated by the urethra, about an inch below the symphysis pubis. The aperture is circular in form, and about three or four lines in diameter. Above this is the aperture for the dorsal vein of the penis; and, outside the latter, the pudic nerve and artery pierce it. The deep perineal fascia consists of two layers, anterior and posterior; these are separated above, but united below. The anterior layer is continued forwards, around the anterior part of the mem- branous portion of the urethra, becoming lost upon the bulb. The posterior layer is derived from the obturator fascia; * it is continued back- wards around the posterior part of the membranous portion of the urethra and the outer surface of the prostate gland. If the anterior layer of this fascia is detached on either side, the following parts arc seen between it and the posterior layer : the subpubic ligament above, close to the pubes; the dorsal vein of the penis; the membranous portion of the urethra, and the muscles of the urethra ; Cowper's glands and their ducts; the pudic vessels and nerve ; the artery and nerve of the bulb, and a plexus of veins. The Compressor Urethra? (constrictor urethre) surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra, and is contained between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. It arises, by aponeurotic fibres, from the upper part of the ramus of the pubes on each side, to the extent of half or three-quarters of an inch : * ' On the Anatomy of the Posterior Layer of the Triangular Ligament,' see a paper by Mr. Carrington, Guy 9 Hospital Reports. 3 E 2