SEGMENTATION OF OVUM. cxvii (which is the case with the mammalia) are called holoblastic ova; those in which only a portion of the yolk is segmented are called meroblasiic; as, for instance, in the bird's egg, where the segmentation is restricted in the first instance to the disc of the cicatricula, the remainder of the yolk taking- no part in the change. There are also found within the vitelline membrane one or more clear globules, called ' polar globules ' by Eobin, because they lie near one of the poles of segmentation. The nature, origin, and uses of these bodies are not Fig. LXXIV.—Four diagrams to show the division of the yolk. The ovum is surrounded by spermatozoa. The clear corpuscles (polar globules of Robin) are seen in the first two. known. They seem to be usually regarded as produced by the liquefaction of the yolk, and as not being essential to the process of fructification. The cells or vitelline spheres of which the yolk is now composed soon arrange themselves into the form of a membrane lined with pavement-epi- thelium. As the yolk-mass softens, fluid accumulates in the interior of this membrane, spreading it out on the internal surface of the vitelline mem- brane. The latter (external) membrane (fig. LXXVII.) soon becomes covered Fig. LXXV.—Ovum with the germinal area, seen in profile to show the division of the blastodermic membrane. t. Vitelline membrane. 2. Blastoderm. 3. Germinal area. 4. Place where the blastoderm is just divided into its two layers. with granulations or vegetations, which give it a shaggy appearance, and it then takes the name of the ' primitive corion;' whilst the internal membrane, produced by the cleavage of the yolk, is called the ' blastodermic membrane or vesicle.' The ovum increases in size during the whole of this time, by the ab- sorption of albuminous fluid which coats it during its descent along the Fallopian tube, and which is secreted by the mucous membrane lining that tube. The first stage towards the formation of the embryo is the cleavage or