726 THE URINARY ORGANS. The Tubuli Uriniferi : their Structure.—The tubuli uriniferi consist of basement- membrane lined with epithelium. The epithelium varies considerably in different sections of the uriniferous tubes. In the neck the epithelium is continuous with that lining the Malpighian capsule, and like it consists of flattened cells with an oval nucleus (fig. 415, a). The cells are, however, very indistinct and difficult to follow, and the tube has here the appearance of a simple basement-membrane unlined by epithelium. In the proximal convoluted tubule and the spiral tubule of Schachowa the epithelium is polyhedral in shape, the sides of the cells not being straight, but fitting into each other, and in some animals so fused together that it is impossible to make out the lines of junction. In the human kidney the cells often present an angular projection of the surface next the basement-membrane. These cells are made up of more or less rod-like fibres, which rest by one extremity on the basement* 415. 416. CURVED COLLECTING TUBULE DESCENDING LIMB or i lnle's loop • N.B.—For the soke of clearness the epithelial cells have been represented more highly magnified than the tubes in which the}' urc contained. A A. Malpighian bodies, n n. Margin of me- dullary structure, v C C. Loops of Hcnle. 1) D I). Straight tubes cut off. K. Com- mencing straight tubes. F. Termination of straight tube. membrane, whilst the other projects towards the lumen of the tube. This gives to the cells the appearance of distinct striation (Heidenhain) (fig. 415, b). In the descending limb of Henle's loop the epithelium resembles that found in the Mal- pighian capsule and the commencement of the tube, consisting of flat transparent epithelial plates, with an oval nucleus (fig. 415, a). In the ascending limb, on the other hand, the cells partake more of the character of those described as existing in the proximal convoluted tubule, being polyhedral in shape, and presenting the same appearance of striation. The nucleus, however, is not situated in the centre of the cell, but near the lumen (fig. 415, c). After the ascending limb of Henle's loop becomes narrower upon entering the cortical structure, the striation appears to be confined to the outer part of the cell; at all events, it is much more distinct in this situation; the nucleus, which appears flattened and angular, being still situated near the lumen (fig. 415, d). In the irregular tubule, the cells undergo a still further