DIAPHRAGM. 261 dinous in structure, and placed at the junction of the right and middle leaflets of the central tendon, its margins being bounded by four bundles of tendinous fibres, which meet at right angles. The right crus transmits the sympathetic and the greater and lesser splanchnio nerves of the right side; the left crus, the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves of the left side, and the vena azygos minor. The Serous Membranes in relation with the Diaphragm, are four in number : three lining its upper1 or thoracic surface; one its abdominal. The three serous membranes on its upper surface are the pleura on either side, and the serous layer of the pericardium, which covers the middle portion of the tendinous centre. The serous membrane covering its under surface is a portion of the general peritoneal membrane of the abdominal cavity. The Diaphragm is arched, being convex towards the chest, and concave to the abdomen. The right jwrtion forms a complete arch from before backwards, being accurately moulded over the convex surface of the hver, and having rested upon it the concave base of the right lung. The left portion is arched from before backwards in a similar manner; but the arch is narrower in front, being encroached upon by the pericardium, and lower than the right, at its summit, by about three-quarters of an inch. It supports the base of the left lung, and covers the great end of the stomach, the spleen and left kidney. The central portion, which supports the heart, is higher, in front at the sternum, and behind at the vertebra?, than the lateral portions; the reverse is the case in the parts further removed from the surface of the body. The height of the Diaphragm is constantly varying during respiration, the muscle being carried upwards or downwards from the average level; its height also varies according to the degree of distension of the stomach and intestines, and the size of the liver. After a forced expiration, the right arch is on a level, in front with the fourth costal cartilage; at the side, with the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs ; and behind, with the eighth rib; the left arch being usually from one to two ribs, breadth below the level of the right one. In a forced inspiration, it descends from one to two inches; its slope would then be represented by a line drawn from the ensiform cartilage towards the tenth rib. Nerves. The Diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves and phrenic plexus of the sympathetic. Actions. The action of the Diaphragm modifies considerably the size of the chest and the position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. During a forced inspiration, the cavity of the thorax is enlarged in the vertical direction from two to three inches, partly by the ascent of the walls of the chest, partly by the descent of the Diaphragm. The chest, consequently, encroaches upon the abdomen : the lungs are expanded, and lowered, in relation with the ribs, nearly two inches ; the heart being drawn down about an inch and a half; the descent of the latter organ taking place indirectly through the medium of its connection with the lungs, as well as directly by means of the central tendon to which the peri- cardium is attached. The abdominal viscera are also pushed down (the liver, to the extent of nearly three inches), so that these organs are no longer protected by the ribs. During expiration, when the Diaphragm is passive, it is pushed up by the action of the abdominal muscles; the cavity of the abdomen (with the organs contained in it) encroaches upon the chest, by which the lungs and heart are compressed upwards, and the vertical diameter of the thoracic cavity diminished. The Diaphragm is passive when raised or lowered, by the abdominal organs, in- dependently of respiration, in proportion as they are large or small, full or empty; hence the oppression felt in the chest after a full meal, or from flatulent distension of the stomach and intestines. In all expulsive acts the Diaphragm is called into action, to give additional power to each expulsive effort. Thus, before sneezing, coughing, laughing, and crying; before vomiting; previous to the expulsion of the urine and faeces, or of the foetus from the womb, a deep inspiration takes place.* * For a detailed description of the general relations of the Diaphragm, and its action, refer to Dr. Sihson's ' Medical Anatomy.'