cxlv DEVELOPMENT OF BLOOD VESSELS. which converge towards a venous trunk, the terminal sinus. This vessel surrounds the vascular portion of the germinal area, but does not ex- tend up to the anterior end of the enibryo. It terminates on either side in a vein called omphalomesenteric. The two omphalomesenteric veins open into the auricular extremity of the heart. This primitive circulation extends gradually from the germinal area over the whole of the umbilical vesicle, and disappears as the latter becomes atrophied. In a more advanced state of the embryo, the position of this first pair of aortic arches corresponds to the first pharyngeal arch. Next in succession, other pairs of arches are formed behind tne first * (fig. XCVII.). The total number is five, but the whole five pairs do not exist together, for the first two have disappeared before the others are formed. These two have no representatives in the permanent structures. The third pair gives origin to the carotids, the fourth pair forms the innominate and subclavian on the right, the arch of the aorta and subclavian on the left. The fifth forms on the left side the pulmonary artery, the ductus arteriosus, and the descending portion of the thoracic aorta. Its right branch disappears.f The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta and the root of the pul- monary artery are at first blended together in the common dilatation (aortic sinus), which has been above spoken of as connected with the ventricular end of the rudimentary heart (fig. XCVI. a, i). The septum which divides this common artery into two begins to appear very early, even before the interventricular septum. The formation of the permanent vessels is shown by the following diagram :— Fig. XCVII.—Diagram of the formation of the aortic arches and the large arteries. I. n. in. IV. V. First, second, third, fourth, and fifth aortic arches. A. Common trunk from which the first pair spring ; - the place where the succeeding pairs are formed is indicated by dotted lines. B. Common trunk, with four arches and a trace of the fifth, c. Common trunk, with the three last pairs, the first two having been obliterated, n. The persistent arteries, those which have disappeared being indicated by dotted lines, i. Common arterial trunk. 2. Thoracic aorta. 3. Right branch of the common trunk, which is only temporary. 4. Left branch, permanent. 5. Axillary artery. 6. Vertebral. 7, 8. Subclavian. 9. Common carotid. 10. External; and n, Internal carotid. 12. Aorta. 13. Pulmonary artery. 14,15. Eight and left pulmonary arteries. The descending aorta appears to be the remnant of the artery formed by the union of the two primitive aortae (fig. XCVII. 2). The omphalomesen- teric arteries which spring from these latter all disappear except one, which I remains as the superior mesenteric artery. When the activity of the um- bilical vesicle and omphalomesenteric duct ceases, the allantois takes up the * The position of the first four of these aortic arches is hehind the corresponding pharyn- geal arches, and that of the fifth hehind the fourth pharyngeal cleft. t The relations of the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric nerve are of interest in reference to the fifth aortic, or branchial arch. If we assume that in the foetus the recurrent nerve is detached from its parent trunk by the projection of the fifth arch, this would account for its situation on the left side in the adult, curving as it does round the ductus arteriosus, which is the remnant of that arch. On the right side the disappearance of the fifth arch brings it into relation with the fourth, and accordingly in the adult it curves round the subclavian, which is the remnant of that arch.