461 OF THE PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. canal, thus establishing a communication between the lymphatics of the lower extremity and those of the trunk ; others pierce the fascia lata, and join the deep inguinal glands. The external group arise from the outer side of the foot, ascend in front of the leg, and, just below the knee, cross the tibia from without inwards, to join the lymphatics on the inner side of the thigh. Others commence on the outer side of the foot, pass behind the outer malleolus, and accompany the external saphenous vein along the back of the leg, where they enter the popliteal glands. The deep lymphatics of the lower extremity are few in number, and accom- pany the deep blood-vessels. In the leg, they consist of three sets, the anterior tibial, peroneal, and posterior tibial, which accompany the coiTesponding blood-vessels, two or three to each artery ; they ascend with the blood-vessels, and enter the lym- phatic glands in the popliteal space ; the efferent vessels from these glands accompany the femoral vein, and join the deep inguinal glands; from these, the vessels pass beneath Poupart's ligament, and communicate with the chain of glands surrounding the external iliac vessels. The deep lymphatics of the gluteal and ischiatic regions follow the course of the blood-vessels, and join the gluteal and ischiatic glands at the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Lymphatics of the Pelvis and Abdomen. The deep lymphatic glands in the pelvis are, the externa,! iliac, the internal iliac, and the saci'al. Those of the abdomen are the lumbar glands. The external iliac glamds form an uninterrupted chain round the external iliac vessels, three being placed round the commencement of the vessels just behind the crural arch. They communicate below with the femoral lymphatics, and above with the lumbar glands. The internal iliac glands surround the internal iliac vessels; they receive the lymphatics corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery, and communi- cate with the lumbar glands. The sacral glands occupy the sides of the anterior surface of the sacrum, some being situated in the me^o-reclal fold. These and the internal iliac glands are affected in malignant disease of the bladder, rectum, or uterus. The lumbar glands are very numerous; they are situated on the front of the lumbar vertebrae, surrounding the common iliac vessels, the aorta and vena cava; they receive the lymphatic vessels from the lower extremities and pelvis, as well as from the testes and some of the abdominal viscera ; the efferent vessels from these glands unite into a few large trunks, which, with the lacteals, form the commence- ment of the thoracic duct. In some cases of malignant disease, these glands become enormously enlarged, completely surrounding the aorta and vena cava, and occasion- ally greatly contracting the calibre of those vessels. In all cases of malignant disease of the testis, and in malignant disease of the lower limb, before any operation is attempted, careful examination of the abdomen should be made, in order to ascertain if any enlargement exists; and if any should be detected, all operative measures should be avoided, as fruitless. The lymphatics of the pelvis and abdomen may be divided into two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatics of the walls of the abdomen and jxlvis follow the course of the superficial blood-vessels. Those derived from the integument of the lower part of the abdomen below the umbilicus, follow the course of the superficial epigas- tric vessels, and converge to the superior group of the superficial inguinal glands; the deep set accompany the deep epigastric vessels, and conimunicate with the external iliac glands. The superficial lymphatics from the sides of the lumbar part of the abdominal wall wind round the crest of the ilium, accompanying the superfi- cial circumflex iliac vessels, to join the superior group of the superficial inguinal glands; the greater number, however, run backwards along with the ilio-lumbar and lumbar vessels, to join the lumbar glands.