789 THE PROSTATE GLAND. placed more anteriorly unite with the muscle of the opposite side, in a median fibrous raphe, which extends between the coccyx and the margin of the anus. The middle fibres, which form the larger portion of the muscle, are inserted into the side of the rectum, blending with the fibres of the Sphincter muscles; lastly, the anterior fibres, the longest, descend upon the side of the prostate gland to unite beneath it with the muscle of the opposite side, blending with the fibres of the External sphincter and Transversus perinsei muscles at the tendinous centre of the perinaeum. The anterior portion is occasionally separated from the rest of the muscle by- cellular tissue. From this circumstance, as well as from its peculiar relation with the prostate gland, descending by its side, and surrounding it as in a sling, it has been described by Santorini and others as a distinct muscle, under the name of the Levator prostatce. In the female the anterior fibres of the Levator ani descend upon the sides of the vagina. Relations.—By its upper or pelvic surface with the recto-vesical fascia, which separates it from the viscera of the pelvis and from the peritoneum. By its outer or perinceal surface it forms the inner boundary of the ischio rectal fossa, and is covered by a quantity of fat, and by a thin layer of fascia (anal fascia) continued from the obturator fascia. Its posterior border is continuous with the Coccygeus muscle. Its anterior border is separated from the muscle of the opposite side by a triangular space, through which the urethra, and in the female the vagina, passes from the pelvis. Actions.—This muscle supports the lower end of the rectum and vagina, and also the bladder during the efforts of expulsion. It elevates and inverts the lower end of the rectum after it has been protruded and everted during the expulsion of the faeces. It is also a muscle of forced expiration. The Coccygeus is situated behind and parallel with the preceding. It is a triangular plane of muscular and tendinous fibres, arising, by its apex, from the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, and inserted, by its base, into the margin of the coccyx and into the side of the lower piece of the sacrum. This muscle is continuous with the posterior border of the Levator ani, and closes in the back part of the outlet of the pelvis. Relations.—By its inner or pelvic surface, with the rectum. By its external surface, with the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. By its posterior border, with the Pyriformis. Action.—The Ooccygei muscles raise and support the coccyx, after it has been pressed backwards during defalcation or parturition. Position of the Viscera at the Outlet of the Pelvis.—Divide the central tendinous point of the perinaeum, separate the rectum from its connections by dividing the fibres of the Levator ani, which descend upon the sides of the prostate gland, and draw the gut backwards towards the coccyx, when the under surface of the prostate gland, the neck and base of the bladder, the vesicuhe seminales, and vasa deferentia will be exposed. The Prostate Gland is placed immediately in front of the neck of the bladder, around the prostatic portion of the urethra, its base being turned backwards, and its under surface towards the rectum. It is retained in its position by the Levator prostatse and by the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and is invested by a dense fibrous covering, continued from the posterior layer of the deep perinaeal fascia. The longest diameters of this gland are in the antero-posterior direction, and transversely at its base; and hence the greatest extent of incision that can be made in it without dividing its substance completely across, is obliquely outwards and backwards. This is tire direction in which the incision is made thr ough it in the operation of litho- tomy, the extent of which should seldom exceed an inch in length. The relations of the prostate to the rectum should be noticed : by means of the finger introduced into the gut, the surgeon detects enlargement or other disease of this organ ; he is enabled also, by the same means, to direct the point of a catheter when its introduction is attended with much difficulty, either from injury or disease of the membranous or prostatic portions of the urethra. Behind the pr ostate is the posterior surface of the neck and base of the bladder: