THE AMNION. cxxiii the amnion exists it separates the external blastodermic layer from the yolk- sac or umbilical vesicle, as shown in the figures. This umbilical vesicle is therefore at first a mere part of the general cavity of the yolk, partly en- closed by the embryo; but as the latter grows round on all sides towards the umbilical aperture, the yolk-sac becomes distinguished into two portions, one lying inside the embryo and forming a portion of the intestinal cavity (out of which the student must remember the bladder is also formed), and therefore forming a part of the body of the foetus, and the other lying ex- ternal to the body, and remaining therefore as a part of what is, in a more restricted sense, the ovum. The two parts communicate by a passage—the omphalomesenteric duct— the destination of which will be pointed out presently. The extra-embryonic portion of the umbilical vesicle is of small importance and very temporary duration in the human subject. It is the seat of the earliest circulation, but is soon replaced in that capacity by the allantois, which becomes the great bond of vascular connection between the embryo and the uterine tissues, as will be explained presently. As the arteries developed in the middle blastodermic layer grow, they cover the umbilical vesicle, forming the vascular area, the chief vessels of which are the omphalo- mesenteric, two in number. The vessels of this area appear to absorb the fluid of the umbilical vesicle, which dries up into a disc-like body attached to the amnion, and having no further function. The activity of the umbili- cal vesicle ceases about the same time (fifth' or sixth week) as the allantois is formed. In fact, the umbilical vesicle provides nutrition to the foetus from the ovum itself, while the allantois is the channel whereby nutrition is conveyed to it from the uterine tissues. The umbilical vesicle, however, is visible, containing fluid, up to the fourth or fifth month, between the amnion and the chorion, with its pedicle and the omphalomesenteric vessels. The latter vessels then become atrophied, as the functional activity of the body with which they are connected ceases. The Amnion.—The first step towards a clear understanding of the development of the embryo is to have a proper conception of the method and the object of the formation of the amnion and of the cleavage of the blastoderm (its middle layer) into two portions at the unclosed portion of the embryo. The object of this cleavage is to form the common pleuro- peritoneal cavity, and to conduct out, along the umbilical vesicle and the allantois, the vessels by which the vital vascular connection between the foetus or ovum and the mother is to be established. The amnion is the membrane which immediately surrounds the embryo. It is of small size at first, but increases considerably towards the middle of pregnancy, as the foetus requires the power of independent movement. Its cavity is occupied by a clear serous fluid, the liquor amnii, which contains about i per cent, of solid matter, albumen with traces of urea. The quantity of this fluid increases up to about the sixth month of pregnancy, after which it diminishes somewhat. The use of the amnion is believed to be chiefly to allow of the movements of the foetus in the later stages of pregnancy, though it serves no doubt other purposes also. Its external layer, derived from the mesoblast, is now described as being muscular, at least as displaying rhythmic contractions during life. The internal layer is derived from the epiblast. The amnion is thus formed. As the embryo grows it becomes curved