GENERAL ANATCM Y. xcii THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Fig. LV.—Transverse section through a small artery and vein of the mucous membrane of the epiglottis of a child. Magnified about 350 diameters. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The Vascular System, exclusive of its central organ, the Heart, is divided into four classes of vessels—the Arteries, Capillaries, Veins, and Lymphatics—the minute structure of which we will now proceed briefly to describe, referring the reader to the body of the work for all that is neces- sary in the details of their ordinary anatomy. Structure of Arteries.—The arteries are composed of three coats—internal serous, or epithelial coat (tunica intima of Kolliker), middle fibrous or circular coat, and external cellular coat, or tunica adventitial. The two inner coats together are very easily separated from the external, as by the ordinary operation of tying a ligature on the artery. If a fine string be tied forcibly upon an artery, either before or after death, and then taken off, the external coat will be found uninjured, but the internal coats are divided in the track of the ligature, and can easily be further dissected from the outer coat. The inner coat can be separated from the middle by a little maceration. The inner coat consists of— 1. A layer of pavement-epithelium, the cells of which are polygonal, oval, or fusi- form, and have very distinct nuclei. This epithelium, or endothelium, as it is now more commonly called, is brought into view most distinctly by staining with nitrate of silver. 2. A layer of branched connective-tissue cells. 3. A layer of longitudinal elastic fibres, in which, under the microscope, small elongated apertures are seen, and which was there- fore called by Henle the fenestrated membrane. This layer is marked with numerous reticulations : it is perfectly smooth when the artery is distended ; but wdien empty, presents longitudinal and transverse folds. The trated membrane can often be separated into more than one layer. In arteries of less than a line in diameter the internal coat consists of these three layers, as above described ; but in middle-sized arteries the single layer of cells is replaced by longitudinal bundles of connective tissue, and between them branched connective-tissue corpuscles, the processes of which communicate with each other. In the largest arteries the inner coat is usually much thickened, especially in the aorta ; and consists of a homogeneous substance, occasionally striated or fibrillated, traversed b}' Artery showing the nucleated endothelium, e, which lines it : the vessel being contracted, the endothelial cells appear very thick. Underneath the endothelium is the wavy elastic intima. The chief part of the wall of the vessel is occupied by the circular muscle-coat m : the staff-shaped nuclei of the muscle-cells are well seen. Outside this is a, part of the adventitia. This is composed of bundles of connective-tissue fibres, shown in section, with the nuclei of the connective-tissue corpuscles. The adventitia gradually merges into the surrounding connective tissue, v. Vein show- ing a thin endothelial membrane, e, raised acci- dentally from the intima, which on account of its delicacy is seen as a mere line on the media m. This latter is composed of a few circular unstriped muscle-cells, a The adventitia, similar in structure to that of an artery. fenes-