FIFTH. OTIC GANGLION. 519 and incisor teeth. The mental branch emerges from the bone at the mental foramen, and divides beneath the Depressor anguli oris into an external branch, which supplies that muscle, the Orbicularis oris, and the integument, communicating with the facial nerve ; and an inner branch, which ascends to the lower lip beneath the Quadrates menti; it supplies that muscle and the mucous membrane and integument of the lip, communicating with the facial nerve. The branches of the inferior dental are the mylo hyoid, and dental. The mylo-hyoid is derived from the inferior dental just as that nerve is about to enter the dental foramen. It descends in a groove on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, in which it is retained by a process of fibrous membrane. It supplies the cutaneous surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, and the anterior belly of the Digastric, occasionally sending one or two filaments to the submaxillary gland. The dental branches supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. They correspond in number to the fangs of those teeth : each nerve entering the orifice at the point of the fang, and supplying the pulp of the tooth. Two small ganglia are connected with the inferior maxillary nerve : the otic, with the trunk of the nerve; and the submaxillary, with its lingual branch, the gustatory. Otic Ganglion. (Fig. 288.) The otic ganglion (Arnold's) is a small, oval-shaped, flattened ganglion of a reddish-grey colour, situated immediately below the foramen ovale, on the inner 288.—The Otic Ganglion and its Branches. surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and round the origin of the internal ptery- goid nerve. It is in relation, externally, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve, at the point where the motor root joins the sensory portion : internally, with the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, and the origin of the Tensor palati muscle; behind it, is the middle meningeal artery. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the inferior maxil- lary nerve, and its internal pytergoid branch, by two or three short, delicate fila- ments, and also with the auriculo-temporal nerve. From the former it obtains its motor, from the latter, its sensory root; its communication with the sympathetic being effected by a filament from the plexus suri-ounding the middle meningeal artery. This ganglion also communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal and facial nerves, through the small petrosal nerve continued from the tympanic plexus (page 527).