DEVELOPMENT OF GENITAL ORGANS. civ the Wolffian bodies, from which the essential parts of the gland, the tnbuli seminiferi, and their contents take origin. The tubuli seminiferi are early visible, being at first short and straight, and then gradually assume a coiled arrangement. The tunica albuginea is formed about the third month. The Mullerian ducts disappear in the male sex, with the exception of their lower ends. These unite in the middle line, and open by a common orifice into the urogenital sinus. This constitutes the vtriculus hominis or sinus prostaticus. Occasionally, however, the upper end of the duct of Midler remains visible in the male as it does in the female, constituting the little pedunculated body, called the hydatid of Morgagni, sometimes found in the neighbourhood of the epididymis,* between the testis and globus major. The head of the epididymis, its canal, the vas deferens and ejaculatory duct, are formed from the canals and from the duct of the Wolffian body. The remains of the Wolffian bodies also form the vas aberrans and a structure described by Giraldes,j and called after him 'the organ of Giraldes,' which bears a good deal of resemblance to the organ of Rosenmiiller in the other sex. It consists of a number of convoluted tubules lying in the cel- lular tissue in front of the cord and close to the head of the epididymis. The descent of the testis and the formation of the gubernaculum are described in the body of the work. The External organs of generation, like the internal, pass through a stage in which there is no distinction of sex (fig. CIV., n., in.). We must there- fore first describe this stage, and then follow the development of the female and male organs respectively. As stated above, the anal depression at an early period is formed by an involution of the external epithelium apart from the intestine, which is still closed at its lower end. When the septum between the two opens, which is about the fourth week, the urachus in front and the intestine behind both communicate with the cloaca. About the second month a transverse division (the perinseum) begins to form, and divides the cloaca into the anal cavity behind, and the urogenital sinus in front. In the sixth week a tubercle, the genital tubercle, is formed in front of the cloaca, and this is soon surrounded by two folds of skin, the genital folds. Towards the end of the second month the tubercle presents, on its lower aspect, a groove, the genital furrow, turned towards the cloaca. All these parts are well developed at the period shown by No. III. of the following diagrams, where the anus is separated from the urogenital sinus, yet no distinction of sex is possible. Female Organs (fig. CIV., a, b, c).—The female organs are developed by an easy transition from the above form. The urogenital sinus persists as the vestibule of the vagina, and forms a single tube with the upper part of the vagina, which we have already seen developed from the united Mullerian ducts. The genital tubercle forms the clitoris, the genital folds the labia majora, the lips of the genital furrow the labia minora, the genital furrow * Mr. Osborn, in the St. Thomas's Hospital Reports, 1875, has written an interesting paper pointing out the probable connection between this foetal structure and one form of hydrocele. f Journ. de Phys., 1861.