652 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. circumscribed as the solitary glands. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the stomach and its alveoli is of the columnar variety. Beneath the mucous membrane and between it and the submucous coat is a thin stratum of involuntary muscular fibre (muscularis mucosae), which in some parts consists only of a single longitudinal layer; in others of two layers, an inner, circular, and an outer, longi- tudinal. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the stomach are the gastric, the pyloric and right gastro-epiploic branches of the hepatic, the left gastro-epiploic and vasa brevia from the splenic. They supply the muscular coat, ramify in the sub- mucous coat, and are finally distributed to the mucous membrane. The arrangement of the vessels in the mucous membrane is somewhat peculiar. The arteries break up at the base of the gastric tubules into a plexus of fine capillaries which run up- wards, between the tubules, anastomosing with each other, and ending in a plexus of larger capillaries, which surround the mouths of the tubes, and also form hexa- gonal meshes around the alveoli. From these latter the veins arise, which pursue a straight course back to the submucous tissue, between the tubules, to terminate in the splenic and portal veins. The lymphatics are numerous ; they consist of a super- ficial and deep set, which pass thi'ough the lymphatic glands found along the two curvatures of the organ. The nerves are the terminal branches of the right and left pneumogastrie, the former being distributed upon the back, and the latter upon the front part of the organ. A great number of branches from the sympathetic also supply the organ. The Small Intestines. The small intestine is that part of the alimentary canal in which the chyme is mixed with the bile, the pancreatic juice, and the secretions of the various glands embedded in the mucous membrane of the intestine, and where the separation of the nutritive principle of the food, the chyle, is effected ; this constitutes chylification. The small intestine is a convoluted tube, about twenty feet in length, which gradually diminishes in size from its commencement to its termination. It is contained in the central and lower parts of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, sur- rounded above and at the sides by the lai'ge intestine ; in relation, in front, with the great omentum and abdominal parietes; and connected to the spine by a fold of peritoneum, the mesentery. The small intestine is divisible into three portions—the duodenum, the jejunum, and ileum. The duodenum has received its name from being about equal in length to the breadth of twelve fingers (eight or ten inches). It is the shortest, the widest, and the most fixed part of the small intestine ; it has no mesentery, and is only partially covered by the peritoneum. Its course presents a remarkable curve, somewhat like a horse-shoe in form ; the convexity being directed towards the right, and the con- cavity to the left, embracing the head of the pancreas. Commencing at the pylorus, it ascends obliquely upwards, backwards, and to the right, to the under surface of the liver; it then descends in front of the right kidney, and passes nearly trans- versely across the front of the spine, terminating in the jejunum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. Hence the duodenum has been divided into three portions—ascending, descending, and transverse. The first, or ascending portion (fig. 363), about two inches in length, is free, movable, and nearly completely invested by the peritoneum, which forms the lesser omentum. It is in relation, above and in front, with the liver and neck of the gall-bladder; behind, with the vessels which run between the layers of the lesser omentum, viz. the hepatic artery and duct, and vena porta?. This portion of the intestine is usually found, after death, stained with bile, especially on its anterior surface. The second, or descending portion, about three inches in length, is firmly fixed 03- the peritoneum and pancreas. It passes from the neck of the gall-bladder vertically downwards, in front of the right kidney, as far as the third lumbar