487 BASE OF THE BRATN. hemisphere, and runs backwards, forming the marginal convolution on the inner surface to the point where the calloso-marginal fissure turns upwards to reach the superior bol der of the hemisphere. The quadrate lobe is the marginal convolution of the longitudinal fissure behind the calloso-marginal sulcus, lying between this fissure in front and the parieto- occipital behind. It joins below the gyrus fornicatUs. The cuneate lobe is triangular in shape, being situated between the parieto- occipital and calcarine fissures, which, as above mentioned, meet behind the posterior extremity of the gyrus fornicatus. The uncinate gyrus extends from the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the fissure of Sylvius, being bounded above by the calcarine and dentate fissures, and separated below from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe by the collateral fissure. From the anterior extremity a narrow ijortion is recurved or bent backwards in the form of a hook, which is sometimes called the crochet. The temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Below the uncinate gyrus, and separated from it by the collateral fissure, is the temporo-sphenoidal convolution already described on the external aspect of the hemisphere. It turns round the lower margin of the brain, and appears on the inner surface. Besides the great primary convolutions above named and described, and which can be recognised in almost any well-developed brain, there are a great number of secondary convolutions which pass from one to another of the primary, and often render the arrangement of the latter somewhat obscure; of these, the con- nections of the occipital lobe, above mentioned, and which are named annectant convolutions, may be taken as examples. Cerebrum. Under Surface or Base. (Fig. 272.) The under surface of each hemisphere presents a subdivision, as already men- tioned, into three lobes, named, from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior or frontal lobe, of a triangular form, with its apex backwards, is somewhat concave, and rests upon the convex surface of the roof of the orbit, being separated from the middle lobe by the fissure of Sylvius. The middle lobe, which is more prominent, is received into the middle fossa of the-base of the skull, and com- prises the parietal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. The posterior or occipital lobe rests upon the tentorium, its extent forwards being limited by the anterior margin of the cerebellum. The various objects exposed to view on the under surface of the cerebrum, in and near the middle line, are here arranged in the order in which they are met with from before backwards. Longitudinal fissure. ' Tuber cinereum. Corpus callosum and its peduncles. Infundibulum. Lamina cinerea. Pituitary body. Olfactory nerve. Corpora albicantia. Fissure of Sylvius. Posterior perforated space. Anterior perforated space. Crura cerebri. Optic commissure. The longitudinal fissure partially separates the two hemispheres from one another: it divides the two anterior lobes in front; and on raising the cerebellum and pons, it will be seen completely separating the two posterior lobes, the inter- mediate portion of the fissure being filled up by the great transverse band of white matter, the corpus callosum. Of these two portions of the longitudinal fissure, that which separates the posterior lobes is the longer. In the fissui'e between the two anterior lobes the anterior cerebral arteries may be seen ascending on the corpus callosum ; and at the back part of this portion of the fissure, the anterior curved portion of the corpus callosum descends to the base of the brain.