xc GENERAL ANATOMY. The latter author had described, more than thirty years ago, a connec- tion between the nervous and muscular libres in some of the lower animals, consisting in an elevation at the point of junction of the two, where the sarcolemma of the muscular fibre became blended with the tubular mem- brane of the nerve. This has been since so far confirmed by subsequent researches that it seems well to figure, from the most recent author, Kuhne, what he supposes to be the termination of all motor nerves of voluntary muscles. The following is Kiihne's description of the method of connec- tion :— ' In all striped muscles the nerves terminate below the sarcolemma— the tubular membrane being blended with the sarcolemma. The white sub- stance accompanies the axis-cylinder as far as this point. The ending of the axis-cylinder always represents an expansion with a considerably in- Fig. LIII.—Muscular fibres of Lacerta viridis with the terminations of nerves. a. Seen in profile. P P. The nerve-end plates, ss. The V ase of the plate, consisting of a granular mass with nuclei. b. The same as seen in looking at a perfectly fresh fibre, the nervous ends being probably still excitable. (The forms of the variously divided plate can hardly be represented in a woodcut by sufficiently delicate and pale contours to reproduce correctly what is seen in nature.) c. The same as seen two hours after death from poisoning by curare. creased surface, and this is constantly formed by its branching out on a fiat plate. This nerve-end plate is sometimes more like a membrane, at others like a system of fibres. In most cases the plate rests upon a base of granules and finely granular protoplasm ; in other cases there is no such support, and the nerve-plates then possess the so-called nerve-end bulbs. The ends of the nerves never penetrate the interior of the contractile cylinder, nor does the plate ever embrace the whole circumference of the cylinder. Short muscular fibres generally have only one nerve-end, while longer fibres have several.' It is right, however, to state that the most eminent English authority on this subject entirely denies the description above given, and explains the appearances, figured by Kuhne and others, in a different manner. In a very interesting paper by Dr. Beale, published in 1867,* he endeavours to show that the nerve-hillocks of Doyere are merely accidental elevations produced by the sarcolemma being drawn up in a cone, as the nerve which is attached to it is stretched by the manipulation of the observer ; and with reference to the end-plates of Kuhne, he asserts that by his own method of examina- * On Anatomical Controversy. Beale's Archives, iv. 161.