6i6 ORGANS OP SENSE. is the space in which the organ of Corti * is contained. This organ (fig. 338) is situated upon the membrana basilaris, and appears at first sight as a papilla, winding spirally with the turns of this membrane throughout the whole length of the cochlea, from which circumstance it has been designated the papilla spiralis. More accu- rately viewed, it is seen to be composed of a series of arches roofing over the zona arcuata, estimated at over 3,000 in number. The base of these arches is said to be of uniform length in the whole of the canal. The inner limb of the arch is formed by a fibre (internal fibres or rods of Corti) somewhat swollen at either extremity. In connection with the lower extremity is a nuclear body. The space between the internal rod and the grooved margin of the sulcus spiralis is occupied by cylindrical epithelium, and some of these epithelial cells are provided with hair-like processes (' inner, hair-cells '). The external limb of the arch is formed by a similar series of fibres (external fibres or rods of Corti) which are less numerous than the internal,t and the swollen upper extremities of the two rods ai*e articulated together; the crown of the arch approaches, but does not touch, the membrana tectoria. The shape of the external and internal rods of Corti is peculiar. The internal rods terminate above in a process which exactly reproduces the shape of the head of the human ulna, with its sigmoid cavity, coronoid and olecranon processess, while the external represent the head and bill of a swan—the head fitting into the concavities of one or more of the internal rods (which are more numerous than the external), while the bill rests against the phalanges of the lamina reticularis. Lying against the external rods are epithelial cells of various forms. Those described by Corti, and called after him cells of Corti, are provided with hairs or cilia, ' outer hair-cells.' There are several rows of these, alternating with which are other epithelial cells terminating in a fine extremity above and below : these are called the cells of Deiters ; and beyond these again are the ordinary epithelial cells of the part, gradually diminishing in size. The reticular lamina of Kblliker is formed by several rows of ' minute fiddle-shaped cuticular structures ' called phalanges, between which are holes for the projection of the outer hair-cells. The number of rows varies in different animals with that of the outer hair cells, being four in man. The exact termination of the nerves in the organ of Corti is not as yet determined, but there seems no doubt that this organ is to be regarded as the ' terminal apparatus of hearing,' as Henle names it. % The scala media is closed above and below. The upper blind extremity is attached to the cupola at the upper part of the helicotrema, the lower end fits into the angle at the commencement of the osseous lamina on the floor of the vestibule. Near this blind extremity the scala media receives the canalis reuniens (fig. 339), a very delicate canal, by which the ductus cochlearis is brought into continuity with the saccule. The inner surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by an exceedingly thin fibro- serous membrane, analogous to a periosteum, from its close adhesion to the inner surfaces of these cavities, and performing the office of a serous membrane by its free surface. It lines the vestibule, and from this cavity is continued into the semicircu- lar canals and the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and through the helicotrema into the scala tympani. A delicate tubular process is prolonged along the aqueduct of the vestibule to the inner surface of the dura mater. This membrane is continued across the fenestra ovalis and rotunda, and consequently has no commu- nication with the lining membrane of the tympanum. Its attached surface is rough and fibrous, and closely adherent to the bone; its free surface is smooth and pale, covered with a layer of epithelium, and secretes a thin, limpid fluid, the aqua labyrinthi [perilymph [Blainville], liquor Cotunnii). * Corti's original paper is in the Zeitschrift f. Wissen. Zool. iii. 109. f Waldeyer reckons 6,000 of the inner rods and 4,500 of the outer in the human cochlea. Claudius says that there are three of the inner for every two of the outer. X For further details the reader is referred to Kolliker's Gewebelehre, 5th ed.; Henle's Systematische Anatomie. or Quoin's Anatomy, edited by Sharpey, Thomson, and Schafer, 8th ed. 1876.