HF.NF.RAL ANATOMY. in position by their margins and extremities being connected to the sur- rounding ligaments. The synovial membrane of the joint is prolonged over them a short distance from their attached margin. They are found in the temporo-maxillary, sterno-clavicular, acromio-clavicular. wrist and knee joints. These cartilages are usually found in those joints which are most exposed to violent concussions, and subject to frequent movement. Their use is—to maintain the apposition of the opposed surfaces in their various motions; to increase the depth of the articular surface, and give ease to the gliding movement; to moderate the effects of great pressure, and deaden the intensity of the shocks to which the parts may be submitted.* Virchow describes in the semilunar cartilages of the knee a system of anastomosing tubes, formed by cells which communicate with each other, and by means of which the nutritious fluids are conveyed into the interior of the mass. The semilunar discs, according to this author, are wrongly denominated cartilages, since they yield no chondrine on boiling; and he appears to regard them as a modification of a tendinous structure, which, however, Fii.. XIX.—Yellow cartilage, ear oflior.se. High power. agrees with the cartilages in the important particular of being non-vascular. See Virchow's ' Cellular Pathology.' by Chance, pp. 87-89. The timrieblfagjibfo-cartilages are interposed between tin- bony surfaces of those joints which admit of only slight mobility, as between the bodie s of the vertebra' and the pubic symphyses : they form discs, which adhere closely to both of the opposed bones, ami arc composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue, with cartilaginous lamina1 interposed, the former tissue predominating towards the circumference, the latter towards the centre. The circumferential fibro-cnrtilages consist of a rim of fibro-cartilage, which surrounds the margin of some of the articular cavities, as the cotv- * Professor Humphrey has pointed out that these inarlicular libro-oariilages ser\e an important purpose in increasing the variety of movements in a joint. Thus, in the knee- joint, he says that the cartilage allows of two varieties of movement, in a lunge joint, in which only one would otherwise exist : namely, flexion and extension, and rotation : the former movements taking place between the condyles of the femur and the interarticular cartilage ; tlje latter movement bet .veen the cartilage and the head of the tibia. So, also, in the temporo-maxillary joint, the upward and downward movement of opening and shutting the mouth takes place between the cartilage and the jaw-bone, the grinding movement between the glenoid cavity and the cartilage, the latter moving with the jaw-lxmc. See lliunphrev, Oil '/<>■ aiaitan Skeleton,