MUSCULAR TISSUE. Ixix nective tissue which bind the fibres of striped muscular tissue into fasciculi; while the tissue connecting the individual bundles together represents the perimysium. The unstriped muscle, as a rule, is not under the influence of the will, nor is the contraction rapid and involving the whole muscle, as is the case with the muscles of animal life. The membranes which are composed of the unstriped muscle slowly contract in a part of their extent, generally under the influence of mechanical stimulus, as that of distension or of cold; and then the contracted part slowly relaxes, while another portion of the membrane takes up the contraction. This peculiarity of action is most strongly marked in the intestines, constituting their vermicular motion. In chemical composition the muscular fibres of both forms consist mainly of a proteid substance—myosin—which Dr. M. Foster speaks of as Fig. XXXI V.-Non-striated elementary fibresfrora the human colon. Fig. XXXV.—Muscular fibre-cells from human arteries. with acetic acid. 2. From a branch of the a. Treated with acetic acid, show- anterior tibial, a. Nuclei of the fibres. Magni- ing the corpuscles, b. Fragment fled 350 times, of a detached fibre, not touched with acid. intermediate between fibrin and globulin. It is readily converted by the action of dilute acids into syntonin or acid-albumen, and by the action of dilute alkalies into alkali-albumin. Muscle, which is neutral or slightly alkaline in reaction when at rest, is rendered acid by contraction, from the development probably of sarcolactic acid. After death muscle also exhibits an acid reaction, but this appears to be due to post-mortem, changes. The capillaries of muscle are very abundant, and form a series of rectangular areolae, the branches which run longitudinally between the muscular fibres being united at short intervals by transverse anastomosing branches. Nerves are profusely distributed to the muscular tissue, more especially to the voluntary muscles. The mode of their termination will be described on a subsequent page.