693 FCETAL CIRCULATION. have become larger relatively to the ductus arteriosus, the latter is chiefly connected to the left pulmonary artery; and the fibrous cord, which is all that remains of the ductus arteriosus in later life, will be found to be attached to the root of that vessel. The umbilical or hypogastric arteries arise from the internal iliacs, in addition to the branches given off" from those vessels in the adult. Ascending along the sides of the bladder to its fundus, they pass out of the abdomen at the umbilicus, and are continued along the umbilical cord to the placenta, coiling round the umbilical vein. They return to the placenta the blood which has circulated in the system of the foetus. The peculiarity in the venous system of the foetus is the communication established between the placenta and the liver and portal vein, through the umbilical vein and with the inferior vena cava by the ductus venosus. Fcetal Circulation. The arterial blood destined for the nutrition of the foetus is carried from the placenta to the foetus, along the umbilical cord, by the umbilical vein. The umbilical vein enters the abdomen at the umbilicus, and passes upwards along the free margin of the suspensory ligament of the liver to the under surface of that organ, where it gives off" two or three branches to the left lobe, one of which is of large size; and others to the lobus quadratus and lobulus Spigelii. At the transverse fissure it divides into two branches : of these, the larger is joined by the portal vein, and enters the light lobe; the smaller branch continues onwards, under the name of the ductus venosus, and joins the left hepatic vein at the point of junction of that vessel with the inferior vena cava. The blood, therefore, which traverses the umbilical vein, reaches the inferior vena cava in three different ways. The greater quantity circulates through the liver with the portal venous blood, before entering the vena cava by the hepatic veins; some enters the liver directly, and is also returned to the inferior cava by the hepatic veins : the smaller quantity passes dir ectly into the vena cava, by the junction of the ductus venosus with the left hepatic vein. In the inferior cava, the blood carried by the ductus venosus and hepatic veins becomes mixed with that returning from the lower extremities and viscera of the abdomen. It enters the right auricle, and, guided by the Eustachian valve, passes through the foramen ovale into the left auricle, where it becomes mixed with a small quantity of blood returned from the lungs by the pulmonary veins. From the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle ; and, from the left ventricle, into the aorta, by means of which it is distributed almost entirely to the head and upper extremities, a small quantity being probably carried into the descending aorta. Froni the head and upper extremities the blood is returned by the branches of the superior vena cava to the right auricle, where it becomes mixed with a small portion of the blood from the inferior cava. From the right auricle it descends over the Eustachian valve into the right ventricle ; and, from the right ventricle, passes into the pulmonary artery. The lungs of the foetus being solid, and almost impervious, only a small quantity of the blood of the pulmonary artery is distributed to them, by the right and left pulmonary arteries, which is returned by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle : the greater part passes through the ductus arteriosus into the commence- ment of the descending aorta, where it becomes mixed with a small quantity of blood transmitted by the left ventricle into the aorta. Along this vessel it descends to supply the lower extremities and viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, the chief portion being, however, conveyed by the umbilical arteries to the placenta. From the preceding account of the circulation of the blood in the foetus, it will be seen—■ 1. That the placenta serves the double purpose of a respiratory and nutritive organ, receiving the venous blood from the foetus, and returning it again reoxy- genated, and charged with additional nutritive material. 2. That nearly the whole of the blood of the umbilical vein traverses the liver