ARTERIES. 34° cases of pulsating tumour of the scalp or face ; tlie operation, however, is very rarely per- formed, ligature of the common carotid being preferable, on account of the number of branches given off from the external. To tie this vessel near its origin, below the point where it is crossed by the Digastric, an incision about three inches in length should be made along the margin of the Sterno-mastoid, from the angle of the jaw to the cricoid cartilage, as in the operation for tying the common carotid. To tie the vessel above the Digastric, between it and the parotid gland, an incision should be made, from the lobe of the ear to the great cornu of the os hyoides, dividing successively the skin, Platysma, and fascia. By separating the posterior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles which are seen at the lower part of the wound, from the parotid gland, the vessel will be exposed, and a ligature may be applied to it. The circulation is at once re-established by the free communication between most of the large branches of the artery (facial, lingual, superior thyroid, occipital) and the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and by the free anastomosis of the facial with branches from the internal carotid, of the occipital with branches of the subclavian, etc. Branches. The external carotid artery gives off eight branches, which, for con- venience of description, may be divided into four sets. (See fig. 212, Plan of the Branches.) Anterior. Posterior. Ascending. Terminal. Superior Thyroid. Occipital. Ascending Pha- Temporal. Lingual. Posterior Auricular. ryngeal Internal Maxillary. Facial. The student is here reminded that many variations are met with in the number, origin, and course of these branches in different subjects; but the above arrange- ment is that which is found in the great majority of cases. The Superior Thyroid Artery (figs. 211 and 216) is the first branch given off from the external carotid, being derived from that vessel just below the great corn a of the hyoid bone. At its commencement, it is quite superficial, being covered by the integument, fascia, and Platysma, and is contained in the trian- gular space bounded by the Sterno-mastoid, Digastric, and Omo-hyoid muscles. After running upwards and inwards for a short distance, it curves downwards and forwards, in an arched and tortuous manner, to the upper part of the thyroid gland, passing beneath the Omo-hyoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles; and distributes numerous branches to the anterior surface of the gland, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. Besides the arteries distributed to the muscles and the substance of the gland, the branches of the superior thyroid are the following : Hyoid. Superior Laryngeal. Superficial descending branch (Sterno-mastoid). Crico-Thyroid. The hyoid is a small branch which runs along the lower border of the os hyoides beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle; after supplying the muscles connected to that bone, it forms an arch, by anastomosing with the vessel of the opposite side. The superficial descending branch runs downwards and outwards across the sheath of the common carotid artery, and supplies the Sterno-mastoid and neigh- bouring muscles and integument. It is of importance that the situation of this vessel be remembered, in the operation for tying the common carotid artery. There is often a distinct branch from the external carotid distributed to the Sterno- mastoid muscle. The superior laryngeal, lai'ger than either of the preceding, accompanies the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; it pierces the thyro- hyoid membrane, and supplies the muscles, mucous membrane, and glands of the larynx and epiglottis, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite side. The crico-thyroid is a small branch which runs transversely across the crico- thyroid membrane, communicating with the artery of the opposite side. The position of this vessel should be remembered, as it may prove the source of troublesome haemorrhage during the operation of laryngotomy.