PELVIS. 119 the age of puberty, ossification takes place in each of the remaining portions, and they become joined to the rest of the bone about the twenty-fifth year. Articulations. With its fellow of the opposite side, the sacrum and femur. Attachment of muscles. Ilium. To the outer lip of the crest, the Tensor vagina? femoris, Obliquus externus abdominis, and Latissimus dorsi j to the internal lip, the Transversalis, Quadratus lumborum, and Erector spina;; to the interspace between the lips, the Obliquus interims. To the cuter surface of the ilium, the Gluteus maximus, Gluteus medius, Gluteus minimus, reflected tendon of Rectus, portion of Pyriformis; to the internal surface, the Iliacus, and the Multifidus spina; to the internal surface of the posterior superior spine; to the anterior border, the Sartorius and straight tendon of the Rectus. Ischium. To its outer surface, the Obturator externus and Gracilis; internal surface, Obturator internus and Levator ani. To the spine, the Gemellus superior, Levator ani, and Coccygeus. To the tuberosity, the Biceps, Semi-tendinosus, Semi-membranosus, Quadratus femoris, Adductor magnus, Gemellus inferior, Transversus perinau, Erector penis. Tubes. The Obliquus externus, Obliquus internus, Transversalis, Rectus, Pyramidalis, Psoas parvus, Pectineus, Adductor magnus, Adductor longus, Adductor brevis, Gracilis, Obturator externus and in+ernus, Levator ani, Compressor urethrse, and occasionally a few fibres of the Accelerator urinpe. The Pelvis (figs. 100, 101). The Pelvis, so called from its resemblance to a basin, is stronger and more massively constructed than either the cranial or thoracic cavity; it is a bony ring, interposed between the lower end of the spine, which it supports, and the lower extremities, upon which it rests. It is composed of four bones : the two ossa innominata, which bound it on either side and in front; and the sacrum and coccyx, which complete it behind. The pelvis is divided by a prominent line, the linea ilio-pectinca, into the false and true pelvis. The false pelvis is all that expanded portion of the pelvic cavity winch is situated above the linea ilio-pectinea. It is bounded on each side by the ossa ilii; in front it is incomplete, presenting a wide interval between the spinous processes of the ilia on either side, which is filled up in the recent state by the parietes of the abdomen; behind, in the middle line, is a deep notch. This broad shallow cavity is fitted to support the intestines, and to transmit part of their weight to the anterior wall of the abdomen. The true pelvis is all that part of the pelvic cavity which is situated beneath the linea ilio-pectinea. It is smaller than the false pelvis, but its walls are more perfect. For convenience of description, it is divided into a superior circum- ference or inlet, an inferior circumference or outlet, and a cavity The superior circumference forms the margin or brim of the pelvis, the included space being called the inlet. It is formed by the linea ilio-pectinea, completed in front by the spine and crest of the pubes, and behind by the anterior margin of the base of the sacrum and sacro-vertebral angle. The inlet of the pelvis is somewhat heart-shaped, obtusely pointed in front, diverging on either side, and encroached upon behind by the projection forwards of the promontory of the sacrum. It has three principal diameters: antero- posterior (sacro-pubic), transverse, and oblique. The antero-posterior extends from the sacro-vertebral angle to the symphysis pubis; its average measurement is four inches. The transverse extends across the greatest width of the inlet, from the middle of the brim on one side to the same point on the opposite; its average measurement is five inches. The oblique extends from the margin of the pelvis, corresponding to the ilio-pectinea 1 eminence on one side, to the sacro-iliac symphysis on the opposite side; its average measurement is also five inches. The cavity of the tine pelvis is bounded in front by the symphysis pubis; behind by the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, which, curving forwards above and below, contracts the inlet and outlet of the canal; and laterally it is