677 THE SPLEEN. fibro-elastic coat, numerous small fibrous bands, trabecules (fig. 385), are given off in all directions ; these uniting, constitute the areolar framework of the spleen. The framework of the spleen consists, therefore, of a sponge-like material, enclosing a number of small spaces or areolae, formed by the trabecular, which are given off from the inner surface of the capsule, or from the sheaths prolonged inwards on the blood- vessels. And in these spaces or areolae is contained the splenic pulp. The proper coat, the sheaths of the vessels and the trabecular, consist of a dense mesh of white and yellow elastic fibrous tissues, the latter considerably predominating. It is owing to the presence of this tissue that the spleen possesses a considerable amount of elasticity to allow of the very considerable variations in size that it presents under certain circumstances. In some of the mammalia, in addition to the usual constituents of this tunic, there are found numerous pale, flattened, spindle-shaped, nucleated fibres, like unstriped muscular fibres. It is probably owing to this struc- ture that the spleen possesses, when acted upon by the galvanic current, faint traces of contractility. The proper substance of the spleen or spleen pulp is a soft mass of a dark reddish- 385.—Transverse Section of the Spleen, showing the Trabecular Tissue and the Splenic Vein and its Branches. brown colour, resembling grnmous blood. When examined, by means of a thin section, under the microscope, it is found to consist of a number of branching cells, and of an intercellular substance. The cells are connective-tissue corpuscles, and have been named the sustentacular or supporting cells of the pulp. The processes of these branching cells communicate with each other, thus forming a delicate reticulated tissue in the interior of the areolar formed by the trabecular of the capsule. So that each primary space may be considered to be divided into a number of smaller spaces by the junction of these processes of the branching corpuscles. These secondary spaces contain blood, in which, however, the white corpuscles are found to be in larger pro- portions than they are in ordinary blood. The sustentacular cells are either small, uni-nucleated, or larger, multi-nucleated cells; they do not become deeply stained with carmine, like the cells of the Malpighian bodies, presently to be described (W. Muller), but like them they possess amoeboid movements (Cohnheim). In many of them may be seen deep red, or reddish-yellow granules of various sizes, which present the characters of the harmatin of the blood. Sometimes, also, unchanged blood-discs are seen included in these cells, but more frequently blood-discs are found which are altered both in form and colour. In fact, blood-corpuscles in all stages of disintegra-