Organs of Digestion. THE Apparatus for the digestion of the food consists of the alimentary canal and of certain accessory organs. The alimentary canal is a musculo-membranous tube, about thirty feet in length, extending from the mouth to the anus, and lined throughout its entire extent by mucous membrane. It has received different names in the various parts of its course: at its commencement, the mouth, we find provision made for tbe mechanical division of the food (mastication), and for its admixture with a fluid secreted by the salivary glands (insalivation); beyond this are the organs of deglutition, the pharynx and the oesophagus, which convey the food into that part of the alimentary canal (the stomach) in which the principal chemical changes occur; in the stomach, the reduc- tion and solution of the food takes place; in the small intestines, the nutritive principles of the food (the chyle) are separated, by its admixture with the bile and pancreatic fluid, from that portion which passes into the large intestine, most of which is expelled from the system. Alimentary Canal. 'Duodenum. Mouth. Pharynx. (Esophagus. Stomach. Teeth. Salivary glands Small intestine . J Jejunum. (ileum. Caecum. Colon. (Rectum. Large intestine Accessory Organs. Parotid. Liver. Submaxillary. Pancreas. Sublingual. Spleen. The Mouth (fig. 340) is placed at the commencement of the alimentary canal; it is a nearly oval-shaped cavity, in which the mastication of the food takes place. It is bounded, in front, by the lips; laterally, by the cheeks and the alveolar pro- cesses of the upper and lower jaws ; above, by the hard palate and teeth of the upper jaw; below, by the tongue, and by the mucous membrane stretched between the under surface of that organ and the inner surface of the jaws, and by the teeth of the lower jaw; behind, by the soft palate and fauces. The mucous membrane lining the mouth is continuous with the integument at the free margin of the lips, and with the mucous lining of the fauces behind; it is of a rose-pink tinge during life, and very thick where it covers the hard parts bounding the cavity. It is covered by scaly and stratified epithelium. The Lips are two fleshy folds, which surround the orifice of the mouth, formed externally of integument, and internally of mucous membrane, between which is found the Orbicularis oris muscle, the coronary vessels, some nerves, areolar tissue, and fat, and numerous small labial glands. The inner surface of each lip is con- nected in the middle line to the gum of the corresponding jaw by a fold of mucous membrane, the frmnum labii superioris and inferior is, the former being the larger of the two. The labial glands are situated between the mucous membrane and the Orbicularis oris, round the orifice of the mouth. They are rounded in foxm, about the size of