ORGANS OF SENSE. 6o2 a delicate zone around the cornea, from which the vessels run to the ocular con- junctiva. At the point of reflection of the conjunctiva from, the lid on to the glohe of the eye, termed the fornix conjunctiva, are a number of mucous glands, which are much convoluted. They are chiefly found in the upper lid. Other glands, analogous to lymphoid follicles and called by Henle ' trachoma glands' are found in the con- junctiva, and according to Stromeyer are chiefly situated near the inner canthus of the eye. They were first described by Brush in his desciiption of Peyer's Patches of the small intestines as ' identical structures existing in the under eyelid of the ox.' The nerves in the conjunctiva are numerous and form rich plexuses. According to Krause they terminate in a peculiar form of tactile corpuscle, which he terms ' terminal bulb.' The caruncula lachrymalis is a small, reddish, conical-shaped body, situated at the inner canthus of the eye, and filling up the small triangular space in this situation, the lacus lachrymalis. It consists of a cluster of follicles similar in structure to the Meibomian, covered with mucous membrane, and is the source of the whitish secretion which constantly collects at the inner angle of the eye. A few slender hairs are attached to its surface. On the outer side of the caruncula is a slight semilunar fold of mucous membrane, the concavity of which is directed towards the cornea ; it is called the plica semilunaris. Midler found smooth muscular fibres in this fold, and in. some of the domestic animals a thin plate of cartilage has been discovered. This structure is considered to be the rudiment of the third eyelid in birds, the membrana nictitans. Lachrymal Apparatus. (Fig. 329.) The lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland, which secretes the tears, and its excretory ducts, which convey the fluid to the surface of the eye. This fluid is carried aw ay l.\ the laclir) mal (.-anal-, into the lachrymal sac, and along the nasal duct into the cavity of the nose. 329.—The Lachrymal Apparatus. Right Side. The lachrymal gland is lodged in a depression at the outer angle of the orbit, on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, about the size and shape of an almond. Its upper convex surface is in contact with the periosteum of the orbit, to which it is connected by a few fibrous bands. Its under concave surface rests upon the convexity of the eyeball, and upon the Superior and External recti muscles. Its vessels and nerves enter its posterior border, whilst its anterior margin is closely adherent to the back part of the upper eyelid, and is covered, on its inner surface, by a reflection of the conjunctiva. The fore par-t of the