Organs of Voice and Respiration. The Larynx. THE Larynx is the organ of voice, placed at the upper part of the air-passage. It is situated between the trachea and base of the tongue, at the upper and fore part of the neck, where it forms a considerable projection in the middle line. On either side of it lie the great vessels of the neck ; behind, it forms part of the boundary of the pharynx, and is covered by the mucous membrane lining that cavity. The larynx is narrow and cylindrical below, but broad above, where it presents the form of a triangular box, flattened behind and at the sides, whilst in front it is bounded by a prominent vertical ridge. It is composed of cartilages, which are con- nected together by ligaments and moved by numerous muscles : the interior is lined by mucous membrane, and supplied with vessels and nerves. The Cartilages of the larynx are nine in number, three single, and three pairs : Thyroid. Two Arytenoid. Cricoid. Two Coruicula Laryngis. Epiglottis. Two Cuneiform. The Thyroid (tilipeoc, a, shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx. It consists of two lateral lamellae or alae, united at an acute angle in front, forming a vertical projection in the middle line which is prominent above, and called the pomum Attain I. This projection is subcutaneous, more distinct in the male than in the female, and occasionally separated from the integument by a bursa mucosa. Each lamella is quadrilateral in form. Its outer surface presents an oblique ridge, which passes downwards and forwards from a tubercle, situated near the root of the supei'ior cornu. This ridge gives attach- ment to the Sterno-thyroid and Thyro- hyoid muscles; the portion of cartilage included between it and the posterior border, to part of the Inferior constrictor muscle. The inner surface of each alais smooth, concave, and covered by mucous membrane above and behind; but in front, in the re- ceding angle formed by theii junction, are attached the epiglottis, the true and false chordae vocales, the Thyro-arytenoid, and Thyro-epiglottidean muscles. The upper border of the thyroid carti- lage is deeply notched in the middle line, immediately above the pomum Adami, whilst on either side it is slightly concave. This border gives attachment through- out its whole extent to the thyro-hyoid membrane. 393.—Side View of the Thyroid and Cricoid Cartilages.