THE SKELETON. 24 Surface$. The external wwfact (tig. 25) is convex, .smooth, and marked about its centre by an eminence, called the parietal eminence, which indicates the point where ossification commenced. Crossing the middle of the bone in an arched direction US a curved ridge, the temporal ridge, for the attachment of the temporal fascia. Above this ridge, the surface of the bone is rough and porous, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis ; below it the bone is smooth, forms part of the teui|>onil fossa, and atfords attachment to the temporal muscle. At the back part of the superior border, close to the sagittal suture, is a small foramen, the parietal foramen, which transmits a vein to the su|>erior longitudinal sinus, and sometimes a small branch of the occipital artery. Its existence is not constant, and its six? varies considerably. The iut rrutl tturface. (fig. 26), concave, presents eminences and depressions for lodging the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the ramilica- tioiis of the meningeal arteries; the latter run upwards and backwards from the anterior inferior angle, and from the central and posterior pari of the lower border of the bone. Along the upper margin Is part of a shallow groove, which, when joined to the opposite parietal, forms a channel for the superior longitudinal sinus, the elevated edges of which afford attachment to the falx cerebri. Near the groove are seen several depressions; they lodge the Pacchionian bodies. The internal opening of the pariet.d foramen is also seen when that aperture exists. 2'. -Left Parietal Done. External Surface. Borders. The superior, the longest and thickest, is dentated to articulate with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the sagittal suture. The interior is divided into three parts: of these, the anterior is thin and pointed, bevelled at the expense! of the outer surface, find overlapped by the tip ol 'he great w ing of the sphenoid : the middle portion is arched, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface,