ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 656 The essential parts of a villus are the lacteal vessel, the blood-vessels, the epithe- lium, the basement membrane and muscular tissue of the mucosa, and the cells and reticular tissue which fill up the interspaces. These structures are arranged in the following manner. Situated in the centre of the villus is the lacteal, terminating near the summit in a blind extremity; running along this vessel are unstriped muscular fibres ; surrounding it is a plexus of capillary vessels, the whole being enclosed by a basement membrane, supporting columnar epi- thelium. Those structures which are contained within the basement membrane—■ namely, the lacteal, the muscular tissue, and the blood-vessels—are surrounded and enclosed by a delicate reticulum which forms the matrix of the villus, and in the 365.—Two Villi magnified. 366.—Transverse Section of Crypts of Lieberkuhn. (Klein and Noble Smith.) meshes of which are found large flattened cells, with an oval nucleus, and, in smaller numbers, lymph-corpuscles. These latter are to be distinguished from the larger cells of the villus by their behaviour with reagents, by their size, and by the shape of their nucleus, which is spherical. Transitional forms, however, of all kinds are met with between the lymph-corpuscle and the proper cells of the villus. The Inch ah are in some cases double, and in some animals multiple. Situated in the axis of the villi, they commence by dilated caecal extremities near to, but not quite at, the summit of the villus. The walls are composed of a single layer of endo- thelial cells, the interstitial substance between the cells being continuous with the reticulum of the matrix. 367.—Longitudinal Section of Crypts of Lieberkuhn. Goblet-cells seen among the ('oluumar Epithelial Cells. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The muscular fibres are derived from the muscularis mucosas, and are arranged in bundles around the lacteal vessel, extending from the base to the summit of the villus, and giving off laterally individual muscle-cells, which are enclosed by the reticulum, and by it are attached to the basement membrane. The blood-vessels form a plexus between the lacteal and the basement membranes, and are enclosed in the reticular tissue; in the interstices of the capillary plexus which they form are contained the cells of the villus. These structures are surrounded by the basement membrane, which is made up of a stratum of endothelial cells, and upon which is placed a layer of columnar epithelium. The reticulum of the matrix is continuous through the basement membrane (that is