ORGANS OF SENSE. 596 326.—The Layers of the Retina (diagrammatic.) After Schultze. The cones are conical or flask-shaped, their broad ends resting upon the membrana limitans externa, the naiTow pointed extremity being turned to the choroid. Like the rods, they are made up of two portions, outer and inner; the outer portion being a short conical process, which, like the outer segment of the rods presents transverse striae. The inner portion resembles the inner portion of the rods in structure, presenting an outer striated and an inner granular appearance; but differs from it in size, being bulged out laterally and presenting a flask shape. 10. The pigmentary layer. The most external layer of the retina and formerly regarded as a part of the choroid, consists of a single layer of hexagonal epithelium cells, loaded with pigment granules. Connective tissue framework of the Re- tina. Almost all these layers of the retina are connected together by a sort of sup- porting connective tissue, which has been named the fibres of Miiller, or radiating fibres, from which the membrana limitans interna et externa are derived. These fibres are found stretched between the two limiting layers, ' as columns between a floor and a ceiling ' and passing through all the nervous layers, except Jacob's mem- brane. They commence on the inner sur- face of the retina by a conical base, the edges of the bases of adjoining fibres being united and thus forming a boundary line, which is the membrana limitans interna. As they pass through the various layers, they present a roughness of their surface, as if from a number of membranous pro- cesses abruptly broken off. By these they are continuous with the reticulum of the inner and outer molecular layer and with a sponge-like stroma, in which the nuclei of the inner nuclear layers are embedded. In the inner nuclear layer each fibre of Muller presents a clear oval nucleus, referred to above, winch is sometimes situated at the side of, sometimes altogether within the fibre. In the outer nuclear layer the fibre breaks up into fine lamella?, which form a fenestrated or sponge-like tissue, in which the rod and cone granules are enclosed, and at the outer border of this layer these lamella? unite along a definite line, forming the membrana limitans externa. Macula lutea and fovea centralis. The structure of the retina at the yellow spot presents some modifications. In the macula lutea (1) the nerve-fibres are wanting as a continuous layer ; (2) the vesicular layer consists of several strata of cells, instead of a single layer; (3) in Jacob's membrane there are no rods, but' only cones, and these are longer and narrower than in other parts; and (4) in the outer nuclear layer there are only cone-fibres which are very long and arranged in curved lines. At the fovea centralis the only parts which exist are the cones of Jacob's membrane; the outer nuclear layer, the cone fibres of which are almost horizontal in direction ; and an exceedingly thin inner granular layer. The colour of the spot seems to imbue all the layers except Jacob's membrane; it is of a rich, !. Membrana limitans interna, b. Fibrous layer. c Vesicular layer, d. Inner molecular layer, e. Inner nuclear laye.-. /. Outer molecular layer, g. Outer nuclear layer, ft. Membrana limitans externa, i. Jacob's membrane, k. Pigmentary layer. I. Fibre of Muller.