DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. cxli stalk of the primitive ocular vesicle and furnish the arteria centralis retinae with the sheath and connective tissue of the optic nerve. The two layers of the primitive ocular vesicle are at first separated by a space continuous with that of the original medullary cavity (or fcetal ventricle), but this space is afterwards obliterated. The outer layer of the vesicle is chiefly pigmentary. It lines the mesoblastic elements which are to furnish the vascular choroid, Fig. XCIV.—Diagrammatic sketch of a vertical longitudinal section through the eyeball of a human foetus of four weeks (after Kblliker). Magnified 100 dia- meters. The section is a little to the side, so as to avoid passing through the ocular cleft. and is developed into the hexagonal pigment - layer, which functionally forms part of the choroid, but is now often described as belonging to the retina, on account of this method of development. The sclerotic and the fibrous or true cornea are also de- veloped out of this layer, though pro- bably with admixture of mesoblastic elements. In fact, the mesoblast is now described by the most recent authorities as the source of both membranes. The inner layer gives origin to the retina. The eyelids are formed at the end of the third month, as small cutaneous folds, which come together in front of the globe and cohere. This union is broken up, and the eyelids separate before the end of fcetal life. The lachrymal canal appears to result from the non-closure of a fissure which exists between the external nasal process and the maxillary process (p. cxxxv). , The cuticle, where it becomes later the cornea. I. The lens. op. Optic nerve formed by the pedicle of the primary optic vesicle, vp. Primary medullary cavity of the optic vesicle, p. The pigment-layer of the outer wall. r. The inner wall forming the retina, vs. Secondary optic vesicle containing the rudiment of the vitreous humour. Development of the Ear.—The first rudiment of the ear appears about the same time as that of the eye, in the form of a vesicle (primitive auditory vesicle, figs. LXXXIX., XC, n) situated close on the outside of the third cerebral vesicle, though not communicating with it. It is formed by a depression of the epithelium over the second pharyngeal arch, which becomes converted into a closed sac. From this vesicle the internal ear is developed. The auditory nerve is described either as a projection from the third cerebral vesicle, or as an independent formation from the meso- blast which unites with both, and thus establishes a communication between the cerebral and the auditory vesicles. The middle ear and Eustachian tube constitute the remains of the first pharyngeal or branchial cleft. The formation of the ossicles of the tympanum has been already pointed out, viz., the incus and malleus from Meckel's cartilage, and the stapes, with its muscle, from the second pharyngeal arch. These parts project into the first pharyngeal cleft, which remains occupied by connective tissue during the whole of fcetal life, according to Kolliker. The membrana tympani forms across the cleft, dividing it into an inner and outer portion. The pinna, or external ear, is developed from the soft parts covering the first pharyngeal arch.