The Muscles and Fasciae. THE Muscles are connected with the hones, cartilages, ligaments, and skin, either directly or through the intervention of fibrous structures, called tendons or aponeuroses. Where a muscle is attached to bone or cartilage, the fibres terminate in blunt extremities upon the periosteum or perichondrium, and do not come into direct relation with the osseous or cartilaginous tissue. Where muscles are con- nected with the skin, they either lie as a flattened layer beneath it, or are connected with its areolar tissue by larger or smaller bundles of fibres, as in the muscles of the face. The muscles vary extremely in their form. In the limbs, they are of con- siderable length, especially the more superficial ones, the deep ones being generally broad • they surround the bones, and form an important protection to the various joints. In the trunk, they are broad, flattened, and expanded, forming the parietes of the cavities which they enclose ; hence the reason of the terms, long, broad, short, etc., used in the description of a muscle. There is a considerable variation in the arrangement of the fibres of certain muscles with reference to the tendons to which they are attached. In some, the fibres are arranged longitudinally, and terminate at either end in a narrow tendon. If the fibres converge, like the plumes of a pen, to one side of a tendon, which runs the entire length of a muscle, the muscle is said to be penniform, as the Peronei; if they converge to both sides of the tendon, the muscle is called bipenniform, as the Rectus femoris ; if they converge from a broad surface to a narrow tendinous point, the muscle is said to be radiated, as the Temporal and Glutei muscles. They differ no less in size; the Gastrocnemius forms the chief bulk of the back of the leg, and the fibres of the Sartorius are nearly two feet in length, whilst the Stapedius, a small muscle of the internal ear, weighs about a grain, and its fibres are not more than two lines in length. The names applied to the various muscles have been derived : i, from their situation, as the Tibialis, Padialis, Ulnaris, Peroneus; 2, from their direction, as the Pectus abdominis, Obliqui capitis, Transversalis; 3, from their uses, as Flexors, Extensors, Abductors, etc. ; 4, from their shape, as the Deltoid, Trapezius, Phom- boideus; 5, from the number of their divisions, as the Piceps, the Triceps; 6, from their points of attachment, as the Sterno-cleido-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid, Sterno- thyroid. In the description of a muscle, the term origin is meant to imply its more fixed or central attachment; and the term insertion the moveable point to which the force of the muscle is directed; but the origin is absolutely fixed in only a very small number of muscles, such as those of the face, which are attached by one extremity to the bone, and by the other to the moveable integument; in the greater number, the muscle can be made to act from either extremity. * The Muscles and Fascise are described conjointly, in order that the Student may con- sider the arrangement of the latter in his dissection of the former. It is rare for the student of anatomy in "this country to have the opportunity of dissecting the fasciae separately ; and it is for this reason, as well as from the close connection that exists between the muscles and their investing aponeuroses, that they are considered together. Some general observations are first made on the anatomy of the muscles and fascias. the special description being given in connection with the different regions.