cxiv GENERAL ANATOMY. In size the glands vary extremely ; thus the liver weighs nearly four pounds, while many of the mucous glands are only visible to the naked eye when distended with secretion : and they vary not less in structure. Thus the structure of the liver is so complex that it can hardly yet be regarded as known with absolute certainty; while there are a great many glands which consist either of a single tube lined with epithelium, on the outer side of which the blood circulates, or even a simple closed sac which opens when it becomes charged with secretion. The great majority of glands, however, can be reduced ideally to a very simple form, viz., to an involution, more or less complex, of the basement- membrane, carrying of course its epithelium with it, and having the capil- lary vessels distributed on its attached surface. If this involution be 1 perfectly simple, an open tube results, as in the stomach (see fig. 362, p. 651), or the common mucous crypts of the urethra. Branches projecting out from the bottom of this tube constitute the simplest form of racemose gland. The most rudimentary condition of such a gland is shown in tin branched tubes of the gastric mucous membrane, figured on p. 651. If such a tube be conceived of as divided into branches as well as branching out at its extremity, we have a compound racemose gland consisting of a single lobule terminating in its duct (such as Brunner's glands), and an aggregation of such lobules may all open into a common duct, or may have a great number of separate ducts. Instances of such glands will be found in the salivary glands, the pancreas, &c. In other instances the necessary extent of epithelial surface is obtained by the duct being coiled on itself, as in the sweat-glands (fig. LXV. p. ciii), or the extremity of the duct only may be thus arranged (see the figure of the testis, p. 748). In other glands, as in the kidney, the mucous duct is undivided from the beginning, and the capillaries from which the secretion is to be eliminated are dis- tributed upon its walls or project into its ampullated commencement (fig. 413, p. 724). For the description of the Ductless or Blood Glands we must refer to the sections in the text relating to the Anatomy of the Spleen, Suprarenal Capsules, Thyroid, and Thymus.