474 NEBVOQS SYSTEM. bral substance by the pia mater, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, the subarach- noidean. On the upper surface of the cerebrum, the arachnoid is thin and transparent, and may be easily demonstrated by injecting a stream of air beneath it by means of a blowpipe; it passes over the convolutions without dipping down into the sulci between them. At the base of the brain the arachnoid is thicker, and slightly opaque towards the central part; it covers the anterior lobes, and is extended across between the two middle lobes, so as to leave a considerable interval between it and the brain, the anterior subarachnoidean space; it is in contact with the pons and under surface of the cerebellum; but between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata another considerable interval is left between it and the brain, called the posterior subarachnoidean space. These two spaces communicate together across the crura cerebelli. The arachnoid membrane surrounds the nerves which arise from the brain, and encloses them in loose sheaths as far as their point of exit from the skull. The subarachnoid space is the interval between the arachnoid and pia mater: this space is narrow on the surface of the hemispheres ; but at the base of the brain a wide interval is left between the two middle lobes, and behind, between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. This space is the seat of an abundant serous secretion, the cerebrospinal fluid, which fills up the interval between the arachnoid and pia mater. The subarachnoid space usually communi- cates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain by means of an opening in the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle. The sub-dural space also contains fluid; this is, however, small in quantity com- pared with the cerebro-spinal fluid. Structure. The arachnoid consists of bundles of white fibrous and elastic tissue intimately blended together. Its outer surface is covered with a layer of scaly epithelium. From its inner surface are given off a number of bundles of fine connec- tive tissue, which form a sponge-like trabecular network in the subarachnoid space, in the interstices of which the cerebro-spinal fluid is contained. Vessels of considerable size but few in number, and, according to Bochdalek, a rich plexus of nerves derived from the motor division of the fifth, the facial, and the spinal accessory nerves are found in the arachnoid. The cerebro-spinal fluid fills up the subarachnoid space. It is a clear, limpid fluid, having a saltish taste, and a slightly alkaline reaction. According to Lassaigne, it consists of 98-5 parts of water, the remaining 1-5 per cent, being solid matters, animal and saline. It varies in quantity, being most abundant in old persons, and is quickly reproduced. Its chief use is probably to afford mechanical protection to the nervous centres, and to prevent the effects of concussions communicated from without. . , ___ r • 0 j l • n — 1 * 1 w Pia Mater. The pia mater is a vascular membrane, and derives its blood from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. It consists of a minute plexus of blood-vessels, held together by an extremely fine areolar tissue. It invests the entire surface of the brain, dipping down between the convolutions and laminse, and is prolonged into the interior, forming the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. Upon the surfaces of the hemispheres, where it covers the grey matter of the convolutions, it is very vascular, and gives off from its inner surface a multitude of minute vessels, which extend perpendicularly for some distance into the cerebral substance. At the base of the brain, in the situation of the anterior and posterior perforated spaces, a number of long straight vessels are given off, which pass through the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. On the cerebellum the membrane is more delicate, and the vessels from its inner surface are shorter. Upon the crura cerebri and pons Varolii its characters are altogether changed; it here presents a dense fibrous structure, marked only by slight traces of vascularity.