ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 678 tion may be noticed to occur within them. Klein has recently pointed out that sometimes these cells, in the young spleen, contain a proliferating nucleus; that is to say, the nucleus is of large size, and presents a munber of knob-like projections, as if small nuclei were budding from it by a prodess of gemmation. This observation is of importance, as it may explain one possible source of the colourless blood-corpuscles. The interspaces or areolae formed by the framework of the spleen are thus filled by a delicate reticulum of branched connective-tissue corpuscles, the interstices of which are occupied by blood, and in which the blood-vessels terminate in the manner now to be described. Blood-vessels of the Spleen.—The splenic artery is remarkable for its large size in proportion to the size of the organ, and also for its tortuous course. It divides into from four to six branches, which enter the hilum of the spleen and ramify throughout its substance (fig. 386), receiving sheaths from an involution of the external fibrous tissue. Similar sheaths also invest the nerves and veins. Each branch runs in the transverse axis of the organ, from within outwards, diminishing in size during its transit, and giving off in its passage smaller branches, some of which pass to the anterior, others to the posterior part. These ultimately 386.—Transverse Section of the Human Spleen, showing the Distribution of the Splerjic Artery and its Branches. leave the trabecular sheaths, and terminate in the proper substance of the spleen in small tufts or pencils of minute aiterioles, which open into the interstices of the reticulum formed by the branched sustentacular cells. Each of the larger branches of the artery supplies chiefly that region of the organ in which the branch ramifies, having no anastomosis with the majority of the other branches. The arterioles, supported by the minute trabeculae, traverse the pulp in all direc- tions in bundles or pencilli of straight vessels. Their external coat, on leaving the trabecular sheaths, consists of ordinary connective tissue, but it gradually undergoes a transformation, becomes much thickened, and converted into a lymphoid material.* This change is effected by the conversion of the connective tissue into a cytogenous tissue ; the bundles of connective tissue becoming looser and laxer, their fibrils more delicate, and containing in their interstices an abundance of lymph-corpuscles (W. Miiller). This lymphoid material is supplied with blood by minute vessels derived from the artery with which they are in contact, and which terminates by breaking up into a network of capillary vessels. The altered coat of the arterioles, consisting of lymphoid tissue, presents here and there thickenings of a spheroidal shape, the Malpighian bodies of the spleen. These * According to Klein, it is the sheath of the small vessel which undergoes this transforma- tion, and forms a ' solid mass of adenoid tissue which surrounds the vessel like a cylindrical sheath.'—{Atlas of Histology, p. 421.)