760 FEMALE ORGANS OP GENERATION. parent vesicles of various sizes are to be seen; they are the Graafian vesicles, the ovisacs containing the ova. Immediately beneath the superficial covering is a layer of stroma, in which are a large number of minute vesicles, of uniform size, about T^ ff of an inch in diameter. These are the Graafian vesicles in their earliest condition, and the layer where they are found has been termed the cortical layer. They are especially numerous in the ovary of the young child. After puberty, and during the whole of the child-bearing period, large and mature, or almost mature, Graafian vesicles are also found in the cortical layer in small numbers, and also ' corpora lutea,' the re- mains of vesicles which have burst and are undergoing atrophy and absorption. 436.—Section of the Ovary of a Virgin, showing 437.—Section of the Graafian Vesicle, the Stroma and Graafian Vesicles. After Von Baer. Crajudasai Beneath this superficial stratum, other larger and more mature Graafian vesicles are found embedded in the ovarian stroma. These increase in size as they recede from the surface towards a highly vascular stroma in the centre of the organ, termed the medullary substance (zona vasculosa, Waldeyer). This stroma forms the tissue of the hilum by which the ovary is attached, and through which the blood-vessels enter; it does not contain any Graafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles consist of an external fibro-vascular coat, connected with the surrounding stroma of the ovary by a network of blood-vessels; and an internal coat, named ovicapsule, which is lined by a layer of nucleated cells, called the in ■mhrana granulosa. The fluid contained in the interior of the vesicles is trans- parent and albuminous, and in it is suspended the ovum. In that part of the mature Graafian vesicle which is nearest the surface of the ovary, the cells of the membrana granulosa are collected into a mass which projects into the cavity of the vesicle. This is termed the discus proligerus, and in this the ovum is embedded.* The ova are formed from the germ-epithelium on the surface of the ovary : the cells become enlarged and involuted, forming little depressions on the surface of the ovary. As they sink deeper into the tissue they become enclosed by the outgrowth of processes from the stroma of the ovary, and becoming surrounded, their connection with the surface is cut off, and the germ-epithelium forming the involution is contained in a cavity, the future Graafian follicle. The germ cell or cells now form the ovum; the cell-wall forms the vitelline membrane; the nucleus, the germinal area; and a nucleolus, which soon appears, the germinal spot. A clear homogeneous pro- toplasm is formed within the cell, constituting the yelk, and thus the primordial, ovum is developed. According to Dr. Foulis the cells of the membrana granulosa are formed out of the nuclei of the fibro-cellular stroma of the ovary.f The formation, development, and maturation of the Graafian vesicles and ova continue uninterruptedly from infancy to the end of the fruitful period of woman's life. Before puberty the ovaries are small, the Graafian vesicles contained in them are disposed in a comparatively thick layer in the cortical substance; here they present the appearance of a large number of minute closed vesicles, constituting the early condition of the Graafian vesicle; many, however, never attain full develop- ment, but shrink and disappear, their ova being incapable of impregnation. At puberty the ovaries enlarge, are more vascular, the Graafian vesicles are developed in greater abundance, and their ova are capable of fecundation. For a description of the ovum see Introduction, page cxv. f Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, April 1875.