498 NERVOUS SYSTEM. third ventricle. Its posterior border forms an almost complete investment for the pineal gland. Its anterior extremity, or apex, is bifid; each bifurcation being con- tinued into the corresponding lateral ventricle, through, the foramen of Monro, forming the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus. On its under surface are two vascitlar fringes, which diverge from each other behind, and project into the cavity of the third ventricle. These are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. To its lateral margins are connected the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. The arteries of the velum interpositum enter from behind, beneath the corpus callosum. Its veins, the vence Galeni, two in number, run along its under surface; they are formed by the vena? corporis striati and the veins of the choroid plexuses ; the venae Galeni unite posteriorly into a single trunk, which terminates in the straight sinus (fig. 242). The velum interpositum should now be removed. * This must he effected carefully, especially at its posterior part, where it invests the pineal gland ; the optic thalami will then be exposed with the cavity of the third ventricle between them (fig. 277). The optic thalami are two large oblong masses, placed between the diverging portions of the corpora striata; they are of a white colour superficially; internally they are composed of white fibres intermixed with grey matter. Each thalamus rests upon its corresponding crus cerebri, which it embraces. Externally, it is bounded by the corpus striatum, and taenia semicircularis ; and is continuous with the hemi- sphere. Internally, it forms the lateral boundary of the third ventricle; and run- ning along its upper border is seen the peduncle of the pineal gland. Its upper surface is free, being partly seen in the lateral ventricle; it is partially covered by the fornix, and marked in front by an eminence, the anterior tubercle. Its under surface forms the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle; into it the crus cerebri passes. Its posterior and inferior part, which projects into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, presents two small rounded eminences, the internal and external geniculate bodies. Its anterior extremity, which is narrow, forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Monro. The third, ventricle is the narrow oblong fissure placed between the optic thalami, and extending to the base of the brain. It is bounded, above, by the under surface of the velum interpositum, from which are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle ; and, laterally, by two white tracts, one on either side, the peduncles of the pineal gland. Its floor, somewhat oblique in its direction, is formed, from before backwards, by the parts which close the interpeduncular space, viz., the lamina cinerea, the tuber cinereum and infundibulum, the corpora albicantia and the locus perforatus posticus; its sides, by the optic thalami; it is bounded, in front, by the anterior crura of the fornix, and part of the anterior commis- sure ; behind, by the posterior commissure, and the iter a tertio ad quartum ven- triculum. The cavity of the third ventricle is crossed by three commissures, named, from their position, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior commissure is a rounded cord of white fibres, placed in front of the anterior crura of the fornix. It perforates the corpus striatum on either side, and spreads out into the substance of the hemispheres, over the roof of the descending horn of each lateral ventricle. The middle or soft commissure consists almost entirely of grey matter. It connects together the optic thalami, and is continuous with the grey matter lining the anterior part of the third ventricle. It is frequently broken in examining the brain, and might then be supposed to have been wanting. The posterior commissure, smaller than the anterior, is a flattened white band of fibres, connecting together the two optic thalami posteriorly. It bounds the third ventricle posteriorly, and is placed in front of and beneath the pineal gland, above the opening leading to the fourth ventricle. The third ventricle has four openings connected with it. In front are the two oval apertures of the foramina of Monro, one on either side, through which the third communicates with the lateral ventricles. Behind is a third opening leading into the