i.54 ARTICULATIONS. 3. Ligaments connecting the Articular Processes. Capsular. The Capsular Ligaments (fig. 118) are thin and loose ligamentous sacs, attached to the contiguous margins of the articulating processes of each vertebra, through the greater part of their circumference, and completed internally by the ligamenta subflava. They are longer and more loose in the cervical than in the dorsal or lumbar regions. The capsular ligaments are lined on their inner surface by synovial membrane. 4. Ligaments connecting the Spinous Processes. Inter-spinous. Supra-spinous. The Inter-spinous Ligaments (fig. 116), thin and membranous, are interposed between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. Each ligament extends from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, and connects together their adjacent margins. They are narrow and elongated in the dorsal region, broader, quadrilateral in form, and thicker in the lumbar region. The Supraspinous Ligament is a strong fibrous cord,, which connects together the apices of the spinous processes from the seventh cervical to the spine of the sacrum. It is thicker and broader in the lumbar than in the dorsal region, and intimately blended, in both situations, with the neighbouring aponeuroses. The most superficial fibres of this ligament connect three or four vertebrae; those deeper seated pass between two or three vertebras; whilst the deepest connect the contiguous extremities of neighbouring vertebras. 5. Ligaments connecting the Transverse Processes. Inter-transverse. The Inter-transverse Ligaments consist of a few thin scattered fibres, interposed between the transverse processes. They are generally wanting in the cervical region ; in the dorsal, they are rounded cords; in the lumbar region they are thin, and membranous. Actions. The movements permitted in the spinal column are, Flexion, Extension, Lateral movement, Circumduction, and Potation. In Flexion, or movement of the spine forwards, the anterior common ligament is relaxed, and the intervertebral substances are compressed in front; while the posterior common ligament, the ligamenta subflava, and the inter- and supra- spinous ligaments, are stretched, as well as the posterior fibres of the interver- tebral discs. The interspaces between the laminae are widened, and the inferior articular processes of the vertebras above glide upwards, upon the articular pro- cesses of the vertebras below. Elexion is the most extensive of all the movements of the spine. In Extension, or movement of the spine backwards, an exactly opposite dispo- sition of the parts takes place. This movement is not extensive, being limited by the anterior common ligament, and by the approximation of the spinous processes. Elexion and extension are most free in the lower part of the lumbar, and in the cervical regions; extension in the latter region being greater than flexion, the reverse of which is the case in the lumbar region. These movements are least free in the middle and upper part of the back. In Lateral Movement, the sides of the intervertebral discs are compressed, the extent of motion being limited by the resistance offered by the surrounding liga- ments, and by the approximation of the transverse processes. This movement may take place in any part of the spine, but is most free in the neck and loins.