ORGANS OF SENSE. 6io the manubrium, and lies in contact with the membrana tympani. Its summit gives attachment to the Tensor tyinpani. The Incus has received its name from its supposed resemblance to an anvil, but it is more like a bicuspid tooth, with two roots, which differ in length, and are widely separated from each other. It consists of a body and two processes. The body is somewhat quadrilateral but compressed laterally. Its summit is deejdy concavo-convex, and articulates with the malleus; in the fresh state it is covered with cartilage and lined with synovial membrane. The two processes diverge from one another nearly at right angles. The short process, somewhat conical in shape, projects neaidy horizontally back- wards, and is attached to the margin of the opening leading into the mastoid cells, by ligamentous fibres. The long process, longer and more slender than the preceding, descends nearly vertically behind the handle of the malleus, and bending inwards, terminates in a rounded globular projection, the os orbiculare, or lenticular process, which is tipped with cartilage, and articulates with the head of the stapes. In the foetus the os orbi- culare exists as a separate bone, but becomes united to the long process of the incus in the adult. The Stapes, so called from its close resemblance to a stirrup, consists of a head, neck, two branches, and a base. The head presents a depression, tipped with cartilage, which articulates with the os orbiculare. The neck, the constricted part of the bone below the head, receives the insertion of the Stapedius muscle. The two branches {crura) diverge from the neck, and are connected at their extremities by a flattened, oval-shaped plate (the base), which forms the foot of the stirrup, and is fixed to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by ligamentous fibres. Ligaments of the Ossicula. These small bones are connected with each other, and with the walls of the tympanum, by ligaments, and moved by small muscles. The articular surfaces of the malleus and incus, the orbicular process of the incus and head of the stapes, are covered with cartilage, connected together by delicate capsular ligaments, and lined by synovial membrane. The ligaments con- necting the ossicula with the walls of the tympanum are three in number, one for each bone. The suspensory ligament of the malleus is a delicate, round bundle of fibres, which descends perpendicularly from the roof of the tympanum to the head of the malleus. The posterior ligament of the incus is a short, thick, ligamentous band which connects the extremity of the short process of the incus to the posterior wall of the tympanum, near the margin of the opening of the mastoid cells. The annular ligament of the stapes connects the circumference of the base of this bone to the margin of the fenestra ovalis. A suspensory ligament of the incus has been described by Arnold, descending from the roof of the tympanum to the upper part of the incus, near its articulation with the malleus. The muscles of the tympanum are three : — Tensor tympani. Laxator tympani. Stapedius. The Tensor tympani, the largest, is contained in tbe bony canal, above the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, from which it is separated by the processus cochleari- formis. It arises from the under surface of the petrous bone, from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and from the osseous canal in which it is contained. Passing backwards through the canal, it terminates in a slender tendon which enters the tympanum and makes a sharp bend outward round the extremity of the processus cochleariformis, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, near its root. It is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion.