585 THE NOSE. wards, branching to communicate with similar processes from neighbouring cells, so as to form a network in the deep part of the mucous membrane. Lying between them are cells (termed by Max Schultze olfactory cells), which consist of a nucleated body and two processes, of which one runs outwards between the columnar epithelial cells, and terminates at the level of the surface of the mucous membrane ; the other (the deep) process runs inwards, is frequently beaded like a nerve-fibre, and is believed by most observers to be in connection with one of the terminal filaments of the olfac- tory nerve. The mucous membrane is pigmented in the olfactory, but not in the other regions, being of a light-yellow colour, at least in the white races.* This membrane is also provided with a nearly continuous layer of branched mucous glands, the ducts of which open upon its surface. They are most numerous at the middle and back parts of the nasal fossae, and largest at the lower and back part of the septum. Owing to the great thickness of this membrane, the nasal fossse are much nar- rower, and the turbinated bones, especially the lower ones, appear larger and more prominent than in the skeleton. From the same circumstance, also, the various apertures communicating with the meatuses are either narrowed or completely closed. In the superior meatus, the aperture of communication with the posterior ethmoidal cells is considerably diminished in size, and the spheno-palatine forainen completely covered in. In the middle meatus, the opening of the infundibulum is partially hidden by a projecting fold of mucous membrane, and the orifice of the antrum is contracted to a small circular aperture, much narrower than in the skeleton. In the inferior meatus, the orifice of the nasal duct is partially hidden by either a single or double valvular mucous fold, and the anterior palatine canal either completely closed in, or a tubular cul-de sac of mucous membrane is continued a short distance into it. In the roof, the opening leading to the sphenoidal sinus is narrowed, and the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid completely closed in. The arteries of the nasal fossa; are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the ophthalmic, which Supply the ethmoidal cells, frontal sinuses, and roof of the nose ; the spheno-palatine, from the internal 318.—Nerves of Septum of Nose. Eight Side. maxillary, which supplies the mu- cous membrane covering the spongy bones, the meatuses and septum; and the alveolar branch of the in- ternal maxillary, which supplies the lining membrane of the antrum. The ramifications of these vessels form a close, plexiform network, beneath and in the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins of the nasal fossce form a close network beneath the mu- cous membrane. They pass, some with the veins accompanying the sjmeno-palatine artery, through the spheno-palatine foramen; and others, through the alveolar branch, join the facial vein ; some accompany the ethmoidal arteries, and terminate in the ophthalmic vein; and, lastly, a few com- municate with the veins in the interior of the skull, through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and the foramen caecum. * An interesting speculation has been suggested by Dr. W. Ogle (Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. liii. 277) as to the possible connection between the presence and abundance of this pigment and the perfection of the sense of smell.