GENERAL ANATOMY. jccviii takes its natural course; if, however, any regurgitation takes place, the valves become distended, their opposed edges are brought into contact, and the current is intercepted. Most commonly two such valves are found placed opposite one another, more especially in the smaller veins, or in the larger trunks at the point where they are joined by small branches; occasionally there are three, and sometimes only one. The wall of the vein immediately above the point of attachment of each seg- ment of the valve is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to the vessel, when injected or distended with blood, a knotted appearance. The valves are very numerous in the veins of the extremities, especially of the lower extremities, these vessels having to conduct the blood against the force of gravity. They are absent in the very small veins, also in the venae cavse, the hepatic vein, portal vein and its branches, the renal, uterine, and ovarian veins. A few valves are found in the spermatic veins, and one also at their point of junction with the renal vein and inferior cava in both sexes. The cerebral and spinal veins, the veins of the cancellated tissue of bone, the pulmonary veins, and the umbilical vein and its branches, are also destitute of valves. They are occasionally found, few in number, in the venae azygos and intercostal veins. The veins are supplied with nutrient vessels, mm vasorwm, like the arteries. Nerves also are distributed to them in the same manner as to the arteries, but in much less abundance. The lymphatic vessels, like arteries and veins, are composed of three coats. The internal is an epithelial and elastic coat. It is thin, trans- parent, slightly elastic, and ruptures sooner than the other coats. It is composed of a layer of elongated epithelial cells, supported on a simple network of elastic fibres. The middle coat is composed of smooth muscular and fine elastic fibres, disposed in a transverse direction. The external, or areolar-fibrous coat, consists of filaments of areolar tissue, intermixed with smooth muscular fibres, longitudinally or obliquely dis- posed. It forms a protective covering to the other coats, and serves to connect the vessel with the neighbouring structures. The thoracic duct (fig. LIX.) is a somewhat more complex structure than the other lym- phatics ; it presents a distinct sub-epithelial layer of branched corpuscles similar to that found in the arteries, and in the middle coat is a layer of connective tissue, with its fibres arranged longitudinally. The lymphatics are supplied by nutrient vessels, which are distributed to their outer and middle coats ; but no nerves have at present been traced into them. The lymphatics are very generally provided with valves, which assist materially in effecting the circulation of the fluid they contain. These valves are formed of a thin layer of fibrous tissue, lined on both surfaces with scaly epithelium. Their form is semilunar ; they arc attached by their convex edge to the sides of the vessel, the concave edge being free, and directed along the course of the contained current. Usually, two such valves, of equal size, are found opposite one another ; but occasionally exceptions occur, especially at or near the anastomoses of lymphatic vessels. Thus one valve may be of very rudimentary size, and the other increased in proportion. In other cases the semilunar flaps have been found directed transversely across the vessel, instead of obliquely, so as to impede