348 ARTERIES. the inferior dental nerve, and lies beneath the harrow portion of the External pterygoid muscle. In the second part of its course (pterygoid portion), it runs obliquely for- wards and upwards upon the outer surface of the External pterygoid muscle, being covered by the ramus of the lower jaw, and lower part of the Temporal muscle. In the third part of its course (spheno-maxillary portion), it approaches the superior maxillary bone, and enters the spheno-maxillary fossa, in the interval between the processes of origin of the External pterygoid, where it lies in relation with Meckel's ganglion, and gives on its terminal branches. Peculiarities. Occasionally, this artery passes between the two Pterygoid muscles. The vessel in this case passes forwards to the interval between the processes of origin of the External pterygoid, in order to reach the supeiior maxillary bone. Sometimes the vessel escapes from bene, th the External pterygoid by perforating the middle of that muscle. The branches 'ot this vessel may be divided into three groups, corresponding with its three divisions. Branches from the Maxillary Portion (fig. 215). Tympanic (anterior). Small Meningeal. Middle Meningeal. Inferior Dental. The tympanic branch passes upwards behind the articulation of the lower jaw, enters the tympanum through the fissure of G-laser, supplies the Laxator tympani, and ramifies upon the membrarra tympani, anastomosing with the stylo-mastoid, Vidian, and tymparric branch from the internal carotid. It gives off an auricular branch to the external meatus. The middle meningeal is the largest of the branches which supply the dura mater. It arises from the internal maxillary between the internal lateral ligament and the neck of the jaw, and passes vertically upwards to the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. On entering the cranium, it divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branch, the larger, crosses the great ala of the sphenoid, and reaches the groove, or canal, in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone : it then divides into branches, which spread out between the dura mater and internal surface of the cranium, some passing upwards over the parietal bone as far as the vertex and others backwards to the occipital bone. The posterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal „ and on the inner surface of the parietal bone divides into branches which su the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The branches of this vessel are distributed partly to the dura mater, but chiefly to the bones; they anastomose with the arteries of the opposite side, and with the anterior and posterior meningeal. The middle meningeal, on entering the cranium, gives off the following colla- teral branches :—1. Numerous small vessels to the ganglion of the fifth nerve, and to the dura mater in this situation. 2. A branch to the facial nerve, which enters the hiatus Fallopii, supplies the facial nerve, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. 3. Ojibitai branches which pass throirgh the sphenoidal fissure, or through separate canals in the great wing of the sphenoid to anastomose with the lachrymal or other- branches of the ophthalmic artery. 4. Temppi'al branches, which pass through foramina in the great wing of the sphenoid, and anastomose in the temporal fossa with the deep temporal arteries. The small meningeal is sometimes derived from the preceding. It enters the skull through the foramen ovale, and supplies the Casseriarr ganglion and dura mater. Before entering the cranium it gives off a branch to the nasal fossa and soft palate. The inferior dental descends with the deirtal nerve, to the foramen on the inner- side of the ramus of the jaw. It runs along the dental canal in the substance of the bone, accompanied by the nerve, and opposite the first bicuspid tooth divides into two branches, incisor and mental; the former is continued forwards beneath the incisor teeth as far as the symphysis, where it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side • the mental branch escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen,