162 ARTICULATIONS. and, on the right side, with the vena azygos major ; behind, with the interarticular ligament and synovial membranes. In the nrst rib, which articulates with a single vertebra only, this ligament does not present a dis- tinct division into three fasciculi; its superior fibres, however, pass to be attached to the body of the last cervical ver- tebra, as well as to the body of the vertebra with which the rib ar- ticulates. In the tenth, eleventh and twelfth ribs also, which likewise ar- ticulate with a single vertebra, the division does not exist; but the upper fibres of the liga- ment, in each case, are connected with the ver- tebra above, as well as that with which the ribs articulate. The Capsular Liga- ment is a thin and loose ligamentous bag, which surrounds the joint be- tween the head of the rib and the articular cavity formed by the junction of the vertebrae. It is very thin, firmly connected with the anterior ligament, and most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the articulation. The Interarticular Ligament is situated in the interior of the joint. It consists of a short band of fibres, flattened from above downwards, attached by one extremity to the sharp crest on the head of the rib, and by the other to the intervertebral disc. It divides the joint into two cavities, which have no communication with one another, but are each lined by a separate synovial membrane. In the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, the interarticular ligament does not exist; conse- quently, there is but one synovial membrane. Actions. The movements permitted in these articulations are limited to eleva- tion, depression, and a slight amount of movement forwards and backwards. The mobility, however, of the different ribs varies very much. The first rib is almost immoveable, excepting in deep inspiration. The movement of the second rib is also not very extensive. In the other ribs, their mobility increases successively down to the last two, which are very moveable. The ribs are generally more moveable in the female than in the male, 2. Articulations op the Necks and Tubercles of the Ribs with the Transverse Processes. (Fig. 125.) The ligaments connecting these parts are— Anterior Costo-Transverse. Middle Costo-Transverse (Interosseous). Posterior Costo-Transverse. Capsular. The Anterior Costo-Transverse Ligament is a broad and strong band of fibres, attached below to the sharp crest on the upper border of the neck of each rib, and 124.—Costo-vertebral and Costo-transverse Articulations. Anterior View.