OF THE FOOT. 3*9 The outer portion covers the under surface of the Abductor minimi digiti; it is thick behind, thin in front, and extends from the os calcis forwards to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, into the outer side of which it is attached; it is con- tinuous internally with the middle portion of the plantar fascia, and externally with the dorsal fascia. The inner portion is very thin, and covers the Abductor pollicis muscle ; it is attached behind to the internal annular ligament, and is continuous around the side of the foot with the dorsal fascia, and externally with the middle portion of the plantar fascia. Muscles of the Foot. These are found in two regions: i. On the dorsum; 2. On the plantar surface. 1. Dorsal Region. Extensor Brevis Digitorum. The Fascia on the dorsum of the foot is a thin membranous layer, continuous above with the anterior margin of the annular ligament; it becomes gradually lost opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones, and on each side blends with the lateral portions of the plantar fascia; it forms a sheath for the tendons placed on the dorsum of the foot. On the removal of this fascia, the muscles and tendons of the dorsal region of the foot are exposed. The Extensor Brevis Diaitorum (fig. 195) is a broad thin muscle, which arises from the outer side_of the ps calcis, in front of the groove for the Peroneus brevis;] from the external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament: and from the horizontal portion', of the anterior annular ligament. It passes obliquely across the dorsum of the foot, J and terminates m four tendons. The innermost, which is the largest, is inserted into the firs^pJ^h^x.oLtn-e great toe, crossing the Dorsalis pedis artery; the other three, into the outer sides of the long extensor tendons of the second, third, and fourth toes. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the foot, the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius pollicis. By its deep surface, with the tarsal and metatarsal bones, and the Dorsal interossei muscles. Nerves. It is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Actions. The Extensor brevis digitorum is an accessory to the long Extensor, extending the phalanges of the four inner toes, but acting only on the first phalanx of the great toe. The obliquity of its direction counteracts the oblique movement given to the toes by the long Extensor, so that, both muscles acting together, the toes are evenly extended. 2. Plantar Region. The muscles in the plantar region of the foot may be divided into three groups, in a similar manner to those in the hand. Those of the internal plantar region are connected with the great toe, and correspond with those of the thumb; those of the external plantar region, are connected with the little toe, and correspond with those of the little finger; and those of the middle plantar region are con- nected with the tendons intervening between the two former groups. But in order to facilitate the dissection of these muscles, it will be found more convenient to divide them into four layers, as they present themselves, in the order in which they are successively exposed. First Layer. Abductor Pollicis. Flexor Brevis Digitorum. Abductor Minimi Digiti. Dissection. Remove the fascia on the inner and outer sides of the foot, commencing in frout over the tendons, and proceeding backwards. The central portion should be divided transversely in the middle of the foot, aud the two flaps dissected forwards and backwards. The Abductor Pollicis lies along the inner border of the foot. It arises from j the inner tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis; from the internal annular ligament; from the plantar fascia ; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which is