MUSCLES AND FASCLE. 193' -Dissection of Lower Extremity. Posterior View. / . Dissection of GLUT EA L REGION ,4 h BACK of THIGB 3PLITEAL SPACE SACK of LEO great sacro-sciatic ligament. The fibres are directed obliquely downwards and outwards; those forming the upper and larger portion of the muscle (after con- verging somewhat) terminate in a thick tendinous lamina, which passes across the great trochanter, and is inserted into the fascia lata covering the outer side of the thigh, the lower portion of the muscle being inserted into the rough line leading from tiie great trochanter to the linea aspera between the Vastus externus and Adductor magnus. Three synovial bursas are usually found separating the under surface of this muscle from the eminences which it covers. One of th?se, of large size, and generally multi- locular, separates it from the great trochanter. A second, often wanting, is situated on the tuberosity of the ischium. A third is found between the tendon of this muscle and the Vastus externus. Relations. By its superficial surface, with a thin fascia, which separates it from the subcutaneous tissue. By its deep surface, from above downwards, with the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, and great sacro-sciatic ligament, part of the Gluteus medius, Pyri- forrnis, Gemelli, Obturator internus, Quadra- tic femoris, the tuberosity of the ischium, great trochanter, the origin of the Biceps, Semitendinosus, Semimembranosus, and Ad- ductor magnus muscles. The gluteal ves- sels and superior gluteal nerve are seen issuing from the pelvis above the Pyriformis muscle, the sciatic and internal pudic vessels and nerves, and the nerve to the Obturator internus muscle below it. Its upper border is thin, and connected with the Gluteus medius by the fascia lata. Its lower border, free and prominent, forms the fold of the nates, and is directed towards the perina3um. Dissection. Now divide the Gluteus maximus near its origin, by a vertical incision carried from its upper to its lower border; a cellular interval will be exposed, separating it from the Gluteus medius and External rotator muscles beneath. The upper portion of the muscle is to he altogether detached, and the lower portion turned outwards; the loose areolar tissue filling up the interspace between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium being removed, the parts already enumerated as exposed by the removal of this muscle will be seen. The Gluteus Medius is a broad, thick, radiated muscle, situated on the outer surface of the pelvis. Its posterior third is covered by the Gluteus maximus ; its anterior two-thirds by the fascia lata, which separates it from the integument. 1 It arises from the outer surface of the ilium, between the superior and middle curved lines^ and from the outer lip of that portion of the crest which is between them; it also arises from the dense fascia (Gluteal aponeurosis) covering its anterior part. The fibres converge to a strong flattened tendon, which is inserted into the oblique line which traverses the outer surface of the great trochanter. A synovial bursa separates the tendon of the muscle from the surface of the trochanter in front of its insertion. SOLE of FOOT