lxxxviii GENERAL ANATOMY. These bodies are not found in all the papillae ; but from their existence in those parts in which the skin is highly sensitive, it is probable that they are specially concerned in the sense of touch, though then- absence from the papillae of other tactile parts shows that they are not essential to this sense. The Pacinian corpuscles * (fig. LII.) are found in the human subject chiefly on the nerves of the fingers and toes, lying in the subcutaneous cellular tissue; but they have also been described by Rauber as connected with the nerves of the joints, and with the nerves lying between many of Fig. LII.—Pacinian corpuscle, with ita system of capsules and central cavity. Fig. LI.—From the human subject, treated with acetic acid. Magnified 350 times. A. Side view of a papilla of the hand. a. Cortical layer. 0. Tactile corpuscle, with transverse nuclei, c. Small nerve of the papilla, with neurilemma, d. Its two nervous fibres running with spiral coils around the tactile corpuscle, e. Apparent termina- tion of one of these fibres. B. A tactile papilla seen from above, so as to show its transverse section, a. Cortical layer. 6. Nerve-fibre, c. Outer layer of the tactile body, with nuclei, d. Clear interior sub- stance. a. Arterial twig, ending in capillaries, which form loops in some of the intercapsular spaces, and one penetrates to the central capsule. 6. The fibrous tissue of the stalk prolonged from the peri- neurium, n. Nerve - tube advancing to the central capsule, there losing its white substance, and stretching along the axis to the opposite end, where it is fixed by a tubercular enlargement. the muscles of the trunk and limbs. Each of these corpuscles is attached to and encloses the termination of a single nerve. The corpuscle, which is perfectly visible to the naked eye (and which can be most easily demon- strated in the mesentery of a cat), consists of a number of concentric layers of cellular tissue, between which Todd and Bowman have figured capillary vessels as running. The nerve, at its entrance into this body, parts with its white substance, and the axis-cylinder runs forwards in a kind of cavity in the centre of the corpuscle to terminate in a rounded end or knob, sometimes bifurcating previously, in which case each branch has a similar termination. Grandry, who has examined these corpuscles with very high magnifying powers, describes the axis-cylinder as exhibiting a very well-marked fibrillar structure, and the bulbous end as consisting of a mass of granules * Often called in German anatomical works ' corpuscles of Yater.'