SACRAL NERVES. 559 second becomes subcutaneous about the middle of the thigh ; and a third pierces the fascia at its lower third. The long, or internal saphenous nerve, is the largest of the cutaneous branches of the anterior crural. It approaches the femoral artery where this vessel passes beneath the Sartorius, and lies on its outer side, beneath the aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal, as far as the opening in the lower part of the Adductor magnus. It then quits the artery, and descends vertically along the inner side of the knee, beneath the Sar- torius, pierces the deep fascia between the tendons of the Sartorius and Gracilis, and becomes subcutaneous. The nerve then passes along the inner side of the leg, accompanied by the internal saphenous vein, descends behind the internal border of the tibia, and, at the lower third of the leg, divides into two branches : one continues its coarse along the margin of the tibia, terminating at the inner ankle; the other passes in front of the ankle, and is distributed to the integument along the inner side of the foot, as far as the great toe, communicating with the internal bi'anch of the musculocutaneous nerve. Branches. The long saphenous nerve, about the middle of the thigh, gives off a communicating branch, which joins the plexus formed by the obturator and internal cutaneous nerves. At the inner side of the knee, it gives off a large branch (n. cutaneous patellae), which pierces the Sartorius and fascia lata, and is distributed to the integument in front of the patella. This nerve communicates above the knee with the internal branch of the internal cutaneous; below the knee, with other branches of the long saphenous; and, on the outer side of the joint, with branches of the middle and external cutaneous nerves, forming a plexiform network, the plexus patellce. The cutaneous nerve of the patella is occasionally small, and terminates by joining the internal cutaneous, which supplies its place in front of the knee. Beloio the knee, the branches of the long saphenous nerve are distributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the leg, communicating with the cutaneous branches from the internal cutaneous, or obturator nerve. The Deep Group of branches of the anterior crural nerve are muscular and articular. The muscular branches supply the Pectineus and all the muscles on the front of the thigh except the Tensor vaginse femoris, which is supplied from the superior gluteal nerve, and the Sartorius, which is supplied by lilaments from the middle or internal cutaneous nerves. The branches to the Pectineus, usually two in number, pass inwards behind the femoral vessels, and enter the muscle on its anterior surface. The branch to the Rectus muscle enters its under surface high up. The branch to the Vastus externus, of large size, follows the course of the descend- ing branch of the external circumflex artery to the lower part of the muscle. It gives off an articular filament to the knee-joint. The branches to the Vastus internus and Crureus enter the middle of those muscles, the one to the Vastus internus supplying a filament to the knee-joint. The articular branches, two in number, supply the knee-joint. One, a long slender filament, is derived from the nerve to the Vastus externus. It penetrates the capsular ligament of the joint on its anterior aspect. The other is derived froni the nerve to the Vastus internus. It descends along the internal intermuscular septum, accompanying the deep bi'anch of the anastomotica magna artery, pierces the capsular ligament of the joint on its inner side, and supplies the synovial mem- brane. The Sacral and Coccygeal Nerves. The sacral nerves are five in number on each side. The four upper ones pass from the sacral canal, through the sacral foramina; the fifth through the foramen between the sacrum and coccyx. The roots of origin of the upper sacral (and lumbar) nerves are the largest of all