cviii GENERAL ANATOMY. centre of the shaft, and ceases towards the point of the hair. It is usually wanting in the fine hairs covering the surface of the body, and commonly in those of the head. It is more opaque and deeper coloured than the fibrous part, and consists of cells containing pigment- or fat-granules. The fibrous portion of the hair constitutes the chief part of the stem; its cells are elongated, and unite to form flattened fusiform fibres. Between the fibres are found minute spaces which contain either pigment-granules, in dark hair ; or minute air-bubbles, in white hair. In addition to this, there is also a diffuse pigment contained in the fibres. The cells which form the cortex of the hah* consist of a single layer which surrounds those of the fibrous part; they are converted into thin flat scales, having an imbricated arrangement. Connected with the hair-follicles are minute bundles of involuntary muscular fibre, termed the erectores pili. They arise from the superficial layer of the corium, and are inserted into the outer surface of the hair-follicle, below the entrance of the duct of the sebaceous gland. They are placed on the side towards which the hah- slopes, and by then* action elevate the hair (fig. LXVI.) The Sebaceous Glands are small, sacculated} glandular organs, lodged in the substance of the corium. They are found in most parts of the skin, but are most abundant in the scalp and face ; they are also very numerous around the apertures of the anus, nose, mouth, and external ear; but are wanting in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. Each gland consists of a single duct, more or less capacious, which terminates in a cluster of small secreting pouches or saccules. The sacculi connected with each duct vary in number from two to five, or even twenty. They are composed of a transparent colourless membrane, enclosing a number of cells. Of these, the outer layer, or marginal cells, are small, polyhedral epithelial cells, continuous with the lining cells of the duct. The remainder of the sac is filled with larger cells containing fat; except in the centre, where the cells have become broken up, and there is a cavity containing the debris of cells and a mass of fatty matter, which constitutes the sebaceous secretion. The orifices of the ducts open most frequently into the hair-follicles, but occasionally upon the general surface. On the nose and face the glands are of large size, distinctly lobulated, and often become much enlarged from the accumulation of pent-up secretion. The largest sebaceous glands are those found in the eyelids, the Meibomian glands. The Sudoriferous or Stceat Glands are the organs by which a large portion of the aqueous and gaseous materials are excreted by the skin. They are found in almost every part of the skin, and are situated in small pits in the deep parts of the corium, or, more frequently, in the subcu- taneous areolar tissue, surrounded by a quantity of adipose tissue. They are small, lobular, reddish bodies, consisting of a single convoluted tube, from which the efferent duct proceeds upwards through the corium and cuticle, and opens upon the surface by a slightly enlarged orifice. The efferent duct, as it passes through the corium, pursues, for a short distance, a spiral course ; it becomes straight in the more superficial part of this layer, and opens on the surface of the cuticle by an oblique valve-like aperture. In the parts where the epidermis is thin the ducts are finer, and almost straight in their course ; but where the epidermis is thicker they assume again a sj)iral arrangement, the separate windings of the tube