cxxa GENERAL ANATOMY. partly into the muscles and true skin, and partly into the roots and ganglia of the nerves. On either side of the protovertebrae the rnesohlast splits into two layers, the upper of which, or that lined by epiblast, is called somatopleural and the lower (lined by hypoblast) splanchnopleure (fig. LXXIX. b, 5, 5'!. From the former the skeleton, muscles, and true skin of the external parts of the body are derived ; from the latter, the muscular and other mesoblastic portions of the viscera. The space between them is the common pleuro- peritoneal cavity. Whilst the parietes of the body are still unclosed, this commom peritoneal cavity is continuous with the space between the amnion and chorion, as seen in fig, LXXVII. f. The embryo, which at first seems to be a mere streak, extends longi- tudinally and laterally. As it grows forwards it becomes remarkably curved on itself (cephalic flexure), and a smaller but distinct flexure takes place at the hinder end (caudal flexure). At the same time the sides of the embryo grow and curve towards each other, so that the embryo is aptly compared Fig. LXXTX.—Transverse sections through the embryo-chick before and some lime after the closure of the medullary canal, to show the upward aiid downward inflections of the blastoderm (after Remak). A. At the end of the first day. i. Note-chord. 2. Primitive groove in the medullary canal. 3. Edge of the dorsal lamina. 4. Corneous layer or epiblast. 5. Mesoblast divided in its inner part. 6. Hypoblast or epithelial layer. 7. Section of protovertebral plate. B. On the third day in the lumbar region. 1. Notochord in its sheath. 2. Medullary canal now closed in. 3. Section of the medullary substance of the spinal cord. 4. Corneous layer. 5. Somotopleure of the mesoblast. 5'. Splanchnopleure (one figure is placed in the pleuro-peritoneal cavity). 6. Layers of hypoblast in the intestines spreading also over the yolk. 4x5. Part of the fold of the amnion formed by epiblast and somatopleure. to a canoe turned over (see fig. LXXX.). The well of the canoe opens freely into the cavity of the yolk-sac. Its walls are of course formed by the three blastodermic membranes, and at the point where the well commences (the future umbilicus) the outer (epiblast), lined by the somatopleural layer of mesoblast, turns back over the canoe on all sides till the folds meet at the point opposite the umbilicus : then the two sides communicate with each other, and thus a closed serous sac, the amnion, is formed (fig. LXXX.). Meanwhile the yolk-sac communicates freely with the interior of the embryo, through the large opening which afterwards becomes the umbilicus, and which we have likened to the well of the canoe (fig. LXXYII. b, c) ; * and through this opening the internal blastodermic membrane and the internal or splanchnopleural division of the mesoblast pass out. In those animals which have no amnion, all three layers pass over the yolk-sac ; but where * The student will remember that in figs. LXXYII., LXXYIIL, the embryo is represented as lying on its back; but the position in which the spinal column is highest is usually described as the natural one, as in lig. LXXX. IS a