GLUTEAL REGION. 305 the femoral vessels into the popliteal space. The external portion of the muscle is pierced by four apertures : the three superior, for the three superior perforating arteries; the fourth, for the passage of the profunda. This muscle gives off an aponeurosis, which passes in front of the femoral vessels, and joins with the Vastus internus. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Pectineus, Adductor brevis, Ad- ductor longus, and the femoral vessels. By its posterior surface, with the great sciatic nerve, the Gluteus maximus, Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semimembra- nosus. By its superior or shortest border, it lies parallel with the Quadratus femoris, the internal circumflex artery passing between them. By its internal or longest border, with the Gracilis, Sartorius, and fascia lata. By its external or attached border, it is inserted into the femur behind the Adductor brevis and Adductor longus, which separate it from the Vastus internus; and in front of the Gluteus maximus and short head of the Biceps, which separate it from the Vastus externus. Nerves. All the muscles of this group are supplied by the obturator nerve. The Pectineus receives additional branches from the accessory obturator and anterior crural; and the Adductor magnus an additional branch from the great sciatic. Actions. The Pectineus and three Adductors adduct the thigh powerfully ; they are especially used in horse exercise, the flanks of the horse being grasped between the knees by the action of these muscles. In consequence of the obliquity of their insertion into the linea aspera, they rotate the thigh outwards, assisting the ex- ternal Rotators, and when the limb has been abducted, they draw it inwards, carrying the thigh across tha.t of the opposite side. The Pectineus and Adductor brevis and longus assist the Psoas and Iliacus in flexing the thigh upon the pelvis. In progression, also, all these muscles assist in drawing forwards the hinder limb. The Gracilis assists the Sartorius in flexing the leg and drawing it inwards ; it is also an Adductor of the thigh. If the lower extremities are fixed, these muscles may take their fixed point from below and act upon the pelvis, serving to maintain the body in the erect posture; or, if their action is continued, to flex the pelvis forwards upon the femur. Gluteal Region. Gluteus Maximus. . Gemellus Superior. Gluteus Medius. Obturator Internus. Gluteus Minimus. Gemellus Inferior. Pyriformis. Obturator Externus. Quadratus Femoris. Dissection (fig. 193). The subject should be turned on its face, a block placed beDeath the pelvis to make the buttocks tense, and the limbs allowed to hang over the end of the table, with the foot inverted, and the thigh abducted. Make an incision through the integument along the hack part of the crest of the ilium and margin of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx, and carry a second incision from that point obliquely downwards and outwards to the outer side of the thigh, four inches below the great trochanter. The portion of integument included between these incisions, together with the superficial fascia, is to be removed in the directiou shown in the figure, when the Gluteus maximus and the dense fascia covering the Gluteus medius will be exposed. The Gluteus Maximus (fig. 194), the most superficial muscle in the gluteal region, is a very broad and thick fleshy mass, of a quadrilateral shape, which forms the pro- minence of the nates. Its large size is one of the most characteristic points in the muscular system in man, connected as it is with the power he has of maintain- ing the trunk in the erect posture. In structure the muscle is remarkably coarse, being made up of muscular fasciculi lying parallel with one another, and collected together into large bundles, separated by deep cellular intervals. It arises from the superior curved line of the ilium, and the portion of bone, including the crest, immediately behind it; from the posterior surface of the last piece of the sacrum, the side of the coccyx, the aponeurosis covering the Multificlus spina? muecle and the