XCIX THE LYMPHATICS. the circulation in both directions, but not to completely arrest it in either ; or the semilunar flaps, taking the same direction, have been found united on one side, so as to form, by their union, a transverse septum, having a partial transverse slit; and sometimes the flap is constituted of a circular fold, attached to the entire circumference of the vessel, and having in its centre a circular or elliptical aperture, like the ileo-csecal valve. The valves in the lymphatic vessels are placed at much shorter intervals than in the veins. They are most numerous near the lymphatic glands, and they are found more frequently in the lymphatics of the neck and upper extremity than in the lower. The wall of the lymphatics, imme- diately above the point of attachment of each segment of a valve, is expanded into a pouch or sinus, which gives to these vessels, when distended, the knotted or beaded appearance which they present. Valves are wanting in the vessels composing the plexiform network •in which the lymphatics usually originate on the surface of the body. Fig. LIX. — Transverse section through the coats of the thoracic duct of man. Magnified 30 times. a. Epithelium, striated lamella?, and inner elastic coat. b. Longitudinal connective tissue of the middle coat. c. Transverse muscles of the same. d. Tunica adventitia, with e, the longitudinal muscular fibres. The finest visible lymphatic vessels form a plexiform network in the subcutaneous and submucous tissues, and this is properly regarded as one method of their commencement. But the lymphatics have also other modes of origin, for the intestinal lacteals commence by closed extremities (fig. 364, p. 655), and it seems now to be conclusively proved that the serous membranes present stomata, or openings between the epithelial cells (fig. LX.), by which there is an open communication with the lymphatic system, and through which the lymph is thought to be pumped by the alternate dilatation and contraction of the serous surface, due to the movements of respiration and circulation.* Von Recklinghausen was the first to observe the passage of milk and other coloured fluids through these stomata on the peritoneal surface of the central tendon of the diaphragm.f * The resemblance between lymph and serum led Hewson long ago to regard the serous cavities as sacs into which the lymphatics open. These recent microscopic discoveries con- firm this opinion in a very interesting manner. t For a fuller account see Klein, ' Anatomy of the Lymphatic System,' Atlas of Histology. f 2 Fig. LX. 1. Epithelium from the under surface of the centrum tendineum of the rabbit, a. Pores. 2. Epithelium of the mediastinum of the dog. a. Pores. 3. Section through the pleura of the same animal. 6. Free orifices of short lateral passages of the lymph- canals (copied from Ludwig, Schweigger-Seydel, and Dybkowsky).