GENERAL ANATOMY. cxliv external to the hotly of the embryo. The indifferent cells of which the Mill- stance is composed are, according to Klein, ' vacuolated,' i.e. they become enlarged, their nuclei multiply, and, as they do so, an empty space is formed in them, in which the nuclei become free and are converted into the blood- discs, while the neighbouring vacuolated bodies communicate together by processes in which similar cells are Fig. XCV.—Various forni6 of mother-cells undergoing development into blood-vessels, from the middle layer of the chick's blasto- derm (Klein). either enclosed or formed, and thus a continuous branching tube is pro- duced (fig. XIV. c). The blood- globules are at first nucleated, and are larger than the mature red globules, and in this and other respects more resemble the white corpuscles; but a red colour is very early visible in them. After the liver is formed, it seems the chief source from which immature blood- corpuscles are furnished to the circulation, and later on the spleen and lymphatic glands take up this function, and continue it after birth. The nucleated condition of the red globules ceases before birth. The precise mode in which the nucleated white corpuscle is con- verted into the non-nucleated red blood-globule, whether by a change in the whole cell, or by the disappear- ance of the cell and persistence of its nucleus, ia not yet ascertained. The vessels which are in communication with the foetal heart are as follows:—In its earliest state the circulation is external to the emhryo. This primitive circulation appears about the fifteenth day. and lasts till the Fig. X<'VI.— Heart at the tilth week. Large mother-cell vacuolated, forming the rudiinciitarv vessel. 6. The wall of this cell formed of protoplasm, with nuclei embedded, and in some cases more or leas detached and projecting, e. Processes connected with neighbouring cells, formed of the common cellular substance of the germinal area. d. Blood-corpuscle-i. /. Small mother-cells — vacuolation commencing. B. Mother-cell in which only obscure granular matter is found. A. Opened from tho abdominal aspect. 1. Arterial simif. ?. Aortic arches uniting behind to fOrnl the descending aorta. 3. Auricle. 4. Auriculo-ventricular orifice. 5. Commencing septum vent ricnloruin. 6. Ventricle. 7. Inferior vena cava. B. Posterior view nf the same. 1. Trachea, 3. Lungs. 3. Ventricles. 4, 3. Auricles. 6. Diaphragm. 7. Descending aorta. 8,9.10. l'neumogastrlc nerves and their branches. fifth week. It consists of two arteries, the first aortic arches, which unite into a single artery, running down in front of the primitive Vertebne and in the walls of the intestinal cavity, and joining in a single artery, which again divides into two ]>Hinitirr aorta'or rcrtrhml arteries, and these give off five or six onipkttlonii'Kcnlfric arteries, which ramify in the germinal area, forming with their parent trunks a close network, terminating in veins