SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 45 the floor of the orbit. It is bounded internally by an irregular margin which articulates, in front, with the lachrymal; in the middle, with the os planum of the ethmoid; behind, with the orbital process of the palate bone ; bounded externally by a smooth rounded edge which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary Assure, and which sometimes articulates at its anterior extremity with the orbital plate of the sphenoid; bounded, in front, by part of the circumference of the orbit, 45.— Left Superior Maxillary Bone. Outer Surface. Outer Surface. ,1 which is continuous, on the inner side with the nasal, on the outer side with the malar process. Along the middle line of the orbital surface is a deep groove, the infra^OTbital, for the passage of the infra-orbital nerve and artery. This groove commences at the middle of the outer border of the surface, and, passing forwards, terminates in a canal which subdivides into two branches; one of the canals, the infra-orbital, opens just below the margin of the orbit; the other, which is smaller, runs into the substance of the anterior wall of the antrum; it is called the anterior dental canal, transmitting the anterior dental vessels and nerves to the front teeth of the upper jaw. At the inner and fore part of the orbital surface, just external to the lachrymal canal, is a minute depression, which gives origin to the Inferior oblique muscle of the eye. The internal surface (fig. 46) is unequally divided into two parts by a horizontal projection of bone, the palate process ; the portion above the palate process forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa?; that below it forms part of the cavity of the mouth. The superior division of this surface presents a large irregular opening leading into the antrum of Highmore. At the upper border of this aperture are numerous broken cellular cavities, which, in the articulated skull, are closed in by the ethmoid and lachrymal bones. Below the aperture is a smooth concavity which forms part of the inferior meatus of the nose, traversed by a fissure, the maxillary fissure, which runs from the lower part of the orifice of the antrum obliquely downwards and forwards, and receives the maxillary process of the palate bone. Behind it is a rough surface which articulates with the perpendicular plate of the palate bone, traversed by a groove, which, commencing near the middle of the posterior border, runs obliquely downwards and forwards, and forms, when com- pleted by its articulation with the palate bone, the posterior palatine canal. In front