405 SCIATIC. Inferior haemorrhoidal. Artery of the bulb. Superficial perinseal. Artery of the corpus cavernosum. Transverse perinseal. Dorsal artery of the penis. The inferior hcemorrhoidal are two or three small arteries which arise from the internal pudic as it passes above the tuberosity of the ischium. Crossing the ischio-rectal fossa, they are distributed to the muscles and integument of the anal region. The superficial perinosa! artery supplies the scrotum and muscles and integument of the perinaeum. It arises from the internal pudic, in front of the preceding branches, and turns upwards, crossing either over or under the Transversus perinei muscle and runs forwards, parallel to the pubic arch, in the interspace between the Accelera- tor urinae and Erector penis muscles, both of which it supplies, and is finally distributed to the skin of the dartcs and scrotum. In its passage through the perinaeum it lies beneath the superficial perinseal fascia. The transverse perinwal is a small branch which arises either from the internal pudic, or from the superficial perinseal artery as it crosses the Transversus perinaei muscle. It runs transversely inwards along the cutaneous surface of the Transversus perinaei muscle, which it supplies, as well as the structures between the anus and bulb of the urethra, and anastomoses with the one of the opposite side. The artery of the bulb is a large but very short vessel which arises from the in- ternal pudic between the two layers of the deep perinaeal fascia, and passing nearly transversely inwards, pierces the bulb of the urethra, in which it ramifies. It gives off a small branch which descends to supply Cowper's gland. This artery is of con- siderable importance in a surgical point of view, as it is in danger of being wounded in the lateral operation of lithotomy, an accident usually attended in the adult with alarming haemorrhage. The vessel is sometimes very small, occasionally wanting, or even double. It sometimes arises from the internal pudic earlier than usual, and crosses the perinaeum to reach the back part of the bulb. In such a case the vessel could hardly fail to be wounded in the performance of the lateral operation for lithotomy. If, on the contrary, it should arise from an accessory pudic, it lies more forward than usual, and is out of danger in the operation. The artery of the corpus cavernosum, one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic, arises from that vessel while it is situated between the crus penis and the ramus of the pubes; piercing the crus penis obliquely, it runs forwards in the corpus cavernosum by the side of the septum pectiniforme, to which its branches are distributed. The dorsal artery of the penis ascends between the crus and pubic symphysis, and piercing the suspensory ligament, runs forwards on the dorsum cf the penis to the glans, where it divides into two branches, which supply the glans and prepuce. On the dorsum of the penis, it lies immediately beneath the integument, parallel with the dorsal vein, and the corresponding artery of the opposite side. It supplies the integument and fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum. The internal pudic artery in the female is smaller than in the male. Its origin and course are similar, and there is considerable analogy in the distribution of its branches. The superficial artery supplies the labia pudendi; the artery of the bulb supplies the erectile tissue of the bulb of the vagina, whilst the two terminal branches supply the clitoris; the artery of the corpus cavernosum, the cavernous body of the clitoris; and the arteria dorsalis clitoridis, the dorsum of that organ. The Sciatic Artery (fig. 234), the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, is distributed to the muscles on the back of the pelvis. It passes down to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, behind the internal pudic, resting on the sacral plexus of nerves and Pyriforinis muscle, and escapes from the pelvis between the Pyriformis and Coccygeus. It then descends in the interval between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, accompanied by the sciatic nerves, and covered by the Gluteus maximus, and divides into branches, which supply the deep muscles at the back of the hip. Within the pelvis it distributes branches to the Pyiiformis, Coccygeus, and