The Spinal Nerves. THE spinal nerves are so called, because they take their origin from the spinal cord, and are transmitted through the intervertebral foramina on either side of the spinal column. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, which are arranged into the following groups, corresponding to the region of the spine through which they pass :— Cervical . . . . 8 pairs. Dorsal . . . . , 12 Lumbar ..... 5 „ Sacral . . . , . 5 Coccygeal 1 „ It will be observed, that each group of nerves corresponds in number with the vertebrae in that region, except the cervical and coccygeal. Each spinal nerve arises by two roots, an anterioi', or motor root, and a posterior, or sensory root. Roots of the Spinal Nerves. The anterior roots arise somewhat irregularly from a linear series of depressions, on the antero-lateral column of the spinal cord, gradually approaching towards the anterior median fissure as they descend. The fibres of the anterior roots, according to the researches of Dr. Lockhart Clarke, are attached to the anterior part of the antero-lateral column ; and, after penetrating horizontally through the longitudinal fibres of this tract, enter the grey substance, where their fibrils cross each other and diveige in all directions, like the expanded hairs of a brush, some of them funning niore or less longitudinally up- wards and downwards, and others decussating with those of the opposite side through the anterior commissure in front of the central canal. Kolliker states that many fibres of the anterior root enter the lateral column of the same side, where, turning upwards, they pursue their course as longitudinal fibres. In other respects, the description of the origin of the anterior roots by these observers is very similar. The posterior roots are all attached to the cord at the postero-lateral fissure. They enter the grey substance of the posterior cornu, either directly through the substantia gelatinosa, or indirectly, by first passing through the white matter of the posterior column and winding round in front of the caput cornu. Those which enter the grey matter at Once, for the most part turn upwards and downwards, and become con- tinuous with the fine nerve-plexus in the central portion of the grey matter; some few fibres pass transversely through the posterior commissure to the opposite side, and others into the anterior cornu of the same side. Those fibres which enter the grey matter in front of the caput cornu, teach the posterior vesicular column and blend with it; a few fibres passing through it, to become longitudinal in the posterior column of the cord. The posterior roots of the nerves are larger, but the individual filaments are finer and more delicate than those of the anterior. As their component fibrils pass out- wards, towards the aperture in the dura mater, they coalesce into two bundles, receive a tubular sheath from that membrane, and enter the ganglion which is developed upon each root.