644 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. the two layers meet they are reflected downwards to the upper surface of the liver, forming the coronary and lateral ligaments of this organ. When these two layers reach the liver they again separate to enclose this viscus, the one passing in front and the other behind, and they meet again on its under surface at the transverse fissure. From this fissure they turn downwards to the lesser curvature of the stomach, form- ing the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, and enclosing the hepatic artery, the portal vein, and the hepatic duct, which are contained between the two folds in this situation. From the lesser curvature of the stomach the two layers pass over the anterior and posterior surfaces of the viscus, enclosing it and meeting again at the greater curva- ture. From this point they pass down in front of the small intestines, between this tube and the abdominal wall, and are reflected on themselves, passing upwards to the transverse colon, and forming the apron or great omentum. This reflection, therefore, consists of four layers of peritoneum. When the two posterior layers of the great omentum, in their reflection upwards, reach the transverse colon, they separate to enclose this portion of the intestinal tube, the one layer passing above it and the other below. They meet on its posterior surface, and pass backwards to the vertebral column, forming what is called the transverse meso-colon. At this point the two layers separate. The one which formed the upper surface of the transverse meso-colon, and which belongs to the lesser cavity, passes upwards in front of the pancreas and crura of the Diaphragm to the back part of the under surface of the Diaphragm, the point from which the description of this layer was commenced. The other, which formed the inferior layer of the transverse meso-colon, turns downwards in front of the duodenum, aorta, and inferior vena cava, and can be traced as a single layer, in the manner above described, investing the small intestines and forming the mesentery; then passing over the sacro-vertebral angle into the pelvis, the viscera of which it partially invests, and finally over the posterior surface of the front wall of the abdomen to the anterior extremity of the Diaphragm, the point from which the description of this layer was commenced. In addition to tracing the peritoneum vertically, as has been now done, it is necessary to trace it horizontally. If this is done below the transverse colon, a reference to fig. 357 will show that the circle is extremely simple, as it includes only the greater bag of the peritoneum. Above the level of the transverse colon the arrangement is more complicated, on account of the existence of two sacs. Starting from the linea alba, below the level of the transverse colon, and tracing the con- tinuity in a horizontal direction to the right, we find the peritoneum covering the internal surface of the abdominal wall almost as far as the anterior border of the quadratus lumborum muscle; it is there reflected over the sides and anterior surface of the caecum and ascending colon, fixing them to the abdominal wall, thus forming the meso-caecum and the ascending meso-colon, from which it can be traced over the kidney to the front of the bodies of the vertebrae. It then passes along the mesenteric vessels to invest the small intestines, and back again to the spine, forming the mesen- tery, between the layers of which are contained the blood-vessels, nerves, lacteals, and glands. Lastly, it passes over the left kidney to the sides and anterior surface of the descending colon, forming the descending and sigmoid meso-colon, and, reaching the abdominal wall, it passes along it to the middle line of the abdomen. Above the transverse colon (fig. 359) the peritoneum can be traced, forming the greater and lesser cavities, and their communication through the foramen of Winslow can be demonstrated. Commencing in the middle line of the abdomen the mem- brane may be traced lining its internal wall, and on the right side sending a process backwards to encircle the obliterated umbilical vein (the round ligament of the liver) forming the falciform or longitudinal ligament of the liver. Continuing its course to the light, it is reflected over the front of the upper part of the right kidney, across the vena cava inferior and aorta, and over the left kidney to the hilum of the spleen. From this point it is reflected on to the posterior surface of the stomach, which it covers, and from its right extremity it passes around the vessels passing to the trans- verse fissure of the liver, and back again to the stomach, as the lesser omentum, and thus it forms the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. It now covers the front of the stomach, and upon reaching the cardiac extremity, it passes to the spleen,