GENERAL ANATOMY. CXXXV1 Development of the Palate.—The buccal cavity is at first common to the mouth and nose. Then a lamella is given off from the superior maxillary tuberosity on either side, which is directed horizontally inwards. These two palatine lamellae meet in the median line, in front, about the eighth week, and by the ninth week the septum should be complete. The superior maxillary bones proper, and the soft parts covering them, unite at an early period with the incisive bone, and the median portion of the lower lip. The olfactory fossae open into the upper (respiratory) portion of the cavity, forming the nostrils. It will be noticed that the various forms of hare- lip correspond to various interruptions of the process of union ; thus the ordinary single harelip on one side of the median line results from the mere absence of union on that side between the soft parts which cover the incisive bone and those connected with the proper superior maxillary j if this occurs on both sides, we have the simplest form of double harelip : if, besides this, the intermaxillary bone remains ununited, it usually is carried forward at the end of the vomer, forming the double harelip, complicated with projection of the intermaxillary bone; if, added to this, the palatine lamellae also remain ununited, we have the complete degree of fissured palate and harelip. Fissure of the soft palate only, or of the soft and a portion of the hard, represent various degrees of non-union of the pala- tine lamellae. Development of the Nervous Centres.— The medullary groove above described (p. cxxi) presents about the third week three dilatations at its upper part, separated by two constrictions, and at its posterior part another dilatation called the rhomboidal sinus. Soon afterwards the groove becomes a closed canal (medullary canal), and a soft blastema is deposited in it. which lines it, corresponding to its dilatations, and, like it, assuming a tubular form. This is the rudiment of the cerebro-spinal axis. As the embryo grows, its cephalic part becomes more curved, and the three dilatations in the anterior end of the primitive cerebro-spinal axis become vesicles distinctly separated from each other (fig. XC). These are the cerebral vesicles—anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior cerebral vesicle (situated at this period quite below the middle vesicle) is the rudiment of the lateral and third ven- tricles, and of the parts surrounding them—viz., the cerebral hemispheres, optic thalami, corpora striata, corpus callosum, fornix, and all the parte which form the Moor of the third ventricle. The middle vesicle represents the aqueduct of Sylvius with the corpora quad'-igeniina, and the crura cerebri. The posterior vesicle is developed into the fourth ventricle, and its walls form the cerebellum. Pons Varolii, medulla oblongata, and parts in the Moor of the fourth ventricle. The antero-posterior fissure which indicates the division of the brain into two halves appears early, and the primary anterior and posterior cerebral vesicles are also soon divided by a Fig. XC—Longitudinal section of tbe head of an embryo four weeks old, seen from the inside. i. Ocular vesicle. 2. Optic nerve flattened out. 3. Fore lirain. 4. Intermediary brain. 5. Middle brain. 6. Hinder brain. 7. After brain. 8 Anterior portiou of the tentorium cerebelli. 9. Its lateral portion intervening between Nos. 4 and 5. 10. The pharyngeal curve, bent into a cut-de-sac. 11. The audi- tory vesicle.