THE LUNGS. 7'5 separated from each other by thin septa, and communicating freely with the inter- cellular passages or air-sacs. They are well seen on the surface of the lung, and vary from ^^o*n to To*n of an inch in diameter; being largest on the surface, at the thin borders, and at the apex, and smallest in the interior. At the termination of the bronchial tubes, in the intercellular passages, their constituent elements become changed : their walls are formed by an interlacing of the longitudinal elastic bundles with fibrous tissue; the muscular fibres disappear, and the mucous membrane becomes thin and delicate, and lined with a layer of squamous epithelium. The latter membrane lines the air-cells, and forms by its reduplications the septa intervening between them. The Pulmonary Artery conveys the venoiis blood to the lungs : it divides into branches which accompany the bronchial tubes, and terminates in a dense capillary network, upon the walls of the intercellular passages and air-cells. From this net- work the radicles of the pulmonary veins arise; coalescing into large branches, they accompany the arteries, and return the blood, purified by its passage through the capillaries, to the left auricle of the heart. In the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are usually above and in front of a bronchial tube, the vein below. The Pulmonary Capillaries form plexuses which lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane, on the walls and septa of the air-cells, and upon the walls of the intercellular passages. In the septa between the cells the capillary network forms a single layer. The capillaries form a very minute network, the meshes of which are smaller than the vessels themselves; * their walls are also exceedingly thin. The vessels of neighbouring lobules are distinct from each other, and do not anastomose; and, according to Dr. Waters, those of the separate groups of intercellular passages, or air-sacs (which groups he denominates lobulettes), are also independent; so that in the septa between two adjoining lobulettes there would be a double layer of capillaries, one layer belonging to each of the adjacent air-sacs, or intercellular pas- sages. If this is really the arrangement of the vessels, it would follow that, in the septa between the air-cells (or alveoli), the blood in the capillaries would be exposed on all sides to the action of the air, since it is circulating in a single layer of vessels, which is in contact with the membrane of the air-passages on both sides ; bat that, in the septa between the intercellular passages (or air-sacs) the blood in the double layer of capillaries will be in contact with the air on one side only. The Bronchial Arteries supply blood for the nutrition of the lung : they are derived from the thoracic aorta, and, accompanying the bronchial tubes, are dis- tributed to the bronchial glands, and upon the walls of the larger bronchial tubes and pulmonary vessels, and terminate in the deep bronchial veins. Others are dis- tributed in the interlobular areolar tissue, and terminate partly in the deep, partly in the superficial, bronchial veins. Lastly, some ramify upon the walls of the smallest bronchial tubes, and terminate in the pulmonary veins. The Superficial and Deep Bronchial Veins unite at the root of the lung, and terminate on the right side in the vena azygos; on the left side, in the superior intercostal vein. According to Dr. Waters, the bronchial veins do not exist within the proper substance of the lung, but commence at or near the root of the lung, by branches which lie on the large bronchial tubes. He also denies that the bronchial arteries contribute to the formation of the pulmonary capillary plexus, believing that the communica- tion between the bronchial and pulmonary system of vessels takes place in the pul- monary veins. If this view be correct, almost the whole of the blood carried by the bronchial arteries must be returned to the heart by the pulmonary veins, and thus the great mass of pure, or arterial, blood which is carried by the pulmonary veins would be adulterated by a small quantity of carbonised or venous blood which has passed through the bronchial circulation. The Lymphatics consist of a superficial and deep set: they terminate at the root of the lung, in the bronchial glands. * The meshes are only 0-002'" to 0-008'" in width, while the vessels are 0-003"' to 0-005'". Kolliker, Human Microscopic Anatomy.