472 NERVOUS SYSTEM. The Brain and its Membranes. Dissection. To examine the brain with its membranes, the skull-cap must be removed. In order to effect this, saw through the external table, the section commencing, in front, about an inch above the margin of the orbit, and extending, behind, to a level with the occipital protuberance. Then break the internal table with the chisel and hammer, to avoid injuring the investing membranes or brain ; loosen, and forcibly detach the skull-cap, when the dura mater will be exposed. The adhesion between the bone and the dura mater is very intimate, aud much more so in the young subject than in the adult. The membranes of the brain are, the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. Dura Mater. The dura mater is a thick and dense inelastic fibrous membrane, which lines the interior of the skull. Its outer surface is rough and nbrillated, and adheres closely to the inner surface of the bones, forming their internal periosteum, this adhesion being more intimate opposite the sutures and at the base of the skull; at the margin of the foramen magnum, it becomes continuous with the dura mater lining the spinal canal. Its inner surface is smooth and epitheliated, being lined by a layer of endo- thelial cells. It sends numerous processes inwards, into the cavity of the skull, for the support and protection of the different parts of the brain : and is prolonged to the outer surface of the skull, through the various foramina which exist at the base, and thus becomes continuous with the pericranium ; its fibrous layer forms sheaths for the nerves which pass through these apertures. At the base of the skull, it sends a fibrous prolongation into the foramen cascum ; it lines the olfactory groove, and sends a series of tubular prolongations round the filaments of the olfactory nerves as they pass through the cribriform plate ; a prolongation is also continued through the sphenoidal fissure' into the orbit, and another is continued into the same cavity through the optic foramen, forming a sheath for the optic nerve, which is continued as far as the eyeball. In certain situations in the skull already mentioned, the fibrous layers of this membrane separate, to form sinuses for the passage of venous blood. Upon the upper surface of the dura mater, in the situation of the longitu- dinal sinus, may be seen numerous small whitish bodies, the glandulce Pacchioni. Structure. The dura mater consists of white fibrous and elastic tissues, arranged in flattened laminBe, which intersect one another in every direction. A layer of nucleated epithelial plates, similar to those found on serous membranes, lines its inner surface; these were formerly regarded as belonging to the arachnoid membrane. Its arteries are very numerous, but are chiefly distributed to the bones. Those found in the anterior fossa are the anterior meningeal branches of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, and internal carotid. In the middle fossa are the middle and small meningeal, branches of the internal maxillary, and a branch from the ascending pharyngeal, which enters the skull through the foramen lacerum basis cranii. In the posterior fossa, are the meningeal branch of the occipital, which enters the skull through the jugular foramen; the posterior meningeal, from the vertebral; and occasionally meningeal branches from the ascending pharyngeal, which enter the skull, one at the jugular foramen, the other at the anterior condyloid foramen. The veins, which return the blood from the dura mater, and partly from the bones, anastomose with the diploic veins. These vessels terminate in the various sinuses, with the exception of two which accompany the middle meningeal artery, and pass out of the skull at the foramen spinosum. The nerves of the dura mater are, the recurrent branch of the fourth, and filaments from the Casserian ganglion, from the ophthalmic nerve, and from the sympathetic. The so-called glandulse Pacchioni are numerous small whitish granulations, usually collected into clusters of variable size, which are found in the following situations:—i. Upon the outer surface of the dura mater, in the vicinity of the superior longitudinal sinus, being received into little depressions on the inner