lxxxi SPINAL CORD. tnsiderable thickness, the central grey nucleus of Kdlliker. The grey ibstance of the cord consists of—i, nerve-fibres of variable, but smaller 'erage diameter than those of the columns; 2, nerve-cells of various tapes and sizes, with from two to eight processes; 3, blood-vessels and nnective tissue. The nerve-fibres of the grey matter are for the most part composed of a inute and dense network of minute fibrils, which is termed ' Gerlach's srve network,' intermingled with nerves of a larger size. This network continuous with the medullated fibres of the posterior nerve-roots on e one hand (Deiters), and with the branched processes of the ganglion- ic on the other (Gerlach), so that the cells are connected with the fibres e. XLVI.—Longitudinal section jf the white and grey substance of the spinal cord, through the middle the lumbar enlargement. Mag. 14 diam.—J. L. Clabke del. Fig. XLVII.—Transverse section through the white matter of the spinal cord of a calf. Magnified about 300 diameters. (Klein and Noble Smith.) In tile upper part are shown two isolated flattened nucleated cells of the neuroglia, under a somewhat higher power than the rest. In the bulk of the figure the nerve-fibres are seen in transverse section. They are of different sizes, and possess a laminated medullary sheath surrounding the axis-cylinder; which was deeply stained in the preparation, and is here represented by a black dot. The nerve-fibres are embedded in the neuroglia. This contains, in a matrix, which appears sometimes granular, some- times homogeneous, numerous elastic fibrils, seen here in trans- verse section as minute dots, on account of their having a course parallel to the long axis of the cord. Amongst the neuroglia are also seen two branched connective tissue-cells—neuroglia-cells. A/itT Jioots Iy indirectly through the nerve network. The arrangement of the fibres the anterior horn of the grey matter appears to be somewhat different; re the nerve-fibres of the anterior root are directly continuous with some the processes of the ganglion-cells, others of the processes communicating fch Gerlach's nerve network. The nerve-cells of the grey matter are of two kinds, large branched rve-vesicles which are collected into groups, and small round cells which semble free nuclei, and are found scattered throughout the whole of the 3y matter. In the anterior horn there are two or three groups of nerve-vesicles, one the outer part of the cornu, and one, sometimes two, in the anterior rtion (fig. XLV.). In the posterior horn, occupying the whole inner e