742 MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. along the upper part of the organ; the third, or corpus spongiosum, encloses the urethra, and is placed below. The Corpora Cavernosa form the chief part of the body of the penis. They consist of two fibrous cylindrical tubes, placed side by side, and intimately connected along the median line for their anterior three-fourths, their posterior fourth being separated to form the two crura, by which the penis is connected to the rami of the pubes. Each crus commences by a blunt pointed process in front of the tuberosity of the ischium; and, near its junction with its fellow, presents a slight enlargement, named by Kobelt, the bulb of the corpus cavernosum. Just beyond this point they become constricted, and retain an equal diameter to their anterior extremity, where they form a single rounded end, which is received into a fossa in the base of the glans penis. A median groove on the upper surface lodges the dorsal vein of the penis, and the groove on the under surface receives the corpus spongiosum. The root of the penis is connected to the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. Structure. Each corpus cavernosum consists of a strong fibrous envelope, en- closing a fibrous reticular structure, which contains erectile tissue in its meshes. It is separated from its fellow by an incomplete fibrous septum. The fibrous investment is extremely dense, of considerable thickness, and highly elastic ; it not only invests the surface of the organ, but sends off numerous fibrous bands (trabecular) from its inner surface, as well as from the surface of the septum, which cross its interior in all directions, subdividing it into a number of separate compai'tments, which present a spongy structure, in which the erectile tissue is contained. The trabecular structure fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its component fibres are larger and stronger round the circumference than at the centre of the corpora cavernosa; they are also thicker behind than in front. The interspaces, on the contrary, are larger at the centre than at the circumference, their long diameter being directed transversely ; they are largest anteriorly. They are lined by a layer of flattened cells similar to the endothelial lining of veins. The fibrous septum forms an imperfect partition between the two corpora caver- nosa j it is thick and complete behind; but in front it is incomplete, and consists of a number of vertical bands of fibrous tissue, which are arranged like the teeth of a comb, whence the name, septum pectiniforme; these bands extend between the dorsal and the urethral surface of the corpora cavernosa. The fibrous investment and septum consist of longitudinal bands of white fibrous tissue, with numerous elastic and muscular fibres. The trabecular also consist of white fibrous tissue, elastic fibx^es, and plain muscular fibres, and enclose arteries and nerves. The Corpus Spongiosum encioses the urethra, and is situated in the groove on the under surface of the corpora cavernosa. It commences posteriorly in front of the deep perinseal fascia, between the diverging crura of the corpora cavernosa, where it forms a rounded enlargement, the bulb; and terminates, anteriorly, in another expansion, the glans penis, which overlaps the anterior rounded extremity of the corpora cavernosa. The central portion, or body of the corpus spongiosum, is cylindrical and tapers slightly from behind forwards. The bulb varies in size in different subjects; it receives a fibrous investment from the anterior layer of the deep perinseal fascia, and is surrounded by the Accelerator urinse muscle. The urethra enters the bulb nearer its upper than its lower surface, being surrounded by a layer of erectile tissue, a thin prolongation of which is con- tinued backwards round the membranous and prostatic portions of the canal to the neck of the bladder, lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane. The portion of the bulb below the urethra presents a partial division into two lobes, being marked externally by a linear raphe, whilst internally there projects inwards, for a short distance, a thin fibrous septum, more distinct in early life. Structure. The corpus spongiosum consists of a strong fibrous envelope, enclosing a trabecular structure, which contains in its meshes erectile tissue. The fibrous envelope is thinner, whiter in colour, and more elastic than that of the corpus