54 THE SKELETON. groove on the back of the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and thus as<ists in forming the lachrymal canal. At the junction of the two middle fourths of the bone, but encroaching on its posterior fourth, a broad thin plate, the ethmoidal process, ascends to join the unciform process of the ethmoid : from the lower border of this process a thin lamina of bone curves downwards and outwards, hooking over the lower edge of the orifice of the antrum, which it narrows below; it is called the maxillary process, and fixes the bone firmly on to the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The inferior border is free, thick and cellular in structure, more especially in the middle of the bone. Both extremities are more is held so that its outer Right Inferior Turbinated Bane. Internal Surface. or less surface from 54- so that its outer concave the holder), and its superior border, which the lachrymal and ethmoidal processes project, upwards, the lachrymal process will be directed to the side to which the bone belongs.* Development. By a single centre, which makes its appearance about the middle of foetal life. Articulations. With four bones : one of the cranium, the ethmoid, and three of the face, the superior maxillary, lachrymal, and palate. No muscles are attached to this bone. narrow and pointed, is directed backwards If the bone (i.e. towards Right Inferior Turbinated Bone. Outer Surface. The Vomer. The Vomer is a single bone, situated vertically at the back part of the nasal fossae, forming part of the septum of the nose. It is thin, somewhat like a ploughshare in forai; but it varies in different individuals, being frequently bent to one or the other side ; it t- presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The lateral surfaces are smooth, marked by small furrows for the lodgment of blood-vessels, and by a groove on each side, sometimes a canal, the naso-palatine, which runs obliquely downwards and forwards to the intermaxillary suture between the two ante rior palatine canals ; it trans- mits the naso-palatine nerve. Ths superior border, the thickest, presents a deep groove, bounded on each side by a horizontal projecting ala of bone : the groove receives the rostrum of the sphenoid, whilst the ala? are overlapped and retained by laminre (the vaginal processes) which project from the under surface of the body of the sphenoid at the base of the pterygoid processes. * If the lachrymal process is broken oil', as is often the ease, the side to which the bone belongs may be known by recollecting that the maxillary process is nearer the back than the front of the bone.