Ivi GENERAL ANATOMY. Xt rces are distributed freely to the periosteum, and accompany the nutrient arteries into the interior of the bone. They are said, by Kolliker, to be most numerous in the articular extremities of the long bones, in the vertebrae, and the larger flat bones. Minute Anatomy.—The intimate structure of bone, which in all essential particulars is identical in the compact and cancellous tissue, is most easily studied in a transverse section from the compact wall of one of the long bones after maceration, such as is shown in fig. XX. The large round spaces seen in the figure are the Haversian canals, and in these canals the larger vessels of the bone ramify. The smaller Haversian canals contain arteries, the larger, veins, a single vessel being lodged in each canal. The fine lines leading out of (or into) these canals are called canaliculi; and the irregular dark spaces, which may be noticed to have a general circular arrangement round the Haversian canals, are called the lacuna. The canaliculi which originate in one lacuna most frequently run into a neigh- bouring lacuna, or else into a neighbouring Haversian canal; some of them, however, anastomose with others in their neighbourhood, and a few appear to terminate in blind extremities or to bend backwards. The concentric rings of lacuna? round each Haversian canal are called lamella. The irregular intervals which would be left by the juxtaposition of these lamella? are seen in the figure to be filled up by lacunae and canaliculi which communicate with the systems composing the adjacent lamella?. Besides the lamella3 which are concentric to the Haversian systems there are other lamella?, most perceptible on the surface of the bone, which are concentric to the medullary cavity. These are most distinct in the adult bone. These lamella?, which are laid down around the axis of the bone itself, are called by some authors the primary or fundamental lamellae, to distinguish them from those laid down around the axis of the Haversian canals, the secondary or special lamellce. The interstitial lamella? found between the Haversian systems can sometimes be recognised as belonging to the primary lamella?; but this is not always the case. The interspaces between the lacuna? and canaliculi are filled with a granular homogeneous solid material, the ulti- mate mineral base of the bone. If a longitudinal section be taken, as in fig. XXL, the appearances are identical. The appearance of concentric rings is replaced by that of lamella? or rows of lacuna? parallel to the course of the Haversian canals; and these canals appear like half-tubes instead of circular spaces. The tubes are seen to branch and communicate, so that each separate Haversian canal runs only a short distance. In other respects the structure has much the same appearance as in transverse sections. In sections of thin plates of bone (as in the walls of the cells which form the cancellous tissue) the Haversian canals are absent, whenever the thick- ness of bone is not too great to allow of its nutritious juices being absorbed from the fibrous membrane coating either side by means of the lacuna? and canaliculi only ; but when the thickness becomes at all considerable, Haversian systems begin to appear. Thus the spaces of the cancellous tissue (medullary spaces) have the same function there that the Haversian canals have in the more compact tissue. In the long bones, by maceration in dilute mineral acid, it may easily be shown that besides these microscopic lamella? surrounding each Haver-