495 FIFTH VENTRICLE. curves round the crus cerebri, forwards and inwards, nearly to the point of the middle lobe, close to the fissure of Sylvius. Its upper boundary is formed by the medullary substance of the middle lobe, and the under surface of the optic thalamus. Its lower boundary, or floor, presents for examination the following parts : the hippo- campus major, pes hippocampi, pes accessorius, corpus fi.mbriatum, choroid plexus, fascia dentata, transverse fissure. The hippocampus major, or cornu Ammonis (fig. 276), so called from its resem- blance to a ram's horn, is a white eminence, of a curved elongate form, extending throughout the entire length of the floor of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. At its lower extremity it becomes enlarged, and presents a number of rounded eleva- tions with intervening depressions, which, from presenting some resemblance to the paw of an animal, is called the pes hippocampi. If a transverse section is made through the hippocampus major (fig. 275, 4), it will be seen that this eminence is produced by the extension inwards of the dentate sulcus on the exterior of the brain. This sulcus is filled with grey substance, which projects along the free margin of the hippocampus major, forming a notched ridge, the fascia dentata. The hippocampus is covered on its ventricular surface by a thin lamina of grey matter, which is continuous with the corpus fimbriatum of the fornix. The pes accessorius, or eminentia collateralis, has already been mentioned, as a white eminence, varying in size, placed between the hippocampus major and hippo- campus minor, at the junction of the posterior with the descending cornu. It is formed by the protrusion inwards of the collateral fissure. The corpus fimbriatum is the thin lateral margin of the posterior pillar of the fornix, prolonged, as already mentioned, from the central cavity of the lateral ven- tricle. Fascia dentata. On separating the inner border of the corpus fimbriatum from the choroid plexus, and raising the edge of the former, a serrated band of grey sub- stance, the edge of the grey substance of the dentate convolution, will be seen beneath it: this is the fascia dentata. Correctly speaking, it is placed external to the cavity of the descending cornu.. The transverse fissure is seen on separating the corpus fimbriatum from the optic thalamus. It is situated beneath the fornix, extending from the middle line behind, downwards on either side, to the end of the descending cornu. It is of a horse-shoe shape. Its horizontal portion is bounded above by the splenium, or rounded poste- rior extremity of the corpus callosum, and below, by the corpora quadrigemina. Its lateral portions curve downwards and forwards, and are bounded below and in front by the crura cerebri and optic thalami; above and behind by the hippocampus major and the corpus fimbriatum of the fornix. Through this fissure the pia mater passes from the exterior of the brain into the ventricles, to form the choroid plexuses. Where the pia mater projects into the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the fornix, it is connected with the lining membrane of these cavities so as to exclude all communication with the exterior of the brain. The septum lucidum (fig. 278, 6) forms the internal boundary of the lateral ventricle. It is a thin, semi-transparent septiun, attached, above, to the under surface of the corpus callosum ; below, to the anterior part of the fornix ; and, in front of this, to the prolonged portion of the corpus callosum. It is triangular in form, broad in front, and narrow behind, its surfaces looking towards the cavities of the ventricles. The septum consists of two laminae, separated by a narrow interval, the fifth ven- tricle. Fifth Ventricle. Each lamina of the septum lucidum consists of an internal layer of white substance, covered by the lining membrane of the fifth ventricle : and an outer layer of grey matter, covered by the lining membrane of the lateral ventricle. Tbe cavity of the fifth ventricle is lined by a serous membrane, covered with epithe- lium, and contains fluid. In the foetus, and in some animals, this space communi- cates, below, with the third ventricle; but in the adult, it forms a separate cavity. In cases of serous effusion into the ventricles, the septum is often found softened and partially broken down.