GENERAL ANATOMY. ixxiv Fig. XLI.—A small nervous bianch from the s\ mpathetic of B mammal. described, as modifications of the medullated nerve-fibres. Some of these consist of the axis-cylinder only, and have been termed naked axis-cylinders. They present a distinct longitudinal striation, and are best seen as the pro- cesses of the ganglion-cells, which after a short course become invested with a medullary sheath, and are thus converted into medullated fibres. A second variety is found in the form of very minute threads, or primitive nerve-fibrils, which are perfectly destitute of any visible structure, and only recognised as nerves by their connection with ganglionic cells, or with obvious nerve-tubes.* They are to be found in connection with the peri- pheral termination of some of the nerves, especially of those of the special senses. For example, the centric processes of the ' cells of Sehultze ' in the olfactory region are believed to consist of these primitive nerve-fibrils. The finely striated appearance of the first variety, those which consist of the axis-cylinder and its membranous investment, renders it probable that they are formed by an aggregation of the primitive fibrillae of which the second variety are composed. They have there- fore been termed ' primitive fibril bundles or fasciculi' (Sehultze). Thus three different kinds of white nerve- fibres are described by recent authorities—viz. I, those which consist of the axis-cylinder, ensheathed in the white substance of Schwann, the whole being invested by the tubular mem- brane; 2, those which consist of the axis- cylinder and medullary membrane only; and 3, the primitive fibrils, of which it is believed that the axis-cylinder of the more composite nerves is made up.f Non-meclullated Fibres.—Most of the nerves of the sympathetic system, and some of the cerebro-spinal (see especially the description of the olfactory nerve, infra, p. 501), consist of a fourth description of nervous fibreswhich are called the grey or gelatinous nerve-fibres (fibres of Eemak). (Fig. XLI.) These consist of a bundle of finely granular fibrillse enclosed in a sheath. Nuclei may be detected at intervals in each fibre, which Sehultze believes to be situated in the sheath of the nerve. In external appearance the gelatinous nerves are semi-transparent, and grey or yellowish-grey. The individual fibres vary in size—most of them being of smaller size than in the cerebro-spinal nerves, so that the average size of the latter is given at -goVo ^° 3 o'o 0 °f an hich, and of the former at only half that size ; but, on the one hand, the smallest fibrils of the cerebro-spinal . Two dark among a fibres, b. lu-rvo- tubes of Reuiak's * Sehultze (Strieker's Handbuch, fig. 17, p. 109) represents these primitive fibrils, both iu their connection with ganglion-cells and with larger nerves. See also below, tig. LIV. t Sehultze believes that the primitive librils are the essential element of all nerves; thus, according to him, the essential difference between the gelatinous and the ordinary nerve- tibrils consists in the absence from the former of the white substance (medulla) of Schwann, while the tubular membrane is present. The small nerve-fibres, on the other hand, described as primitive fibrils or naked axis-cylinders, are either destitute of any investment, or sur- rounded merely by a structureless basement-membrane. \ The real nature of these fibres has been doubted by several authors. It seems better, however, and more consonant with the prevalent opinion, to describe them as truly nervous.