605 THE EAR. Tragicus. Antitragicus. Transversus auriculae. Obliquus auris. The M. Helicis major is a narrow vertical band of muscular fibres, situated upon the anterior margin of the helix. It arises, below, from the process of the helix, and is inserted into the anterior border of the helix, just where it is about to curve backwards. It is pretty constant in its existence. The M. Helicis minor is an oblique fasciculus, attached to that part of the helix which commences from the bottom of the concha. The Tragicus is a short, flattened band of muscular fibres situated upon the outer surface of the tragus, the direction of its fibres being vertical. The Antitragicus arises from the outer part of the antitragus : its fibres are in- serted into the processus caudatus of the helix. This muscle is usually very distinct. The Transversus auricula: is placed on the cranial surface of the pinna. It consists of radiating fibres, partly tendinous and partly muscu- lar, extending from the convexity of the concha to the prominence cor- responding with the groove of the helix. The Obliquus auris (Todd) con- sists of a few fibres extending from the upper and back part of the concha to the convexity immediately above it. The arteries oj the pinna are the posterior auricular, from the exter- nal carotid, the anterior auricular, from the temporal; and an auricular branch from the occipital artery. The veins accompany the corre- sponding arteries. The nerves are, the auricularis magnus, from the cervical plexus; the posterior auricular, from the facial; the auricular branch of the pneumogastric; and the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The Auditory Canal (fig. 332), (meatus auditorius externus), extends from the bottom of the concha to the mem- brana tympani. It is about an inch and a quarter in length, its direction is obliquely forwards and inwards, and it is slightly curved upon itself, so as to be higher in the middle than at either extremity. It forms an oval cylindrical canal, the greatest diameter being in the vertical direction at the external orifice, but, in the transverse direction, at the tympanic end. The calibre of the canal is narrowest about the middle. The membrana tympani, which occupies the termination of the meatus, is obliquely directed, in consequence of the floor of the canal being longer than the roof, and the anterior wall longer than the posterior. The auditory canal is formed partly by cartilage and membrane, and partly by bone. The cartilaginous portion is about half an inch in length, being rather less than half the canal; it is formed by the cartilage of the concha and tragus, prolonged inwards, and firmly attached to the circumference of the auditory process. The cartilage is deficient at its upper and back part, its place being supplied by fibrous 331.—The Muscles of the Pinna.