GENERAL ANATOMY. lxviii the upper half of the oesophagus, the heart, ami the walls of the large veins at the point where they open into it. The fibres of the heart, however, differ in several particulars from those of other striped muscles. They are smaller by about one-third, and their transverse stria; are by no means so distinct. Fat-cells are also often found in them to a certain extent, even apart from any obvious disease of the organ. The}' break up much more readily into their smallest elements. There is also much less (if any) connective tissue separating the bundles of fibres ; and Kolliker has described and figured the ultimate fibres as anas- tomosing with each other—a fact previously noticed by Leeuwenhoeck. Schweigger-Seidel also describes and figures transverse septa, which divide the fibres into distinct quadrangular cells, each of which contains a clear, oval nucleus, situated near the centre of the cell. The unstriped muscle, or muscle of organic life, is found in the walls of the hollow viscera, viz. the lower half of the oesophagus and the whole of the remainder Fig. XXXIII. — Anastomosing of the gastro-intestinal tube; in the trachea and bronchi; in the gall-bladder and ductus communis choledochus; in the pelvis and calices of the kidney, the ureters, bladder, and urethra; in the female sexual organs, viz. the Fallopian tubes, the uterus (enormously de- veloped in pregnancy), the vagina, the broad ligaments, and the erectile tissue of the clitoris; in the male sexual organs, viz. the dartos scroti, the vas deferens, and epi- didymis, the vesicular seminales, the prostate gland, and the corpora cavernosa ; * in the ducts of certain glands, as in Wharton's duct; in the capsule and trabecular of the spleen; in the mucous membranes, forming the mus- cula/ris mucosa; in the arteries, veins, and lymphatics ; in the his ; and in the skin. Plain or mtstHped muscular fibre is made up of spindle-shaped cells (contractile fibre- cells) collected into bundles and held together by a cement substance, hi which are contained some connective-tissue corpuscles. These bundles are further aggregated into larger bundles or flattened bands, and bound to- gether by ordinary areolar tissue. The contractile fibre-cells are elongated, spindle-shaped, nucleated cells of various lengths, averaging from ^ to .<llT of an inch in length, and , ,'„,. to jj'p of an inch in breadth. On transverse section they are more or less polyhedral in shape, from mutual pressure. They present a distinctly longitudinally striated appearance, and consist of an elastic cell-wall con- taining a central bundle of fibrillar, representing the contractile substance, and an oval or rod-like nucleus, which includes, within a membrane, a fine network communicating at the poles of the nucleus with the contractile fibres (Klein). The adhesive interstitial substance which connects the fibre-cells together represents the endomysium, or minute bundles of con- ' Kolliker describes muscular fibres also in the tunica vaginalis testis. muscular fibres of the heart seen in a longitudinal section. On the right the limits of the separate cells with their nuclei are exhibited somewhat dia- grammatically.