INTERNAL EAR. 6i5 spiralis ossea, which consists of two thin lamellae of bone, between which are numerous canals for the passage of nervous filaments. At the point where the osseous lamina is attached to the modiolus is a small canal, which winds round the modiolus, and was denominated by Rosenthal the canalis spiralis modioli • it is occupied by a swelling of the cochlear nerve, in which ganglion-cells are found, the ganglion spirale, from which the nerves pass to the osseous lamina and organ of Corti. The osseous lamina extends only part of the distance between the modiolus and the outer bony wall of the cochlea. Near its outer end the periosteum on the upper or vestibular surface of the lamina swells up into an elevation which is called the limbus lamina} spiralis (' denticulate lamina ' of Todd and Bowman). The lamina spiralis terminates in a grooved extremity, the sulcus spiralis, which presents the form of the letter C : the upper part of the letter, being formed by the overhanging ex- tremity of the limbus, is named the labium vestibulare ; the lower part, prolonged and tapering, is caJled the labium tympanicum (fig. 338). From the labium tym- panicum a thin membrane extends over to the bony wall of the cochlea, completing the scala tympani. This membrane is called the membrana, basilaris. At its outer attachment it swells out so as to form a thick triangular structure which was regarded as a muscle by Todd and Bowman (cochlearis), but is now recognised as ligamentous —the ligament um spirale. Between the labium vestibulare and the attachment of 338.—Floor of Scala Media, showing the Organ of Corti, &c. the membrane of Reissner, presently to be described, a very delicate membrane ex- tends over to the outer wall of the cochlea, running nearly parallel to the membrana basilaris. It was described by Corti, and covers over the organ which is called after his name, and is therefore called membrana tectoria or membrane of Corti. Further inwards, near the commencement of the limbus laminae spiralis, another delicate membrane, the membrane of Reissner, is attached to the vestibular surface of the periosteum of the osseous lamina, and stretches across to the outer wall of the cochlea. The canal which lies below the osseous lamina and membrana basilaris is the scala t/jmpani; that which is bounded by the osseous lamina and membrane of Reissner the scala vestibuU; while the space between the membrane of Reissner and membrana basilaris is generally described as the Scala media, Canalis membranacea, or Canalis cochlece, and this is the nomenclature which will be used here. Others, however, apply the name Canalis cochlea} only to the canal lying between the membrane of Reissner and the membrana tectoria, which contains no object for description, while the space lying between the membrana tectoria and membrana basilaris is described by itself as a fourth canal—the ductus cochlearis or ductus auditorius.* The latter * In reading the older descriptions of the organ of hearing, the student must hear in mind that the membranes bounding the ductus auditorius, together with the organ contained between them, were described together as the 'lamina spiralis membranacea,' while the membrane of Reissner was not recognised, the parts being, in fact, as shown in the second turn of the cochlea on the right hand of lig. 337.