ABDOMINAL AORTA. 387 The bronchial arteries are the nutrient vessels of the lungs, and vary in number, size and origin. That of the right side arises from the first aortic intercostal, or by a common trunk with the left bronchial, from the front of the thoracic aorta. Those of the left side, usually two in number, arise from the thoracic aorta, one a little lower than the other. Each vessel is directed to the back part of the corre- sponding bronchus, along which they run, dividing and subdividing upon the bron- chial tubes, supplying them, the cellular tissue of the lungs, the bronchial glands, and the oesophagus. The oesophageal arteries, usually four or five in number, arise from the front of the aorta, and pass obliquely downwards to the oesophagus, forming a chain of anastomoses along that tube, anastomosing with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries above, and with ascending branches from the phrenic and gastric arteries below. The posterior mediastinal arteries are numerous small vessels which supply the glands and loose areolar tissue in the mediastinum. The Intercostal arteries arise from the back part of the aorta. They are usually ten in number on each side, the superior intercostal space (and occasionally the second one) being supplied by the superior intercostal, a branch of the subclavian. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta on the left side of the spine; they pass outwards, across the bodies of the vertebra, to the intercostal spaces, being covered by the pleura, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, sympathetic nerve, and the vena azygos major; the left passing beneath the superior intercostal vein, the vena azygos minor, and sympathetic. In the intercostal spaces, each artery divides into two branches; an anterior, or proper intercostal branch; and a posterior, or dorsal branch. The anterior branch passes outwards, at first lying upon the External inter- costal muscle, covered in front by the pleura and a thin fascia. It then passes between the two layers of Intercostal muscles, and, having ascended obliquely to the lower border of the rib above, divides, near the angle of that bone, into two branches : of these the larger runs in the groove, on the lower border of the rib above ; the smaller branch along the upper border of the rib below ; passing forward, they supply the Intercostal muscles, and anastomose with the anterior intercostal branches of the internal mammary, and with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery. The first aortic intercostal anastomoses with the superior intercostal, and the last three pass between the abdominal muscles, inosculating with the epigastric in front, and with the phrenic and lumbar arteries. Each intercostal artery is accompanied by a vein and nerve, the former being above, and the latter below, except in the upper intercostal spaces, where the nerve is at first above the artery. The arteries are protected from pressure during the action of the Intercostal muscles, by fibrous arches thrown across, and attached by each extremity to the bone. The posterior or dorsal branch, of each intercostal artery, passes backwards to the inner side of the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and divides into a spinal branch, which supplies the vertebrae, the spinal cord and its membranes, and a muscular branch, which is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back. The Abdominal Aorta. (Fig. 226.) The Abdominal Aorta commences at the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, in front of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and, descending a little to the left . side of the vertebral column, terminates on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, commonly a little to the left of the middle line,* where it divides into the two com- mon iliac arteries. It diminishes rapidly in size, in consequence of the many large * Prof. Lister, having accurately examined 30 bodies in order to asceitain the exact point of termination of this vessel, found it ' either absolutely, or almost absolutely, mesial in 15, while in 13 it deviated more or less to the left, and in 2 was slightly to the right.' Syst. of Surg., edited by T. Holmes, 2nd ed. vol. v. p. 652. c c 2