yo8 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. large curved tube. The cricothyroid artery is the only vessel of importance crossing this space. If it should be of large size, its division might produce troublesome haemorrhage. Laryngo-tracheotomy, anatomically considered, is more dangerous than tracheotomy, on account of the small interspace between the cricoid cartilage and the isthmus of the thyroid gland: the communicating branches between the superior thyroid veins, which cover this spot, can hardly fail to be divided ; and the greatest care will not, in some cases, prevent the division of part of the thyroid isthmus. If either of these structures is divided, the haemor- rhage may be considerable. Tracheotomy below the isthmus of the thyroid gland is performed thus : The head being thrown back and steadied by an assistant, an incision, an inch and a half or two inches in length, is made through the skin, in the median line of the neck, from a little below the cricoid cartilage, to the top of the sternum. The anterior jugular veins should be avoided by keeping exactly in the median line ; the deep fascia should then be divided, and the contiguous borders of the Sterno-thyroid muscles separated from each other. A quantity of loose areolar tissue, containing the inferior thyroid veins, must then be separated from the front of the trachea, with the handle of the scalpel; and when the trachea is well exposed, it should be opened by inserting the knife into it, dividing two or three of its rings from below upwards. It is a matter of the greatest importance to restrain, if possible, all haemor- rhage before the tube is opened ; otherwise, blood may pass into the trachea, and suffocate the patient. The Pleurae. Each lung is invested, upon its external surface, by an exceedingly delicate serous membrane, the pleura, which encloses the organ as far as its root, and is then 402.—A Transverse Section of the Thorax, showing the relative Position of the Viscera, and the Reflections of the Pleurae. TRIANGULARIS STCRrjl Internal Mammary Vessels reflected upon the inner surface of the thorax. The portion of the serous membrane investing the surface of the lung is called the pleura pulmonalis (visceral layer of pleura), while that which lines the inner surface of the chest is called the pleura Cost alls (parietal layer of pleura). The interspace or cavity between these two layers is called the cavity of the pleura. Each pleura is therefore a shut sac, one occu- pying the right, the other the left half of the thorax ; and they are perfectly separate, not communicating with each other. The two pleurae do not meet in the middle line