VEINS 438 VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 246. The veins of the upper extremity are divided into two sets, superficial and deep. The Superficial Veins are placed immediately beneath the integument between the two layers of superficial fascia ; they commence in the hand chiefly on its dorsal aspect, where they form a more or less complete arch. The Deep Veins accompany the arteries, and constitute the vense comites of those vessels. Both sets of vessels are provided with valves which are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial. The superficial veins of the upper extremity are the -The S uperficial Veins of the Upper Extremity. Anterior ulnar. Posterior ulnar. Radial. Median. Median basilic. Median cephalic. Basilic. Cephalic. The Anterior Ulnar Vein commences on the aiiterior surface of .the ulnar side of the hand and wrist, and ascends along the inner side of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it joins with the posterior ulnar vein to form the common ulnar. It communicates with branches of the median vein in front, and with the posterior ulnar behind. The Posterior Ulnar Vein commences on the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the hand, and from the vein of the little finger (vena salvatella), situated over the fourth metacarpal space. It runs on the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the fore-arm, and just below the elbow unites with the anterior ulnar vein to form the common ulnar. The Radial Vein commences from the dorsal surface of the thumb, index finger, and radial side of the hand, by branches communicating with the vena salvatella, and forming by their union a large vessel, which ascends along the radial side of the fore-arm, and receives numer^ ous branches from both its surfaces. At the bend of the elbow it receives the median cephalic, when it becomes the cephalic vein. The Median Vein collects the blood from the superficial structures on the palmar surface of the hand and middle line of the fore-arm, com- municating with the anterior ulnar and radial veins. At the bend of the elbow, it receives a branch of communication from the deep veins, accompanying the brachial artery, and divides into two branches, the median cephalic and median basilic, which diverge from each other as they ascend.