786 STjrgical anatomy of the perineum. fibres are supposed, by Krause, to assist in the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compressing the erectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the erection of the penis, as they are inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of the penis, compressing the dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the crus penis. It is an elon- gated muscle, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either side of the lateral boundary of the perinaeum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the crus penis, from the surface of the cms, and from the adjacent portion of the ramus of the pubes. From these points fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the sides and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the crus penis and retards the return of the blood through the veins, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. 449.—The Superficial Muscles and Aressels of the Perinaeum. The Trcmsversus Ver'mmi is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perinaeal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner and fore side of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, passing obliquely forwards and inwards, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinaeura, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urina? in front. Between the muscles just examined a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator urina?, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Trans* versus perinaei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perinaeal fascia), and running from behind forwards in it are the super- ficial perinaeal vessels and nerves, the transverse perina?al artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, on the Transversus perinaei muscle. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the knife is carried obliquely across the back part of this space, downwards and outwards, into the ischio-rectal fossa, dividing the Transversus perinaei muscle and artery, the posterior fibres of the