cxl GENERAL ANATOMY. from the mesoblast, but the method of development is somewhat compli- cated. The essential portions of the eye—i.e. the retina and the parts immediately connected with it--are an outgrowth from the rudimentary brain (primitive ocular vesicle), and this outgrowth is met by an ingrowth or covering from the common epidermic or corneous layer of the epiblast, out of which the lens, conjunctiva, and corneal epithelium are developed. The primitive ocular vesicle is at first an open cavity communicating by a hollow stalk with the general cavity of the Zwischenhirn, or inter- mediary brain -the posterior division of the anterior cerebral vesicle. As development advances the hollow stalk becomes solid, and thus the optic nerve is formed, receiving, however, in a way to be presently explained, mesoblastic elements for the formation of its central artery and connective tissue. The lens is formed by a thickening of the epidermic layer, opposite to the primitive ocular vesicle, by which that vesicle is at first depressed, and then reversed in the manner indicated by the annexed figures; so that the cavity of the primitive ocular vesicle is finally obliterated. As this process takes place, a secondary cavity (secondary ocular vesicle) is formed arc. Different i-tapes of development, r. Epidermic layer. 2. Thickening of this layer. 3. Crystalline depression; 4. Primitive ocular vesicle. Its anterior part pushed back by the crystalline depression. 5. Posterior part of the primitive ucular vesicle, forming the external layer of the secondary ocular vesicle. 6. Point of separation between the lens and the epidermic layer. 7. Cavity of the secondary ocular vesicle, occupied by the vitreous. between the rudimentary lens and the coats of the reversed primitive vesicle, and in this space the vitreous humour is secreted. The lens is at first a mere depression in the epidermic layer. When tliis is closed the lens becomes a vesicle, formed of epithelial cells, which grow and fill its cavity, becoming gradually transformed into fibres. It is at first surrounded by a vascular membrane—the vascular capsule of (lie lens—which is connected with the termination of the temporary artery [hyaloid) that forms the continuation of the central artery of the retina through the vitreous chamber. This vascular capsule of the crystalline lens forms the niembrana papillaris (described on p. 59.2), and also attaches the borders of the iris to the capsule of the lens. It disappears about the seventh month. These vascular elements are introduced into the globe of the eye from the mesoblast, through a fissure which exists around the growing lens the choroidal fissure, or ocular cleft. The fold of mesoblast which projects through this fissure is thus introduced behind the lens into the cavity of the secondary ocular vesicle (or ocular cup, as it is now called after Poster and Balfour), and it here furnishes the vascular and fibrous elements of the iris and choroid, while its extremity is believed to extend down the Fin. XCIII.—Diagram of development of the lens.