784 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. the Obturator interims muscle; in front it is limited by the line of junction of the superficial and deep perinseal fascia? ; and behind, by the margin of the Gluteus maxi- mus, and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. This space is filled with a large mass of adipose substance, which explains the frequency with which abscesses in the neigh- bourhood of the rectum burrow to a considerable depth. If the subject has been injected, on placing the finger on the outer wall of this fossa, the internal pudic artery, with its accompanying veins and nerve, will be felt about an inch and a half above the margin of the ischiatic tuberosity, but approach- ing nearer the surface as they pass forwards along the inner margin of the pubic arch. These structures are enclosed in a sheath formed by the obturator fascia, the pudic nerve lying below the artery. Crossing the space transversely, about it's centre, are the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, branches of the internal pudic; they are distributed to the integument of the anus, and to the muscles of the lower end of the rectum. These vessels are occasionally of large size, and may give rise to troublesome haemorrhage when divided in the operation of lithotomy, or of fistula in ano. At the back part of this space may be seen a branch of the fourth sacral nerve; and, at the fore part of the space, a cutaneous branch of the perinseal nerve. Perineum. The perinseal space is of a triangular form; its deep boundaries are limited, laterally, by the rami of the pubes and ischia, meeting in front at the pubic arch ; behind, by an imaginary transverse line, extending between the tuberosities of the ischia. The lateral boundaries vary, in the adult, from three inches to three inches and a half in length ; and the base from two to three inches and a half in breadth; the average extent of the space being two inches and three-quarters. The variations in the diameter of this space are of extreme interest in connection with the operation of lithotomy, and the extraction of a stone from the cavity of the bladder. In those cases where the tuberosities of the ischia are near together it would be necessary to make the incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy less oblique than if the tuberosities were widely separated, and the perinseal space, consequently, wider. The perineeum is subdivided by the median raphe into two equal parts. Of these, the left is the one in which the operation of lithotomy is performed. In the middle line the perineeuni is convex, and corresponds to the bulb of the urethra. The skin covering it is of a dark colour, thin, freely movable upon the subjacent parts, and covered with sharp crisp hairs, which should be removed before the dissection of the part is commenced. In front of the anus a prominent line commences, the raphe, continuous in front with the raphe of the scrotum. The flaps of integument corresponding to this space having been removed, in the manner shown in figs. 447-50, the superficial fascia is exposed. The Superficial Fascia consists of two layers, superficial and deep, as in other regions of the body. The superficial layer is thick, loose, areolar in texture, and contains much adipose tissue in its meshes, the amount of which varies in different subjects. In front it is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum ; behind, it is continuous with the sub- cutaneous areolar tissue surrounding the anus; and, on either side, with the same fascia on the inner side of the thighs. This layer should be carefully removed after it has been examined, when the deep layer will be exposed. The deep layer of superficial fascia (superficial perinseal fascia) is thin, aponeu- rotic in structure, and of considerable strength, serving to bind down the muscles of the i-oot of the penis. It is continuous, in front, with the dartos of the scrotum; on either side it is firmly attached to the margins of the rami of the pubes and ischium, external to the crus penis, and as far back as the tuberosity of the ischium ; pos- teriorly it curves down behind the Transversus perinsei muscles to join the lower margin of the deep perineal fascia. This fascia not only covers the muscles in this region, but sends clown a vertical septum from its under sin-face, which separates the back part of the subjacent space into two, being incomplete in front.