1 GENERAL ANATOMY. angular shape, with nucleus and nucleolus, lying in groups, surrounded by a granular or almost homogeneous matrix. The cells are embedded in cavities in the matrix, which are lined by a distinct transparent capsule. This cap- sule may be freed from the matrix by boiling the cartilage for some hours, and treating it with concentrated mineral acid, and can then be demonstrated as a distinct vesicle containing the cell. Aciording to Klein the matrix around the capsule represents a more or less polyhedral mass. So that hyaline cartilage may be considered to consist of a number of polyhedral blocks or masses having a cartilage-cell in its centre. Running through the matrix in a straight direction, and connecting the several cell-cavities with each other, are a number of dark lines, which are brought into view by the action of osmic acid. These are regarded by some anatomists as canals connected with the lymphatic system. The articular cartilages, the temporary cartilages, and the costal car- tilages are all of the hyaline variety. They present minute differences in the size and shape of their cells, and in the arrangement of the matrix. In the articular cartilages, which show no tendency to ossification, the matrix is finally granular under a high power; the cells and nuclei are small, and are disposed parallel to the surface in the superficial part, while nearer to the bone they become vertical. Articular carti- lages have a tendency to split in a vertical direction, probably from some peculiarity in the intimate structure, or arrangement of the component parts, of the matrix. In disease this tendency to a fibrous splitting becomes very manifest. Articular cartilage in the adult is not covered by perichondrium, at least on its free surface, where it is exposed to friction, though an epithelial layer can be traced in the foetus over the whole surface of the cartilage, and in the adult over a small part of its circumference, continuous with the epithelium of the synovial membrane. This is probably the remains of an investing mem- brane which is worn away in after life by the action of the joint. Articular cartilage forms a thin incrustation upon the joint-surfaces of the bones, and its elasticity enables it to break the force of any concussion, whilst its smoothness affords ease and freedom of movement. It varies in thickness according to the shape of the bone on which it lies ; where this is convex, the cartilage is thickest over the convexity where the greatest pressure is received, and the reverse is the case in the concavities of the joints. Articular cartilage appears to imbibe its nutriment partly from the vessels of the neighbouring synovial membrane, partly from those of the bone upon which it is implanted. Mr. Toynbee has shown that the minute Fig. XVII.—Costal cartilage from a man seventy-six years of age, showing the development of fibrous structure in the matrix. In several portions of the specimen, two or three generations of cells are seen enclosed in a parent cell-wall. High power.