455 THORACIC DUCT. posterior mediastinum in front of the vertebral column, lying between the aorta and vena azygos major. Opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra, it inclines towards the left side and ascends behind the arch of the aorta, on the left side of the oesophagus, and behind the first portion of the left subclavian artery to the upper orifice of the thorax. Opposite the upper border of the seventh cervical vertebra, it curves downwards above the subclavian artery, and in front of the Scalenus anticus muscle, so as to form an arch; and terminates near the angle of junction of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. The thoracic duct, at its com- mencement, is about equal in size to the diameter of a goose-quill, diminishes considerably in its calibre in the middle of the thorax, and is again dilated just before its termination. It is generally flexuous in its course, and constricted at intervals so as to present a varicose appearance. The thoracic duct not unfre- quently divides in the middle of its course into two branches of unequal size, which soon re-unite, or into several branches which form a plexiform interlacement. It occasionally bifurcates, at its upper part, into two branches, of which the one on the left side terminates in the usual manner, while that on the right opens into the right subclavian vein, in connection with the right lymphatic duct. The thoracic duct has numerous valves throughout its whole course, but they are more numerous in the upper than in the lower part; at its termination it is provided with a pair of valves, the free borders of which are turned towards the vein, so as to prevent the passage of venous blood into the duct. Branches. The thoracic duct, at its commencement, receives four or five large trunks from the abdominal lymphatic glands, and also the trunk of the lacteal vessels. Within the thorax, it is joined by the lymphatic vessels from the left half of the wall of the thoracic cavity, the lymphatics from the sternal and intercostal glands, those of the left lung, left side of the heart, trachea, and oesophagus ; and just before its termination, it receives the lymphatics of the left side of the head and neck, and left upper extremity. Structure. (Fig. lix.) The thoracic duct is composed of three coats, which differ in some respects from those of the lymphatic vessels. The internal coat con- sists of a layer of epithelium, with a sub-epithelial layer similar to that found in the arteries, and an elastic fibrous coat, the fibres of which run in a longitudinal dilu- tion. The middle coat consists of a longitudinal layer of white connective tissue with elastic fibres, external to which are several laminae of muscular tissue, the fibres of which are disposed transversely, and intermixed with the elastic fibres. The external coat is composed of areolar tissue, with elastic fibres and isolated fasciculi of muscular fibres. The Eight Lymphatic Duct is a short trunk, about an inch in length, and a line or a line and a half in diameter, which receives the lymph from the right side of the head and neck, the right upper extremity, the right side of the thorax, the right lung and right side of the heart, and from the convex surface of the liver, and terminates at the angle of the union of the right subclavian and right internal jugular veins. Its orifice is guarded by two semilunar valves, which prevent the entrance of blood from the veins. Lymphatics op the Head, Face, and Neck. The Superficial Lymphatic Glands of the Head (fig. 254) are of small size, few in number, and confined to its posterior region. They are the occipital, placed at the back of the head along the attachment of the occipito-frontalis; and the posterior auricular, near the upper end of the Sterno-mastoid. These glands are affected in cutaneous eruptions and other diseases of the scalp. In the face, the superficial lymphatic glands are more numerous : they are the parotid, some of which are superficial and others deeply placed in the substance of the parotid gland; the zygomatic, situated under the zygoma ; the buccal, on the surface of the Buccinator muscle ; and the submaxillary, the largest, beneath the body of the lower jaw.