43i OF THE NECK. It is provided with two pairs of valves, the lower pair being placed at its entrance into the subclavian vein, the upper pair in most cases about an inch and a half above the clavicle. The portion of vein between the two sets of valves is often dilated, and is termed the sinus. These valves do not prevent the regurgitation of the blood, or the passage of injection from below upwards.* Branches. This vein receives the occipital occasionally, the posterior external jugular, and, near its termination, the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins. It communicates with the anterior jugular, and, in the substance of the parotid, receives a large branch of communication from the internal jugular. The Posterior External Jugular Vein returns the blood from the integument and superficial muscles in the upper and back part of the neck, lying between the Splenitis and Trapezius muscles. It runs down the back part of the neck, and opens into the external jugular just below the middle of its course. The Anterior Jugular Vein commences near the hyoid bone from the convergence of several superficial branches from the sub-maxillary region. It passes down between the median line and the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, and, at the lower part of the neck, passes beneath that muscle to open into the termination of the external jugular, or into the subclavian vein (fig. 247). This vein varies considerably in size, bearing almost always an inverse proportion to the external jugular. Most frequently there are two anterior jugulars, a right and left; but occasionally only one. This vein receives some laryngeal branches, and occasionally an inferior thyroid vein. Just above the sternum, the two anterior jugular veins communicate by a transverse trunk, which receives branches from the inferior thyroid veins. It also communicates with the internal jugular. There are no valves in this vein. The Internal Jugular Vein collects the blood from the interior of the cranium, from the superficial parts of the face, and from the neck. It commences just external to the jugular foramen, in the base of the skull, being formed by the coalescence of the lateral and inferior petrosal sinuses (fig. 245). At its origin it is somewhat dilated, and this dilatation is called the sinus, or gulf, of the internal jugular vein. It runs down the side of the neck in a vertical direction, lying at first on the outer side of the internal carotid, and then on the outer side of the common carotid, and at the root of the neck unites with the subclavian vein, to form the vena innominata. The internal jugular vein, at its commencement, lies upon the Rectus lateralis, behind, and at the outer side of the internal carotid, and the eighth and ninth pairs of nerves ; lower down, the vein and artery lie upon the same plane, the glosso-pharyngeal and hypoglossal nerves passing forwards between them ; the pneumogastric descends between and behind them, in the same sheath; and the spinal accessory passes obliquely outwards, behind the vein. At the root of the neck the vein of the right side is placed at a little distance from the artery ; on the left side, it usually crosses at its lower part. The right internal jugular vein crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. The vein is of considerable size, but varies in different individuals, the left one being usually the smaller. It is provided with a pair of valves, which are placed at its point of termination, or from half to three- quarters of an inch above it. Brmiches. This vein receives in its course the facial, lingual, pharyngeal,! superior and middle thyroid veins, and sometimes the occipital. At its point of junction with the branch common to the temporal and facial veins, it becomes greatly increased in size. The lingual veins commence on the dorsum, sides, and under surface of the tongue, and passing backwards, following the course of the lingual artery and its branches, terminate in the internal jugular. Sometimes the ranine vein joins the lingual instead of the facial. The pharyngeal vein commences in a minute plexus, the pharyngeal, at the back * The student may refer to an interesting paper by Dr. Struthers, ' On Jugular Vene- section in Asphyxia, Anatomically and Experimentally Considered, including the Demon- stration of Valves in the Veins of the Neck,' in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, for November, 1856.