3I2 MUSCLES AND FASCIA. Posterior Tibio-Fibular Region. Dissection (fig. 193). Make a vertical incision along the middle line of the back of the leo-, from the lower part of the popliteal space to the heel, connecting it below by a transverse incision extending between the two malleoli; the flaps of integument being removed, the fascia and muscles should be examined. The muscles in this region of the leg are subdivided into two layers, superficial and deep. The superficial layer constitutes a powerful muscular mass, forming the calf of the leg. Their large size is one of the most characteristic features of the muscular apparatus in man, and bears a direct connection with his or- dinary attitude and mode of progression. 196.—Muscles of the Back of the Leg. Superficial Layer. Superficial. Layer. Gastrocnemius. Soleus. Piantaris. The Gastrocnemius is the most super- , >'■'■ ficial muscle, and forms the greater part of the calf. It arises by two heads, which are connected to the condyles of the femur by two strong flat tendons. The inner head, the larger, and a little the more posterior, arises from a depression at the upper and back part of the inner condyle. The outer head arises from the upper and back part of the external condyle, immediately above the origin of the Pop- ) liteus. Both heads, also, arise by a few f tendinous and fleshy fibres from the ridges which are continued upwards from the condyles to the linea aspera. Each tendon spreads out into an aponeurosis, which covers the posterior surface of that por- tion of the muscle to which it belongs ; Isl/fiwIII lllllilJJIl that covering the inner head being longer and thicker than the outer. From the anterior surface- of these tendinous ex- pansions, muscular fibres are given off. The fibres in the median line, which cor- respond to the accessory portions of the muscle derived from the bifurcations of the linea aspera, unite at an angle upon a median tendinous raphe below; the remaining fibres converge to the posterior surface of an aponeurosis which covers the front of the muscle, and this, gradu- ally contracting, unites with the tendon of the Soleus, and forms with it the Tendo Achillis. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the leg, which separates it from the external saphenous vein and nerve. By its deep surface, with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the Popliteus, Soleus, Piantaris, popliteal =—' Te/nilons of PERONEU& LOHCtfS » SftUII O.slhCalci. II I