SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. 435 The Lateral Sinuses are of large size, and are situated in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli. They commence at the torcular Herophili, and passing horizontally outwards to the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, curve downwards and inwards on each side to reach the jugular foramen, where they terminate in the internal jugular vein. Each sinus rests in its course, upon the inner surface of the occipital, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and on the occipital again just before its termination. These sinuses are frequently of unequal size, and they increase in size as they proceed from behind forwards. The horizontal portion is of a triangular form, the curved portion semi- cylindrical ; then inner surface is smooth, and not crossed by the fibrous bands found in the other sinuses. These sinuses at then commencement receive blood from the superior longitudinal, the straight, and the occipital sinuses; they receive the blood from the superior petrosal sinuses at the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and they unite with the inferior petrosal simis, just external to the jugular foramen, to form the internal jugular vein (fig. 245). They communicate with the veins of the pericranium by means of the mastoid and posterior condyloid veins, and they 242.—Vertical Section of the Skull, showing the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. Cacjtn receive the lateral inferior cerebral and inferior cerebellar veins, and some veins from the diploe. The Occipital are the smallest of the cranial sinuses. They are usually two in number, and situated in the attached margin of the tabs cerebelli. They commence by several small veins around the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, which communicate with the posterior spinal veins, and terminate by separate openings (sometimes by a single aperture) in the torcular Herophili, The sinuses at the base of the skull are the Cavernous. Inferior petrosal. Circular. Superior petrosal. Transverse. The Cavernous Sinuses are named from their presenting a reticulated structure. They are two in number, of large size, and placed one on each side of the sella Turcica, extending from the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; they receive anteriorly the ophthalmic A'ein through the sphenoidal fissure, and communicate behind with the petrosal sinuses, and with each other by r F 2