MUSCULAR TISSUE. Ixv The muscles of animal life {striped muscles) are capable of being put in action and controlled by the will. They are composed of bundles of fibres enclosed in a delicate web, called the ' internal perimysium,' in contradis- tinction to the sheath of areolar tissue which invests the entire muscle, the i external perimysium.' The bundles are termed ' fasciculi; ' they are prismatic in shape, of different sizes in different muscles, and for the most part placed parallel to one another, though they have a tendency to converge towards their tendinous attachments. Each fasciculus is made up of a bundle of fibres, which also run parallel with each other, and which are separated from one another by a delicate con- nective tissue derived from the perimysium, and termed endomysium. The fibres are of no great length—not extending, it is said, further than an inch and a half. They end either by blending with the tendon or aponeurosis, or else by becoming drawn out into a tapering extremity which is connected to the neighbouring fibre by means of the sarcolemma. The precise mode in which the muscular fibre joins the tendon has been variously described by differ- ent observers. It may, perhaps, be suffi- cient here to say that the sarcolemma, or membranous investment of the muscular fibre, appears to become blended with the tissue of the tendon, and that the muscular fibre appears to be prolonged more or less into the tendon, so that the latter forms a kind of sheath around the fibre for a longer or shorter distance. When muscular fibres are attached to the skin or mucous mem- branes, their fibres are described by Hyde Salter as becoming continuous with those of the areolar tissue. The fibres consist of a number of filaments, or fibrillae, enclosed in a tubular sheath of transparent, elastic, and apparently homogeneous mem- brane, named by Bowman the ' sarcolemma.' On the internal surface of the sarcolemma in mammalia, and also in the substance of the fibrillar in lower animals, elongated nuclei are seen (see figs. LIIL, LIV.), and in con- nection with these nuclei a row of granules', apparently fatty, is sometimes observed. The primitive fibres are cylindriform or prismatic. Their breadth varies in man from -j-^ to of an inch, the average of the majority being about -^fa; their length is not always in proportion to the length of the muscle, but depends on the arrangement of the tendons. This form of muscular fibre is especially characterised by being apparently marked with very fine dark lines or stria, which pass transversely round the fibre, in curved or wavy parallel directions, from TT)|W to jf'fot 01 an inch apart. Other striae pass longitudinally over the fibres, indicating the direction of the primitive fibrils of which the fibre is composed. They are less distinct than the former, and are regarded by Klein as due to post- mortem change. The primitive, fibrillas constitute the proper contractile tissue of the muscle. Each fibril is cylindriform, somewhat flattened, about Tai~0o of an d Fig. XXVIII.—Transverse sec- tion from the sterno-mastoid in man. Magnified 50 times. «. External perimysium, b. Fasciculus, c. Internal perimysium, d. Fibre.