OF THE PELVIS. 167 ilium immediately in front of the sacro-iliac articulation. It is of a triangular form, thick and narrow internally, broad and thinner externally. It is in relation, in front, with the Psoas muscle ; behind, with the muscles occupying the vertebral groove; above, with the Quadratus lumborum. X. Articulations of the Pelvis. The Ligaments connecting the bones of the pelvis with each other may be divided into four groups :—1. Those connecting the sacrum and ilium. 2. Those passing between the sacrum and ischium. 3. Those connecting the sacrum and coccyx. 4. Those between the two pubic bones. 1. Articulation of the Sacrum and Ilium. The sacro-iliac articulation is an amphiarthrodial joint, formed between the lateral surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. The anterior or auricular poi'tion of each articular surface is covered with a thin plate of cartilage, thicker on the sacrum than on the ilium. The surfaces of these cartilages in the adult are rough and irregular, and separated from one another by a soft yellow pulpy substance. At an early period of life, occasionally in the adult, and in the female during pregnancy, they are smooth, and lined by a delicate synovial membrane. The ligaments connecting these surfaces are the anterior and posterior sacro-iliac. The Anterior Sacro-iliac Ligament (fig. 127) consists of numerous thin liga- mentous bands, which connect the anterior surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. The Posterior Sacro-iliac (fig. 128) is a strong interosseous ligament, situated in a deep depression between the sacrum and ilium behind, and forming the chief bond of connection between those bones. It consists of numerous strong fasciculi, which pass between the bones in various directions. Three of these are of large size; the two superior, nearly horizontal in direction, arise from the first and second transverse tubercles on the posterior surface of the sacrum, and are inserted into the rough uneven surface at the posterior part of the inner surface of the ilium. The third fasciculus, oblique in direction, is attached by one ex- tremity to the third transverse tubercle on the posterior surface of the sacrum, and by the other to the posterior superior spine of the ilium; it is sometimes called the oblique sacro-iliac ligament. 2. Ligaments passing between the Sacrum and Ischium. (Fig. 128.) The Great Sacro-Sciatic (Posterior). The Lesser Sacro-Sciatic (Anterior). The Great or Posterior Sacro-Sciatic Ligament is situated at the lower and back part of the pelvis. It is thin, flat, and triangular in form; narrower in the middle than at the extremities ; attached by its broad base to the posterior inferior spine of the ilium, to the fourth and fifth transverse tubercles on the sacrum, and to the lower part of the lateral margin of that bone and the coccyx ; passing obliquely downwards, outwards, and forwards, it becomes narrow and thick; and at its insertion into the inner margin of the tuberosity of the ischium, it increases in breadth, and is prolonged forwards along the inner margin of the ramus, forming what is known as the falciform ligament. The free concave edge of this ligament has attached to it the obturator fascia, with which it forms a kind of groove, pro- tecting the internal pudic vessels and nerve. One of its surfaces is turned towards the perinseum, the other towards the Obturator interims muscle. The posterior surface of this ligament gives origin, by its whole extent, to fibres of the Gluteus maximus. Its anterior surface is united to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Its superior border forms the lower boundary of the lesser sacro-