DURA MATER. 473 surface of the calvarium. 2. On the inner surface of the dura mater. 3. In the superior longitudinal sinus. 4. On the pia mater, near the margin of the hemi- spheres. These bodies are not glandular in structure, but simply enlarged normal villi of the arachnoid. In their growth they perforate the dura mater, and are thus found on its outer surface, and when of large size, they cause absorption of the bone, and come to be lodged in pits or depressions on the inner table of the skull. The manner in which they perforate the dura mater is as follows :—at an early period of their growth they project through minute holes in the inner layer of the dura mater, which open into large venous spaces, situated in the tissiies of the membrane, on either side of the longitudinal sinus and communicating with it. In their onward growth the villi push the outer layer of the dura mater before them, and this forms over them a delicate membranous sheath. In structure they consist of trabecule of connective tissue, covered over by a layer of epithelium. The spongy tissue of which they are composed is continuous with the trabecular tissue of the subarachnoid space. These bodies are not found in infancy, and very rarely until the third year. They are usually found after the seventh year; and from this period they increase in number as age advances. Occasionally they are wanting. Processes of the Dura Mater. The processes cf the dura mater, sent inwards into the cavity of the skull, are three in number, the falx cerebri, the tentorium cerebelli, and the falx cerebelli. The falx cerebri, so named from its sickle-like form, is a strong arched process of the dura mater, which descends vertically in the longitudinal fissure between the two hemispheres of the brain. It is narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone; and broad behind, where it is connected with the upper surface of the tentorium. Its upper margin is convex, and attached to the inner surface of the skull as far back as the internal occipital protuberance. In this situation it is broad, and contains the superior longitudinal sinus. Its lower margin is free, concave, and presents a sharp curved edge, which contains the inferior longitudinal sinus. The tentorium cerebelli is an arched lamina of dura mater, elevated in the middle, and inclining downwards towards the circumference. It covers the upper surface of the cerebellum, and supports the posterior lobes of the brain, and prevents them pressing upon the cerebellum. It is attached, behind, by its convex border to the transverse ridges upon the inner surface of the occipital bone, and there encloses the lateral sinuses; in front, to the superior margin of the petrous portion of the temj3oral_j3one, enclosing the superior petrosal sinuses, and from the apex of this bone, on each side, is continued to the anterior and posteiior clinoid processes. Along the middle line of its upper surface, the posterior border of the falx cerebri is attached, the straight sinus being placed at their point of junction. Its anteiior border is free and concave, and presents a large oval opening for the transmission of the crura cerebri. The falx cerebelli is a small triangular process of dura mater, received into the indentation between the two lateral lobes of the cerebellum behind. Its base is attached, above, to the under and back part of the tentorium ; its posterior margin, to the loffisrjiyision of the vertical ci'est on the inner surface of the occipital bone, As it descends, it sometimes divides into two smaller folds, which are lost on the sides of the foramen magnum. Arachnoid Membrane. The arachnoid (apa^vr], etSos, like a spider's vxb), so named from its extreme thinness, is a delicate membrane which envelopes the brain, lying between the pia mater internally and the dura mater externally; from this latter membrane it is separated by a space, the sub-dural space* It invests the brain loosely, being separated from direct contact with the cere- * See foot note, p. 468.