LITHOTOMY. 791 carried outwards and backwards, dividing in its course the membranous portion of the urethra, and part of the left lobe of the prostate gland, to the extent of about an inch. The knife is then withdrawn, and the forefinger of the left hand passed along the staff into the bladder: the staff having been withdrawn, and the position of the stone ascertained, the forceps is introduced over the finger into the bladder. If the stone is very large, the opposite side of the prostate may be notched before the forceps is introduced : the finger is now withdrawn, and the blades of the forceps opened and made to grasp the stone, which must be extracted by slow and cautious undulating movements. Parts divided in tlie Operation.—The various structures divided in this operation are as follows:—the integument, superficial fascia, inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urinae, the Transversus perinaii muscle and artery (and, probably, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves), the 452.—A Transverse Section of the Pelvis, showing the Pelvic Fascia from behind. deep perinseal fascia, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, part of the Compressor urethral, the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra, and part of the prostate gland. Parts to be avoided in the Operation,—In making the necessary incisions in the perinaeum for the extraction of a calculus, the following parts should be avoided. The primary incision should not be made too near the middle line, for fear of wounding the bulb of the corpus spongiosum or the rectum ; aor too far externally, otherwise the pudic artery may be implicated as it ascends along the inner border of the pubic arch. If the incisions are carried too far forwards, the artery of the bulb may be divided; if carried too far backwards, the entire breadth of the prostate and neck of the bladder may be cut through, which allows the urine to become infiltrated behind the pelvic fascia into the loose cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, instead of escaping externally; diffuse inflammation is consequently set up, and peritonitis, from the close proximity of the recto-vesical peritoneal fold, is the conse- quence. If, on the contrary, the prostate is divided in front of the base of the gland, the m ine makes its wav externally, and there is less danger of infiltration taking place.