OF THE SPINE. 151 the elbow are flexed simultaneously, and simultaneously extended,' in consequence of the passage of the Biceps and Triceps cubiti over both joints. 2. It enables the short muscles which pass over only one joint to act upon more than one. ' Thus if the Rectus femoris remain tonically of such length that, when stretched over the extended hip, it compels extension of the knee, then the Gluteus maximus becomes, not only an extensor of the hip, but an extensor of the knee as well.' 3. It provides the joints with ligaments which, while they are of very great power in resisting movements to an extent incompatible with the mechanism of the joint, at the same time spontaneously yield when necessary. ' Taxed beyond its strength a ligament will be ruptured, whereas a contracted muscle is easily relaxed ; also, if neighbouring joints be united by ligaments, the amount of flexion or extension of each must remain in constant proportion to that of the other; while, if the union be by muscles, the separation of the points of attachment of those muscles may vary considerably in different varieties of movement, the muscles adapting them- selves tonically to the length required.' The quotations are from a very interest- ing paper, by Dr. Cleland, in the 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' No. 1, 1866, p. 85 ; by whom I believe this important fact in the mechanism of joints was first clearly pointed out, though it has been independently observed afterwards by other anatomists. The articulations may be arranged into those of the trunk, those of the upper extremity, and those of the lower extremity. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. These may be divided into the following I. Of the vertebral column. II. Of the atlas with the axis. III. Of the atlas with the occipital bone. IV. Of the axis with the occipital bone. V. Of the lower jaw. VI. Of the ribs with the vertebrse. groups, viz. :— VII. Of the cartilages of the ribs with the sternum, and with each other. VIII. Of the sternum. IX. Of the vertebral column with the pelvis. X. Of the pelvis. I. Articulations of the Vertebral Column. The different segments of the spine are connected together by ligaments, which admit of the same arrangement as the vertebrse. They may be divided into five sets. 1. Those connecting the bodies of the vertebras. 2. Those connecting the lamince. 3. Those connecting the articular processes. 4. Those connecting the spinous processes. 5. Those of the transverse jwocesses. The articulations of the bodies of the vertebra? with each other form a series of aniphiarthrodial joints: those between the articular p>rocesses form a series of aithrodial joints. 1. The Ligaments of the Bodies. Anterior Common Ligament. Posterior Common Ligament. Intervertebral Substance. The Anterior Common Ligament (figs. 116, 117, 124, 127) is a broad and strong band of ligamentous fibres, which extends along the front surface of the bodies of the vertebrse, from the axis to the sacrum. It is broader below than above, thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions, and somewhat thicker opposite the front of the body of each vertebra, than opposite the intervertebral substance. It is attached, above, to the body of the axis by a pointed process, which is con- nected with the tendon of insertion of the Longus colli muscle ; and extends down as far as the upper bone of the sacrum. It consists of dense longitiidinal fibres, which are intimately adherent to the intervertebral substance, and the prominent margins of the vertebrse; but less closely to the middle of the bodies. In the