ARTICULATIONS. 190 Its lower part is sometimes bifurcated, an arangeinent which Bigelow seems to re- gard as the usual one, so that he describes it under the name of' the Y- ligament.'* The Ligamentum Teres is a triangular band of fibres, implanted, by its apex, into the depression a little behind and below the centre of the head of the femur, and by its broad base, which consists of two bundles of fibres, into the margins of the notch at the bottom of the acetabulum, becoming blended with the transverse ligament. It is formed of a bundle of fibres, the thickness and strength of which are very variable, surrounded by a tubular sheath of synovial membrane. Some- times, only the synovial fold exists, or the ligament may be altogether absent The use of the round ligament is to check rotation outwards, as well as adduction in the flexed position (figs. 139, 140) : it thus assists in preventing dislocation of the head of the femur forwards and outwards, an accident likely to occur from the necessary mechanism of the joint, if not provided against by this ligament and the thick anterior part of the capsule.t The Cotyloid. Ligament is a fibro-cartilaginous rim attached to the margin of the acetabulum, the cavity of which it deepens; at the same time it protects the edges of the bone, and fills up the inequalities on its surface. It is prismoid in form, its base being attached to the margin of the acetabulum, and its opposite edge being free and sharp ; whilst its two surfaces are invested by synovial mem- brane, the external one being in contact with the capsular ligament, the internal one being inclined inwards so as to narrow the acetabulum and embrace the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur. It is much thicker above and behind than below and in front, and consists of close compact fibres, which arise from different points of the circnmference of the acetabulum, and interlace with each other at very acute angles. The Transverse Ligament is a strong flattened band of fibres, which crosses the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and converts it into a foramen. It is continuous at each side with the cotyloid ligament. An interval is left beneath the ligament for the passage of nutrient vessels to the joint. The Synovial Membrane is very extensive. Commencing at the margin of the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur, it covers all that portion of the neck which is contained within the joint; from the head it is reflected on the internal surface of the capsular ligament, covers both surfaces of the cotyloid ligament, and the mass of fat contained in the fossa at the bottom of the aceta- bulum, and is prolonged in the form of a tubular sheath around the ligamentum teres, as far as the head of the femur. The muscles in relation with the joint are, in front, the Psoas and Iliacus, separated from the capsular ligament by a synovial bursa; above, the straight head of the Rectus and Gluteus minimus, the latter being closely adherent to the capsule ; internally, the Obturator externus and Pectineus ; behind, the Pyriformis Gemellus superior, Obturator interims, Gemellus inferior, Obturator externus, and Quadrat us femoris. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the obturator, sciatic, in- ternal circumflex and gluteal. -H-^ c-t>vcw~-f&y~ The Nerves are articular branches, from the sacral plexus, great sciatic, obtu- rator, and accessory obturator nerves. ^ JC^dC Actions. The movements of the hip, like all enarthrodial joints, are very extensive; they are, flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. * Bigelow on the Hip-Joint. t See an interesting paper, ' On the Use of the Round Ligament of the Hip-Joint,' by Dr. J. Stmthers, Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1858. This ligament is best studied with the assistance of a preparation in which the floor of the acetabulum has been removed with a trephine, and the ligament exposed by cleaning away the fat. Mr. Savory, without denying the other uses attributed to this ligament, says that it is always made tense in the upright position, and is still further tightened in standing on one leg; and therefore he maintains that its main function is to support the weight of the body, and distribute its pressure equally over the whole surface of the acetabulum and head of the femur. Lancet, May ^3, 1874.