xlviii GENERAL ANATOMY. subject to pressure ; otherwise, variously flattened. They are supplied and held together by capillary blood-vessels and flue connective tissue, and each vesicle is filled with fat. Fat is an unorganised substance, consisting of liquid oily matter (glycerine) in combination with certain fatty acids, stearic, palmitic, and oleic. Sometimes the acids separate spontaneously before the fat is examined, and are seen under the microscope in a crystalline form, as in Fig. XIII a. By boiling the tissue in ether or strong alcohol, the fat maybe extracted from the vesicle, which is then seen empty and shrunken. Besides the fully-formed fat-cells above described, others may occa- sionally be found in the course of formation, especially in cases of sudden death during robust health. They are described by Bollett as, in the first stage, small round granular cells, provided with a roundish nucleus, into the interior of which a strongly-refracting drop of fat is then secreted, which is at first surrounded by a ring of the granular matter, and gradually increases so as to fill the cell. As the granular matter becomes less and Fig. XIV.'—Development of fat. (Klein and Noble Smith.) a. Minute artery, v. Minute vein. c. Capillary blood-vessels in the course of formation; they are not hollowed out yet completely, there being still left in them protoplasmic septa, d. The ground substance, containing numerous nucleated cells, some of which are more distinctly branched and flattened than others, and appear therefore more spindle-shaped. less, the nucleus, which can at first be easily recognised, becomes less perceptible, but according to this author can always be brought into view by appropriate reagents. Fat is said to be first detected in the human embryo about the fourteenth week. According to Klein, the cells are formed by the transformation of the protoplasmic connective-tissue corpuscles, into which small globules of fat find their way and increase until they distend the corpuscle into the thin mantle of protoplasm which forms the cell-wall, and in which its nucleus is still to be seen. Others of the connective-tissue corpuscles are transformed into the vessels and the lymphatic tissue which accompanies the vessels. In various parts of the body pigment is found, viz. in the hairs, in the iris and retina (Fig. XV.), in the lungs, in the nerve-cells, in the rete mucosum in the dark races, and in some parts of the body—such as the areola of the nipple. Such parts are of dark colour even in the fair races, except Albinos, in whom pigment is absent. Pigment-cells are also found in the blood, according to Virchow. ♦