VERTEX AND BASE OF THE SKULL. 61 The sutures remain separate for a considerable period after the complete forma- tion of the skull. It is probable that the)r serve the purpose of permitting the growth of the bones at their margins ; while their peculiar formation, together with the interposition of the sutural ligament between the bones forming them, prevents the dispersion of blows or jars received upon the skull. Dr. Humphry remarks, ' that, as a general rule, the sutures are first obliterated at the parts m which the ossification of the skull was last completed, viz. in the neighbourhood of the fontanelles; and the cranial bones seem in this respect to observe a similar law to that which regulates the union of the epiphyses to the shafts of the long bones.' The same author remarks that the time of their disappearance is extremely variable : they are sometimes found well marked in skulls edentulous with age, while in others which have only just reached maturity they can hardly be traced. THE SKULL. The Skull, formed by the union of the several cranial and facial bones already described, when considered as a whole, is divisible into five regions : a superior region or vertex, an inferior region or base, two lateral regions, and an anterior region, the face. Vertex of the Skull. The Superior Region, or Vertex, presents two surfaces, an external and an internal. The External Surface is bounded, in front, by the nasal eminences and super- ciliary ridges; behind, by the occipital protubeiance and superior curved lines of the occipital bone ; laterally, by an imaginary line extending from the outer end of the superior curved line, along the temporal ridge, to the external angular process of the frontal. This surface includes the vertical por tion of the frontal, the greater part of the parietal, and the superior third of the occipital bone; it is smooth, convex, of an elongated oval form, crossed transversely by the coronal suture, and from before backwards by the sagittal, which terminates behind in the lambdoid. From before backwards may be seen the frontal eminences and remains of the suture connecting the two lateral halves of the frontal bone; on each side of the sagittal suture are the parietal foramen and parietal eminence, and still mor e posteriorly the smooth convex surface of the occipital bone. The Internal Surface is concave, presents eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the lodgment of branches of the meningeal arteries. Along the middle line of this surface is a longitudinal groove, narrow in front, where it terminates in the frontal crest, but broader behind; where it lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, and by its margin affords attachment to the falx cerebri. On either side of it are sever al depressions for the Pacchionian bodies, and at its back part, the internal openings of the parietal foramina. This surface is crossed, in front, by the coronal suture; fr om before backwards, by the sagittal 5 behind, by the lambdoid. Base of the Skull. The Inferior Region, or Base of the Skull, presents two surfaces, an internal or cerebral, and an external or basilar. The Internal or Cerebral Surface (fig. 62) presents three fossa?, on each side, called the anterior, middle, and posterior fossa? of the cranium. The Anterior Fossa is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the ethmoidal spine and lesser wing of the sphenoid. It is the most elevated of the three fossa?, convex externally where it corresponds to the roof of the orbit, concave in the median line in the situation of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. It is traversed by three sutures, the ethmoido-frontal, ethmo- sphenoidal, and fr onto-sphenoidal; and lodges the anterior lobe oT the cer ebr um. It presents, in the median line, from before backwards, the commencement of the