THE LUNGS. the heart and other contents of the mediastinum. Each lung is conical in shape, and presents for examination an apex, a base, two borders, and two surfaces (see fig. 404). The apex forms a tapering cone which extends into the root of the neck, about an inch to an inch and a half above the level of the first rib. The base is broad, concave, and rests upon the convex surface of the Diaphragm; its circumference is thin, and fits into the space between the lower ribs and the costal attachment of the Diaphragm, extending lower down externally and behind than in front. The external or thoracic surface is smooth, convex, of considerable extent, and corresponds to the form of the cavity of the chest, being deeper behind than in front. The inner surface is concave. It presents, in front, a depression corresponding to the convex surface of the pericardium, and behind, a deep fissure (the hilum pulmonis), which gives attachment to the root of the lung. The posterior border is rounded and broad, and is received in the deep concavity on either side of the spinal column. It is much longer than the anterior border, and projects below between the ribs and the Diaphragm. The anterior border is thin and sharp, and overlaps the front of the pericardium. The anterior border of the right lung corresponds to the median line of the chest, from the junction of the first and second pieces of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage. The anterior border of the left lung lies in the mid-line only as low as the fourth costal cartilage; below this it presents a V-shaped notch, formed at the expense of the left lung, in which the pericardium is exposed. The two lungs are therefore in contact in the middle line, the pleura only being interposed, between the levels of the second and fourth costal cartilages. Each lung is divided into two lobes, an upper and lower, by a long and deep fissure, which extends from the upper part of the posterior border of the organ, about three inches from its apex, downwards and forwards to the lower part of its anterior border. This fissure penetrates nearly to the root. In the right lung the upper lobe is partially divided by a second and shorter fissure, which extends from the middle of the preceding, forwards and upwards, to the anterior margin of the organ, marking off a small triangular portion, the middle lobe. The right lung is the larger and heavier; it is broader than the left, owing to the inclination of the heart to the left side; it is also shorter by an inch, in con- sequence of the Diaphragm rising higher on the right side to accommodate the liver. The right lung has three lobes. The left lung is smaller, narrower, and longer than the right, and has only two lobes. A little above the middle of the inner surface of each lung, and nearer its pos- terior than its anterior border, is its root, by which the lung is connected to the heart and the trachea. The root is formed by the bronchial tube, the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary veins, the bronchial arteries and veins, the pulmonary plexus of nerves, lymphatics, bronchial glands, and areolar tissue, all of which are enclosed by a reflection of the pleura. The root of the light lung lies behind the superior vena cava and ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, and below the vena azygos. That of the left lung passes beneath the arch of the aorta, and in front of the de- scending aorta ; the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonary plexus lie in front of each, and the pneumogastric and posterior pulmonary plexus behind each. The chief structures composing the root of each lung are arranged in a similar manner from before backwards on both sides, viz. : the pulmonary veins most anterior ; the pulmonary artery in the middle ; and the bronchus, together with the bronchial vessels, behind. From above downwards, on the two sides, their arrange- ment differs, thus: On the right side their position is—bronchus, pulmonary artery, pulmonary veins ; but on the left side their position is—pulmonary artery, bronchus, pulmonary veins ; which is accounted for by the bronchus being placed on a lower level on the left than on the right side, in order that it may pass under the arch of the aorta.