666 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Its upper surface is convex, directed upwards and forwards, smooth, covered by peritoneum. It is in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm ; and below, to a small extent, with the abdominal parietes. The surface is divided into two unequal lobes, the right and left, by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory or broad ligament. Its under surface is concave, directed downwards and backwards, and in relation with the stomach and duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. The surface is divided by a longitudinal fissure into a right and left lobe. The posterior border is rounded and broad, and connected to the Diaphragm by the coronary ligament; it is in relation with the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the crura of the Diaphragm. The anterior .border is thin and sharp, and marked, opposite the attachment of the broad ligament, by a deep notch. In adult males this border usually corre- sponds with the margin of the ribs ; but in women and children it usually projects below the ribs. The right extremity of the liver is thick and rounded, whilst the left is thin and flattened. Changes of Position.—The student should make himself acquainted with the different circumstances under which the liver changes its position, as they are of importance in determining the existence of enlargement or other disease of the organ. Its position varies according to the posture of the body; in the upright and sitting posture it usually recedes behind the ribs. Its position varies, also, with the ascent or descent of the Diaphragm. In a deep inspiration the liver descends below the ribs; in expiration it is raised to its ordinary level. Again, in emphysema, where the lungs are distended, and the Diaphragm descends very low, the liver is pushed down ; in some other diseases, as phthisis, where the Diaphragm is much arched, the liver rises very high up. Pressure from without, as in light-lacing, by compressing the lower part of the chest, dis- places the liver considerably, its anterior edge often extending as low as the crest of the ileum; audits convex surface is often, at the same time, deeply indented from pressure of the ribs. Again, its position varies greatly, according to the greater or less distension of the stomach and intestines. When the intestines are empty, the liver descends in the abdomen; but when they are distended, it is pushed upwards. Its relations to surrounding organs may also be changed by the growth of tumours, or by collections of fluid in the thoracic or abdominal cavities. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the liver (fig. 377) are five in number, four being formed of folds of peritoneum : the fifth, the Ugamentum teres, is a round fibrous cord, resulting from the obliteration of the umbilical vein. The ligaments are the longitudinal, two lateral, coronary, and round. The longitudinal ligament (broad, falciform, or suspensory ligament) is a broad and thin antero-posterior peritoneal fold, falciform in shape, its base being directed forwards, its apex backwards. It is attached by one margin to the under surface of the Diaphragm, and the posterior surface of the sheath of the right Rectus muscle as low down as the umbilicus; by its hepatic margin it extends from the notch on the anterior margin of the liver, as far back as its posterior border. It consists of two layers of peritoneum closely united together. Its anterior free edge contains the round ligament between its layers. The lateral ligaments, two in number, right and left, are triangular in shape. They are formed of two layers of peritoneum united, and extend from the sides of the Diaphragm to the adjacent margins of the posterior border of the organ. The left is the longer of the two, and lies in front of the oesophageal opening in the Dia- phragm. The coronary ligament connects the posterior border of the liver to the Dia- phragm. It is formed by the reflection of the peritoneum from the Diaphragm on to the upper and lower margins of the posterior border of the organ. The coronary ligament consists of two layers, which are continuous on each side with the lateral ligaments; and in front, with the longitudinal ligament. Between the layers, a large oval interspace is left uncovered by peritoneum, and connected to the Dia- phragm by a firm areolar tissue. This .space is subdivided, near its left extremity,