FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. 754 a circular septum, perforated in the centre by a round opening; sometimes it is cribriform, or its free margin forms a membranous fringe, or it may be entirely absent. It may also persist after copulation. The hymen cannot, consequently, be considered as a test of virginity. Its rupture, or the rudimentary condition of the membrane abt>ve referred to, gives rise to those small rounded elevations which surround the opening of the vagina, the carunculas myrti formes. Glands of Bartholine.—On each side of the commencement of the vagina is a round or oblong body, of a reddish-yellow colour, and of the size of a horse-bean, analogous to Cowper's gland in the male. It is called the gland of Bartholine. Each gland opens by means of a long single duct, upon the inner side of the nympha>, external to the hymen. Extending from the clitoris, along either side of the vesti- bule, and lying a little behind the nymphae, are two large oblong masses, about an inch in length, consisting of a plexus of veins, enclosed in a thin layer of fibrous membrane. These bodies are narrow in front, rounded below, and are connected with the crura of the clitoris and rami of the pubes : they are termed by Kobelt the bulbi vestibuli ; and he considers them analogous to the bulb of the corpus spongio- sum in the male. Immediately in front of these bodies is a smaller venous plexus, continuous with the bulbi vestibuli behind and the glans clitoridis in front: it is called by Kobelt the pars intermedia, and is considered by him as analogous to that part of the body of the corpus spongiosum which immediately succeeds the bulb. Bladder. The bladder is situated at the anterior part of the pelvis. It is in relation, in front, with the os pubis; behind, witli the uterus, some convolutions of the small intestine being interposed; its base lies in contact with the neck of the uterus, and with the anterior wall of the vagina. The bladder is said to be larger in the female than in the male, though this is denied by Henle, and is very broad in its transverse diameter. Urethra. The urethra is a narrow membranous canal, about an inch and a half in length, extending from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It is placed Kent itli the symphysis pubis, embedded in the anterior wall of the vagina; and its direction is obliquely downwards and forwards, its course being slightly curved, the concavity directed forwards and upwards. Its diameter, when undilated, is about a quarter of an inch. The urethra, perforates the triangular ligament, pre- cisely as in the male, and is surrounded by the muscular fibres of the Compressor urethras. Structure.—The urethra consists of three coats : muscular, erectile, and mucous. The muscular coat is continuous with that of the bladder ; it extends the whole length of the tube, and consists of an inner longitudinal and an outer circular stratum of muscular fibres. A thin layer of spongy erectile tissue, containing a plexus of large veins, inter- mixed with bundles of unstriped muscular fibre, lies immediately beneath the mucous coat. The mucous coat is pale, continuous, externally, with that of the vulva, and in- ternally with that of the bladder. It is thrown into longitudinal folds, one of which, placed along the floor of the canal, resembles the verumontanum in the male urethra. It is lined by laminated epithelium, which becomes spheroidal at the bladder. Its external orifice is surrounded by a few mucous follicles. The urethra, from not being surrounded by dense resisting structures, as in the male, admits of considerable dilatation, which enables the surgeon to remove with considerable facility calculi, or other foreign bodies, from the cavity of the bladder.