ANTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. 271 rotate the head of the humerus outwards : when the arm is raised, they assist in re- taining it iu that position, and carrying it backwards. One of the most important uses of these three muscles is the great protection they afford to the shoulder-joint, the Supraspinatus supporting it above, and preventing displacement of the head of the humerus upwards, whilst the Infraspinatus and Teres minor protect it behind,/ and prevent dislocation backwards. The Teres major assists the Latissimus dorsi in drawing the humerus downwards and backwards when previously raised, and rotating it inwards ; when the arm is fixed, it may assist the Pectoral and Latis- simus dorsi muscles in drawing the trunk forwards. Anterior Humeral Region. (Fig 174.) Coraco-Brachialis. Biceps. ' Brachialis Anticus. Dissection. The arm being placed on the table, with the front surface uppermost, make a vertical incision through the integument along the middle line, from the outer extremity of the anterior fold of the axilla, to about two inches below the elbow-joint, where it should be joined by a transverse incision, extending from the inner to the outer side of the forearm; the two Haps being reflected on either side, the fascia should be examined. The deep fassjjj of the arm, continuous with that covering the shoulder and front of the great Pectoral muscle, is attached, above, to the clavicle, acromion, and spine of the scapula ; it forms a thin, loose, membranous sheath investing the muscles of the arm, sending down septa between them, and composed of fibres disposed in a circular or spiral direction, and connected together by vertical fibres. It differs in thickness at different parts, being thin over the Biceps, but thicker where it covers the Triceps, and over the condyles of the humerus : it is strengthened by fibrous aponeuroses, derived from the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi, on the inner side, and from the Deltoid externally. On either side it gives off a strong intermuscular septum, which is attached to the condyloid ridge and condyle of the humerus. These septa serve to separate the muscles of the anterior from those of the posterior brachial region. The external intermuscular septum extends from the lower part of the anterior bicipital ridge, along the external condyloid ridge, to the outer condyle ; it is blended with the tendon of the Deltuid ; gives attachment to the Triceps behind, to the Brachialis anticus, Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior, in front; and is perforated by the ' musculo-spiral nerve, and superior profunda artery. The internal intermuscular septum, thicker than the preceding, extends from the lower part of the posterior lip of the bicipital groove below the Teres major, along the internal condyloid ridge to the inner condyle; it is blended with the tendon of the Coraco-brachialis, and affords attachment to the Triceps behind, and the Brachialis anticus in front. It is perforated by the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. #2, At the elbow, the deep fascia is attached to all the prominent points round the joint, and is continuous with the fascia of the forearm. On the removal of this fascia, the muscles of the anterior humeral region are exposed. The Coraco-Brachialis, the smallest of the three muscles in this region, is situated at the upper and inner part of the arm. It arises by fleshy fibres from | the apex of_the_ coracoid process, in common with the short head of the Biceps, and from the intermuscular septum between the two muscles ; the fibres pass downwards, backwards, and a little outwards, to be inserted by means of a flat tendon into a rough ridge at the middle of the inner side of the shaft of the humerus. It is perforated by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The inner border ' of the muscle forms a guide to the position of the vessel, in tying the brachial artery in the upper part of its course, Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Deltoid and Pectoralis major above, and at its insertion with the brachial vessels and median nerve which cross it. By its posterior surface, with the tendons of the Subscapularis, Latissimus dorsi, and Teres major, the short head of the Triceps, the humerus, and the anterior cir- cumflex vessels. By its inner border, with the brachial artery, and the median and