MUSCLES AND FASCLE. along the back of the tougue beneath the mucous membrane, and blending with the deeper fibres. At the sides of the tongue these fibres are crossed by those of the palato-and byo-glossus. Between these two are found transverse fibres (fig. 159) which arise from the median septum, and blend with the fibres of the palato- glossus and other muscles, as well as a large number of vertical fibres, The vertical fibres are arranged somewhat parallel with those of the genio-hyo-glossus, with which many of those near the middle line are continuous : they extend from the iqjper to the lower surface of the tongue, decussating with the fibres of the other muscles, and especially with the transverse. The interstices of the muscular fibres are filled with a large quantity of fat and glandular tissue. A very distinct fibrous septum exists between the two halves of the tongue, so that the anastomoses between the two lingual arteries are not very free, a fact often illustrated by injecting one half of the tongue with coloured size, while the other is left uninjected, or is injected of a different colour. The Stulo-Glossus, the shortest and smallest of the three styloid muscles, arises from the anterior and outer side of the styloid process, near its centre, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, to which its fibres, in most cases, are attached by a thin aponeurosis. Passing downwards and forwards, so as to become nearly hori- zontal in its direction, it divides upon the side of the tongue into two portions i one longitudinal, which is inseited along the side of the tongue, blending with the fibres of the Lingualis in front of the Hyo-glossus; the other oblique, which overlaps the Hyo-glossus muscle, and decussates with its fibres. Relations. By its external surface, from above downwards, with the parotid gland, the Internal pterygoid muscle, the sublingual gland, the gustatory nerve, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. By its internal surface, with the tonsil, the Superior constrictor, and the Hyo-glossus muscle. The Palato-Glossus or Constrictor Isthmi Faucium, although it is one of the muscles of the tongue, serving to draw its base upwards during the act of deglu- tition, is more nearly associated with the soft palate, both in its situation and function ; it will, consequently, be described with that group of muscles. Nerves. The Palato-glossus is supplied by the palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion; the Lingualis, according to some authors, by the chorda tympani; the remaining muscles of this group, by the hypoglossal. Actions. The movements of the tongue, although numerous and complicated, may be understood by carefully considering the direction of the fibres of its muscles. The Genio-hyo-glossi, by means of their posterior and inferior fibres, draw upwards the hyoid bone, bringing it and the base of the tongue forwards, so as to protrude the apex from the mouth, The anterior fibres will draw the tongue back into the mouth. The whole length of these two muscles acting along the middle line of the tongue will draw it downwards, so as to make it concave from side to side, forming a channel along which fluids may pass towards the pharynx, as in sucking. The Hyo-glossi muscles draw down the sides of the tongue, so as to render it convex from side to side. The Linguales, superficial and inferior, by drawing downwards the centre and apex of the tongue, render it convex from before backwards. The Palato-glossi draw the base of the tongue upwards, and the Stylo-glossi upwards and backwards. 5. Pharyngeal Eegion. Constrictor Inferior. Constrictor Superior. Constrictor Medius. Stylo-Pharyngeus. Palato-Pharyngeus. (See next Section.) Dissection (fig. 160), In order to examine the muscles of the pharynx, cut through the trachea and oesophagus just above the sternum, and draw them upwards by dividing the loose areolar tissue connecting the pharynx with the front of the vertebral column. The parts being drawn well forwards, apply the ed<re of the saw immediately behind the styloid processes, and saw the baso of the skull through from below upwards. The pharynx