345 POSTERIOR AURICULAR. muscles; it then changes its course and passes vertically upwards, pierces the cranial attachment of the Trapezius, and ascends in a tortuous course over the occiput, as high as the vertex, where it divides into numerous branches. It is accompanied in the latter part of its coarse by the great occipital and a cutaneous filament from the sub-occipital nerve. The branches given off froin this vessel are, Muscular. Meningeal. Auricular. Arteria Princeps Oervicis. The muscular branches supply the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, Sterno-mastoid, Splenius, and Trachelo-mastoid muscles. The branch distributed to the Sterno- mastoid is of large size. The auricular branch, supplies the back pax-t of the concha. The meningeal branch ascends with the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, to supply the dura mater in the posterior fossa. The arteria princeps cervicis (fig. 216) is a large branch which descends along the back part of the neck, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The former runs beneath the Splenius, giving off branches which perforate that muscle to supply the Trapezius, anastomosing with the superficial cervical artery: the latter passes beneath the Complexus, between it and the Semispinalis colli, and anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical branch of the superior inter- costal. The anastomosis between these vessels serves mainly to establish the collateral circulation after ligature of the carotid or subclavian artery. The cranial branches of the occipital artery are distributed upon the occiput; they are very tortuous, and lie between the integument and Occipito-frontalis, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, the posterior auricular, and temporal arteries. They supply the back part of the Occipito-frontalis muscle, the integument and pericranium, and one or two branches occasionally pass through the parietal or mastoid foramina, to supply the dura mater. The Posterior Auricular Artery (fig. 213) is a small vessel which arises from the external carotid, above the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, opposite the apex of the styloid process. It ascends, under cover of the parotid gland, to the groove between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process, immediately above which it divides into two branches, an anterior, passing forwards to anastomose with the posterior division of the temporal; and a posterior, communicating with the occipital. Jus+ before arriving at the mastoid process, this artery is crossed byf the portio dura, and has beneath it the spinal accessory nerve. ' Besides several small branches to the Digastric, Stylo-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles, and to the parotid gland, this vessel gives off two branches : Stylo-Mastoid. Auricular. The stylo-mastoid branch enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, and supplies the tym- panum, mastoid cells, and semicircular canals. In the young subject a branch from this vessel forms, with the tympanic branch from the internal maxillary, a vascular circle, which surrounds the auditory meatus, and from which delicate vessels ramify on the membrana tympani. The auricular branch is distributed to the back part of the cartilage of the ear, upon which it ramifies minutely, some branches curving round the margin of the fibro-cartilage, others perforating it, to supply its anterior surface. It anastomoses with the anterior auricular branches of the temporal. The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery (fig. 216), the smallest branch of the ex- ternal carotid, is a long slender vessel, deeply seated in the neck, beneath the other branches of the external carotid and the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It arises from the back part of the external carotid, near the commencement of that vessel, and ascends vertically between the internal carotid and the side of the pharynx, to the under surface of the base of the skull, lying on the Rectus capitis anticus major. Its branches may be subdivided into three sets: 1. Those directed outwards to