72 THE SKELETON". lacerum anterius, sphenomaxillary fissure, supraorbital foramen, infraorbital canal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, malar foramina, and lachrymal canal. To these may be added the external orbital foramina, when present. The Nasal Fossae. The Nasal Fossce are two large irregular cavities, situated on either side of the middle line of the face, extending from the base of the cranium to the roof of the mouth, and separated from each other by a thin vertical septum. They communicate by two large apertures, the anterior nares, with the front of the face; and with the pha- rynx behind by the two posterior nares. These fossae are much narrower above than below, and in the middle than at the anterior or posterior openings: their depth, which is considerable, is much greater in the middle than at either extremity. Each nasal fossa communicates with four sinuses, the frontal above, the sphenoidal behind, and the maxillary and ethmoidal on either side. Each fossa also commu- nicates with four cavities : with the orbit by the lachrymal canal, with the mouth by the anterior palatine canal, with the cranium by the olfactory foramina, and 66.—Roof, Floor, and Outer Wall of Nasal Fossa. Baaf yasat Jboiit. Jfasal Shine of J"rontal Boiie Horizontal Flat* afJEtkmoid SpAenoid I' loor jhit.Na.nal Spiiu Folate X'roc of Sup.Max. folate Froc. tfjPa/atc Post.JTatal A'pinc Ant. Palatine Canal U Prole, passed through < tiato-lachn/mal Canirt Bristle yassed through I nfu ndihulant, Outer Wall Ss .Vasal Pros. ofStijiMa Ft/i ;>vUt VncifurmFroc rf dit'a In fc Tier Furbi nolt d Palate. Supe rior Meatus Middle Meatus Inferior Meatus with the spheno-maxillary fossa by the sphenopalatine foramen ; and they occa- sionally communicate with each other by an aperture in the septum. The bones entering into their formation are fourteen in number: three of the cranium, tin- frontal, sphenoid, and ethmoid, and all the bones of the face, excepting the malar and lower jaw. Each cavity is bounded by a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall. The upper wall, or roof (fig. 66), is long, narrow, and concave from before back- wards ; it is formed in front by the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal, which are directed downwards and forwards ; in the middle, by the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid, which is horizontal; and behind, by the under surface of the body of tlie sphenoid, and sphenoidal turbinated bones, which are directed downward-"and backwards. This surface presents, from before backwards, the internal aspect of the nasal bones; on their outer side, the suture formed between the nasal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxillary; on their inner side, the elevated crest which receives the nasal spine of the frontal, and the perpendicular plate of the