FIFTH. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY. 513 the sympathetic. This is occasionally blended with the long root, and sometimes passes to the ganglion separately. According to Tiedemann, this ganglion receives a filament of communication from the spheno-palatine ganglion. Its brandies of distribution are the short ciliary nerves. These are delicate filaments from ten to twelve in number, which arise from the fore part of the ganglion in two bundles, connected with its superior and inferior angles ; the upper bundle consisting of four filaments, and the lower of six to eight. They run forwards with the ciliary arteries in a wavy course, one set above and the other below the optic nerve, pierce the sclerotic at the back part of the globe, pass forwards in delicate grooves on its inner surface, and are distributed to the ciliary muscle and iris. A small filament is described by Tiedemann, penetrating the optic nerve with the arteria centralis retinae. Superior Maxillary Nerve. (Fig. 286.) The Superior Maxillary, or second division of the fifth, is a sensory nerve. It is in termediate, both in position and size, between the ophthalmic and inferior maxillary. It commences at the middle of the Casserian ganglion as a flattened plexiform band, and passes forwards through the foramen rotundum, where it becomes more cylindrical in form, and firmer in texture. It then crosses the spheno- maxillary fossa, enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, traverses the infra-orbital canal in the floor of the orbit, and appears upon the face at the infra- orbital foramen. At its termination, the nerve lies beneath the Levator labii superioris muscle, and divides into a, leash of branches, which spread out upon the side of the nose, the lower eyelid, and upper lip, joining with filaments of the facial nerve. The branches of this nerve may be divided into three groups :—1. Those given off in the spheno-maxillary fossa. 2. Those in the infra-orbital canal. 3. Those on the face. [Orbital. Spheno-maxillary fossa- Spheno-palatine. (Posterior dental. Infra-orbital canal . Anterior dental. [Palpebral. On the face . .. . \ Nasal. (Labial. The orbital branch arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides at the back of that cavity into two branches, temporal and malar. The temporal branch runs in a groove along the outer wall of the orbit (in the malar bone), receives a branch of communication from the lachrymal, and, passing through a foramen in the malar bone, enters the temporal fossa. It ascends between the bone and substance of the Temporal muscle, pierces this muscle and the temporal fascia about an inch above the zygoma, and is distributed to the integument covering the temple and side of the forehead, communicating with the facial and auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. As it pierces the temporal fascia, it gives off a slender twig which runs between the two layers of the fascia to the outer angle of the orbit. The malar branch passes along the external inferior angle of the orbit, emerges upon the face through a foramen in the malar bone, and perforating the Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle supplies the skin on the prominence of the cheek, and is named subcutaneous malce. It joins with the facial and the palpebral branches of the superior maxillary. The spheno-palatine branches, two in number, descend to the spheno-palatine ganglion. 4 The posterior dental branches arise from the trunk of the nerve just as it is about L L