77 STERNUM. for the first costal cartilage, and below by a small facet, which, with a similar facet on the upper angle of the middle portion of the bone, forms a notch for the re- ception of the costal cartilage of the second rib. These articular surfaces are sepa- rated by a narrow curved edge, which slopes from above downwards and inwards. The Second Piece of the sternum, or gladiolus, considerably longer, narrower, and thinner than the first piece, is broader below than above. Its anterior surface, is nearly flat, directed upwards and forwards, and marked by three transverse lines which cross the bone opposite the third, fourth, and fifth articular depressions. These lines are produced by the union of the four separate pieces of which this part of the bone consists at an early period of life. At the junction of the third and fourth pieces is occasionally seen an orifice, the sternal foramen • it varies in size and form in different individuals, and pierces the bone from before backwards. This surface affords attachment on each side to the sternal origin of the Pectoralis major. The posterior surface, slightly concave, is also marked by three transverse lines ; but they are less distinct than those in front: this Surface affords attachment below, on each side, to the Triangularis sterni muscle, and occasionally presents the posterior opening of the sternal foramen. The superior border presents an oval surface for articulation with the manubrium. The inferior border is narrow and articulates with the ensiform appendix. Each lateral border presents at each superior angle a small facet, which, with a similar facet on the manubrium, forms a cavity for the cartilage of the second rib ; the four succeeding angular depressions receive the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, whilst each inferior angle presents a small facet, which, with a corresponding one on the ensiform appendix, forms a notch for the cartilage of the seventh rib. These articular depressions are separated by a series of curved interarticular intervals, which diminish in length from above downwards, and correspond to the intercostal spaces. Most of the cartilages belonging to the true ribs, as will be seen from the foregoing description, articulate with the sternum at the line of junction of two of its primi- tive component segments. This is well seen in many of the lower animals, where the separate parts of the bone remain ununited longer than in man. In this respect a striking analogy exists between the mode of connection of the ribs with the vertebral column, and the connection of their cartilages with the sternal column. The Third Piece of the sternum, the ensiform or xiphoid appendix, is the smallest of the three; it is thin and elongated in form, cartilaginous in structure in youth, but more or less ossified at its upper part in the adult. Its anterior surface affords attachment to the costo-xiphoid ligament; its posterior surface, to some of the fibres of the Diaphragm and Triangularis sterni muscles : its lateral borders, to the aponeurosis of the abdominal muscles. Above, it is continuous with the lower end of the gladiolus ; below, by its pointed extremity, it gives attachment to the linea alba, and at each superior angle presents a facet for the lower half of the cartilage of the seventh rib. This portion of the sternum is very various in appear- ance, being sometimes pointed, broad and thin, sometimes bifid, or perforated by a round hole, occasionally curved, or deflected considerably to one or the other side. Structure. The bone is composed of delicate cancellated texture, covered by a thin layer of compact tissue, which is thickest in the manubrium, between the articular facets for the clavicles. Development. The sternum, including the ensiform appendix, is developed by six centres : one for the first piece or manubrium, four for the second piece or gladiolus, and one for the ensiform appendix. Up to the middle of foetal life, the sternum is entirely cartilaginous, and when ossification takes place, the ossific granules are deposited in the middle of the intervals between the articular depressions for the costal cartilages, in the following order (fig. 71). In the first piece, between the fifth and sixth months; in the second and third, between the sixth and seventh months; in the fourth piece, at the ninth month ; in the fifth, within the first year, or between the first and second years after birth; and in the ensiform appendix, between the second and the seventeenth or eighteenth years, by a single centre which makes its appearance at the upper part, and