cvi GENERAL ANATOMY. Tije lymphatic vessels are arranged in a minute plexiform network in the superficial layers of the coriuni, where they become interwoven with the capillar}' and nervous plexuses ; they are especially abundant in the scrotum and around the nipple. As above stated, they probably communi- cate with the interfascicular channels of the connective tissue. The nerves which supply the skin ascend with the vessels through the areolae of the deep layers of the corium to the more superficial layers, where they form a minute plexiform mesh. From this plexus the primitive nerve-fibres pass to be distributed to the papilla?. The nerves are most numerous in those parts which are provided with the greatest sensibility. The appendages of the skin are the nails, the hairs, the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands, and their ducts. The nails and hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, con- sisting essentially of the same cellular structure as that membrane. The Nails are flattened elastic structures of a horny texture, placed upon the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of the fingers and toes. Each nail is convex on its outer surface, concave within, and is implanted by a portion called the root into a groove of the skin; the exposed portion is called the body, and the anterior extremity the free edge. The nail has a very firm adhesion to the cutis, being accurately moulded upon its surface, as the epidermis is in other parts. The part of the cutis beneath the body and root of the nail is called the matrix, because it is the part from which the nail is produced. Corresponding to the body of the nail, the matrix is thick, and covered with large, highly vascular papilla3, arranged in longitudinal rows, the colour of which is seen through the transparent tissue. Behind this, near the root of the nail, the papilla? are small, less vascular, and have no regular arrangement; hence the portion of the nail corresponding to this part is of a whiter colour, and called lunula, from its form. The cuticle, as it passes forwards on the dorsal surface of the finger, is attached to the surface of the nail, a little in advance of its root: at the extremity of the finger it is connected with the under surface of the nail, a little behind its free edge. The cuticle and horny structure of the nail (both epidermic structures) are thus directly continuous with each other. The nails, in structure, consist of cells having a laminated arrangement, and these are essentially similar to those composing" the epidermis. The deepest layer of cells, which lie in contact with the papilla? at the root and under surface of the nail, are of elongated form, arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and provided with nuclei; those which succeed these are of a rounded or polygonal form, the more superficial ones becoming broad, thin, and flattened, and so closely compacted together as to make the limits of each cell very indistinct. - It is by the successive growth of new cells at the root and under surface of the body of the nail, that it advances forwards, and maintains a due thickness, whilst, at the same time, the growth of the nail in the proper direction is secured. As these cells in their turn become displaced by the growth of new cells, they assume a flattened form, lose their nuclei, and finally become closely compacted together into a firm, dense horny tex- ture. In chemical composition the nails resemble the epidermis. Accord-