THE TRACHEA. gland {tracheotomy). The student should, therefore, carefully consider the relative anatomy of the air-tube in each of these situations. Beneath the integument of the laryngotracheal region, on either side of the median line, are the two anterior jugular veins. Their size and position vary; there is nearly alwaj's one, and frequently two ; at the lower part of the neck they diverge, passing beneath the Sterno- mastoid muscles, and are frequently connected by a transverse communicating branch. These veins should, if possible, always be avoided in any operation on the larynx or trachea. If cut through, considerable haemorrhage occurs. Beneath the cervical fascia are the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the con- tiguous edges of the former being near the median line ; and beneath these muscles the following parts are met with, from above downwards : the thyroid cartilage, the crico-thyroid membrane, the cricoid cartilage, and the trachea, crossed by the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The crico-thyroid space is very superficial, and may be easily felt beneath the skin as a depression, about an inch below the pomum Adami; it is crossed transversely by a small artery, the crico-thyroid, the division of which is seldom accompanied by any troublesome haemorrhage. The isthmus of the thyroid gland usually crosses the second and third rings of the trachea ; above it is found a large transverse communicating branch between the superior thyroid 40'.—Surgical Anatomy of Laryngo-Tracheal Region. In the Infant. veins, and the isthmus is covered by a venous plexus, formed between the thyroid veins of opposite sides. On the sides of the thyroid gland, and below it, the veins converge to a single median vessel, or to two trunks which descend along the median line of the front of the trachea, to open into the innominate veins by valved orifices. In the infant the thymus gland ascends a variable distance along the front of the trachea: and the innominate artery crosses the tube obliquely at the root of the neck, from left to right. The arteria thyroidea ima, when that vessel exists, passes from below upwards, along the front of the trachea. The upper part of the trachea lies comparatively superficial; but the lower part passes obliquely downwards and backwards, so as to be deeply placed between the converging iSterno-mastoid muscles. In the child the trachea is smaller, more deeply placed, and more movable than in the adult, In fat or short-necked people, or in those in whom the muscles ! of the neck are prominently developed, the trachea is more deeply placed than in the opposite conditions. From these observations it must be evident that laryngotomy is anatomically the most ! simple operation, can most readily be performed, and should always be preferred, when f particular circumstances do not render the operation of tracheotomy absolutely necessary.. ! The operation is performed thus: The head being thrown back and steadied by an assistant, j the linger is passed over the front of the neck, and the crico-thyroid depression felt for. A I vertical incision is then made through the skin, in the middle line over this spot, and the crico-thyroid membrane is divided to a sufficient extent to allow of the introduction of a zz2