613 INTERNAL EAR. which is perforated, at its anterior and inferior part, by several minute holes [macula cribrosa), for the passage of the filaments of the auditory nerve; and behind tbis depression is a vertical ridge, the pyramidal eminence. At the hinder part of the inner wall is the orifice of the aquasductus vestibuli, which extends to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It transmits a small vein, and, according to some, contains a tubular prolongation of the lining membrane of the vestibule, which ends in a cul-de-sac between the layers of the dura mater within the cranial cavity. On the upper vxill or roof is a transversely-oval depression, fovea, semi-elliptica, separated from the fovea hemispherica by the pyramidal eminence, already mentioned. Behind, the semicircular canals open into the vestibule by five orifices. In front is a large oval opening, which communicates with the scala vesti- buli of the cochlea by a single orifice, apertura scala; vestibuli cochlece. The Semicircular canals are three bony canals, situated above and behind the vestibule. They are of unequal length, compressed from side to side, and describe the greater part of a circle. They measure about one-twentieth of an inch in diameter, and each presents a dilatation at one end, called the ampulla, which mea- sures more than twice the diameter of the tube. These canals open into the vestibule by five orifices, one of the apertures being common to two of the canals. The superior semicircular canal is vertical in direction, and stretches across the petrous portion of the temporal bone, at right angles to its posterior surface; its arch forms a round projection on the anterior surface of the petrous bone. It describes about two-thirds of a circle. Its outer extremity, which is ampullated, 336.—The Cochlea laid open. (Enlarged.) commences by a distinct orifice in the upper part of the vestibule; the opposite end of the canal, which is not dilated, joins with the corresponding part of the posterior canal, and opens by a common orifice with it in the back part of the vestibule. The posterior semicircular canal, also vertical in direction, is directed backwards, nearly parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone : it is the longest of the three, its ampullated end commencing at the lower and back part of the vestibule, its opposite end joining to form the common canal already mentioned. The external or horizontal canal is the shortest of the three, its arch being directed outwards and backwards ; thus each semicircular canal stands at right angles to the other two. Its ampullated end corresponds to the upper and outer angle of the vestibule, just above the fenestra ovalis ; its opposite end opens by a distinct orifice at the upper and back part of the vestibule. The Cochlea bears some resemblance to a common snail-shell : it forms the anterior part of the labyrinth, is conical in form, and placed almost horizontally in front of the vestibule; its apex is directed forwards and outwards towards the upper and front part of the inner wa.ll of the tympanum ; its base corresponds with the anterior depression at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and is per- forated by numerous apertures, for the passage of the cochlear branch of the auditory nerve. It measures about a quar ter of an inch in length, and its breadth towards the. base is about the same. It consists of a conical-shaped central axis, the modiolus or columella • of a canal wound spirally round the axis for two turns and a half,