GENERAL ANATOMY Iviii comes out exactly the same size and shape as before, but perfectly flexible —so that a long bone (one of the ribs is the usual example) can easily be tied in a knot. If now a transverse section be made (fig. XXIII.), the same general arrangement of the Haversian canals, lamella3, lacuna?, and canaliculi is seen, tin nigh not so plainly as in the macerated specimen. If the individual lamellae are examined, they are found to be composed of fibres, most of which are nearby parallel ; but which interlace together, and anastomose or communicate with the fibres of the neighbouring lamella?. The organic or animal constituent of a bone is only incompletely removed by maceration, leaving the bone for an indefinite period perfectly tough and coherent ; but after being long kept in a warm dry atmosphere, or by incineration in a furnace, the animal part may be entirely removed, and then the earthy constituent will retain the form of the original bone, but on the slightest force it will crumble down. The animal base is often called cartilage, but differs from it in the following respects; viz., that it is softer and more flexible, and when boiled with a high pressure is almost entirely resolved into gelatine. Cartilage does, however, form the animal basis of bone in certain parts of the skeleton. Thus, according to Tomes and De Morgan, it occurs in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and, according to Dr. Sharpey, on the articular ends of adult bones, lying under- neath the natural cartilage of the joint. Chemical Analysis.—The organic constituent of bone forms about one- third, or 33-3 per cent.; the inorganic matter, two-thirds, or 66-7 per cent. ; as is seen in the subjoined analysis by Berzelius:— Organic Matter, Inorganic or Earthy Matter, Some chemists add to this about 1 per cent, of fat. The relative proportions of the two constituents of bone are found to differ in different bones of the skeleton, as shown by Dr. Owen Rees. Thus, the bones of the head, and the long bones of the extremities, contain more earthy matter than those of the trunk; and those of the upper extremity somewhat more than the corresponding bones of the lower extremity. The humerus contains more earthy matter than the bones of the fore-arm ; and the femur more than the tibia and fibula. The vertebrae, ribs, and clavicle contain nearly the same proportion of earthy matter. The meta- carpal and metatarsal bones contain about the same proportion as those of the trunk. Much difference exists in the analyses given by chemists as to the proportion between the two constituents of bone at different periods of life. According to Schreger and others, there is a considerable increase in the earthy constituents of the bones with advancing years. Dr. Rees states that this is especially marked in the long bones, and the bones of the head, which, in the fcetus. do not contain the excess of earthy matter found in those of the adult. But the bones of the trunk in the foetus, according to this analyst, contain as much earthy matter as those of the Gelatine and Blood-vessels . • 33'3° " Phosphate of Lime .51 04 Carbonate of Lime . 1130 Fluoride of Calcium 2 00 Phosphate of Magnesia. . 116 _ Soda and Chloride of Sodium T20 lOO'OO