INFRA HYOID REGION. 225 Variations. This muscle is sometimes continuous with the Thyrohyoid and Inferior con- 1; stricter of the phaiynx; and a lateral prolongation from it sometimes passes as far as the os hjoides. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Sternohyoid, Omo-hyoid, and Stei-no-mastoid. By its posterior surface, from below upwards, with the trachea, I vena innominata, common carotid (and on the right side the arteria innoniinata), the thyroid gland and its vessels, and the lower part of the larynx. The middle | thyroid vein lies along its inner border, a relation which it is important to remem- I ber in the operation of tracheotomy. The Thuro-Hyoid is a small quadrilateral muscle appealing like a continuation of the Sterno-thyroid. It arises from the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, and passes vertically upwards to be inserted into the lower border of the j body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. 156.—Muscles of the Neck. Anterior View. Relations. By its external surface, with the Scerno-hyoid and Omo-hyoid muscles. By its internal surface, with the thyroid cartilage, the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and the superior laryngeal ATessels and nerve. The Omo-Hyoid passes across the side of the neck, from the scapula to the hyoid bone. It consists of two fleshy bellies, united by a central tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, and occasionally from the transverse liga- ment which crosses the sttprascapular notch; its extent of attachment to the scapula varying from a few lines to an inch. From this origin, the posterior belly forms a flat, narrow fasciculus, which inclines forwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the Sterno-mastoid muscle, where it becomes tendinous ; it then changes its direction, forming an obtuse angle, and the anterior belly ascends almost vertically upwards, close to the outer border of the Sterno-hyoid, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the os byoides, just external to the insei'tion of the Sterno- hyoid. The tendon of this muscle, which varies much in its length and form in Q