NERVOUS SYSTEM. 5°4 The grey matter resembles somewhat the cortical substance of the convolutions. It consists of two layers: the external one, soft and of a greyish colour; the internal one, firmer and of a rust colour. The corpus clentatum, or ganglion of the cerebellum, is situated a little to the inner side of the centre of the stem of white matter. It consists of an open bag or capsule of grey matter, the section of which presents a grey dentated outline, open at its anterior part. It is surrounded by white fibres; white fibres are also contained in its interior, which issue from it to join the superior peduncles. The peduncles of the cerebellum, superior, middle, and inferior, serve to connect it with the rest of the encephalon. The superior peduncles processus e cerebello ad testes) connect the cerebellum with the cerebrum; they pass forwards and upwards to the testes, beneath which they ascend to the crura cerebri and optic thalami, forming part of the diverg- ing cerebral fibres: each peduncle forms part of the latei'al boundary of the fourth ventricle, and is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by the valve of Vieussens. The peduncles are continuous behind with the folia of the inferior vermiform pro- cess, and with the white fibres in the interior of the corpus dentatum. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina, the innermost fibres of each peduncle decussate with each other, so that some fibres from the right half of the cerebellum are continued to the left half of the cerebrum. The inferior peduncles {processus ad medullam) connect the cerebellum with the medulla oblongata. They pass downwards, to the back part of the medulla and form part of the restiform bodies. Above, the fibres of each process are connected chiefly with the laminae, on the upper surface of the cerebellum; and below, they are con- nected with all three tracts of one half of the medulla; and through these, with the corresponding half of the cord, excepting the posterior median columns. The middle peduncles {processus ad pontem), the largest of the three, connect together the two hemispheres of the cerebellum, forming their great transverse commissure. They consist of a mass of curved fibres, which arise in the lateral parts of the cerebellum, and pass across to the same points on the opposite side. They form the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii. Fourth Ventricle. (Eig. 277.) The fourth ventricle, or ventricle of the cerebellum, is the space between the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons in front, and the cerebellum behind. It is lozenge-shaped, being contracted above and below, and broadest across its central part. It is bounded laterally by the processus e cerebello ad testes above, and by the diverging posterior pyramids and restiform bodies below. The roof is arched ; it is formed by the valve of Vieussens and the under surface of the cerebellum, which presents, in this situation, four small eminences or lobules, the nodulus, uvula, and two amygdalae. The anterior boundary, or floor, is formed by the posterior surface of the medulla 281.—Vertical Section of the Cerebellum.