lxi'i GENERAL ANATOMY. meat of its interior from the ' ossitic centre.' Also a great part of the increase in girth of the bone takes place by bony deposit from the deeper layer of the periosteum. This process is now acknowledged to belong to the intra-membranous form of ossification. Thus even in long bones only a portion of then tissue is formed by intra-cartilaginous ossification. The shaft of the bone is at first solid, but a tube is gradually hollowed out in it by absorption around the vessels passing into it, which becomes the medullary canal; and as more and more bone is deposited from the periosteum, so more and more is removed from around the medullary membrane, until at length the bone has attained the shape and size which it is destined to retain during adult life. As the ossification of the carti- laginous diaphysis extends towards the articular ends, it carries with it, as it were, a layer of cartilage, or the cartilage grows as it ossifies. During this period of growth the articular end, or epiphysis, remains for some time entirely cartilaginous; then a bony centre appears in it, and it commences the same process of intra-cartilaginous ossification; but this process never extends to any very great distance. The epiphyses remain separated from the shaft by a narrow cartilaginous layer for a definite time. This layer ultimately ossifies, the distinction between shaft and epiphysis is obliterated, and the bone has assumed its completed form and shape. The same remarks also apply to the processes of bone which are separately ossified, such as the trochanters of the femur. The intra-cartilaginous ossification, and the growth by means of epi- physes, are usually described from the long bones; but almost all the bones of the body are primarily laid down in cartilage (see note, p. lix); and a great many of the flat and short bones grow by means of epiphyses! as will be seen in the detailed description of each given in the body of the work. The medullary spaces which characterise the cancellous tissue are pro- duced by the absorption of the original foetal bone in the same way as the medullary tube is formed, and the same is the case with the Haversian spaces above referred to as a sort of intermediate step between the Haversian canals and the medullary spaces. In the medullary spaces so formed the large ' giant cells' are found, which have been long described as a constituent of the foetal marrow, and to which lately the power has been ascribed of dissolving or absorbing the bone, so that Kolliker lias named them ' osteoclasts.' This function, however, is denied by some of the best authorities.* They vary in shape and size, and are known by containing a large number of clear nuclei, sometimes as many as twenty. The occurrence of similar cells in some tumours of bone lias led to such tumours being denominated 'myeloid.' The distinction between the cancellous and compact tissue appears to depend essentially upon the ex- tent to which this process of absorption has been carried ; and we may perhaps remind the reader that in morbid states of the bone inflammatory absorption produces exactly the same change, and converts portions of bono naturally compact into cancellous tissue. The intra-membranous ossification is that by which the bones of I he vertex of the skull are entirely formed. In the bones which are so de- * Frey says, ' I have not the faintest belief in their possessing thU property.'