665 THE LIVEE. arranged perpendicularly, side by side, over its entire surface; they are longer, more numerous, and placed in much closer apposition than those of the small intestine; and they open by minute rounded orifices upon the surface, giving it a cribriform appearance. The solitary glands (fig. 375) in the large intestine are most abundant in the ccecum and appendix vermiformis, but are irregularly scattered also over the rest of the intestine. They are similar to those of the small intestine. The nerves of the intestine are derived from the plexuses of sympathetic nerves around the mesenteric arteries. From this source they run to a plexus of nerves and ganglia situated between the circular and longitudinal fibres (Auerbach's plexus) from which the nervous branches are distributed to the muscular coats of the intestine. From this plexus a secondary plexus is derived (Meissner's plexus) (fig. 376), which is 376.—Meissner's Plexus. (Klein and Noble Smith.) a. Hroups of multipolar ganglion-cells, each with a clear nucleus, in the enlarged parts oflthe plexus, h. Large single ganglion-cells, apparently unipolar, each with a clear nucleus connected with the branches of the plexus. formed by branches which have perforated the circular muscular fibres. This plexus lies between the muscular and mucous coats of the intestine. It is also gangliated, and from it the ultimate fibres pass to the muscularis mucosas and to the mucous membrane. The Liver. The liver is a glandular organ of lai'ge size, intended mainly for the secretion of the bile, but effecting also important changes in certain constituents of the blood in their passage through the gland. It is situated in the right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypochondrium. It is the largest gland in the body, weighing from three to four pounds (from fifty to sixty ounces avoirdupois). It measures, in its transverse diameter, from ten to twelve inches ; from six to seven in its antero posterior; and is about three inches thick at the back part of the right lobe, which is the thickest part.