lxxvii NERVOUS TISSUE. described, but contains others that are rather larger. It is only here and there that the cells are collected into elongated groups, which give the appearance of radiations. On its under side it gradually blends with the central white axis of the convolution, into which its cells are scattered for some distance. Fig. XLII.—Vertical section through the grey matter of the human cerebellum, Magnified about 100 diameters. (Klein and Noble Smith.) a. The superficial, so-called molecular, or (better) fibrillar layer, containing in a matrix of fine nerve-networks the dichotomonsly branched processes of the large ganglion-cells of Purkinje, that form the second layer b. The nuclei of the fibrillar layer belongs partly to small ganglion-cells, partly to Deiters' neuroglia-cells. Two branched capil- lary blood-vessels are seen at the upper part, passing into the grey matter from the free surface, i.e. from the pia mater, c. Nuclear layer containing, in a fine nerve-network, numerous groups of nucleated cells, of which the nuclei only are visible, d. Part of white substance. The nerve-network has been omitted in the larger figure for the sake of clearness. It is seen in B, which shows one of the ganglion-cells of Purkinje with its dichotomonsly branched processes, and a portion of the adjoining nuclear and fibrillar layers. Nearer the surface the meshes of the nerve-network become more elongated, as if they were stretched out in a direction vertical to the surface. At the surface, however, they are like those here represented, but smaller. ' The seventh layer is this central white stem or axis of the convolution. On every side it gives off bundles of fibres, which diverge in all directions, in a fan-like manner, towards the surface, through the several grey layers. As they pass between the elongated and radiating groups of cells in the inner grey layers, some of them become continuous with the pro- cesses of the cells in the same section or plane, but others bend round and