THE SKELETON. 42 41.—Skull at Birth, showing the Anterior and Posterior Fontanelles. in two symmetrical segments, one on either side of the median lire; these subsequently coalesce, so as to enclose the chorda dorsalis—the chief part of the cerebral capsule si ill retaining its membranous form. Ossification first takes place in the roof, and is preceded by the deposition of a membranous blastema upon the surface of the cerebral capsule, iu which the ossifying process extends; the primitive membranous capsule becoming the internal periosteum, and being ultimately blended with the dura mater. Although the bones of the vertex of the skull appear before those at the base, and make con- siderable progress in their growth, at birth ossification is more advanced in the base, this portion of the skull forming a solid immov- able groundwork. The Fontanelles (figs. 41, 42). Before birth, the bones at the vertex and side of the skull are separated from each other by membranous intervals, in which bone is deficient. These intervals, at certain parts, are of considerable size, and are termed the fon- tanelles, so called from the pulsations of the brain, which are perceptible at the anterior fontanelle, and were likened to the rising of water in a fountain. The fontanelles are four in number, and correspond to the junction of the four angles of the parietal with the con- tiguous bones. The anterior fontanelle is the largest, aud corresponds to the junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures; the pos- terior fontanelle, of smaller size, is situated at the junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures ; the two remaining ones are situated at the inferior angles of the parietal bone. The latter are closed soon after birth; the two at the superior angles remain open longer; the posterior being closed in a few months after birth; the anterior remaining open until the first or second year. These spaces are gradually filled in by an extension of the ossifying process, or by the development of a Wormian bone. Sometimes the anterior fontanelle remains open beyond two years, and is occasionally persistent throughout life. 42.—The Lateral Fontanelles. Supernumerary or Wormian * Boxes. When ossification of any of the tabular bones of the skull proves abortive, the mem- branous interval which would be left is usually filled in by a supernumerary piece of hone. This is developed from a separate centre, and gradually extends until it fills the vacant space. These supernumerary pieces are called Wormian bones; they are called also, from their usual form, ossa triquetra; but they present much variation in situation, 11 umber, ind size. They occasionally occupy the situation of the fontanelles. Bertin, Cruvelhier, and Cuvier have each noticed the presence of one in the anterior fontanelle. There are two specimens jn the Museum of St. George's Hospital, which present Wormian bones in this situation. In one, the skull of a child, the supernumerary piece is of considerable size, and of a quadrangular form. They are occasionally found in the posterior fontanelle, appearing to replace the superior angle of the occipital bone. Not unfrequently, there is one replacing the extremity of the great wing of the sphenoid, or the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, in the fontanelle there situated. They have been found in the different sutures on the vertex and side of the skull, and in some of those at the base. They are most frequent in the lambdoid suture. Mr. Ward mentions an instance ' in which one-half of the lambdoid suture was formed by large Wormian bones disposed in a double row, and jutting deeply into each other;' and refers to similar specimens described by Dumontier and Bourgery. * Wormius, a physician in Copenhagen, is said to have given the first detailed descrip- tion of these bones.