THE EPITHELIUM. cxi The columnar epithelium (fig. LXVIII.) is formed of cylindrical or rod- shaped cells, each containing a nucleus, and set together so as to form a complete membrane. This form of epithelium covers the mucous membrane of the whole gastro-intestinal tract and the glands of that part, the greater part of the urethra, the vas deferens, the prostate, Cowper's glands, Bartholine's glands, and a portion of the uterine mucous membrane. Fig. LXIX.—Spheroidal epi- Fig. LXX.—Ciliated epithelium from thelimn from the human Had- the human trachea. Magnified 350 der. Magnified 250 times. times. «. Innermost layers of the elastic longitudinal fibres. b. Homogeneous innermost layers of the mucous membrane, c. Deepest round cells. d. Middle elongated, e. Superficial, bearing cilia. The spheroidal or glandular epithelium (fig. LXIX.) is composed of circular cells, with granular contents and a small nucleus. This form is found in the kidney, ureters, and bladder, and in the secreting glands. Ciliated epithelium (fig. LXX.) may be of any of the preceding forms, but usually inclines to the columnar shape. It is distinguished by the presence of minute processes, like hairs or eyelashes (cilia), standing up from the free surface. If the cells be examined during life, or immediately on removal from the living body (for which in the human subject the re- FlG. LXXI.—Simple columnar epithelium from the mucous membrane of the intestine, with goblet-cells pouring out their contents. (Klein and Noble Smith.) moval of a nasal polypus offers a frequent opportunity), in tepid water, the cilia will be seen in active lashing motion ; and if the cells be separate, they will often be moved about in the field by that motion. The situations in which ciliated epithelium is found in the human body are—the respiratory tract from the nose downwards, the tympanum and Eustachian tube, the Fallopian tube and upper portion of the uterus, the vasa efferentia, coni vasculares, and first part of the excretory duct of the