CBANIAL NERVES. 53° The posterior pulmonary branches, more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the posterior aspect of the root of the lung: they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and form the posterior pulmonary plexus. Branches from both plexuses accompany the ramifica- tions of the air-tubes through the substance of the lungs. The oesophageal branches are given off from the pneumogastric both above and below the pulmonary branches. The lower are more numerous and larger than the upper. They form, together with branches from the opposite nerve, the oesophageal plexus, or plexus gube. The gastric branches are the terminal filaments of the pneumogastric nerve. The nerve on the right side is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach, and joins the left side of the coeliac plexus and the splenic plexus. The nerve on the left side is distributed over the anterior surface of the stomach, some filaments passing across the great cul-de-sac, and others along the lesser curvature. They unite with branches of the right nerve and with the sympathetic, some filaments passing through the lesser omentum to the left hepatic plexus. The Spinal Accessory Nerve consists of two parts : one, the accessory part to the vagus, and the other the spinal portion. The accessory part, the smaller of the two, arises by four or five delicate filaments from the lateral tract of the cord below the roots of the vagus ; these filaments may be traced to a nucleus of grey matter at the back of the medulla, below the origin of the vagus. It joins, in the jugular foramen, with the upper ganglion of the vagus by one or two filaments, and is continued into the vagus below the second ganglion. It gives blanches to the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus. The spinal portion, firm in texture, arises by several filaments from the lateral tract of the cord, as low down as the sixth cervical nerve; the fibres pierce the tract, and are connected with the anterior horn of the grey matter of the cord. This portion of the nerve ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and it is then directed outwards to the jugular foramen, through which it passes, lying in the same sheath as the pneumogastric, but separated from it by a fold of the arachnoid, and is here connected with the accessory portion. At its exit from the jugular foramen, it passes backwards, either in front of or behind the internal jugular vein, and descends obliquely behind the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles to the upper part of the Sterno-mastuid. It pierces that muscle, and passes obliquely across the occipital triangle, to terminate in the deep surface of the Trapezius. This nerve gives several branches to the Sterno-mastoid during its passage through it, and joins in its substance with branches from the third cervical. In the occipital triangle it joins with the second and third cervical nerves, and assists in the formation of the cervical plexus, and occasionally of the great auricular nerve. On the front of the Trapezius, it is reinforced by branches from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, joins with the posterior branches of the spinal nerves, and is distributed to the Trapezius, some filaments ascending and others descending in the substance of the muscle as far as its inferior angle. Ninth, or Hypoglossal Nerve. (Fig. 294.) The Ninth, or Hypoglossal Nerve, is the motor nerve of the tongue. It arises by several filaments, from ten to fifteen in number, from the groove between the pyramidal and olivary bodies, in a continuous line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The deep origin of the nerve can be traced through the olivary body to a special nucleus, at the lowest point of the fourth ventricle, close to the decus- sation of the pyramids. The filaments of this nerve are collected into two bundles, which perforate the dura mater separately, opposite the anterior condyloid foramen, and unite together after their passage through it. In those cases in which the anterior condyloid foramen in the occipital bone is double, these two portions of the nerve are separated by the small piece of bone which divides the foramen. The nerve