428 VEINS instance, the veins in the skull and spinal canal, the hepatic veins in the liver, and the larger veins returning blood from the osseous tissue. Sinuses are venous channels, which, in their structure and mode of distribution, differ altogether from the veins. They are found only in the interior of the skull, and are formed by a separation of the layers of the dura mater; their outer coat consisting of fibrous tissue, their inner of an endothelial layer continuous with the lining membrane of the veins. Yeins have thinner walls than arteries, the difference in thickness being due to the small amount of elastic and muscular tissues which the veins contain. The superficial veins usually have thicker coats than the deep veins, and the veins of the lower limb are thicker than those of the upper. The minute structure of these vessels is described in the Introduction. The veins may be arranged into three groups :—i. Those of the head and neck, upper extremity, and thorax, which terminate in the superior vena cava. 2. Those of the lower limb, pelvis, and abdomen, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. 3. The cardiac veins, which open directly into the light auricle of the heart. Yeins of the Head and Neck. The veins of the head and neck may be subdivided into three groups :—1. The veins of the exterior of the head. 2. The veins of the neck. 3. The veins of the diploe and interior of the cranium. The veins of the exterior of the head are, the Facial. Temporo-maxillary. Temporal. Posterior auricular. Internal maxillary. Occipital. The Facial Vein passes obliquely across the side of the face, extending from the inner angle of the orbit, downwards and outwards, to the anterior margin of the Masseter muscle. It lies to the outer side of the facial artery, and is not so tortuous as that vessel. It commences at the side of the root of the nose, and is the direct continuation of the angular vein, formed by the junction of the frontal and supra-orbital veins. The frontal vein commences on the anterior part of the skull, by a venous plexus, which communicates with the anterior branches of the temporal vein; the veins converge to form a single trunk, which runs downwards near the middle line of the forehead parallel with the vein of the opposite side, and unites with it at the root of the nose, by a transverse trunk, called the nasal arch. Occasionally, the frontal veins join to form a single trunk, which bifurcates at the root of the nose into the two angular veins. At the nasal arch the branches diverge, and run along the sides of the root of the nose. The frontal vein as it descends upon the forehead receives the supra-orbital, and becomes the angular vein. * The supra-orbital vein commences on the forehead, communicating with the anterior temporal and superior palpebral veins, and runs downwards and inwards, beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, receiving branches from the neighbouring structures and joins the frontal vein at the inner angle of the orbit to form the angular vein. The angular vein formed by the junction of the two preceding vessels runs obliquely downwards and outwards on the side of the root of the nose and receives the veins of the ala nasi on its inner side, and the superior palpebral veins on its outer side ; it moreover communicates with the ophthalmic vein, which establishes an important anastomosis between this vessel and the cavernous sinus. Some small veins from the dorsum of the nose terminate in the nasal arch. The facial vein commences at the inner angle of the orbit, being a continuation of the angular vein. It passes obliquely downwards and outwards, beneath the Zygomaticus major and minor muscles, descends along the anterior border of the