SPINAL NERVES. 553 accessory obturator nerve is not constantly found; when absent, the hip-joint receives branches from the obturator nerve. Occasionally it is very small, and becomes lost in the capsule of the hip-joint. The Anterior Crural Nerve (figs. 303, 305) is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus. It supplies muscular branches to the Iliacus, Pectineus, and all the muscles on the front of the thigh, excepting the Tensor vaginae femoris; cutaneous filaments to the front and inner side of the thigh, and to the leg and foot; and articular branches to the knee. It arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, receiving also a fasciculus from the second. It descends through the fibres of the Psoas muscle, emerging from it at the lower part of its outer border; and passes down between it and the Iliacus, and beneath Poupart's ligament, into the thigh, where it becomes somewhat flattened, and divides into an anterior or cutaneous, and a posterior or muscular part. Beneath Poupart's ligament, it is separated from the femoral artery by the Psoas muscle, and lies beneath the iliac fascia. Within the pelvis, the anterior crural nerve gives off from its outer side some small branches to the Iliacus, and a branch to the femoral artery, which is distributed upon the upper part of that vessel. The origin of this branch varies; it occasionally arises higher than usual, or it may arise lower down in the thigh. External to the pelvis, the following branches are given off:— From the Anterior Division* From the Posterior Division. The middle cutaneous nerve (fig. 304) pierces the fascia lata (occasionally the Sartoriusjalso) about three inches below Poupart's ligament and divides into two branches, which descend in immediate proximity along the fore part of the thigh, distributing numerous branches to the integument as low as the front of the knee, where the middle cutaneous communicates with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. Its outer branch communicates, above, with the crural branch of the genito- crural nerve; and the inner branch with the internal cutaneous nerve below. The Sartorius muscle is supplied by this or the following nerve. The internal cutaneous nerve passes obliquely across the upper part of the sheath of the femoral artery, and divides in front, or at the inner side of that vessel, into two branches, anterior and internal. The anterior branch perforates the fascia lata at the lower third of the thigh, and divides into two branches, one of which supplies the integument as low down as the inner side of the knee; the other crosses the patella to the outer side of the joint, communicating in its course with the long saphenous nerve. A cutaneous filament is occasionally given off from this nerve, which accompanies the long saphenous vein ; and it sometimes communicates with the internal branch of the nerve. The internal branch descends along the posterior border of the Sartorius muscle to the knee, where it pierces the fascia lata, communicates with the long saphenous nerve, and gives off several cutaneous branches. The nerve then passes down the inner side of the leg, to the integument of which it is distributed. This nerve, beneath the fascia lata, joins in a plexiform network, by uniting with branches of the long saphenous and obturator nerves (fig. 305). When the communicating branch from the latter nerve is large and continued to the integument of the leg, the inner branch of the internal cutaneous is small, and terminates at the plexus, occasionally giving off a few cutaneous filaments. This nerve, before subdividing, gives off a few filaments, which pierce the fascia lata, to supply the integument of the inner side of the thigh, accompanying the long saphenous vein. One of these filaments passes through the saphenous opening; a Middle cutaneous. Internal cutaneous. Long saphenous. Muscular. Articular. * One of the muscles of the thigh, the Sartorius, receives its nervous supply from this group.