THE EYE. 601 surface of the cartilages, and correspond in length with the breadth of each car- tilage ; they are, consequently, longer in the upper than in the lower eyelid. Their ducts open on the free margin of the lids by minute foramina, which correspond in number to the follicles. These glands are a variety of the cutaneous sebaceous glands, each consisting of a single straight tube or follicle, having a csecal termination, into which open a number of small secondary follicles. The tubes consist of basement membrane, covered by a layer of scaly epithelium ; the secondary follicles are lined by a layer of polyhedral cells, continuous with the cells of the tube. The remainder of the follicle is filled with large polyhedral cells, charged with fat. They are thus identical in structure with the sebaceous glands. The peculiar parallel arrangement of these glands side by side forms a smooth layer, adapted to the surface of the globe, over which they constantly glide. The use of their secretion is to prevent adhesion of the lids. The eyelashes (cilia) are attached to the free edges of the eyelids ; they are short, thick, curved hairs, arranged in a double or ti'iple row at the margin of the lids : those of the upper lid, more numerous and longer than the lower, curve upwards; those of the lower lid curve downwards, so that they do not interlace in closing the lids. The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It lines the inner surface 328.—The Meibomian Glands, etc., seen from the Inner Surface of the Eyelids. of the eyelids, and is reflected over the fore part of the sclerotic and cornea. In each of these situations, its structure presents some peculiarities. The palpebral portion of the conjunctiva is thick, opaque, highly vascular, and covered with numerous papillse, which, in the disease called granular lids, become greatly hypertrophied. At the margin of the lids, it becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the ducts of the Meibomian glands, and through the lachrymal canals, with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. At the outer angle of the upper lid, it may be traced along the lachrymal ducts into the lachrymal gland ; and at the inner angle of the eye, it forms a semilunar fold, the plica semilunaris. The folds formed by the reflection of the conjunctiva from the lids on to the eye are called the superior and inferior palpebral folds, the former being the deeper of the two. Upon the sclerotic, the conjunctiva is loosely connected to the globe : it becomes thinner, loses its papillary structure, is transparent, and only slightly vascular in health. Upon the cornea, the conjunctiva is extremely thin and closely adherent, and no vessels can be traced into it in the adult in a healthy state. In the foetus, fine capillary loops extend, for some little distance forwards, into this membrane; but in the adult, they pass only to the circumference of the cornea. The deeper parts of the palpebral conjunctiva present, according to Henle, a considerable proportion of lymphoid tissue. Lymphatics arise in the conjunctiva in