406 ARTERIES. Levator ani muscles; some hsemorrhoidal branches, which supply the rectum, and occasionally take the place of the middle hsemorrhoidal artery ; and vesical branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesiculse seminales, and prostate gland. Ex- ternal to the pelvis, it gives off the coccygeal, inferior gluteal, comes nervi ischiadici, muscular, and articular branches. The coccygeal branch runs inwards, pierces the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and supplies the Gluteus maximus, the in- tegument, and other struc- tures on the back of the coccyx. The inferior gluteal branches, three or four in number, supply the Gluteus maximus muscle. The comes nervi ischia- dici is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the great sciatic nerve for a short distance; it then penetrates it, and runs in its substance to the lower part of the thigh. The muscular branches supply the muscles on the back part of the hip, ana- stomosing with the gluteal, external branch of the obturator, internal and external circumflex, and perforating ar- 234.—The Arteries of the Gluteal and Posterior Femoral Regions. Vrrmtyinhcn of Juifr/uti Circuutftan _ ttiperivrRrJjratitiij VM Pcrfamting superior teries. Some articular branches are distributed to the cap- sule of the hip-joint. The Ilio-Lumbar Artery ascends beneath the Psoas muscle and external iliac vessels, to the upper part of the iliac fossa, where it divides into a lumbar and an iliac branch. The lumbar branch sup- plies the Psoas and Qua- dratic lumborum muscles, anastomosing with the last lumbar artery, and sends a small spinal branch through the intervertebral foramen, between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, into the spinal canal, to supply the spinal cord and its membranes. The iliac branch descends to supply the Iliacus muscle, some offsets running between the muscle and the bone anastomosing with the iliac branch of the obtura- tor ; one of these enters an oblique canal to supply the diploe, whilst others run along the crest of the ilium, distributing branches to the Gluteal and Abdominal muscles, Si/j/trf-ItrfeiiHzl ArtiriHufc Terforidinn mimalimi tj Superior Musrtilar Sujinier EjUertmZ Articular Inferior Muscular