DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. 627 the papillae which are to form the bulk of the teeth being coated with a vascular con- nective tissue, isolated by the enamel organ, and separated from each other by the growing tissue of the foetal jaw. The next step is the formation of the odontoblasts, which have a relation to the development of the teeth similar to that of the osteoblasts to the formation of bone. These are large nucleated cells of elongated form, and provided with numerous processes developed from the cells of the dental papilla, which at that early stage consist of a fine fibrous tissue containing a number of cells, likened by Waldeyer to the structure of old atrophied umbilical cords, the elastic tissue only being absent. The odonto- blasts send out processes, which, as they grow, become calcified externally, the calcified portion forming the ivory, 346.—Dental Sac of a Human Embryo at an advanced Stage of Development, partly dia- grammatic. 347.—Canine Tooth of Man, presenting; a Portion of the Transverse Section of tbe Root. 2—£ a. Wall of tlie sac, formed of connective tissue, with its outer stratum a ' and its inner a-, A. Enamel organ, with its papillary and parietal layer of cells, c, d. The enamel-membrane and enamel-prisms, e. Dentine cells. /. Dental germ and capillaries. </, i. Transition of the wall of the follicle into the tissue of the dental genu. Cement with large lacuna; and parallel strife, tcrglohular substance. 3. Dentinal tubules, nifled 300 diams.) a. In- (Magr the uncalciGed part the dentinal fibres (Tomes's fibres), and the lateral processes the branches of anastomosis whereby the dentinal canals communicate. The remains of the odontoblasts themselves form what is known as the ' membrana eboris' of Kiilliker, a cellular layer which forms the investment of the pulp lying between its nerves and vessels and the dentine. The cement is ordinary bone, containing canaliculi and lacunae, and developed from the deeper tissues of the foetal jaw, exactly as bone is produced in other parts of the body by periosteal ossification. Haversian canals are found, according to Salter, where the cement is thick. The eerms of the milk teeth make their the following order g^jL^i.a ^t ^1,^ »ciu iiicju.^ ui^n appearance m at the seventh week, the germ of the first molar of the upper jaw appears; at the eighth week, that for the canine tooth is developed : the two incisor papillae appear about the ninth week (the central preceding the lateral) : lastly, the second molar papilla is seen at the tenth week, behind the anterior molar. The teeth of the lower jaw appear rather later, the first molar papilla being only just visible at the seventh week j and the second molar papilla not being developed before the eleventh week. This completes the first or papillary stage of their development. 8 S 2