642 OKGANS OF DIGESTION. backwards between the under surface of the liver and the stomach, to meet a similar process of the lesser cavity prolonged from behind forwards. Where the two are in apposition the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum is formed. A third diverticulum is carried backwards to the posterior wall of the abdomen between the transverse colon and the small intestines. This prolongation covers the under surface of the transverse colon, and forms the under layer of the transverse meso-colon, and the upper layer of the mesentery : by its extremity it is in contact with the posterior wall of the abdo- men, and covers a part of the abdominal aorta. Between the greater curvature of the stomach and the transverse colon there is a fold or reduplication of the peritoneum, which contains between its layers a similar fold from the lesser cavity, and forms the apron or great omentum. Another fold of the greater bag of the peritoneum is pushed backwards to the spine between the small intestines and the pelvic viscera.' This fold forms the lower layer of the mesentery, and by its extremity covers a consider- able portion of the lower part of the abdominal wall, and passes over the sacro-verte- 358.—Plan of the Peritoneum. bral angle into the pelvis. From the lower layer of this process, which covers the upper part of the pelvic viscera, diverticula are sent doivnwards between the pelvic viscera, separating them from one another : thus one is sent downwards between the back of the rectum and the sacrum, another between the rectum and the bladder. In the female one is sent down between the rectum and uterus, another between the uterus and bladder. These, then, are the various diverticula sent off from the posterior layer of the greater bag of the peritoneum ; the anterior layer simply lines the anterior wall of the abdomen, and is continuous at its extremities with the posterior layer. The student will perhaps be better able to follow these various folds or reflec- tions of the peritoneum by a reference to the accompanying plan (fig. 358), which should be studied in conjunction with fig. 357. He must not forget, however, that though the lesser and greater cavities of the peritoneum are here represented, for the sake of clearness, as quite distinct from each other, they are not really so, but that they both form part of one great cavity. The reflections of the peritoneum may be traced in two different ways, either by considering the folds which form each cavity separately, or by describing them together.