CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. 5 bone; it terminates behind in a tubercle, which is the rudiment of a spinous process, and gives origin to the Rectus capitis posticus minor. The diminutive size of this process prevents any interference in the movements between it and the cranium. The posterior part of the arch presents, above, a rounded edge; whilst, in front, immediately behind each superior articular process, is a groove, sometimes converted into a foramen by a delicate bony, spiculum which arches backwards from the posterior extremity of the superior articular process These grooves represent the superior intervertebral notches, and are peculiar from being situated behind the articular jjrocesses, instead of before them, as in the other vertebras. They serve for the transmission of the vertebral artery, which, as- cending through the foramen in the transverse process winds round the lateral mass in a direction backwards and inwards. They also transmit the sub-occipital nerves. On the under surface of the posterior arch, in the fame situation, are two other grooves, placed behind the lateral masses, and representing the inferior intervertebral notches of other vertebrae. They are much less marked than the superior. The lateral masses are the most bulky and solid parts of the atlas, in order to support the weight of the head; they present two articulating processes above, and two below. The two superior are of large size, oval, concave, and approach towards one another in front, but diverge behind ; they are directed up- wards, inwards, and a little backwards, forming a kind of cup for the condyles of the occipital bone, and are admirably adapted to the nodding movements of the head. Not unfrequently they are partially subdivided by a more or less deej> indentation which encroaches upon each lateral margin. The inferior articular processes are circular in form, flattened or slightly concave, and directed downwards and inwards, articulating with the axis, and permitting the rotatory movements. Just below the inner margin of each superior articular surface is a small tubercle, for the attachment of a (ligament which, stretching across the ring of the atlas, divides it into two unequal parts ; the anterior or smaller segment receiving the odontoid process of the axis, the posterior allowing the transmission of the spinal cord and its membranes. This part of the spinal canal is of considerable size, to afford space for the spinal cord; and hence lateral displacement of the atlas may occur without compression of the spinal cord. The transverse processes are of large size, for the attachment of special muscles which assist in rotating the head—long, not bifid, and perforated at their base by a canal for the vertebral artery, which is directed from bAow, upwards and backwards. The Axis (fig. 3) is so named from forming the pivot upon which the head 3.—2nd Cervical Vertebra, or Axis. OdontoiJ Proc. Rovcjli Surf, for CAeeJt LigH- Arttr. Surf ./cr Trans.Litj'. Spin, tr \}- >> - --Mj^M, 1— *f TraJ.Pn Infer. Artie.PpffS Artie. Surf.forAlias j—B' odij rotates. The most distinctive character of this bone is the strong prominent pi'ocess, tooth-like in form (hence the name ojlojitcid.), which rises perpendicularly