STRUCTURE OF THE CEREBRUM. connection with the vermiform process of the cerebellum. A slight elevated ridge, the frce.nulum, descends upon the upper part of the valve from the corpora quadrige- mina, and on either side of it may be seen the fibres of origin of the fourth nerve. Its lower half is covered by a thin transversely-grooved lobule of grey matter prolonged from the anterior border of the cerebellum; this is called by the Italian anatomists the Unguetta laminosa. The corpora geniculate/, are two small flattened, oblong masses, placed on the outer side of the corpora quadrigemina, and on the under and back part of each optic thalamus, and named, from their position, corpus geniewlatium externum and internum. They are placed one on the outer and one on the inner side of each optic tract. In this situation, the optic tract may be seen dividing into two bands, one of which is connected with the external geniculate body and nates, the other being connected with the internal geniculate body and testes. Structure of the cerebrum. The white matter of each hemisphere consists of three kinds of fibres : i. Diverging or peduncular fibres, which connect the hemisphere with the cord and medulla oblongata. 2. Transverse commissural fibres, which connect together the two hemispheres. 3. Longitudinal commissural fibres, which connect distant parts of the same hemisphere. The diverging or peduncular fibres consist of a main body, and of certain accessory fibres. The main body originate in the columns of the cord and medulla oblongata, and enter the cerebrum through the eras cerebri, where they are arranged into two bundles, separated by the locus niger. Those fibres which form the inferior or fas- ciculated portion of the cms, are derived from the anterior pyramid, and, ascending, pass mainly through the centre of the striate body; those on the opposite surface of the cms, which form the tegmentum, are derived from the posterior pyramid and fasciculi teretes; as they ascend, they pass, some through the under part of the thalamus, and others through both thalamus and corpus striatum, decussating in these bodies with each other, and with the fibres of the corpus callosum. The optic thalami also receive accessory fibres from the processus ad testes, the olivary fascic- ulus, the corpora quadrigemina, and corpora geniculata. Some of the diverging fibres end in the cerebral ganglia, whilst others pass through and receive additional fibres from them, and, as they emerge, radiate into the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes of the hemisphere, decussating again with the fibres of the corpus callosum, before passing to the convolutions. These fibres have received the name of corona radiata. The transverse commissural fibres connect together the two hemispheres across the middle line. They are formed by the corpus callosum, and the anterior and posterior commissures. The longitudinal commissural fibres connect together distant parts of the same hemisphere, the fibres being disposed in a longitudinal direction. They form the fornix, the taenia semicircularis, and peduncles of the pineal gland, the striae longi- tudinales, the fibres of the gyrus fornicatus, and the fasciculus unciformis. The Cerebellum. The Cerebellum, or little brain, is that portion of the encephalon which is con- tained in the inferior occipital fossa?. It is situated beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its average weight in the male is 5 ozs. 4 drs. It attains its maximum weight between the twenty-fifth and fortieth year; its increase in weight after the fourteenth year being relatively greater in the female than in the male. The proportion between the cerebellum and cerebrum is, in the male, as 1 to 8|; and in the female, as 1 to 8^. In the infant, the cerebellum is proportionately much smaller than in the adult, the relation between it and the cerebrum being, according to Chaussier, between 1 to 13, and 1 to 26 ; by Cruveilhier the proportion was found to be 1 to 20. In form, the cerebellum is oblong, and flattened from above downwards, its great diameter being from side to side. It measures from three and a half to four inches transversely, and from two to two and a half inches from before backwards, being about two inches thick in the