647 THE STOMACH. to the right sacroiliac symphysis. Its intestinal border is much longer; and here its two layers separate, so as to enclose the intestine, and form its peritoneal coat. Its breadth, between its vertebral and intestinal border, is about four inches. Its upper border is continuous with the under surface of the transverse meso-colon; its lower border, with the peritoneum covering the caecum and ascending colon. It serves to retain the small intestines in their position, and contains between its layers the mesenteric vessels and nerves, the lacteal vessels, and mesenteric glands. The meso-ccecum, when it exists, serves to connect the back part of the caecuru with the right iliac fossa • more frequently the peritoneum passes merely in front of this portion of the large intestine. The ascending meso-colon is the fold which connects the back part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen; and the descending meso-colon retains the descending colon in connection with the posterior abdominal wall; more frequently the peritoneum merely covers the anterior surface and sides of these two portions of the intestine. At the place where the transverse colon turns downwards to form the descending colon, a fold of peritoneum is continued upwards to the under surface of the Diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs. This is the costo- colic ligament; it passes below the spleen, and serves to support this organ and restrain its movements. The transverse meso-colon is a broad fold, Which connects the transverse colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is formed by the two ascending layers of the great omentum, which, after separating to surround the transverse colon, join behind it, and are continued backwards to the spine, where they diverge in front of the duodenum, as already mentioned. This fold contains between its layers the vessels which supply the transverse colon. The sigmoid meso-colon is the fold of peritoneum which retains the sigmoid flexure in connection with the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum is the narrow fold which connects the upper part of the rectum with the front of the sacrum. It contains the hemorrhoidal vessels. The appendices epiploicce are small pouches of the peritoneum filled with fat, and situated along the colon and upper part of the rectum. They are chiefly appended to the transverse colon. The Stomach. The Stomach is the principal organ of digestion. It is the most dilated part of the alimentary canal, serving for the solution and reduction of the food, which con- stitutes the process of chymification. It is situated in the left hypochondriac, the epigastric, and part of the right hypochondriac regions. Its form is irregularly conical, curved upon itself, and presenting a rounded base, turned to the left side. It is placed immediately behind the anterior wall of the abdomen, above the transverse colon, below the liver and the Diaphragm. Its size varies considerably in different subjects, and also according to its state of distension. When moderately full its transverse diameter is about twelve inches, its vertical diameter about four. Its weight, according to Clendenning, is about four ounces and a half. It presents for examination two extremities, two orifices, two borders, and two surfaces. Its left extremity is called the greater or splenic end. This is the largest part of the stomach, and extends two or three inches to the left of the point of entrance of the cesophagus. This expanded part is called the great cul-de-sac, or fundus. It lies behind the lower ribs, in contact with the spleen, to which it is connected by the gastro-splenic omentum. The lesser or pyloric end is much smaller than the fundus, and situated on a plane anterior and inferior to it. It lies in contact with the wall of the abdomen, and the under surface of the liver. Its position on the surface of the body is near the end of the cartilage of the eighth rib (Holden). The oesophageal or cardiac orifice communicates with the cesophagus; it is the highest part of the stomach, and somewhat funnel-shaped.