THE EYE. 595 sets of processes has yet been demonstrated, but it is considered probable that they do communicate, and that there is therefore a direct connection between the ganglion o o cells of the vesicular layer and the nuclear cells of the inner nuclear layer. Within the reticulum formed by these fibrils minute clear granules, of unknown nature, are imbedded. 5. The inner nuclear layer is made up of nuclear bodies, of which there are three different kinds. (1.) A large number of oval nuclei, which are commonly regarded as bipolar nerve-cells, and are much more numerous than either of the other kind. They consist of a large oval nuclear body placed vertically to the surface, containing a distinct nucleolus : they are surrounded by a small amount of protoplasm, which is prolonged into two jjrocesses, one of these passes inwards into the inner molecular layer, is varicose in appearance and, as stated above, is believed to be continuous with the processes of the ganglion cells. The other process passes outwards, into the outer molecular layer and there bifurcates. According to some observers the divisions thus formed communicate with the rod and cone fibres (Meikel). (2.) At the inner- most part of this inner nuclear layer, is a stratum of cells, Avhich are not branched. (3.) Some few cells are also found in this layer, connected with the fibres of Miiller, and will be described with those structures. 6. The outer molecular layer is much thinner thau the inner molecular layer; but, like it, consists of a dense network of minute fibrils and presents the same granular appearance. It differs, however, from the inner molecular layer in con- taining branched stellate cells, the processes of which are extremely fine and exhibit varicosities, like nerve-fibrils. They are therefore considered by Schultze to be gan- glion cells. 7. The outer nuclear layer. Like the inner nuclear layer this layer contains several strata of clear oval nuclear bodies; they are of two kinds, and on account of their being respectively connected with the rods and cones of Jacob's membrane, are named rod-granules and cone-granules. The rod-granules are much the more numerous and are placed at different levels throughout the layer. They present a peculiar cross-striped appearance and have prolonged from either extremity a fine process: the outermost is continuous with a single rod of Jacob's membrane; the innermost passes inwards towards the outer molecular layer and terminates in an enlarged extremity, from which are given off a, number of minute fibrils, which enter the outer molecular layer. In its course it presents numerous varicosities. The cone gravities, fewer in number than the rod granules, are placed close to the membrana limitans externa and are closely connected with the cones of Jacob's membrane. They do not present any cross-striping, but contain a pyriform nucleus, which almost com- pletely fills the cell. From their inner extremity a thick process passes inwards to the outer molecular layer; where, like the processes of the rod-cells, it terminates in an enlargement, from which are given off numerous fine fibrils, which enter the outer molecular layer. 8. The ■membrana limitans externa. This layer, like the membrana limitans interna, is derived from the fibres of Miiller, with which structures it will be described. 9. Jacob's membrane (Bacillary layer). The elements which compose this layer are of two kinds, rods and cones, the former being much more numerous than the latter. The rods are solid, of nearly uniform size, and arranged perpendicularly to the surface. Each rod consists of two portions, an outer and inner, which are joined together by a cement-substance and are of about equal length. They differ from each other as regards refraction and in their behaviour with colouring reagents, the inner portion becoming stained by carmine, iodine, &c, the outer portion remaining unstained. The outer portion of each rod is marked by transverse stria? and is made up of a number of thin discs superimposed on one another. It also exhibits faint longitudinal markings. The inner portion of each rod, at its inner extremity where it is joined to the processes of the rod granules, is indistinctly granular ; at its outer extremity it presents a fine longitudinal striation, being composed of fine, bright, highly refracting fibrils. Q Q 2