ARTERIES. 386 Plan of the Relations of the Thoracic Aorta. Right side. ffisophagus (above) Vena azygos major. Thoracic duct. Surgical Anatomy. The student should now consider the effects likely to be produced by aneurism of the thoracic aorta, a disease of common occurrence. When we consider the great depth of the vessel from the surface, and the number of important structures which surround it on every side, it may be easily conceived what a variety of obscure symptoms may arise from disease of this part of the arterial system, and how they may be liable to be mistaken for those of other affections. Aneurism of the thoracic aorta most usually extends backwards, along the left side of the spine, producing absorption of the bodies of the vertebrae, with curvature of the spine; whilst the irritation or pressure on the cord will give rise to pain, either in the chest, back, or loins, with radiating pain in the left upper inter- costal spaces, from pressure on the intercostal nerves; at the same time the tumour may project backwards on each side of the spine, beneath the integument, as a pulsating swelling, simulating abscess connected with diseased bone; or it may displace the oesophagus, and compress the lung on one or the other side. If the tumour extend forward, it may press upon and displace the heart, giving rise to palpitation and other symptoms of disease of that organ; or it may displace, or even, compress, the oesophagus, causing pain and difficulty of swallowing, as in stricture of that tube, and ultimately even open into it by ulceration, producing fatal haemorrhage. If the disease make way to either side, it may press upon the thoracic duct; or it may burst into the pleural cavity, or into the trachea or lung ; and lastly, it may open into the posterior mediastinum. The aorta is, comparatively often, found to be obliterated at a particular spot, viz., at the junction of the arch with the thoracic aorta, just below the ductus arteriosus. Whether this is the result of disease, or of congenital malformation, is immaterial to our present purpose; it affords an interesting opportunity of observing the resources of the collateral circulation. The course of the anastomosing vessels, by which the blood is brought from the upper to the lower part of the artery, will be found well described in an account of two cases in the Pathological Transactions, vols. viii. and x. In the former (p. 162), Mr. Sydney Jones thus sums up the detailed description of the anastomosing vessels. ' The principal communications by which the circulation was carried on, were—Firstly, the internal mammary, anastomos- ing with the intercostal arteries, with the phrenic of the abdominal aorta by means of the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici, and largely with the deep epigastric. Secondly, the superior intercostal, anastomosing anteriorly by means of a large branch with the first aortic intercostal, and posteriorly with the posterior branch of the same artery. Thirdly, the inferior thyroid, by means of a branch about the size of an ordinary radial, formed a commu- nication with the first aortic intercostal. Fourthly, the transversalis colli, by means of very large communications with the posterior branches of the intercostals. Fifthly, the branches (of the subclavian and axillary) going to the side of the chest were large and anastomosed freely with the lateral branches of the intercostals.' In the second case also (vol. x. p. 97). Mr. Wood describes the anastomoses in a somewhat similar manner, adding the remark, that ' the blood which was brought into the aorta through the anastomoses of the intercostal arteries, appeared to be expended principally in supplying the abdomen and pelvis; while the supply to the lower extremities had passed through the internal mammary and epigastrics.' Branches of the Thoracic Aorta. Pericardiac. (Esophageal. Bronchial. Posterior mediastinal. Intercostal. The pericardiac are a few small vessels, irregular in their origin, distributed to the pericardium. In Front Left pulmonary artery. Left bronchus. Pericardium. O3sophagus. Left side. Pleura. Left lung. (Esophagus (below). Behind. Vertebral column. Vena azygos minor.