521 SEVENTH. FACIAL. lie on the same plane immediately beneath the periosteum, the fourth nerve being internal and resting on the Superior oblique, the frontal resting on the Levator pal- pebrse, and the lachrymal on the External rectus. Next in order comes the superior division of the third nerve lying immediately beneath the Superior rectus, and then the 289.—Relations of Structures passing through Sphenoidal Fissure. LACRYHAL nasal division of the fifth crossing the optic nerve from the outer to the inner side of the orbit. Beneath these is found the optic nerve, surrounded in front by the ciliary nerves, and having the lenticular ganglion on its outer side, between it and the External rectus. Below the optic is the inferior division of the third, and the sixth, which lies on the outer side of the orbit. Facial Nerve. (Figs. 290, 291.) The Facial NerVe, or portio dura of the seventh pair, is the motor nerve of all the muscles of expression in the face, and of the Platysma and Buccinator. It supplies also two of the muscles of the external ear, the posterior belly of the Digas- tric, and the Stylo-hyoid. Through the chorda tympani it supplies the Lingualis ; by its tympanic branch, the Stapedius and Laxator tympani; through the otic gang- lion, the Tensor tympani; and through the connection of its trunk with the Vidian nerve, by the petrosal nerve, it probably supplies the Levator palati and Azygos uvulae. It arises from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. Its deep origin is twofold :—1. From the grey substance of the fasciculus teres on the floor of the fourth ventricle, in common with the sixth nerve. 2. From the nucleus of the motor root of the trigeminus ; between these two origins it forms a loop along the floor of the ventricle. This nerve is situated a little nearer to the middle line than the portio mollis, close to the lower border of the pons Varolii, from which some of its fibres are derived. Connected with this nerve, and lying between it and the portio mollis, is a small fasci- culus (portio inter duram et mottem of Wrisberg, or portio intermedia). This acces- sory portion arises from the lateral column of the cord. The nerve passes forwards and outwards upon the crus cerebelli, and enters the internal auditory meatus with the auditory nerve. Within the meatus, the facial nerve lies first to the inner side of the auditory, and then in a groove upon that nerve, and is connected to it by one or two filaments. 290.—The Course and Connections of the Facial Nerve in the Temporal Bone.