cxxxv DEVELOPMENT OE SKULL. wards becomes the cavity of the mouth, or more properly of the fauces, for the mouth itself is developed from the epiblast growing inwards, whilst these pharyngeal arches are formed from the mesoblast, lined internally by the hypoblast, the reflection of which membrane closes the cavity above in the early state. The frontal protuberance next gives off two lateral parts (lateral frontal protuberances), on each of which a depression is formed, the olfactory fossa, bounded on either side by the internal and external nasal processes. There is a groove external to the external nasal process, which afterwards is transformed into the lachrymal canal, and another groove leading from the olfactory fossa to the buccal cavity—the nasal groove. The first pharyngeal arch divides at its anterior extremity into two parts—a superior and inferior maxillary protuberance. The latter unites very early to its fellow of the opposite side to form the lower jaw. The superior maxillary protuberances are displaced outwards, and united to the external nasal process; from this part are developed the internal plate of the pterygoid process, the palate-bone, the superior maxillary, and the malar. The lateral masses of the ethmoid, the os unguis, and nasal bones are furnished by the internal nasal process. The rest of these processes on either side are united by a single protuberance, the incisive tubercle; from which the intermaxillary bone and the middle of the upper lip are formed, and, according to some, the vomer. Besides the lower jaw, the inferior maxillary protuberance furnishes a transitory cartilaginous mass—the cartilage of Meckel—from which the malleus and incus are formed. The remains of Meckel's cartilage persist as long as till the end of the seventh or the eighth month of foetal life, in the form of a rod of cartilage lying inside the lower jaw. From the second pharyngeal arch are formed the stapes and stapedius muscle, the pyramid, the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the small cornu of the hyoid bone. The great cornu and body of the hyoid bone are developed from the third arch, while the fourth pharyngeal arch enters merely into the formation of the soft parts of the neck, and does not give origin to any special organ. The pharyngeal or branchial fissures are four in number, the fourth being situated beneath or below the fourth arch; the first per- sists, though only in a portion of its extent, forming the Eustachian tube, the meatus auditorius, and the tympanic cavity. The other fissures are wholly closed by the sixth week.* * The relations of these pharyngeal at-che3 to the cranial nerves are of the greatest interest in a morphological point of view, but are hardly yet quite settled. Prof. Parker has lately described the ossification of the skull as proceeding from five arches—a prae-oral and four pharyngeal or post-oral, the post-oral being the mandibular or inferior maxillary; the hyoid ; the thyro-hyoid ; and the fourth, which, as above stated, has no remnant in the skeleton. The fifth cranial nerve, the facial, and the glosso-pharyrjgeal, have definite relations to these arches ; each dividing so that its anterior and posterior divisions embrace the cleft, or are distributed on the 'bars,' as Professor Parker calls them, which bound the cleft. Thus the front division of the trigeminus is distributed in front of the buccal cleft on the pras-oral arch, and its posterior division on the first pharyngeal or mandibular : the facial sends its anterior division— represented in the mature condition by the chorda tympani—in front of the Eustachian fissure (the remains of the first cleft), to the mandibular arch, while its descending branches go to the hyoid arch ; the glosso-pharyngeal goes by its lingual portion to the hyoid arch, while its pharyngeal part is distributed to the thyro-hyoid. The theory is a beautiful one, and the method of inquiry most fruitful in promise for the higher anatomy, which aims at uniting into one plan all the various forms of ova and the animals developed from them ; but as yet it is hardly sufficiently established in fact to be made a necessary part of scholastic teaching.