THE EYE. 589 have been traced by Cohnheim through the proper substance of the cornea into the deeper layers of the epithelium. Dissection. In order to separate the sclerotic and cornea, so as to expose the second tunic, the eyeball should be immersed in a small vessel of water. A fold of the sclerotic near its anterior part having been pinched up, an operation not easily performed, from the extreme tension of the membrane, it should be divided with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors. As soon as the choroid is exposed, the end of a blow-pipe should be introduced into the orifice, and a stream of air forced into it, so as to separate the slight cellular connection between the sclerotic and choroid. The sclerotic should now be divided around its entire circumference, and may be removed in separate portions. The front segment being then drawn forwards, the handle of the scalpel should be pressed gently against it at its connection with the iris, and these being separated, a quantity of perfectly transparent fluid will escape ; this is the aqueous humour. In the course of the dissection, the ciliary nerves may be seen lying in the loose cellular tissue between the choroid and sclerotic, or contained in delicate grooves on the inner surface of the latter membrane. Second Tunic. This is formed by the choroid behind ; the iris and ciliary pro- cesses in front; and by the ciliary ligament, and Ciliary muscle, at the point of junction of the sclerotic and cornea. 320.—The Choroid and Iris. (Enlarged.) The choroid is the vascular and pigmentary tunic of the eyeball, investing the posterior five-sixths of the globe, and extending as far forwards as the cornea; the ciliary processes being appendages of the choroid developed from its inner surface in front. The iris is the circular muscular septum, winch hangs vertically behind the cornea, presenting in its centre a large circular aperture, the pupil. The ciliary ligament and Ciliary muscle form the white ring observed at the point where the choroid and iris join with each other, and with the scleiotic and cornea. The Choroid is a thin, highly vascular membrane, of a . dark brown or chocolate colour, which invests the posterior five-sixths of the central part of the globe. It is pierced behind by the optic nerve, and terminates in front at the ciliary ligament, where it bends inwards, and forms on its inner surface a series of folds or plaitings, the ciliary processes. It is thicker behind than in front. Externally, it is connected by a tine cellular web {membrane/, fusca) with the inner surface of the sclerotic. Its