GENERAL ANATOMY. XCVl taining an oval nucleus, which may be brought into view by carmine or logwood. Between their edges, at various points of then- meeting, roundish dark spots are sometimes seen, which have been described as stomata, and have been believed to be the mechanism by which fluid transudes from and possibly into the vessel. But this view, though probable, is not universally accepted. In many situations a delicate sheath or envelope of fine connective tissue is found around the simple capillary tube, particularly in the larger ones; and in other places, especially in the glands, the capillaries are invested with retiform lymphatic tissue. In the largest capillaries (which ought perhaps to be described rather as the smallest arteries) traces of an epithelial lining and of circular transverse fibres are to be seen. Fig. LVII.—Capillaries from the mesentery of a puinea- pi<r after treatment with solution of nitrate of silver. Fig. LVIII.—Finest vessels on the arterial side, the human brain. Magnified 300 times. From d i ] a. Cells. I>. Their nuclei. . Smallest artery. 2. Transition vessel. 3. Coarser Capillaries. 4. Finer capillaries, a. Structureless membrane still with some nuclei, repre- sentative of the tunica adventitia. fc. Nuclei of the muscular fibre- cells, c. Nuclei within the small artery, perhaps appertaining to an epithelium, d. Nuclei in the transition vessels. Veins are composed of three coats—internal, middle, and external—as the arteries are; and these coats are, with the necessary modifications, analogous to the coats of the arteries—the internal being the epithelial, the middle the fibrous, and the external the connective or areolar. The main difference between the veins and the arteries is in the comparative weakness of the middle coat of the former; and to this it is due that the veins do not stand open when divided, as the arteries do; and that they are passive rather than active organs of the circulation. In the veins immediately above the capillaries the three coats are hardly to be distinguished. The epithelium is supported on an outer membrane, separable into two layers, the outer of which is the thicker, and consists of