BRANCHES OF RADIAL. 38i 224.—Ulnar and Radial Arteries. Deep View. Antsriar Vlnitr Recti, rent ning forwards, it passes between the muscles of the thumb, which it supplies, and sometimes anastomoses with the termination of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. This vessel varies considerably in size; usually it is very small, and terminates in the muscles of the thumb; sometimes it is as large as the continuation of the radial. The carpal branches supply the joints of the wrist. The anterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery near the lower border of the Pronator qua- dratus, and, running inwards in front of the radius, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed, branches descend to supply the articulations of the wrist. The posterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb; crossing the carpus transversely to the inner border of the hand, it anastomoses with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar, forming the posterior carpal arch. From this arch are given off descend- ing branches, the dorsal interosseous arteries for the third and fourth interosseous space, which anasto- mose with the posterior perforating branches from the deep palmar arch ; and ascending branches to anastomose with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery. The metacarpal (first dorsal in- terosseous branch) arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, sometimes with the posterior carpal artery; running forwards on the second dorsal interosseous muscle, it communicates, behind, with the corresponding perforating branch of the deep palmar arch ; and, in front, inosculates with the digital branch of the superficial palmar arch, and supplies the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers. The d or sales pollicis are two small vessels which run along the side of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. They arise separately or occasion- ally by a common trunk near the base of the first metacarpal bone. The dorsalis indicis, also a small branch, runs along the radial side of the back of the index finger, sending a few branches to the Abductor indicis. The princeps pollicis arises from the radial just as it turns inwards to the deep part of the hand; it descends between the Abductor indicis and Flexor brevis pollicis, along the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, to the base of the first erf< I ranch ef ITInar