li CARTILAGE. vessels of the cancellous tissue, as they approach the articular lamella, dilate, and, forming arches, return into the substances of the bone. Temporary cartilage, and the process of its ossification, will be described with bone. In the costal cartilages the cells and nuclei are large, and the matrix has a tendency to fibrous striation, especially in old age. (Fig. XVII.) These cartilages also are very prone to ossify. In the thickest parts of the costal cartilages a few large vascular channels may be detected. This appears at first sight an exception to the statement that cartilage is a non-vascular tissue, but it is not so really, for the vessels give no branches to the car- tilage-substance itself, and the channels may rather be looked upon as involutions of the perichondrium. The ensiform cartilage may be regarded as one of the costal cartilages, and the cartilages of the nose and of the larynx and trachea resemble them in microscopical characters, except the epiglottis and cornicula laryngis, which are of the reticular variety. The hyaline cartilages, especially in adult and advanced life, are prone to calcify—that is to say, to have their matrix permeated by the salts of Fig. XVIII.—White ribrous cartilagre from the semilunar disc of the patella joint of an ox. Magnified 100 times. lime, without any appearance of true bone. The process of calcification occurs also, and still more frequently according to Eollett, in such carti- lages as those of the trachea, which are prone afterwards to conversion into true bone. It is on the confines of true ossification that this calcareous change or degeneration is most liable to occur, so that it is rare to find true bone and true cartilage in juxtaposition at the confines of the normal ossi- fication, as for instance at the joint ends, at the ends of the ribs, in the symphysis pubis and intervertebral cartilages. Fibro-cartilage consists of a mixture of white fibrous and cartilaginous tissues in various proportions ; it is to the first of these two constituents that its flexibility and toughness are chiefly owing, and to the latter its elasticity. The fibro-cartilages admit of arrangement into four groups— interarticular, connecting, circumferential, and stratiform. The interarticular Jibro-cartilages (menisci) are flattened fibro-cartila- ginous plates, of a round, oval, triangular, or sickle-like form, interposed between the articular cartilages of certain joints. They are free on both surfaces, thinner towards their centre than at their circumference, and held C 2