cxiii SECRETING GLANDS. Lately the interesting discovery has been made that fluids with coloured particles transude through the serous membrane into the lymphatic vessels, and stomata or openings have been seen between the cells of the epithelium, which are believed to be opened and closed by the movements of the serous surface (fig. LX). These openings are surrounded by a zone of small, | cubical, granular cells, and communicate with a lymphatic capillary. In addition to these stomata, other interruptions in the epithelial layer i have been described as pseudo-stomata ; they are occupied by processes of the j branched connective-tissue corpuscles of the subjacent tissue. The mucous membranes are more complex in their structure than the i serous. Their epithelium is of various forms, including the spheroidal, ; columnar, and ciliated, and is often arranged in several layers (see fig, LXX.). ■ This epithelial layer is supported by the corium, which is analogous to the derma of the skin, and is in fact continuous with it at the orifices of the body. The corium consists, as it is usually described, of a transparent structureless basement-membrane next to the epithelium, supported by a fibro-vascular layer of variable thickness below it, and this merging into the submucous areolar tissue. It is only in some situations that the basement- membrane can be demonstrated. The fibro-vascular layer of the corium contains, besides the white and yellow fibrous tissue and the vessels, muscular fibre-cells, forming, in many I situations, a definite layer, called the musculdris mucosa, nerves, and lym- phatics in various proportions. Embedded in it are found numerous glands, and projecting out of it are processes (villi and papillae) analogous to the i papillae of the skin. These glands and processes, however, exist only at 1 certain parts, and it will be more convenient to refer for their description to the sequel, where the parts are described in which they occur. Thus the mucous glands are described in the account of the mouth, the stomach, the intestines, &c.; the papillae and villi with that of the tongue. The synovial membranes are composed essentially of connective tissue, with blood-vessels and nerves. It was formerly supposed that these membranes were analogous in structure to the serous membranes, and consisted of a layer of flattened epithelial cells on a basement-membrane. No such cells, however, exist, and the only ones found on the surface are irregularly branched connective-tissue corpuscles, similar to those found I throughout the tissue. Here and there these cells are collected in patches and present the appearance of epithelium, but do not possess the true characters of an endothelial layer. They are surrounded and held together by an albuminous ground-substance. (For a further description of the synovial membranes see p. 146.) It SECRETING GLANDS. The secreting glands are organs in which the blood, circulating in 1 capillary vessels, is brought into contact with epithelial cells, whereby cer- I tain elements are separated (' secreted ') out of the blood. The cells are j arranged in such a manner as to enclose a cavity into which the secretion is poured. This cavity is arranged in the form of a ramifying duct, the secreting cells lying in, or touching, the terminal ramifications (or more correctly the commencing radicles) of the duct. g