DEVELOPMENT OE GENITAL ORGANS. cliii is that the solid blastema in which the kidney commences comes to be arranged in a series of club-shaped bodies, which have their larger ends I directed towards the hilum, and that these afterwards become hollow and | open into the ureter, which has then also assumed the condition of a tube, communicating with the part of the allantois afterwards converted into the bladder. As the future uriniferous tubes grow, they become convoluted, so that the whole tissue of the kidney appears at first to consist of cortical , substance. Then the ends of the tubes become straight, and the pyramidal ! structure is developed. The suprarenal bodies are developed from the same mass as the kidney, and are said at first to form a single organ in the middle line. ' Kolliker ; has observed them in close connection with the substance in which the ; large sympathetic plexus of the abdomen is produced, but it is not ascer- tained that they have a common origin.' They are at first larger than the kidneys, but become equal in size about the tenth week, and from that time j decrease relatively to the kidney, though they remain throughout foetal life i much larger in proportion than in the adult. Meckel gives the proportion as i to 3 at birth, and i to 22 in mature life. We must now follow the development of the genital organs in each sex. Female Organs.—The ovaries take their origin in the ridge of germ epithelium which has been spoken of above as making its appearance in the Fig. ('II.—-Adult ovary, parovarium, and Fallopian tube (from Farre after Kobelt). a, a. Epoophoron (parovarium) formed from the upper part of the Wolffian body. b. Remains of the uppermost tubes sometimes forming hydatids, c. Middle set of tubes, d. Some lower atrophied tubes, e. Atrophied remains of the Wolffian duct. /. The terminal bulb or hydatid. /(. The Fallopian tube, originally the duet of Miiller. i. Hydatid attached to the extremity. The ovary. I intermediate cell-mass; from the cells of which epithelium, according to ! the most recent observations, the ova take their origin. These ova are j enclosed or encapsuled in a fibrous stroma, developed from the deeper blastema of the same cell-mass, or, according to earlier observers, from a part of the Wolffian body. According to the latest account the only re- mains of the Wolffian body in the complete condition of the female organs are two rudimentary or vestigial structures which can be found in the round ligament near the ovary on careful search—the parovarium, or organ of Bosenmuller, and the epoophoron. The organ of Rosenmuller consists of a number of tubes which converge to a transverse portion (the epoophoron),