TIBIA. pari, and gives attachment to the interosseous membrane; it commences above in front of the fibular articular facet, and bifurcates below, to form the boundaries of a triangular rough surface, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament connecting the tibia and hbula. The internal surface is smooth, convex, and broader above than below ; its upper third, directed forwards and inwards, is covered by the aponeurosis derived from the tendon of the Sartorius, and by the tendons of the Gracilis and Semi- tendinosus, all of which are inserted nearly as far forwards as the anterior border ; in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. The external surface is narrower than the internal; its upper two-thirds present a shallow groove for the attachment of the Tibialis anticus muscle ; its lower third is smooth, convex, curves gradually forwards to the anterior part of the bone, and is covered from within outwards by the tendons of the following muscles : Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprius pollicis, Peroneus tertius. The posterior surface (fig. 11 o) presents, at its upper part, a prominent ridge, the oblique line of the tibia, which extends from the back part of the articular facet for the fibula, obliquely downwards, to the internal border, at the junction of its upper and middle thirds. It marks the limit for the insertion of the Popliteus muscle, and serves for the attachment of the popliteal fascia, and part of the Soleus, Flexor longus digitorum, and Tibialis posticus muscles; the triangular concave surface, above and to the inner side of this line, gives attachment to the Popliteus muscle. The middle third of the posterior surface is divided by a vertical ridge into two lateral halves : the ridge is well marked at its commence- ment at the oblique line, but becomes gradually indistinct below : the inner and broader half gives attachment to the Flexor longus digitorum, the outer and narrower to part of the Tibialis posticus. The remaining part of the bone is covered by the Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus. digitorum, and Flexor longus pollicis muscles. Immediately below the oblique line is the medullary foramen, which is directed obliquely downwards. The Lower Extremity, much smaller than the upper, presents five surfaces ; it is prolonged downwards, on its inner side, into a strong process, the internal malleolus. The inferior surface of the bone is quadrilateral, and smooth, for articu- lation with the astragalus. This surface is narrow internally, where it becomes continuous with the articular surface of the inner malleolus, broader externally, and traversed from before backwards by a slight elevation, separating two lateral depressions. The anterior surface of the lower extremity is smooth and rounded above, and covered by the tendons of the Extensor muscles of the toes; its lower margin presents a rough transverse depression, for the attachment of the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint : the posterior surface presents a superficial groove directed obliquely downwards and inwards, continuous with a similar groove on the posterior extremity of the astragalus, and serving for the passage of the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis : the external surface presents a triangular rough depression for the attachment of the inferior interosseous ligament connecting it with the fibula ; the lower part of this depression is smooth in some bones, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and articulating with the fibula:. This surface is bounded by two prominent ridges, continuous above with the interosseous ridge ; they afford attachment to the anterior and posterior tibio-fibular ligaments. The internal surface of the lower extremity is prolonged downwards to form a strong pyramidal process, flattened from without inwards, the inner malleolus. The inner surface of this process is convex and subcutaneous; its outer surface, smooth and slightly concave, deepens the articular surface for the astragalus; its anterior border is rough, for the attachment of ligamentous fibres; its p>osterior border presents a broad and deep groove, directed obliquely downwards and inwards, which is occasionally double : this groove transmits the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum muscles. The summit of the internal mal- leolus is marked by a rough depression behind, for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. K 2