465 OF THE THORAX. The internal mammary glands are placed at the anterior extremity of each inter- costal space, by the side of the internal mammary vessels. The anterior mediastinal glands are placed in the loose areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum, some lying upon the Diaphragm in front of the pericardium, and others round the great vessels at the base of the heart. The posterior mediastinal glands are situated in the areolar tissue in the posterior mediastinum, forming a continuous chain by the side of the aorta and oesophagus ; they communicate on each side with the intercostal, below with the lumbal1, and above with the deep cervical glands. The superficial lymphatics of the front of the thorax run across the great Pectoral muscle, and those on the back part of this cavity lie upon the Trapezius and Latis- simus dorsi; they all converge to the axillary glands. The lymphatics from the greater part of the mammary gland pass outwards to the lower border of the Pec- toralis major muscle, where they enter a chain of small glands, situated in the axillary space along the lower border of its anterior boundary. Some few lymphatics from the inner side of the mammary gland pass through the intercostal spaces to reach the anterior mediastinal glands. The deep lymphatics of the thorax are the intercostal, internal mammary, and diaphragmatic. The intercostal lymphatics follow the course of the intercostal vessels, receiving lymphatics from the intercostal muscles and pleura ; they pass backwards to the spine, and unite with lymphatics from the back part of the thorax and spinal canal. After traversing the intercostal glands, they incline down the spine, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The internal mammary lymphatics follow the course of the internal mammary vessels; they commence in the muscles of the abdomen above the umbilicus com- municating with the epigastric lymphatics, ascend between the fibres of the Diaphragm at its attachment to the ensiform appendix, and in their course behind the costal cartilages are joined by the intercostal lymphatics; they terminate on the right side in the right lymphatic duct, on the left side in the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the. Diaphragm follow the course of their corresponding vessels, and terminate, some in front, in the anterior mediastinal and internal mammary glands, some behind in the intei'costal and posterior mediastinal lymphatics. The bronchial glands are situated round the bifurcation of the trachea and roots of the lungs. They are ten or twelve in number, the largest being placed opposite the bifurcation of the trachea, the smallest round the bronchi and their primary divisions for some little distance within the substance of the lungs. In infancy, they present the same appearance as lymphatic glands in other situations, in the adult they assume a brownish tinge, and in old age a deep black colour. Occasionally, they become sufficiently enlarged to compress and narrow the canal of the bronchi • and they are often the seat of tubercle or cretaceous deposits. The lymphatics of the lung consist of two sets, superficial and deep : the former are placed beneath the pleura, forming a minute plexus, which covers the outer surface of the lung; the latter accompany the blood-vessels, and run along the bronchi : they both terminate at the root of the lungs in the bronchial glands. The efferent vessels from these glands, two or three in number, ascend upon the trachea to the root of the neck, traverse the tracheal and oesophageal glands, and terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the right lynvphatic duct. The cardiac lymphatics consist of two sets, superficial and deep ; the former arise in the subserous areolar tissue of the surface, and the latter in the deeper tissues of the heart. They follow the course of the coronary vessels: those of the right side unite into a trunk at the root of the aorta, which, ascending across the arch of that vessel, passes backwards to the trachea, upon which it ascends, to terminate at the root of the neck in the right lymphatic duct. Those of the left side unite into a single vessel at the base of the heart, which, passing along the pulmonary artery, and traversing some glands at the root of the aorta, ascends on the trachea to terminate in the thoracic duct. H H