OF THE BACK. 245 surface of a very broad and thick tendon, which is attached, internally, to the spines of the sacrum, to the spinous processes of the lumbar and three lower dorsal vertebrae, and the supraspinous ligament; externally, to the back part of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, and to the series of eminences on the posterior part of the sacrum, which represent the transverse processes, where it blends with the great sacro-sci atic ligament. The muscular fibres form a single large flesby mass, bounded in front by the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and by the middle lamella of the aponeurosis of origin of the Transversalis muscle. Opposite the last rib, it divides into two parts, the Sacro-lumbalis, and the Longissimus dorsi. The Sacro-Lumbalis (Ilio-Costalis), the external and smaller portion of the Erector spinas, is inserted, by six or seven flattened tendons, into the angles of the six lower ribs. If this muscle is reflected outwards, it will be seen to be reinforced by a series of muscular slips, which arise from the angles of the ribs; by means of these the Sacro-lumbalis is continued upwards to the upper ribs, and the cervical portion of the spine. The accessory portions form two additional muscles, the Musculus accessorius and the Cervicalis ascendens. The Musculus accessorius ad Sacro-lumbalem arises, by separate flattened tendons, from the angles of the six lower ribs; these become muscular, and are finally inserted, by separate tendons, into the angles of the six upper ribs. The Cervicalis ascendens* is the continuation of the Accessorius upwards into the neck; it is situated on the inner side of the tendons of the Accessorius, arising from the angles of the four or five upper ribs, and is inserted by a series of slender tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The Longissimus Dorsi, the inner and larger portion of the Erector spinas, arises, with the Sacro-lumbalis, from the common origin above described. In the lumbar region, where it is as yet blended with the Sacro-lumbalis, some of the fibres are attached to the whole length of the posterior surface of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, to the tubercles at the back of the articular processes, and to the middle layer of the aponeurosis of origin of the Transversalis abdominis muscle. In the dorsal region, the Longissimus dorsi is inserted, by long thin tendons, into the tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebras, and into from seven to eleven ribs between their tubercles and angles. This muscle is continued upwards, to the cranium and cervical portion of the spine, by means of two additional muscles, the Transversalis colli and Trachelo- mastoid. The Transversalis Colli, placed on the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, arises by long thin tendons from the summits of the transverse processes of the six upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by similar tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical from the second to the sixth. The Trachelo-m astoid lies on the inner side of the preceding, between it and the Complexus muscle. It arises by four tendons, from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, arid sixth dorsal vertebras, and by additional separate tendons from the articular processes of the three or four lower cervical. The fibres form a small muscle, which ascends to be inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, beneath the Splenius and Sterno-mastoid muscles. This small muscle is almost always crossed by a tendinous intersection near its insertion into the mastoid process. The Spinalis Dorsi connects the spinous processes of the upper lumbar and the dorsal vertebras together by a series of muscular and tendinous slips, which are intimately blended with the Longissimus dorsi. It is situated at the inner side of the Longissimus dorsi, arising, by three or four tendons, from the spinous processes of the first two lumbar and the last two dorsal vertebras : these uniting, * This muscle is sometimes called ' Cervicalis descendens.' The student should remember that these long muscles take their lixed point from above or from below, according to circumstances.