ORGANS OF SENSE. 614 from the base to the apex ; and of a delicate lamina (the lamina spiralis) contained within the canal, which follows its windings, and subdivides it into two. The central axis, or modiolus, is conical in form, and extends from the base to the apex of the cochlea. Its base is broad, corresponds with the first turn of the cochlea, and is perforated by numerous orifices, which transmit filaments of the cochlear branch of the auditory nerve; the axis diminishes rapidly in size in the second coil, and terminates within the last half-coil, or cupola, in an expanded, delicate, bony lamella, which resembles the half of a funnel, divided longitudinally, and is called the infundibulum; the broad part of this funnel is directed towards the summit of the cochlea, and blends with the last half-turn of the spiral canal of the cochlea, the cupola. At this point the two larger scalar of the cochlea, the scala tympani and scala vestibuli, communicate by an opening called the helicotrema. The outer surface of the modiolus is formed of the wall of the spiral canal, and is dense in structure; but its centre is channelled, as far as the last half-coil, by nu- merous branching canals, which transmit nervous filaments in regular succession into the canal of the cochlea, or on to the surface of the lamina spiralis. One of these, 337.—Longitudinal Section of the Cochlea, showing the relations of the Scalse, the Ganglion Spirale, &c. S.V. Scala vestibuli. S.T. Scala tympani. fi.M. Scala media. L.S. Ligamentum spirale. G.S. Ganglion spirale. larger than the rest, occupies the centre of the modiolus, and is named the canalis centralis modioli j it extends from the base to the extremity of the modiolus, and transmits a small nerve and artery (arteria centralis modioli). The spiral canal (fig. 336) takes two turns and a half round the modiolus. It is about an inch and a half in length, measured along its outer wall; and diminishes gradually in size from the base to the summit, where it terminates in a cul-de-sac, the cupola, which forms the apex of the cochlea. The commencement of this canal is about the tenth of an inch in diameter; it diverges from the modiolus towards the tympanum and vestibule, and presents three openings. One, the fenestra rotunda, communicates with the tympanum; in the recent state this aperture is closed by a membrane, the membrana tympani secundaria. Another aperture, of an oval foi^m, enters the vestibule. The third is the aperture of the aquceductus cochlece leading to a minute funnel-shaped canal, which opens on the basilar surface of the petrous bone, and transmits a small vein. The interior of the spiral canal (fig. 337) is divided into three principal canals or scalce—viz. the Scala Tympani, the Scala Vestibuli, and, interposed between these, the Scala Media. Projecting from the modiolus is a thin bony process, the lamina^