684 THE THORAX. passes into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle is distributed, by the aorta and its subdivisions, through the entire body. This constitutes the circulation of the blood in the adult. This division of the heart into four cavities is indicated by grooves upon its surface. The great transverse groove separating the auricles from the ventricles is called the auriculo-ventricular groove. It is deficient, in front, from being crossed by the root of the pulmonary artery, and contains the trunk of the nutrient vessels of the heart. The auricular portion occupies the base of the heart, and is subdivided into two cavities by a median septum. The two ventricles are also separated into a right and left, by two longitudinal furrows, the interventricular grooves, which are situated one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface : these extend from the base to the apex of the organ; the former being situated nearer to the left bor- der of the heart, and the latter to the right. It follows, therefore, that the right 390.—The Right Auricle and Ventricle laid open, the Anterior Walls of both being removed. ventricle forms the greater portion of the anterior' surface of the heart, and the left ventricle more of its posterior surface. Each of these cavities should now be separately examined. The Right Auricle is a little larger than the left, its walls somewhat thinner, measuring about one line ; and its cavity is capable of containing about two ounces. It consists of two parts, a principal cavity, or sinus, and an appendix auricula?. The sinus is the large quadrangular cavity, placed between the two venae cava?; its walls are extremely thin; it is connected below with the right ventricle, and internally with the left auricle, being free in the rest of its extent. The appendix auriculce, so called from its fancied resemblance to a dog's ear, is a small conical muscular pouch, the margins of which present a dentated edge. It projects from the sinus forwards and to the left side, overlapping the l-oot of the aorta. To examine the interior of the auricle, a transverse incision should he made along its ventricular margin, from its right border to the appendix ; and from the middle of this, a second incision should be carried upwards, along the inner side of the two venae cavae.