434 VEINS behind the anterior pillar of the fornix with the choroid vein, to form one of the venae Galeni. The choroid vein runs along the whole length of the outer border of the choroid plexus, receiving veins from the hippocampus major, the fornix and corpus callosum, and unites, at the anterior extremity of the choroid plexus, with the vein of the corpus striatum. The Cerebellar Veins occupy the surface of the cerebellum, and are disposed in three sets, superior, inferior, and lateral. The superior pass forwards and inwards, across the superior vermiform process, and terminate, in the straight sinus : some open into the venae Galeni. The inferior cerebellar veins, of large size, run transversely outwards, and terminate by two or three trunks in the lateral sinuses. The lateral anterior cerebellar veins terminate in the superior petrosal sinuses. Sinuses of the Dura Mater. The sinuses of the dura mater are venous channels, analogous to the veins, their outer coat being formed by the dura mater; their inner, by a continuation of the lining membrane of the veins. They are fifteen in number, and are divided into two sets :—i. Those situated at the upper and back part of the skull; 2. Those at the base of the skull. The former are the Superior longitudinal. Straight sinus. Inferior longitudinal. Lateral sinuses. Occipital sinuses. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus occupies the attached margin of the falx cerebri. Commencing at the foramen caecum, through which it constantly communi- cates by a small branch with the veins of the nasal fossae, it runs from before back- wards, grooving the inner surface of the frontal, the adjacent margins of the two parietal, and the superior division of the crucial ridge of the occipital bone, and ter- minates by opening into the torcular Herophili. The sinus is triangular in form, narrow in front, and gradually increasing in size as it passes backwards. On examin- ing its inner surface, it presents the internal openings of the cerebral veins, which run, for the most part, from behind forwards, and open chiefly at the back part of the sinus, their orifices being concealed by fibrous areolae ; numerous fibrous bands {chorda} Willisii) are also seen, which extend transversely across the inferior angle of the sinus ; and lastly, some small, white, projecting bodies, the glandules Pacchioni. This sinus receives the superior cerebral veins, numerous veins from the diploe and dura mater, and, at the posterior extremity of the sagittal suture, veins from the pericranium, which pass through the parietal foramen. The point where the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses are continuous is called the confluence of the sinuses, or the torcular Herophili. It presents a considerable dilatation of very irregular form, and is the point of meeting of six sinuses, the superior longitudinal, the two lateral, the two occipital, and the straight. The Inferior Longitudinal Simis, more correctly described as the inferior longi- tudinal vein, is contained in the posterior part of the free margin of the falx cerebri. It is of a circular form, increases in size as it passes backwards, and terminates in the straight sinus. It receives several veins from the falx cerebri, and occasionally a few from the flat surface of the hemispheres. The Straight Sinus is situated at the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium. It is triangular in form, increases in size as it proceeds backwards, and runs obliquely downwards and backwards from the termination of the inferior longi- tudinal sinus to the torcular Herophili. Besides the inferior longitudinal sinus, it receives the venae Galeni, the inferior median cerebral veins, and the superior cerebellar. A few transverse bands cross its interior.