FOURTH NERVE. 5°9 The superior division, the smaller, passes inwards across the optic nerve, and- supplies the, Superior rectus and Levator palpebral. It occasionally communicates; with the ganglionic branch 284.—Nerves of the orbit. Seen from above. of the nasal nerve. The inferior division, the larger, divides into three branches. One passes be- neath the optic nerve to the Internal rectus; an- other to the Inferior rectus ; and the third, the largest of the three, passes for- wards between the Inferior, and External recti, to the Inferior oblique. From the latter, a short thick branch is given off to the lower part of the lenticular gan- glion, forming its inferior- root, as well as two fila- ments to the Inferior rec- tus. All these branches enter the muscles on their ocular surface. Fourth Nerve. (Fig. 284.) The Fourth, or Pathe- tic Nerve (trochlear), the smallest of the cranial nerves, supplies the Supe- rior oblique muscle. Its apparent origin, at the base of the brain, is on the outer side of the crus cerebri, just in front of the pons Varolii, but the fibres can be traced backwards, beneath the corpora quadrigemina to the valve of Vieussens, on the upper surface of which the two nerves are connected by a transverse band of fibres, foi'ining a kind of commissure. Its deep origin may be traced partly to the posterior part of the same nucleus in the lioor of the aqueduct of Sylvius from which the third nerve arises; and partly into a grey nucleus, at the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the origin of the fifth nerve. The nerve winds round the outer side of the crus cerebri, immediately above the pons Varolii, pierces the dura mater in the free border of the tentorium cerebelli, near the posterior clinoid process, above the oval opening for the fifth nerve, and passes forwards through the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, between the third and the ophthalmic division of the fifth; and enters the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure. It now becomes the highest of all the nerves; lying at the inner extremity of the fissure internal to the frontal nerve. In the orbit, it passes inwards, above the origin of the Levator palpebral and finally enters the orbital surface of the Superior oblique muscle. In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus this nerve receives some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. It is not unfrequently blended with the ophthalmic division of the fifth; and occasionally gives off a branch to assist in the formation of the lachrymal nerve. It also gives off a recurrent branch, which passes backwards between the layers of the tentorium, dividing into two or three filaments, which may be traced as far back as the wall of the lateral sinus.