GENERAL ANATOMY. lxxxiv The Nerves are round or flattened cords, which are connected at one end with the cerebro-spinal centre or with the ganglia, and are distributed at the other end to the various textures of the body; they are subdivided into two great classes, the cerebrospinal, which proceed from the cerebro- spinal axis, and the sympathetic or ganglionic nerves, which proceed from the ganglia of the sympathetic. The Cerebrospinal nerves consist of numerous nerve-tibres, collected together and i nclosed in a m< mbranous sheath. A small bundle of primi- tive fibres, enclosed in a tubular sheath, is called a, funiculus : if the nerve is of small size it may consist only of a single funiculus, but if large, the funiculi are collected together into larger bundles or fasciculi : and are bound together in a common membranous investment, termed the sheath. In structure, the common sheath investing the whole nerve, as well as the Bepta given off from the sheath, and which separate the fasciculi, consist of areolar tissue, composed of white and yellow elastic fibres, the latter existing in great abundance. The tubular sheath of the funiculi, or perinev/rium, consists of a tine, smooth, transparent membrane, which may be easily separated, in the form of a tube, from the fibres it encloses : in structure, it is for the most part a simple and homogeneous transparent film, occasionally composed of numerous minute reticular fibres. Fig. L.—A node of Ranvier of a niedullated nerve-fibre, viewed from above, magnified about 750 diameters. The medullary sheath is discontinuous at the node, whereas the axis- cylinder passes from one segment into the other. At the node the sheath of Schwann appears thickened. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The cerebro-spinal nerves consist almost exclusively of the niedullated nerve-fibres, the non-medullated fibres existing in very small proportion. In the niedullated nerve-fibres Ranvier has lately pointed out a peculiar arrangement, brought into view by the' action of osmic acid, and to which the name of the nodes of Ranvier is given. The axis-cylinder and the medullary substance are stained black by the reagent, while the tubular sheath is unstained. Each fibre, when so treated, is seen to be interrupted at regular intervals by a break in the white substance of Schwann, and at these breaks or nodes the tubular membrane seems to turn in and inv< al the axis-cylinder, which runs uninterrupted across the break. A nucleus is also thus brought into view in the centre of each segment of the nerve, lying in the tubular sheath. The blood-vessels supplying a nerve terminate in a minute capillary plexus, the vessels composing which run, for the most part, parallel with the funiculi; they are connected together by short transverse vessels, form- ing narrow oblong meshes, similar to the capillary system of muscle. The nerve-libres, as far as is at present known, do not coalesce, but pursue an uninterrupted course from the centre to the periphery. In separating a nerve, however, into its component funiculi, it may be seen that they do not pursue a perfectly insulated course, but occasionally join at a very acute angle with other funiculi proceeding in the same direction ;