CAKDIAC. 4Si blood from the substance of the spleen. These uniting form a single vessel, which passes from left to right behind the upper border of the pancreas, below the artery, and terminates at its greater end by uniting at a right angle with the superior mesenteric to form the vena portse. The splenic vein is of large size, and not tor- tuous like the artery. It receives the vasa brevia from the left extremity of the stomach, the left gastro-epiploic vein, pancreatic branches from the pancreas, the pancreatico-duodenal vein, and the inferior mesenteric vein. The gastric veins are two in number : one, a small vein, corresponds to the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery ; the other, considerably larger, corresponds to the gastric artery. The forrner (pyloric, Walsham) runs along the lesser curvature of the stomach towards the pyloric end, receives branches from the pylorus and duo- denum, and ends in the vena portse. The latter (coronary, Walsham) begins near the pylorus, runs along the lesser curvature of the stomach, towards the oesophageal opening, and then curves downwards and backwards between the folds of the lesser omentum, to end in the vena portse.* The Portal Vein is formed by the junction of the superior mesenteric and splenic veins, their union taking place in front of the vena cava, and behind the upper border of the great end of the pancreas. Passing upwards through the right border of the lesser omentum to the under surface of the liver, it enters the transverse fissure, where it is somewhat enlarged, forming the sinus of the portal vein, and divides into two branches, which accompany the ramifications of the hepatic artery and hepatic duct throughout the substance of the liver. Of these two branches the light is the larger but the shorter of the two. The portal vein is about four inches in length, and, whilst contained in the lesser omentum, lies behind and between the hepatic duct and artery, the former being to the right, the latter to the left. These structures are accompanied by filaments of the hepatic plexus of nerves, and numerous lymphatics, surrounded by a quantity of loose areolar tissue (capsule of Glisson), and placed between the layers of the lesser omentum. The vena portse receives the gastric and cystic veins; the latter vein sometimes terminates in the right branch of the vena porta?. Within the liver the portal vein receives the blood from the branches of the hepatic artery. Cardiac Veins. The veins which return the blood from the substance of the heart are, the Great cardiac vein. Anterior cardiac veins. Posterior cardiac vein. Vense Thebesii. The Great Cardiac Vein (coronary) is a vessel of considerable size, which com- mences at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the anterior interventricular groove to the base of the ventricles. It then curves to the left side, around the auvi- culo-ventricular groove, between the left auricle and ventricle, to the back part of the heart, and opens into the coronary sinus, its aperture being guarded by two valves. It receives, in its course, branches from both ventricles, but especially the left, and also from the left auricle; one branch, ascending along the thick margin of the left ventricle, is of considerable size. The branches joining it are provided with valves. The Posterior Cardiac Vein commences, by small branches, at the apex of the heart, communicating with those of the jpreceding. It ascends along the posterior interventricular groove to the base of the heart, and terminates in the coronary sinus, its orifice being guarded by a valve. It receives the veins from the posterior surface of both ventricles. * The above description of the gastric veins is the one given by Mr. Walsham. and differs from that usually found in the text-hooks. Since the publication of Mr. Walsham's paper, I have verified the truth of his description. See Journal of Anatomy and Physioloyij, vol. xiv. p. 399. G G 2