522 CRANIAL NERVES. At the bottom of the meatus, it enters the aqusoductus Eallopii, and follows the serpentine course of that canal through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, from its commencement at the internal meatus, to its termination at the stylo- mastoid foramen. It is at first directed outwards towards the hiatus Fallopii, where it forms a reddish gangliform swelling (intumescentia gangliformis or geni- culate ganglion), and is joined by several nerves ; then bending suddenly backwards, it runs in the internal wall of the tympanum, above the fenestra ovalis, and at the back of that cavity passes vertically downwards to the stylo-mastoid foramen. On emerging from this aperture, it runs forwards in the substance of the parotid gland, crosses the external carotid artery, and divides behind the ramus of the lower jaw into two primary branches, temporo-facial and cervico-facial, from which numerous offsets are distributed over the side of the head, face, and upper part of the neck, supplying the superficial muscles in these regions. As the primary branches and their offsets diverge from each other, they present somewhat the appearance of a bird's claw ; hence the name of pes anserimis is given to the divisions of the facial nerve in and near the parotid gland. The communications of the facial nerve may be thus arranged :— In the internal auditory meatus In the aquaxluctus Fallopii At its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen . . On the face With the auditory nerve. /With Meckel's ganglion petrosal nerve. With the otic ganglion by the large by the small peti'osal nerve. With the sympathetic on the middle me- ningeal by the external petrosal nerve. /■With the pneumogastiic. „ glosso-pharyngeal. ,, carotid plexus. „ auricularis magnus. ,, auriculo-temporal. With the three divisions of the fifth. In the internal auditory meatus, some minute filaments pass between the facial and auditory nerves. Opposite the hiatus Eallopii, the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve com- municates, by means of the large petrosal nerve, with Meckel's ganglion, forming its motor root; by a filament from the small petrosal, with the otic ganglion; and by the external petrosal, with the sympathetic filaments accompanying the middle meningeal artery (Bidder). From the gangliform enlargement, according to Arnold, a twig is sent back to the auditory nerve. At its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it sends a twig to the pneumogastric, another to the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and communicates with the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, with the great auricular branch of the cervical plexus, with the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve in the parotid gland, and on the face with the terminal branches of the three divisions of the fifth. Branches of Distribution Within the aquasductus Fallopii . At its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen . On the face Tympanic. Chorda tympani. Posterior auricular. Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. Temporo-facial. Cervico-facial. Temporal. Malar. (Infra-orbital. ( Buccal. J Supra-maxillary. (Infra-maxillary.