668 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. ductus venosus; the right owe, the fissure for the inferior vena cava; the two diverging limbs anterior to the cross bar would represent the umbilical fissure {left), and the fissure for the gall-bladder (right). The longitudinal fissure is a deep groove, which extends from the notch on the anterior margin of the liver to the posterior border of the organ. It separates the right and left lobes; the transverse fissure joins it, at right angles, about one-third front its posterior extremity, and divides it into two parts. The anterior half is called the umbilical fissure; it is deeper than the posterior part, and lodges the umbilical vein in the foetus, or its remains (the round ligament) in the adult. This fissure is often partially bridged over by a prolongation of the hepatic substance, the pons hepatis. The fissure of the ductus venosus is the back part of the longitudinal fissure ; it is shorter and shallower than the anterior portion. It lodges in the foetus the ductus venosus, and in the adult a slender fibrous cord, the obliterated remains of that vessel. The transverse or portal fissure is a short but deep fissure, about two inches in length, extending transversely across the under surface of the right lobe, nearer to its posterior than its anterior border. It joins, nearly at right angles, with the longitudinal fissure. By the older anatomists this fissure was considered the gate- way (porta) of the liver; hence the large vein which enters at this point was called the portal vein. Besides this vein, the fissure transmits the hepatic artery and nerves, and the hepatic duct and lymphatics. At their entrance into the fissure, the hepatic duct lies in front to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind and between. The fissure for the gall-bladder (fossa cystis fellece) is a shallow, oblong fossa, placed on the under surface of the right lobe, parallel with the longitudinal fissure. It extends from the anterior free margin of the liver, which is occasionally notched, for its reception, to near the right extremity of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the vena cava is a short, deep fissure, occasionally a complete canal, which extends obliquely upwards from a little behind the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, where it joins the fissure for the ductus venosus. 0n slitting open the inferior vena cava which is contained m it, a deep fossa is seen, at the bottom of which the hepatic veins communicate with this vessel. This fissure is separated from the transverse fissure by the lobus caudatus, and from the longitudinal fissure by the lobulus Spigelii. Lobes.—The lobes of the liver, like the ligaments and fissures, are five in number— the right lobe, the left lobe, the lobus quadratus, the lobulus Spigelii, and the lobus caudatus. The right lobe is much larger than the left; the proportion between them being as six to one. It occupies the right hypochondrium, and is separated from the left lobe, on its upper surface, by the longitudinal ligament; on its under surface by the longitudinal fissure; and in front by a deep notch. It is of a quadrilateral form, its under surface being marked by three fissures—the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the inferior vena cava; and by two shallow impressions, one in front (impressio colica), for the hepatic flexure of the colon ; and one behind (impressio renalis), for the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. The left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right. It is situated in the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions, sometimes extending as far as the upper border of the spleen. Its upper surface is convex; its under concave surface rests upon the front of the stomach; and its posterior border is in relation with the cardiac orifice of the stomach. The lobus quadratus, or square lobe, is situated on the under surface of the right lobe, bounded in front by the free surface of the liver; behind, by the transverse fissure; on the light, by the fissure for the gall-bladder; and, on the left, by the umbilical fissure. The lobulus Spigelii projects from the back part of the under surface of the right