582 ORGANS OF SENSE. separate layer, corresponding to the rete mucosum, but they never contain colouring matter. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves, separated from each other, in the middle line, by a fibrous septum. Each half is composed of muscular fibres arranged in various directions, containing much interposed fat, and supplied by vessels and nerves : and partly invested by mucous membrane, and a submucous fibrous stratum. Into the latter the muscular fibres are inserted that pass to the surface. It is thicker behind than in front, and is continuous with the sheaths of the muscles attached to it. The fibrous septum consists of a vertical layer of fibrous tissue, extending through- out the entire length of the middle line of the tongue, from the base to the apex. It is thicker behind than in front, and occasionally contains a small fibro-cartilage, about a quarter of an inch in length. It is well displayed by making a vertical section across the organ. Another strong fibrous lamina, termed the hyoglossal membrane, connects the under surface of the base of the tongue to the body of the hyoid bone. This membrane receives, in front, some of the fibres of the Genio-hyo- glossi. Each half of the tongue consists of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former have been already described ; they are the Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyo-glossus, Stylo- glossus, Palato-glossus, and part of the Superior constrictor. The intrinsic muscular fibres are described along with the Lingualis on p. 229. The arteries of the tongue ai\3 derived from the lingual, the facial, and ascending pharyngeal. The nerves of the tongue are three in number in each half: the gustatory branch of the fifth, which is distributed to the papilhe at the fore part and sides of the tongue; the lingua] branch <>f the glossopharyngeal, which is distributed to the mucous membrane at the base and side of the tongue, and to the papilhe circum- vallatse; and the hypoglossal nerve, which is distributed to the muscular substance of the tongue. The two former are nerves of common sensation and of taste; the latter is the motor nerve of the tongue. TnE Nose. The nose is the special organ of the sense of smell : by means of the peculiar properties of its nerves, it protects the lungs from the inhalation of deleterious gases, and assists the organ of taste in discriminating the properties of food. The organ of smell consists of two parts, one external, the nose; the other internal, the nasal fossae. The nose is the more anterior and prominent part of the organ of smell. It is of a triangular form, directed vertically downwards, and projects from the centre of the face, immediately above the upper lip. Its summit, or root, is connected directly with the forehead. Its inferior part, the base of the nose, presents two elliptical orifices, the nostrils, s-eparated from each other by an anteroposterior septum, the columna. The margins of these orifices are provided with a number of stiff hairs, or vibrissce, which arrest the passage of foreign substances carried with the current of air intended for respiration. The lateral surfaces of the nose form, by their union, the dorsum, the direction of which varies considerably in different individuals. The dorsum terminates below in a rounded eminence, the lobe of the nose. The nose is composed of a framework of bones and cartilages, the latter being slightly acted upon by certain muscles. It is covered externally by the integument, internally by mucous membrane, and supplied with vessels and nerves. The bony framework occupies the upper part of the organ : it consists of the nasal bones, and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary. The cartilaginous framework consists of five pieces, the two upper and the two lower lateral cartilages, and the cartilage of the septum.