ORGANS OF DIGESTION. is bounded by the external meatus, the mastoid process, and the Sterno-mastoid and Digastric muscles, slightly overlapping the former. Its anterior surface is grooved to embrace the posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw, and advances forwards beneath the ramus, between the two ptery- goid muscles. Its outer surface, slightly lobulated, is covered by the integument and fascia, and has one or two lymphatic glands resting on it. Its inner surface extends deeply into the neck, by means of two large processes, one of which dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the mastoid process and the Sterno- mastoid muscle • the other is situated in front of the styloid process, and passes into the back part of the glenoid fossa, behind the articulation of the lower jaw. Em- bedded in its substance is the external carotid artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw; the posterior auricular artery emerges from the gland behind; the temporal artery above; the transverse facial in front; and the internal maxillary winds through it inwards, behind the neck of the jaw. Superficial to the external carotid is the trunk formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins; a branch, connecting this trunk with the internal jugular, also passes through the gland. It is also traversed, from before backwards, by the facial nerve and its branches, which emerge at its anterior border; the great auricular nerve pierces the gland to join the facial, and the temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve lies above the upper part of the gland. The internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein lie close to its deep surface. The duct of the parotid gland (Stenson's) is about two inches and a half in length. It opens upon the inner surface of the cheek by a small orifice, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; and from this orifice it may be traced obliquely for a short distance beneath the mucous membrane, and thence through the substance of the Buccinator muscle, and across the Masseter to the anterior border of the gland in the substance of which it commences by numerous branches. The direction of the duct corresponds to a line drawn across the face about a finger's breadth below the zygoma, from the lower part of the concha, to midway between the free margin of the upper lip and the ala of the nose. While crossing the Masseter it receives the duct of a small detached portion of the gland, socia parotidis, which occasionally exists as a separate lobe, just beneath the zygomatic arch. The parotid duct is dense, of considerable thickness, and its canal about the size of a crow-quill; it consists of an external or fibrous coat, of considerable density, containing contractile fibres, and of an internal or mucous coat lined with short columnar epithelium. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the parotid gland are derived from the external carotid, and from the branches given off by that vessel in or near its substance. The veins follow a similar course. The lymphatics terminate in the superficial and deep cervical glands, passing in their course through two or three lymphatic glands, placed on the surface and in the substance of the parotid. The nerves are derived from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, the facial, and the superficial temporal branches of the auiiculo-temporal and great auricular nerves. The Submaxillary gland is situated below the jaw, in the anterior part of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It is irregular in form, and weighs about two drachms. It is covered by the integument, Platysma, deep cervical fascia, and the body of the lower jaw, corresponding to a depression on the inner surface of that bone; and lies upon the Mylo-hyoid, Hyo-glossus, and Stylo-glossus muscles, a portion of the gland passing beneath the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid. In front of it is the anterior belly of the Digastric; behind, it is separated from the parotid glaud by the stylo-maxillary ligament, and from the sublingual gland in front by the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The facial artery lies embedded in a groove in its posterior and upper border. The duct of the submaxillary gland (Wharton's) is about two inches in length, and its walls are much thinner than those of the parotid duct. It opens by a narrow orifice on the summit of a small papilla, at the side of the fraenum linguae, Traced from thence, it is found to pass between the sublingual gland and the Genio-hyo- glossus muscle, then backwards and outwards between the Mylo-hyoid, and the