535 CERVICAL PLEXUS. The trunk oj the first cervical nerve (suboccipital) leaves the spinal canal, between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas; the second, between the posterior arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis; and the eighth (the last), between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. Each nerve, at its exit from the intervertebral foramen, divides into an anterior and a posterior division. The anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves form the cervical plexus. The anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, together with the first dorsal, form the brachial plexus. Anterior Divisions of the Cervical Nerves. The anterior division of the first, or suboccipital nerve, is of small size. It escapes from the spinal canal through a groove upon the posterior arch of the atlas. In this groove it lies beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the Rectus capitis lateralis. As it crosses the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, it receives a filament from the sympathetic. It then descends, in front of this process, to com- municate with an ascending branch from the second cervical nerve. Communica.ting filaments from this nerve join the pneumogastric, the hypo-glossal and sympathetic, and some branches are distributed to the Rectus lateralis and the two Anterior recti. According to Valentin, the anterior division of the suboccipital also distributes filaments to the occipito-atloid articulation, and mastoid process of the temporal bone. The anterior division of the second cervical nerve escapes from the spinal canal, between the posterior arch of the atlas and the lamina of the axis, and, passing for- wards on the outer side of the vertebral artery, divides in front of the Inter-transverse muscle, into an ascending branch, which joins the first cervical; and one or two descending branches which join the third. It gives off the small occipital; a branch to assist in forming the great auricular; another to assist in forming the superficial cervical; one of the communicantes noni, and a filament to the sterno-mastoid, which communicates in the substance of the muscle with the spinal accessory. The anterior division of the third, cervical nerve is double the size of the preceding. At its exit from the intervertebral foramen, it passes downwards and outwards beneath the Sterno-mastoid, and divides into two branches. The ascending branch joins the anterior division of the second cervical; the descending branch passes down in front of the Scalenus anticus, and communicates with the fourth. It gives off the greater part of the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves; one of the com- municantes noni; a branch to the supra-clavicular nerves; a filament to assist in forming the phrenic and muscular branches to the Levator anguli scapulae, and Trapezius; this latter nerve communicates beneath the muscle with the spinal acces- sory. Sometimes the nerve to the Scalenus medius is derived from this source. The anterior division of the fourth cervical is of the same size as the preceding. It receives a branch from the third, sends a communicating branch to the fifth cervical, and passing downwards and outwards, divides into numerous filaments, which cross the posterior triangle of the neck, forming the supra-clavicular nerves. It usually gives a branch to the phrenic nerve, whilst it is contained in the inter- transverse space, and sometimes a branch to the Scalenus medius muscle. The anterior divisions of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves are remarkable for their large size. They are much larger than the preceding nerves, and are all of equal size. They assist in the formation of the brachial plexus. Cervical Plexus. The cervical plexus (figs. 294, 295) is formed by the anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves. It is situated opposite the four upper vertebra?, resting upon the Levator anguli scapula?, and Scalenus medius muscles, and covered in by the Sterno-mastoid.