THE EYE. 587 density and hardness ; it is a firm, unyielding, fibrous membrane, serving to main- tain the form of the globe. It is much thicker behind than in front. Its external surface is of a white colour, quite smooth, except at the points where the Recti and Obliqui muscles are inserted into it, and covered, for part of its extent, by the conjunctival membrane ; hence the whiteness and brilliancy of the front of the eyeball. Its inner surface is stained of a brown colour, marked by grooves, in which are lodged the ciliary nerves, and connected by an exceedingly fine cellular tissue {lamina fusca) with the outer surface of the choroid. Behind, it is pierced by the optic nerve a little to its inner or nasal side, and is continuous with the fibrous sheath of the nerve, which is derived from the dura mater. At the point where the optic nerve passes through the sclerotic, this membrane forms a thin cribriform lamina (the lamina cribrosa); the minute orifices in this layer serve for the transmission of the nervous filaments, and the fibrous septa dividing them from one another are continuous with the membranous processes which separate the bundles of nerve-fibres. One of these openings, larger than the rest, occupies the centre of the lamella ; it is called the porus opticus, and transmits the arteria centralis retinae to the interior of the eyeball. Around the cribriform lamella are numerous small apertures for the transmission of the ciliary vessels and nerves. In front, the sclerotic is continuous with the cornea by direct continuity of tissue, but the opaque sclerotic overlaps the cornea rather more on its outer than on its inner surface. Structure. The sclerotic is formed of white fibrous tissue intermixed with fine elastic fibres, and fusiform nucleated cells. These are aggregated into bundles, winch are arranged chiefly in a longitudinal direction. It yields gelatin on boiling. Its vessels are not numerous, the capillaries being of small size, uniting at long and wide intervals. The existence of nerves in it is doubtful. The Corneals the projecting transparent part of the external tunic of the eye- ball, and forms the anterior sixth of the globe. It is not quite circular, being a little broader in the transverse than in the vertical direction, in consequence of the sclerotic overlapping the margin above and below. It is convex anteriorly, and projects forwards from the sclerotic in the same manner that a watch-glass does from its case. Its degree of curvature varies in different individuals, and in the same individual at different periods of life, it being more prominent in youth than