NERVOUS SYSTEM. 5 00 Grey matter of the third ventricle. A layer of grey matter covers the greater part of the surface of the third ventricle. In the floor of this cavity it exists in great abundance, and is prolonged upwards on the sides of the thalami, extending across the cavity as the soft commissure; below, it enters into the corpora albicantia, and surrounds in part the anterior pillars of the fornix. Behind the third ventricle, and in front of the cerebellum, are the corpora quad- rigemina ; and resting upon these, the pineal gland. The pineal gland (epiphysis cerebri), so named from its peculiar shape (pinus, a fir-cone) is a small reddish-grey body, conical in form, (hence its synonym, conarium) placed immediately behind the posterior commissure, and between the nates, upon which it rests. It is retained in its position by a duplicature of pia mater, derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, which almost completely invests it. The pineal gland is about four lines in length, and from two to three in width, at its base, and is said to be larger in the child than in the adult, and in the female than in the male. Its base is connected to the cerebrum by two peduncles (the peduncles of the pineal gland) which pass forwards upon the upper and inner margin of the optic thalami to the anterior crura of the fornix, with which they become blended : these two peduncles join together at their posterior extremity, in front of the pineal gland, forming a sort of festoon, and the base of the gland is connected to their posterior margin at the point of junction. In front the band of union is joined to the back of the posterior commissure. The pineal gland is very vascular, and consists chiefly of grey matter, with a few medullary fibres. In its base is a small cavity, said by some to communicate with that of the third ventricle. It contains a transparent viscid fluid, and occasionally a quantity of sabulous matter, named acervulus cerebri, composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, with a little animal matter. These concretions are almost constant in their existence, and are found at all periods of life. When this body is solid, the sabulous matter is found upon its surface, and occasionally upon its peduncles. On the removal of the pineal gland and adjacent portion of pia mater, the corpora quadi'i- gemina are exposed. The corpora or tubercula quadrigemina (optic lobes) are four rounded eminences placed in pairs, two in front, and two behind, and separated from one another by a crucial depression. They are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and posterior commissure, beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, and above the iter a tertio ad quartuni ventriculum. The anterior pair, the nates, are the larger, oblong from before backwards, and of a grey colour. The posterior pair, the testes, are hemispherical in form, and lighter in colour than the preceding. They are connected on each side with the optic thalamus, and commencement of the optic tracts, by means of two white prominent bands termed brachia. Those connecting the nates with the thalamus (brachia anteriora) are the larger, and pass obliquely outwards. Those connecting the testes with the thalamus, are called the brachia posterior a. Both pairs, in the adult, are quite solid, being composed of white matter externally, and grey matter within. These bodies are larger in the lower animals than in man. In fishes, reptiles, and birds, they are only two in number, are called the optic lobes, from their connection with the optic nerves, and are hollow in their interior; but in mammalia, they are four in number, as in man, and quite solid. In the human foetus, they are developed at a very early period, and form a large proportion of the cerebral mass ; at first, they are only two in number, as in the lower mammalia, and hollow in their interior. These bodies receive, from below, white fibres from the olivary fasciculus or fillet; they are also connected with the cerebellum, by means of a large white cord on each side, the processus ad testes, or superior peduncles of the cerebellum, which is continued onwards to the thalami through the tubercula quadrigemina. The valve of Vieussens is a thin translucent lamina of medullary substance, stretched between the two processus e cerebello ad testes ; it covers in the canal leading from the third to the fourth ventricle, forming part of the roof of the latter cavity. It is narrow in front, where it is connected with the testes; and broader behind, at its