553 LUMBAR PLEXUS. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal is remarkable for its large size • it perforates the Internal and External oblique muscles, passes downwards over the crest of the ilium in front of the iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (fig. 307), and is distributed to the integument of the front of the hip, some of its filaments extending as low down as the trochanter major. It does not divide into an anterior and posterior branch like the others. Lumbar Nerves. The lumbar nerves are five in number on each side; the first appears between the first and second lumbar vertebra, and the last between the last lumbar and the base of the sacrum. The roots of the lumbar nerves are the largest, and their filaments the most numerous, of all the spinal nerves, and they are closely aggregated together upon the lower end of the cord. The anterior roots are the smaller : but there is not the same disproportion between them and the posterior roots as in the cervical nerves. The roots of these nerves have a vertical direction, and are of considerable length, more especially the lower ones, since the spinal cord does not extend beyond the first lumbar vertebra. The roots become joined in the intervertebral foramina; and the nerves, so formed, divide at their exit into two divisions, anterior and posterior. The posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves (fig. 301) diminish in size from above downwards ; they pass backwards between the transverse processes, and divide into external and internal branches. The External branches supply the Erector spinse and Intertransverse muscles. From the three upper branches, cutaneous nerves are derived, which pierce the aponeurosis of the Latissiuius dorsi muscle, and descend over the back part of the crest of the ilium, to be distributed to the integument of the gluteal region, some of the filaments passing as far as the trochanter major. The internal branches, the smaller, pass inwards close to the articular processes of the vertebrae, and supply the Multifidus spina? and Interspinales muscles. The anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves increase in size from above down- wards. At their origin, they communicate with the lumbar ganglia of the sym- pathetic by long slender filaments, which accompany the lumbar arteries round the sides of the bodies of the vertebra?, beneath the Psoas muscle. The nerves pass obliquely outwards behind the Psoas magnus, or between its fasciculi, distributing filaments to it and the Quadratus lumborum. The anterior divisions of the four ,\ipper nerves are connected together in this situation by anastomotic loops, and form the lumbar plexus. The anterior division of the fifth lumbar, joined with a branch from the fourth, descends across the base of the sacrum to join the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, and assist in the formation of the sacral plexus. The cord resulting from the union of the fifth lumbar, and the branch from the fourth, is called the lumbosacral nerve. Lumbar Plexus. The lumbar plexus is formed by the loops of communication between the anterior divisions of the four upper lumbar nerves. The plexus is narrow above, and often connected with the last dorsal by a slender branch, the dor si-lumbar nerve; it is bi'oad below, where it is joined to the sacral plexus by the lumbo-sacral cord. It is situated in the substance of the Psoas muscle near its posterior part, in front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The mode in which the plexus is formed is the following :—The first lumbar nerve receives a branch from the last dorsal, and gives off the ilio hypogastric and ilio-inguinalj and a communicating branch which passes down to the second lumbar and forms a part of the genito-crural nerve. The second gives off the remainder of the genito-crural, and a descending branch to communicate with the third; from it the greater part of the external cutaneous is given off. The fibres of this communicating branch are prolonged partly into the anterior crural, and partly into the obturator nerve.