6oo ORGANS OF SENSE. mount the upper circumference of the orbit on each side, and support numerous short, thick hairs, directed obliquely on the surface. In structure, the eyebrows consist of thickened integument, connected beneath with the Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Occipito-frontalis muscles. These muscles serve, by their action on this part, to control to a certain extent the amount of light admitted into the eye. The eyelids (palpebral) are two thin, movable folds, placed in front of the eye, protecting it from injury by their closure. The upper lid is the larger, and the more movable of the two, and is furnished with a separate elevator muscle, the Levator palpebrce superioris. When the eyelids are opened, an elliptical space (fissura palpebrarum^) is left between their margins, the angles of which correspond to the junction of the upper and lower lids, and are called canthi. The outer canthus is more acute than the inner, and the lids here lie in close contact with the globe : but the inner canthus is prolonged for a short distance inwards, towards the nose, and the two lids are separated by a triangular space, the lacus lachrymalis. At the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, on the margin of the eyelid, is a small conical elevation, the lachrymal papilla, or tubercle, the apex of which is pierced by a small orifice, the punctum lachrymale, the commencement of the lachrymal canal. Structure of the eyelids. The eyelids are composed of the following structures, taken in their order from without inwards :— Integument, areolar tissue, fibres of the Orbicularis muscle, tarsal cartilage and its ligament, Meibomian glands and conjunctiva. The upper lid has, in addition, the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebral. The integument is extremely thin, and continuous at the margin of the lids with the conjunctiva. The subcutaneous areolar tissue is very lax and delicate, seldom contains any fat, and is extremely liable to serous infiltration. The fibres of th e Orbicularis muscle, where they cover the palpebral, are thin, pale in colour, and possess an involuntary action. The tarsal cartilages are two thin elongated plates of dense connective tissue,* about an inch in length. They are placed one in each lid, contributing to their form and support. The superior, the larger, is of a semilunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at the centre, and becoming gradually narrowed at each extremity. Into the upper border of this cartilage the aponeurosis of the Levator palpebrae is attached. The inferior tarsal cartilage, the smaller, is thinner, and of an elliptical form. The free, or ciliary margin of the cartilages is thick, and presents a perfectly straight edge. The attached or orbital margin is connected to the circumference of the orbit by the fibrous membrane of the lids. The outer angle of each cartilage is attached to the malar bone by the external palpebral or tarsal ligament. The inner angles of the two cartilages terminate at the commencement of the lachrymalis, being fixed to the margins of the orbit by the tendo oculi. The tarsal ligament, or fibrous membrane of the lids, is a layer of fibrous mem- brane, beneath the Orbicularis, attached externally to the margin of the orbit, and internally to the orbital margin of the tarsal cartilage. It is thick and dense at the outer part of the orbit, but becomes thinner as it approaches the cartilages. This membrane serves to support the eyelids, and retains the tarsal cartilages in their position. The Meibomian glands (fig. 328) are situated upon the inner surface of the eye- lids, between the tarsal cartilages and conjunctiva, and may be distinctly seen through the mucous membrane on everting the eyelids, presenting the appearance of parallel strings of pearls. They are about thirty in number in the upper cartilage, and somewhat fewer in the lower. They are embedded in grooves in the inner * Recent observations have proved that the so-called 1 tarsal cartilages ' do not contain any cartilage cells, and that the name is a misnomer.