cii GENERAL ANATOMY. -Section of lymphatic jrlaml tissue. b vsst substance of the capsule, open into the lymph-sinuses of the cortical part. In doing this they lose all then- coats except then- endothelial lining, which is continuous with a layer of epithelial cells lining the lymph-paths. In like manner the efferent vessel commences from the lymph-sinuses of the medullary portion. The stream of lymph carried to the gland by the ■efferent vessel would thus pass through the plexus in the capsule to the lymph-paths of the cortical portion, where it would be exposed to the action of the gland- pulp ; flowing through these it would enter the paths or sinuses of the medullary portion, and finally emerge from the hilum by means of the efferent vessel. The arteries of the gland enter at the hilum, and either pass at once to the gland-pulp, to break up into a capillary plexus, or else run along the trabecule, partly to supply them, and partly running across the lymph-paths, to assist in forming the capillary plexus of the gland-pulp. From this plexus the veins commence, and emerge from the organ at the same place as that at which the arteiy enters. a. Trabecular, b. Small artery in substance of fame. Lymph-corpuscles, e. Capillary plexus. Lymph-paths, <?• THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. The Skin is the principal seat of the sense of touch, and may be regarded as a covering for the protection of the deeper tissues; it is also an important excretory and absorbing organ. It consists of two layers, the derma or cutis vera, and the epidermis or cuticle. On the surface of the former layer are the sensitive papilla?; and within, or embedded beneath it, are the sweat-glands, hair-follicles, and sebaceous glands. The derma, or true skin, is tough, flexible, and highly clastic, in order to defend the internal parts from violence. It consists of fibro-areolar tissue, intermixed with numerous blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The fibro-areolar tissue forms the framework of the cutis, and is differently arranged in different parts, so that it is usual to describe it as consisting of two layers; the deeper layer or eorium, and the superficial or papillary layer. The corium consists of strong interlacing fibrous bands, composed chiefly of the white variety of fibrous tissue; but containing, also, some fibres of the yellow elastic tissue, which vary in amount in different parts. Towards the attached surface the fasciculi arc large and coarse, and the areolae which are left by their interlacement are large, and occupied by adipose tissue and the sweat-glands. This element of the skin becomes gradually blended with the subcutaneous areolar tissue. Towards the free surface