NERVOUS SYSTEM. 468 The chief peculiarities of the dura mater of the cord, as compared with that investing the brain, are the following : The dura mater of the cord is not adherent to the bones of the spinal canal, which have an independent periosteum. It does not send partitions into the fissures of the cord, as in the brain. Its fibrous lamins3 do not separate, to form venous sinuses, as in the brain. Structure. The dura mater consists of white fibrous and elastic tissue, arranged in bands which, for the most part, are parallel with one another. It is spar- ingly supplied with vessels; and some few nerves have been traced into it. The Arachnoid is exposed by slitting up the dura mater, and reflecting that membrane to either side (fig. 259). It is a thin, delicate tubular membrane, which invests the surface of the cord, and is connected to the pia mater by slender filaments of connective tissue. Above, it is continuous with the cerebral arachnoid; on either side it is reflected on the various nerves, so as to form a sheath for them as they pass outwards to the intervertebral foramina. The outer surface of the arachnoid is in contact with the inner surface of the dura mater, and the two are, here and there, connected together by isolated connective-tissue trabecule, especially on the posterior surface of the cord. For the most part, however, the membranes are not connected together, and the interval between them is named the sub-dural space. The inner surface of the arachnoid is separated from the pia mater by a con- siderable interval, which is called the sub-arachnoidean space. This space is largest at the lower part of the spinal canal, and encloses the mass of nerves which form the cauda equina. It contains an abundant serous secretion, the cerebrospinal fluid, and usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain, by means of an opening in the fibrous layer of the inferior boundary of the fourth ventricle (foramen of Maqendie.) This secretion is sufficient in amount to expand the arachnoid membrane, so as to com- pletely fill up the whole of the space included in the dura mater. The sub- arachnoidean space is crossed, at the back part of the cord, by numerous fibrous bands, which stretch from the arachnoid to the pia mater, especially in the cervical region, and is partially subdivided by a longitudinal membranous partition, which serves to connect the arachnoid with the pia mater opposite the posterior median fissure. This partition is incomplete, and cribriform in structure, consisting of bundles of white fibrous tissue, interlacing with each other.* * It will be noticed that this description of the arachnoid varies from that in former editions, which described this membrane as a closed sac, one layer of which, the visceral layer, ensheathed the cord, and the other, the parietal layer, was reflected over the inner surface of the dura mater. The space between the two layers was termed the ' cavity of the arachnoid ' and corresponded to the ' sub-dural' space in the above description. Kolliker was the first to deny that the inner surface of the dura mater was covered by an outer layer of the arachnoid ; he states that nothing is found here except epithelium, no trace of a special membrane existing. This view is now very generally adopted by anatomists, and 259.—The Spinal Cord and its Membranes. 260.—Transverse Section of the Spinal Oord and its Membranes.