5o7 OLFACTORY NERVE. The external or long root, is a narrow, white, medullary band, which passes out- wards across the fissure of Sylvius, into the substance of the middle lobe of the cere- brum. Its deep origin has been traced to a nucleus of grey matter in the temporo- sphenoidal lobe, in front of the pes hippocampi. The middle, or grey root, arises from a papilla of grey matter {caruncula rnammil- laris), imbedded in the anterior lobe. It contains white fibres in its interior, which are connected with the corpus striatum. The interned, or short root, is composed of white fibres, which arise from the inner and back part of the anterior lobe, being connected, according to Foville, with the longitudinal fibres of the gyrus fornicatus. These three roots unite, and form a flat band, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, and of a somewhat prismoid form on section. It is soft in texture, and contains a considerable amount of grey matter in its substance. As it passes forwards, it is contained in a deep sulcus, between two convolutions, lying on the under surface of the anterior lobe, on either side of the longitudinal Assure, and is retained in position by the arachnoid membrane which covers it. On reaching the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, it expands into an oblong mass of greyish- white substance, the olfactory bulb. From the under part of this bulb are given off numerous filaments, about twenty in number, which pass through the cribriform foramina, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the nose. Each filament is surrounded by a tubular prolongation from the dura mater and pia mater ; the former being lost on the periosteum lining the nose ; the latter, in the neurilemma of the nerve. The filaments, as they enter the nares, are divisible into three groups : an inner group, larger than those on the outer wall, spread out over the upper third of the septum ; a middle set, confined to the roof of the nose; and an outer set, which are distributed over the superior and middle turbinated bones, and the surface of the ethmoid in front of them. As the filaments descend, they unite in a plexi- form network, and are believed by most observers to terminate in the cells of Schultze. (P- 535)- The olfactory differs in structure from other nerves, in containing grey matter in its interior, and being soft and pulpy in consistence. Its filaments are deficient in the white substance of Schwann, are not divisible into fibrillse, and resemble the gelatinous fibres, in being nucleated, and of a finely-granular texture. The Second, or Optic Nerve, the 282.—The Optic Nerves and Optic Tract. and lamina cinerea, from both of which it >tic Nerve. special nerve of the sense of sight, is distributed exclusively to the eyeball. The nerves of opposite sides are connected together at the commissure, and from the back of the commissure they may be traced to the brain, under the name of the optic tracts. The optic tract, at its connection with the brain, is divided into two bands which arise from the optic thalami, the corpora geniculata, and the anterior lobes [nates) of the corpora quadrigemina. The fibres of origin from the thalamus may be traced partly from its surface, and partly from its interior. From this origin, the tract winds obliquely across the under surface of the crus cerebri, in the form of a flattened band, destitute of neurilemma, and is attached to the crus by its anterior margin. It now as- sumes a cylindrical form, and, as it passes for- wards, is connected with the tuber cinereum receives fibres. According to Foville, it is also