GENERAL ANATOMY. xliv ment from the surface, preceded possibly by their bursting and discharging their contents, or by various forms of degeneration, fatty, pigmentary, or calcareous. Cells are held together either by anastomosis of their processes, by intercellular substance, which may be semi-fluid, hyaline, or of various higher forms, the result of cell metamorphosis, or by direct contact of their walls.* CELLULAR AND FIBROUS TISSUE. The cellular or areolar tissue is so called because its meshes are easily distended, and thus separated into cells or spaces which all open freely into each other, and are consequently easily blown up with air, or permeated by fluid, when injected into any part of the tissue. Such spaces, however, do not exist in the natural condition of the body, but the whole tissue forms one unbroken membrane composed of a number of interlacing fibres, variously superimposed. Hence the old term ' the cellular membrane' is in many parts of the body more appropriate than its more modern equiva- lents. The chief use of the cellular tissue is to bind parts together ; while by the laxity of its fibres and the permeability of its areolae it allows them to move on each other, and affords a ready exit for inflammatory and other effused fluids. It is consequently often denominated connective tissue, and this term is still more appropriate to the fibrous tissue which forms the bond of connection between the intimate elements of solid organs ; in which more restricted sense the term is often used in modern works. The areolar tissue consists essentially of two forms of fibrous tissue, the white and yellow, intermixed in varying proportions together with a great quantity of capil- lary vessels, nerves, and lymphatics, and in most situations it contains fat. The cellular tissue is continuous over the whole body ; so that fluid, and especially air, when injected forcibly into it—as from a wound of the lung or bowel—may be diffused into the remotest parts. The white fibrous tissue (Fig. VI.) consists of bundles of wavy bands interlacing with each other, each composed of minute filaments, or fibriUa, Fig. VI.—White fibrous tissue. High power. which appear homogeneous, and measure from *° To hnr °f an nu'n in diameter. The larger bands have no definite size, but are supposed to be solid masses formed by an agglutination, as it w7ere, of the ultimate fibrillar. Acted upon by acetic acid, the white fibrous tissue swells up into an indistinct uniform mass, which gradually becomes indistinguishable ; * The above is abbreviated from the admirably clear description in Kirkes's ' Physiology ' by Morrant Baker.