DEVELOPMENT OF SPINE. cxxxiii bryonic cells (fig. LXXXVIL), and extending from the cephalic to the caudal extremity of the foetus below the spinal cord. On either side of this are laid down also from the mesoblast a series of square-shaped bodies called the protovertebrce. The protovertebrae or primitive vertebrae appear early, as dark spots, which soon enlarge and form quadrangular laminae, one on either side of the chorda dorsalis, commencing in the cervical region. These spread out and bend towards each other, so as to come into contact around the spinal canal and enclose it, forming the rudiment of the future bodies and arches of the vertebrae, as well as of the vertebral and other muscles. This primitive vertebral column is, however, entirely membranous until about the sixth or seventh week, when cartilage begins to be deposited in it. The protovertebrae do not coincide with the permanent vertebrae. On the contrary, each primitive vertebra separates into two parts, the upper part belonging to the permanent vertebra which lies above the point of separation, and the lower one to that below (fig. LXXXVIIL). The chorda dorsalis becomes gradually atrophied, except at the part corresponding to the intervals between the permanent vertebrae, where it forms the intervertebral discs. The steps by which the various parts of the spinal column are composed are compli- cated, and in several points they are not at present clearly made out. Thus the noto- chord is usually regarded, and is described above, as being formed out of the meso- blast ; but this is denied by several authors, who refer its origin to the epiblast, and who deny that any cartilaginous change takes place in it. These authors would thus refer the intervertebral discs exclusively to the protovertebrae, while the notochord would, according to them, disappear entirely in after life. What is usually admitted is shortly as follows : The protovertebrae, derived from the mesoblast, increase in size and grow up around the notochord, so as to enclose it completely. They then become divided or segmented each into two portions, the upper segment of the lower protovertebra coalescing with the lower segment of the upper to form the corresponding segment of the whole trunk or somatome. From each of these somatomes are to be derived (i) the basis of the vertebra and, as proceeding from this, the bony framework of the portion of the skeleton to which the vertebra serves as a centre; (2) the muscular plates which sur- round the vertebra, and from which the muscular elements extend into the limbs; (3) the vascular system; (4) the ganglia which lie in the inter- vertebral foramina, and the nerves which proceed from these ganglia, and Fig. LXXXVIIL—Cervical part of the primitive vertebral column and ad jacent parts of an embryo of the sixth day, showing the division of the primitive vertebral segments (from Kiilliker, after Remak). 1, 1. Chorda dorsalis in its sheath, pointed at itB upper end. 2. Points by three lines to the original intervals of the primitive vertebra?. 3, in a similar manner indicates the places of new division into permanent bodies of vertebrae, c indicates the body of the first cervical vertebra; in this and the next the primitive division has disappeared, as also in the two lowest represented, viz., d and the one above ; in those intermediate the line of division is shown. 4, points in three places to the vertebral arches; and 5, similarly to three commencing ganglia of the spinal nerves : the dotted segments outside these parts are the muscular plates.