CONVOLUTIONS OF THE BRAIN. the floor of the fourth ventricle as the fasciculi teretes : they ascend to the deep or cerebral part of the crus cerebri. Foville believes that a few fibres from each of the longitudinal tracts of the medulla turn forwards, and are continuous with the transverse fibres of the pons. Septum. The pons is subdivided into two lateral halves by a median septum which extends through its posterior half. The septum consists of antero-posterior and transverse fibres. The former are derived from the floor of the fourth ventricle and from the transverse fibres of the pons, which bend backwards before passing across to the opposite side. The latter are derived from the floor of the fourth ventricle; they pierce the longitudinal fibres, and are then continued across from one to the other side of the medulla, piercing the antero-posterior fibres. The two halves of the pons, in front, are connected together by transverse commissural fibres. Cerebrum. Upper Surface. (Fig. 268.) The cerebrum, in man, constitutes the largest portion of the encephalon. Its upper surface is of an ovoidal form, broader behind than in front, convex in its general outline, and divided into two lateral halves or hemispheres, right and left, by the great longitudinal fissure, which extends throughout the entire length of the cerebrum in the middle line, reaching down to the base of the brain in front and behind, but interrupted in the middle by a broad transverse commissure of white matter, the corpus callosum, which connects the two hemispheres together. This fissure lodges the falx cerebri, and indicates the original development of the brain by two lateral halves. Each hemisphere presents an outer surface, which is convex, to correspond with the vault of the cranium ; an inner surface, flattened, and in contact with the opposite hemisphere (the two inner surfaces forming the sides of the longitudinal fissure) ; and an under surface or base, of more irregular form, which rests in front, on the anterior and middle fossa? of the base of the skull, and behind upon the tentorium. Convolutions. If the arachnoid is removed with the forceps, the entire surface of each hemisphere will be seen to present a number of convoluted eminences, the convolutions, separated from each other by depressions {sulci) of various depths. The outer surface of each convolution, as well as the sides and bottom of the sulci between them, are composed of grey matter, which is here called the cortical sub- stance. The interior of each convolution is composed of white matter; and white fibres also blend with the grey matter at the sides and bottom of the sulci. By this arrangement the convolutions are adapted to increase the amount of grey matter without occupying much additional space, while they also afford a greater extent of surface for the termination of the white fibres in grey matter. On closer examination, however, the cortical substance is found subdivided into four layers, two of which are composed of grey and two of white matter. The most external is an outer white stratum, not equally thick over all parts of the brain, being most marked on the con- volutions in the longitudinal fissure and on the under part of the brain, especially on the middle lobe, near the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. Beneath this is a thick reddish-grey lamina, and then another thin white stratum ; lastly, a thin stra- tum of grey matter, which lies in close contact with the white fibres of the hemi- spheres : consequently white and grey lamina? alternate with one another in the con- volutions.* In certain convolutions, however, the cortical substance consists of no less than six layers, three grey and three white, an additional white stratum dividing the most superficial grey one into two ; this is especially marked in those convolutions which are situated near the corpus callosum. There is no accurate resemblance between the convolutions in different brains, _* The student should hear in mind that it is extremely doubtful whether these laminae, visible to the naked eye, correspond to the layers of which the cortical grey matter is said to be histologically composed, and which were described in the Introduction. I I