VEINS. 442 The left superior intercostal is always larger than the right, but varies in size in different subjects, being small when the left upper azygos vein is large, and vice versa. It is usually formed by branches from the two or three upper intercostal spaces, and, passing across the arch of the aorta, terminates in the left vena innominata. The left bronchial vein opens into it. The Superior Vena Cava receives the blood which is conveyed to the heart from the whole of the upper half of the body. It is a short trunk, varying from two inches and a half to three inches in length, formed by the junction of the two venae innomi- nata;. It commences immediately below the cartilage of the first rib close to the sternum on the right side, and descending vertically, enters the pericardium about an inch and a half above the heart, and terminates in the upper part of the light auricle. In its course, it describes a slight curve, the convexity of which is turned to the right side. delations. In front, with the pericardium and process of cervical fascia which is continuous with it, this separates it from the thymus gland, and from the sternum ; behind, with the root of the right lung. On its right side, with the phrenic nerve and right pleura ; on its left side, with the ascending part of the aorta. The portion contained within the pericardium is covered by the serous layer of that membrane, in its anterior three-fourths. It receives the vena azygos major, just before it enters the pericardium, and several small veins from the pericardium and parts in the mediastinum. The superior vena cava has no valves. The Azygos Veins connect together the superior and inferior vena? cava?, supply- ing the place of those vessels in the part of the chest which is occupied by the heart. The larger, or right azygos vein, commences opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, by a branch from the right lumbar veins (the ascending lumbar); sometimes by a branch from the right renal vein, or from the inferior vena cava. It enters the thorax through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and passes along the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal vertebra, where it arches forward over the root of the right lung, and terminates in the superior vena cava, just before that vessel enters the pericardium. Whilst passing through the aortic opening of the Diaphragm, it lies with the thoracic duct on the right side of the aorta; and in the thorax, it lies upon the intercostal arteries, on the right side of the aorta and thoracic duct, in the posterior mediastinum. Branches. It receives nine or ten lower intercostal veins of the right side, the vena azygos minor, several (Esophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins ; near its termination, the right bronchial vein; and is occasionally connected with the right superior intercostal Vein. A few imperfect valves are found in this vein; but its branches are provided with complete valves. The intercostal veins on the left side, below the two or three upper intercostal spaces, usually form two trunks, named the left lower, and the left upper, azygos veins. The left lovJer> or smaller azygos vein, commences in the lumbar region, by a branch from one of the lumbar veins {ascending lumbar), or from the left renal. It passes into the thorax, through the left crus of the Diaphragm, and ascending on the left side of the spine, as high as the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, passes across the column, behind the aorta and thoracic duct, to terminate in the right azygos vein. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some oesophageal and mediastinal veins. The left upper azygos vein varies according to the size of the left superior inter- costal. It receives veins from the intercostal spaces between the left superior inter- costal vein, and highest branch of the left lower azygos. They are usually two or three in number, and join to form a trunk which ends in the right azygos vein, or in the left lower azygos. When this vein is small, or altogether wanting, the left superior intercostal vein will extend as low as the fifth or sixth intercostal space.* * For an account of the arrangement of the Azygos and superior intercostal veins in a number of consecutive cases from the same dissecting-room, see a paper by Mr. B. G. Morison, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xiii. p. 346. The most important difference between his description and that in the text, is that he always found two superior intercostal veins on