SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. a small triangular portion of this organ is seen, bounded in front by the prostate gland; behind, by the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum ; on each side, by the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia ; and separated from direct contact with the rectum by the recto-vesical fascia. The relation of this portion of the bladder to the rectum is of extreme interest to the surgeon. In cases of retention of urine this portion of the organ is found projecting into the rectum, between three and four inches from the margin of the anus, and may be easily perforated during life without injury to any important parts; this portion of the bladder is, consequently, fre- quently selected for the performance of the operation of tapping the bladder. If the linger is introduced into the bowel, the surgeon may, in some cases, learn the position, as well as the size and weight, of a calculus in the bladder; and in the operation for its removal, if, as is not unfrequently the case, it should be lodged behind an enlarged prostate, it may be displaced from its position by pressing upwards the base of the bladder from the rectum. 451.—A View of the Position of the Viscera at the Outlet of the Pelvis. Parts concerned in the Operation of Lithotomy.—The triangular ligament must be replaced and the rectum drawn forwards so as to occupy its normal position. The student should then consider' the position of the various parts in reference to the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation is performed on the left side of the perinseum, as it is most convenient for the right hand of the operator. A staff having been introduced into the bladder, the first incision is commenced midway between the anus and the back of the scrotum (i.e. in an ordinary adult perinseum, about an inch and a half in front of the anus), a little on the left side of the raphe, and carried obliquely backwards and outwards to midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. The incision divides the integument and superficial fascia, the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, and the superficial and transverse perineal vessels; if the forefinger of the left hand is thrust upwards and forwards into the wound, pressing at the same time the rectum inwards and backwards, the staff may be felt in the membranous portion of the urethra. The finger is fixed upon the staff, and the structures covering it are divided with the point of the knife, which must be directed along the groove towards the bladder, the edge of the knife being