452 VEINS. The Anterior Cardiac Veins are three or four small branches, which collect the blood from the anterior surface of the right ventricle. One of these (the vein of Galen), larger than the rest, runs along the light border of the heart. They open separately into the lower part of the right auricle. The Vena; Thebesii are numerous minute veins, which return the blood directly from the muscular substance, without enteriug the venous current. They open by minute orifices (foramina Thebesii), on the inner surface of the right auricle. The Coronary Sinus is that portion of the great cardiac vein which is situated in the posterior part of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. It is about an inch in length, pi'esents a considerable dilatation, and is covered by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. It receives the great cardiac vein, the posterior cardiac vein, and an oblique vein from the back part of the left auricle, the remnant of the obliterated left innominate trunk of the fetus, described by Mr. Marshall. The coronary sinus terminates in the right auricle, between the inferior vena cava and the auriculo-ventricular aperture, its orifice being guarded by a semilunar fold of the lining membrane of the heart, the coronary valve. All the branches joining this vessel, excepting the oblique vein above mentioned, are provided with valves. The Pulmonary Veins. The Pulmonary Veins return the arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart. They are four in number, two for each lung. The pulmonary differ from other veins in several respects:—i. They carry arterial instead of venous blood. 2. They are destitute of valves. 3. They are only slightly larger than the arteries they accompany. 4. They accompany those vessels singly. They commence in a capillary network, upon the walls of the air-cells, where they are continuous with the ramifications of the pulmonary artery, and uniting together, form a single trunk for each lobule. These branches, uniting successively, form a single trunk for each lobe, three for the right, and two for the left lung. The vein from the middle lobe of the right lung unites with that from the upper lobe, in most cases, forming two trunks on each side, which open separately into the left auricle. Occasionally, they remain separate; there are then three veins on the right side. Not unfrequently, the two left pulmonary veins terminate by a common opening. Within the lung, the branches of the pulmonary artery are in front, the veins behind, and the bronchi betvjeen the two. At the root of the lung, the veins are in front, the artery in the middle, and' the bronchus behind. Within the pericardi/um, their anterior surface is invested by the serous layer of this membrane. The right pulmonary veins pass behind the right auricle and ascending aorta; the left pass in front of the thoracic aorta, with the left pulmonary artery.