767 INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. Poupart's ligament, or the crural arch, extends from the anterior superior spino of the ilium to the spine of the pubes. It is also attached to the pectineal line to the extent of about an inch, forming Gimbernat's ligament. Its general direction is curved towards the thigh, where it is continuous with the fascia lata. Its outer half is rounded, oblique in its direction, and continuous with the iliac fascia. Its inner half gradually widens at its attachment to the pubes, is more horizontal in direction, and lies beneath the spermatic cord. Gimbernat's ligament is that portion of the aponeurosis of the External oblique which is inserted into the pectineal line; it is thin, membranous in structure, triangular in shape, the base du-ected outwards, the apex corresponding to the spine of the pubes. Its anterior margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and its posterior margin attached to the pectineal line. 439.—Inguinal Hernia, showing the Internal Oblique, Cremaster, and Spermatic Canal. The triangular ligament is a band of tendinous fibres, of a triangular shape, which is attached by its apex to the reflected portion of Poupart's ligament along the pectineal line. It passes inwards beneath the spermatic cord, and expands into a somewhat fan-shaped fascia, lying behind the inner pillar of the external abdominal ring, and in front of the conjoined tendon, and interlaces with the ligament of the other side at the linea alba. The Internal obliqzie Muscle has been described (p. 251). The part which is now exposed is partly muscular and partly tendinous in structure. Those fibres which arise from the outer half of Poupart's ligament are thin, pale in colour, curve downwards, and terminate in an aponeurosis, which passes in front of the Rectus and Pyramidalis muscles, to be inserted into the crest of the os pubis and pectineal line, to the extent of half an inch, in common with that of the Transversalis muscle, forming by their junction the conjoined tendon. This tendon is placed behind Oimbernat's ligament and the external abdominal ring, being separated from them by the triangular ligament, and serves to strengthen what would otherwise be a very