OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 439 The Median Cephalic, usually the smaller of the two, passes outwards in the groove between the Supinator longns and Biceps muscles, and joins with the radial to form the cephalic vein. The branches of the external cutaneous nerve pass behind this vessel. The Median Basilic vein passes obliquely inwards, in the groove between the Biceps and Pronator radii teres, and joins the common ulnar to form the basilic. This vein passes in front of the brachial artery, from which it is separated by a fibrous expansion {the bicipital fascia) which is given off from the tendon of the Biceps to the fascia covering the Flexor muscles of the fore-arm. Filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve pass in front as well as behind this vessel.* The Basilic is a vein of considerable size, formed by the coalescence of the common ulnar vein with the median basilic. It passes upwards along the inner side of the Biceps muscle, pierces the deep fascia a little below the middle of the arm, and ascends' in the course of the brachial artery, terminating either in one of the vense comites of that vessel, or in the axillary vein. The Cephalic Vein courses along the outer border of the Biceps muscle, to the upper third of the arm; it then passes in the interval between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid muscles, accompanied by the descending branch of the acromial-tho- racic artery and the upper external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and terminates in the axillary vein just below the clavicle. This vein is occasionally connected with the external jugular or sub- clavian, by a branch which passes from it upwards in front of the cla vicle. The Deep Veins of the upper extremity follow the course of the arteries, forming their vense comites. They are generally two in number, one lying on each side of the corresponding artery, and they are connected at intervals by short transverse branches. There are two digital veins, accompanying each artery along the sides of the fingers; these, uniting at their base, pass along the interosseous spaces in the palm, and terminate in the two superficial palmar veins. Branches from these vessels on the radial side of the hand accompany the superficialis volse, and on the ulnar side terminate in the deep ulnar veins. The deep ulnar veins, as they pass in front of the wrist, communicate with the interosseous and superficial veins, and, at the elbow, unite with the deep radial veins, to form the vense comites of the brachial artery. The Interosseous Veins accompany the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior- interosseous veins commence in front of the wrist, where they com- municate with the deep radial and ulnar veins; at the upper part of the fore-arm they receive the posterior interosseous veins, and terminate in the vense comites of the ulnar artery. The Deep Palmar Veins accompany the deep palmar arch; being formed by branches which accompany the ramifications of that vessel. They communicate with the superficial palmar veins at the inner side of the hand; and on the outer- side terminate in the vense comites of the radial artery. At the wrist, they receive a dorsal and a palmar branch from the thumb, and unite with the deep radial veins. Accompanying the radial artery, these vessels terminate in the vense comites of the brachial artery. The Brachial Veins are placed one on each side of the brachial artery, receiving branches corresponding with those given off from that vessel; at the lower margin of the axilla they unite with the basilic to form the axillary vein. The deep veins have numerous anastomoses, not oidy with each other, but also with the superficial veins. * Cruveilhier says: ' Numerous varieties are observed in the disposition of the veins of the elbow ; sometimes the common median vein is wanting ; but in those cases, its two branches of bifurcation are furnished by the radial vein, and the cephalic is almost always in a rudimentary condition. In other cases, only two veins are found at the bend of the elbow, the radial and ulnar, which are continuous, without any demarcation, with the cephalic and basilic'