679 THE SPLEEN. 387.—Part of a Malpighian Capsule of the Spleen of Man. (Klein and Ncble Smith.) bodies vary in size from about the T}n>- of an inch to the -gL of an inch in diameter. They are merely local expansions or hyperplasias of the lymphoid tissue, of which the external coat of the smaller arteries of the spleen is formed. They are most frequently found surrounding the arteriole, which thus seems to tunnel them, but occasionally they grow from one side of the vessel only, and present the appearance of a sessile bud growing from the arterial wall. Klein, however, denies this, and says it is incorrect to describe the Malpighian bodies as isolated masses of adenoid tissue, but that they are always formed around an artery, though there is generally a greater amount on one side than the other, and that, therefore, in trans- verse sections, the artery, in the majority of cases, is found in an excentric position. These bodies are visible to the naked eye, on the surface of a fresh section of the organ, appearing as minute dots of a semi-opaque whitish colour in the dark substance of the pulp. In minute structure they resemble the adenoid tissue of lymphatic glands, consisting of a delicate reticulum, in the meshes of which lie ordinary lymphoid cells. The reticulum of the tissue is made up of extremely delicate fibrils, and is compara- tively open in the centre of the corpuscle, becoming closer at the periphery of the body. The cells which it encloses, like the supporting cells of the pulp, are possessed of amoeboid movements, but when treated with carmine become deeply stained, and can thus easily be recognised from those of the pulp. The arterioles terminate in capillaries, which traverse the pulp in all directions ; their walls become much attenuated, lose their tubular character, and the cells of the Arterial branch in longitudinal section, b. Ade- noid tissue, still containing the lymph-corpus- cles ; only their nuclei are shown, c. Adenoid reticulum, the lymph-corpuscles accidentally removed. lymphoid tissue of which they are composed become altered, presenting a branched appearance, and acquiring processes which are directly connected with the processes of the sustentacular cells of the pulp (fig. 388). Tn this manner the capillary vessels terminate, and the blood flowing through them finds its way into the interstices of the reticulated tissue formed by the branched connective-tissue corpuscles of