SHOULDER-JOINT. i'75 long head of the Triceps; externally, by the tendons of the Infraspinatus and Teres minor; and internally, by the tendon of the Subscapulars. The capsular ligament usually presents three openings : one at its inner side, below the coracoid process, partially filled up by the tendon of the Subscapulars; it establishes a communication between the synovial membrane of the joint and a bursa beneath the tendon of that muscle. The second, which is not constant, is at the outer part, where a communication sometimes exists between the joint and a bursal sac belonging to the Infraspinatus muscle. The third is seen in the lower border of the ligament, between the two tuberosities, for the passage of the long tendon of the Biceps muscle. The Coraco-humeral or Accessory Ligament is a broad band which strengthens the upper and inner part of the capsular ligament. It arises from the outer border of the coracoid process, and passes obliquely downwards and outwards to the front of the great tuberosity of the humerus, being blended with the tendon of the Supraspinatus muscle. This ligament is intimately united to the capsular in the greater part of its extent. The Glenoid ligament is a tibro-cartilaginous rim attached round the margin of the glenoid cavity. It is triangular on section, the thickest portion being fixed to the circumference of the cavity, the free edge being thin and sharp. It is con- tinuous above with the long tendon of the Biceps muscle, which bifurcates at the upper part of the cavity into two fasciculi, encircling the margin of the glenoid cavity and uniting at its lower part. This ligament deepens the cavity for articula- tion, and protects the edges of the bone. It is lined by the synovial membrane. The Synovial Membrane lines the margin of the glenoid cavity and the fibro- cartilaginous rim surrounding it ; it is then reflected over the internal surface of the capsular ligament, covers the lower part and sides of the neck of the humerus, and is continued a short distance over the cartilage covering the head of the bone. The long tendon of the Biceps muscle which passes through the capsular ligament, is enclosed in a tubular sheath of synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it at the point where it perforates the capsule, and is continued around it as far as the summit of the glenoid cavity. The tendon of the Biceps is thus enabled to traverse the articulation, but is not contained in the interioi' of the synovial cavity. The synovial membrane communicates with a large bursal sac beneath the tendon of the Subscapularis, by an opening at the inner side of the capsular ligament; it also occasionally communicates with another bursal sac, beneath the tendon of the Infraspinatus, ttnxnigh an orifice at its outer pari. A third bursal sac, which does not communicate with the joint, is placed between the under surface of the Deltoid and the outer surface of the capsule. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, above, the Supraspinatus; below, the long head of the Triceps ; internally, the Subscapularis; externally, the Infra- spinatus, and Teres minor; within, the long tendon of the Biceps. The Deltoid is placed most externally, and covers the articulation on its outer side, as well as in front and behind. The Arteries supplying the joint, are articular branches of the anterior and posterior circumflex, and suprascapular. The Nerves are derived from the circumflex and suprascapular. Actions. The shoulder joint is capable of movement in every direction, forwards, backwards, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. The most striking peculiarities in this joint are : 1. The large size of the head of the humerus in comparison with the depth of the glenoid cavity, even when supplemented by the glenoid ligament. 2. The looseness of the capsule of the joint. 3. The intimate connection of the capsule with the muscles attached to the head of the humerus. 4. The peculiar relation of the biceps tendon to the joint. It is in consequence of the relative size of the two articular surfaces that the joint enjoys so free movement in every possible direction. When these movements of the arm are arrested in the shoulder-joint by the contact of the bony surfaces, and by the tension of the corresponding fibres of the capsule together with that of