772 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. In some cases the hernial protrusion escapes from the abdomen on the outer side of the conjoined tendon, pushing before it the peritoneum, the subserous cellular tissue, and the transversalis fascia. It then enters the inguinal canal, passing along nearly its whole length, and finally emerges from the external ring, receiving an investment from the intercolumnar fascia. The coverings of this form of hernia are precisely similar to those investing the oblique form.* In other cases, and this is the more frequent variety, the intestine is either forced through the fibres of the conjoined tendon, or the tendon is gradually distended in front of it, so as to form a complete investment for it. The intestine then enters the lower end of the inguinal canal, escapes at the external ring lying on the inner side of the cord, and receives additional coverings from the superficial fascia and the integument. This form of hernia has the same coverings as the oblique variety, excepting that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the Cremaster, and the infundi- buliform fascia is replaced by a part of the general fascia transversalis. The seat of stricture in both varieties of direct hernia is most frequently at the neck of the sac, or at the external ring. In that form of hernia which perforates the conjoined tendon, it not unfrequently occurs at the edges of the fissure through which the gut passes. In dividing the stricture the incision should in all cases be directed upwards.f If the hernial protrusion passes into the inguinal canal, but does not escape from the external abdominal ring, it forms what is called incomplete direct hernia. This form of hernia is usually of small size, and in corpulent persons very difficult of detection. Direct inguinal hernia is of much less frequent occurrence than the oblique, their comparative frequency being, according to Cloquet, as one to five. It occurs far more frequently in men than in women, on account of the larger size of the external ring in the former sex. It differs from the oblique in its smaller size and globular form, dependent most probably on the resistance offered to its progress by the trans- versalis fascia and conjoined tendon. It differs also in its position, being placed over the pubes, and not in the course of the inguinal canal. The epigastric artery runs on the outer or iliac side of the neck of the sac, and the spermatic cord along its external and posterior side, not directly behind it. as in oblique inguinal hernia. * The difference between the position of the neck of the sac in these two forms of direct inguinal hernia has been referred, with some probability, to a difference in the relative posi- tions of the obliterated hypogastric artery and the epigastric artery. The projection of the hypogastric artery tow ards 1 he cavity of the abdomen produces two fossa in the peritoneum. When the course of the obliterated hypogastric artery corresponds pretty nearly with that of' the epigastric, which is regarded as the normal arrangement, the bottom of the external fossa of the peritoneum corresponds to the position of the internal abdominal ring; and a hernia which distends and pushes out the peritoneum lining this fossa is an oblique hernia. When, on the other hand, the obliterated hypogastric artery lies considerably to the inner side of the epigastric, it divides the triangle of Hesselbach into two parts. In that case a hernia may distend and push out the peritoneum forming the bottom of the external fossa, and by so doing will protrude the tissues which form the abdominal wall between the internal ring and the conjoined tendon. It will be a direct hernia, since the neck of the sac lies internal to the epigastric artery; but its coverings, as stated in the text, will be identical with those of the oblique form, with the insignificant difference that the covering from the transversalis fascia is taken from another portion of that fascia, and not from its infundibuliform process. t In all cases of inguinal hernia, whether oblique or direct, it is proper to divide the stricture directly upwards; the reason of this is obvious, for by cutting in this direction the incision is made parallel to the epigastric artery—either external to it, in the oblique variety; or internal to it, in the direct form of hernia; and thus all chance of wounding the vessel is avoided. If the incision was made outwards, the artery might be divided if the hernia was direct, and if made inwards it would stand an equal chance of injury if the case was one of oblique inguinal hernia.