THE ISCHIORECTAL FOSSA. 783 two or three cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve; these turn round the inferior border of the Gluteus maximus, and are distributed to the integument in this region. Corrugator Cutis Ani.—Around the anus is a thin stratum of involuntary muscle, which radiates from the interior of the anus, where it commences in the submucous tissue, to the skin outside, where it blends with the subdermic tissue. By its con- traction it raises the skin into ridges radiating from the margin of the anus. The External sphincter is a thin flat plane of muscular fibres, elliptical in shape, and intimately adherent to the integument surrounding the margin of the anus. It measures about three or four inches in length, from its anterior to its posterior extremity, being about an inch in breadth, opposite the anus. It arises from the tip of the coccyx, by a narrow tendinous band ; and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone; and is inserted into the tendinous centre of the perineeum, join- ing with the Transversus perinsei, the Levator ani, and the Accelerator urinse. Like other sphincter muscles, it consists of two planes of muscular fibre, which surround the margin of the anus, and join in a commissure before and behind. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the integument; by its deep surface it is in contact with the internal Sphincter; and is separated from the Levator ani by loose areolar tissue. 447-—Dissection of Perineum and Lcliio-rectal Region. The Sphincter ani is a voluntary muscle, supplied by the hemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve. This muscle is divided in the operation for fistula in anoj and also in some cases of fissure of the rectum, especially if attended with much pain or spasm. The object of its division is to keep the parts at rest and in contact during the healing process. The Internal sphincter is a muscular ring about an inch in breadth, which surrounds the lower extremity of the rectum, its inferior border being contiguous to, but quite separate from, the External sphincter. This muscle is about two lines in thickness, and is formed by an aggregation of the involuntary circular fibres of the intestine. It is paler in colour, and less coarse in texture, than the External sphincter. The ischio-rectal foesa is situated between the end of the rectum and the tuber- osity of the ischium on each side. It is triangular in shape ; its base, directed to the surface of the body, is formed by the integument of the ischio-rectal region ; its apea, directed upwards, corresponds to the point of division of the obturator fascia, and the thin membrane given off from it, which covers the outer surface of the Levator ani (anal fascia). Its dimensions are about an inch in breadth at the base, and about two inches in depth, being deeper behind than in front. It is bounded inter- nally by the Sphincter ani, Levator ani, and Ooccygeus muscles; externally by the tuberosity of the ischium, and the obturator fascia, which covers the inner surface of