GENERAL AN ATOM V. all the firm investing membranes ; viz. the muscular fascia?, the periosteum, the investments of the various glands (such as the tunica albuginea testis, the capsule of the kidney, &c.), the investing sheath of the nerves (peri- neurium), and of various organs, as the penis and the eye (sheath of the corpora cavernosa and spongiosum, and sclerotic). Into all these parts, however, the elastic tissue enters in greater or less proportion. The tendons and most of the ligaments are also formed almost entirely of the white fibrous tissue, but with some elastic fibres intermixed. The basis of the serous and mucous membranes is formed of connective tissue, disposed in a layer. Connective tissue also enters largely into the formation of the blood-vessels, glands, and, in fact, almost every organ in the bodj\ The common subcutaneous cellular or eellulo-adipose tissue has been taken above as the typical form from which to describe connective tissue. The parts which are formed almost exclusively of the yellow elastic tissue are the ligamenta subflava of the vertebra?, the elastic ligaments of the larynx, Fife: X.—Connective tissue. (Klein and Noble Smith.) a. The white fibrous element—a layer of more or less sharply-outlined, parallel wavy bundles of connective tissue fibrils. On the surface of this layer is b, a network of fine elastic fibres. the longitudinal elastic fibres of the trachea, the elastic layer of the middle coat of the arteries, and in quadrupeds the ligamentum nucha?. Free cells are found in the areolar tissue, as indicated above. The chief forms are the spindle-shaped and the stellate, but numerous intermediate forms are described by recent observers ; and of late much interest has been excited by v. Kecklingshausen's discovery in the cellular tissue of cold- blooded animals of ' wandering cells,' or cells endowed with the power of automatic motion, and of changing their shape. These cells appear identical with the white globules of the blood; and it would seem from the researches of Strieker, Cohnheim, and others, that the walls of the capillary vessels are permeable to the latter bodies, which are thus allowed to escape into the cellular tissue, or abnormally into the corpuscular forms of lymph and pus, according to circumstances.* * On this subject reference may be made to v Recklingsbausen, in Vircbow's Archiv, Bd. xxviii., and Rollett, in Strieker's Human and Comparative Histology, translated by Power, chap, ii., where the reader will iiud references to Strieker, Cohnbeim, Kiibne, and others.