clii GENERAL AX ATOMY. of the urachus dilates, so as to form the bladder, which then communicates above with the cavity of the urachus, and below with the rectum, by a canal of communication which is afterwards transformed into the urethra. The urachus is obliterated before the termination of foetal life; but the cord formed by its obliteration is perceptible throughout life, passing from the upper part of the bladder to the umbilicus, and occasionally remains patent during life, constituting a well-known deformity. The permanent kidneys are almost, if not entirely, independent of the Wolffian bodies or primordial kidneys in their development, though they originate in the same mass of blastema, the intermediate cell-mass behind the Wolffian body. As their distance from the bladder increases, the ureters become developed, and the simple culs-dc-sac in which the fcetal kidneys commence divide and sub- Fig. 01.—Diagram of the primitive urogenital organs in the embryo previous to sexual dis- tinction. The parts are shown chiefly in profile, but the Miillerian and 'Wolffian ducts are seen from the front. 3. Ureter. 4. Urinary bladiler. 5. Urachus. ot. The mass of blastema from which ovary or testicle is afterwards formed. W. Left Wolffian body. x. Part at the apex from which the coni vasculosi are afterwards developed w, w. Right and left Wolffian ducts, m, m. Right and left Miillerian ducts uniting together and with the Wolffian ducts in gc,'the genital cord. ug. Sinus urogenitalis. i. Lower part of the intestine, cf. Common opening of the intestine and urogenital sinus, cp. Elevation which becomes clitoris or penis. Is. Ridge from which the labia rnajora or scrotum are formed. divide so as to form lobulated organs provided with calices in their interior. This lobulation is perceptible for some time after birth. The mode of development of the ureters is not exactly known. Some embryologists describe them as extending gradually from the allantois upwards, so that the proper tissue of the kidney would be developed upon projections, or buds, out of the upper ends of the ureters. Others describe the ureter as an offset from the upper part of the Wolffian duct. Others teach that the kidney-tissue is formed before the ureter, and that the ducts of the former are hollowed out and open into the latter. Others, again, believe that the whole organ (kidney and ureter) is laid down in the same mass of blastema, which is at first solid, and that the various ducts or hollow spaces are formed in each part simultaneously. What is admitted