545 INTERNAL CUTANEOUS. It arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, opposite the lower border of the Pectoralis minor. It then perforates the Oofaco-brachialis muscle, passes obliquely between the Biceps and Brachialis anticus, to the outer side of the arm, and, a little above the elbow, winds round the outer border of the tendon of the Biceps, and, perforating the deep fascia, becomes cutaneous. This nerve, in its course through the arm, supplies the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and part of the Brachi- alis anticus muscles, besides sending some filaments to the elbow-joint and humerus. The cutaneous portion of the nerve passes behind the median cephalic vein, and divides opposite the elbow-joint, into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch descends along the radial border of the fore-arm to the wrist, and supplies the integument over the outer half of the anterior surface. At the wrist-joint it is placed in front of the radial artery, and some filaments, piercing the deep fascia, accompany that vessel to the back of the wrist, supplying the carpus. The nerve then passes downwards to the ball of the thumb, where it terminates in cutaneous filaments. It communicates with a branch from the radial nerve, and the palmar cutaneous branch of the median. The posterior branch passes downwards, along the back part of the radial side of the fore-arm to the wrist. It supplies the integument of the lower third of the fore- arm, communicating with the radial nerve, and the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. The Internal Cutaneous Nerve (fig. 299) is one of the smallest branches of the brachial plexus. It arises from the inner cord in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and, at its commencement, is placed on the inner side of the brachial artery. It passes down the inner side of the arm, pierces the deep fascia, with the basilic vein, about the middle of the limb, and, becoming cutaneous, divides into branches. This nerve gives off, near the axilla, a cutaneous filament, which pierces the fascia and supplies the integument covering the Biceps muscle, nearly as far as the elbow. This filament lies a little external to the common trunk, from which it arises. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, passes usually in front of, but occa- sionally behind, the median basilic vein. It then descends on the anterior surface of the ulnar side of the fore-arm, distributing filaments to the integument as far as the wrist, and communicating with a cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch passes obliquely downwards on the inner side of the basilic vein, passes behind the internal condyle of the humerus to the back of the fore-arm, and descends on the posterior surface of its ulnar side, as far as the wrist, distributing filaments to the integument. It communicates, above the elbow, with the lesser in- ternal cutaneous, and above the wrist, with the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve (Swan). The Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve (nerve of Wrisberg) (fig. 299), is distri- buted to the integument on the inner side of the arm. It is the smallest of the branches of the brachial plexus, and usually arises from the inner cord, with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves. It passes through the axillary space, at first lying behind, and then on the inner side of the axillary vein, and communicates with the intercosto-hnmeral nerve. It then descends along the inner side of the brachial artery, to the middle of the arm, where it pierces the deep fascia, and is distributed to the integument of the back part of the lower third of the arm, extending as far as the elbow, where some filaments are lost in the integument in front of the inner condyle, and others over the olecranon. It communicates with the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. In some cases the nerve of Wrisberg and intercosto-humeral are connected by two or three filaments, which form a plexus at the back part of the axilla. In other cases, the intercosto-humeral is of large size, and takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg, receiving merely a filament of communication from the brachial plexus, which represents the latter nerve. In other cases, this filament is wanting, NN