687 HEART—RIGHT VENTRICLE. The tricuspid valve consists of three segments of a triangular or trapezoidal shape, formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the heart, strengthened by a layer of fibrous tissue, and containing, according to Kurschner and Senac, muscular fibres. These segments are connected by their bases to the auriculo- ventricular orifice, and by their sides with one another, so as to form a continuous annular membrane, which is attached round the margin of the auriculo-ventricular opening, their free margins and ventricular surfaces affording attachment to a number of delicate tendinous cords, the chordw tendinece. The largest and most movable segment is placed towards the left side of the auriculo-ventricular opening, inter- posed between that opening and the pulmonary artery. Another segment corre- sponds to the front of the ventricle ; and a third to its posterior wall. The central part of each segment is thick and strong : the lateral margins are thin and indented. The chordae tendineae are connected with the adjacent margins of the principal seg- ments of the valve, and are further attached to each segment in the following manner : 1. Three or four reach the attached margin of each segment, where they are continuous with the auriculo-ventricular tendinous ring. 2. Others, four to six in number, are attached to the central thickened part of each segment. 3. The most numerous and finest are connected with the marginal portion of each segment. The columncz carnece are the rounded muscular columns which project from nearly the whole of the inner surface of the ventricle, excepting near the opening of the pulmonary artery. They may be classified, according to their mode of connection with the ventricle, into three sets. The first set merely form prominent ridges on the inner surface of the ventricle, being attached by their entire length on one side, as well as by their extremities. The second set are attached by their two extremities, but are free in the rest of their extent; whilst the third set (muscidi papillaris), three or four in number, are attached by one extremity to the wall of the heart, the opposite extremity giving attachment to the chordae tendinece. The tricuspid valve is situated behind the middle of the sternum, about the level of the fourth costal cartilage. The semilunar valves, three in number,* guard the orifice of the pulmonary artery. They consist of three semicircular folds, two anterior and one posterior, formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue. They are attached, by their convex margins, to the wall of the artery, at its junction with the ventricle, the straight border being free, and directed upwards in the course of the vessel, against the sides of which the valve-flaps are pressed during the passage of the blood along the artery. The free margin of each is somewhat thicker than the rest of the valve, is strengthened by a bundle of tendinous fibres, and presents, at its middle, a small projecting fibro-cartilaginous nodule, called corpus Arantii. From this nodule, tendinous fibres radiate through the valve to its attached margin, and these fibres form a constituent part of its substance throughout its whole extent, excepting two narrow lunated portions, placed on either side of the nodule immedi- ately behind the free margin; here the valve is thin, and formed merely by the lining membrane. During the passage of the blood along the pulmonary artery these valves are pressed against the sides of the cylinder, and the course of the blood along the tube is uninterrupted ; but during the ventricular diastole, when the current of blood along the pulmonary artery is checked, and partly thrown back by its elastic walls, these valves become immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. When the valves are closed, the lunated portions of each are brought into con- tact with one another by their opposed surfaces, the three fibro-cartilaginous nodules filling up the small triangular space that would be otherwise left by the approxima- tion of the three semilunar valves. Between the semilunar valves and the commencement of the pulmonary artery are three pouches or dilatations, one behind each valve. These are the pulmonary sinuses (sinuses of Valsalva). Similar sinuses exist between the semilunar valves and the * The pulmonary semilunar valves have been found to be two in number instead of three (Dr. Hand, of St. Paul, Minn., in the North-Western Med. and Surg. Journ., July 1873), and. the same variety is more frequently noticed in the aortic semilunar valves.