607 THE EAE. The cavity of the tympanum measures about five lines from before backwards, three lines in the vertical direction, and between two and three in the transverse, being a little broader behind and above than it is below and iu front. It is bounded externally by the membrana tympani and meatus; internally, by the outer surface of the internal ear; and communicates, behind, with the mastoid cells ; and, in front, with the Eustachian tube and canal for the Tensor tympani. Its roof and floor are formed by thin osseous laminae, the one forming the roof being a thin plate situated on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, close to its angle of junction with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. The roof is broad, flattened, and formed of a thin plate of bone, which separates the cranial and tympanic cavities. The floor is narrow, and corresponds to the jugular fossa, which lies beneath. It presents, near the inner wall, a small aperture for the passage of Jacobson's nerve. The outer wall is formed mainly by the membrana tympani, partly by the ring of bone into which this membrane is inserted. It presents three small apertures : the iter chordae posterius, the Glaserian fissure, and the iter chordae anterius. The aperture of the iter chordee posterius is in the angle of junction between the posterior and external walls of the tympanum, immediately behind the membrana tympani and on a level with its centre; it leads into a minute canal, which descends in front of the aquasductus Fallopii, and terminates in that canal near the stylo- mastoid foramen. Through it the chorda tympani nerve enters the tympanum. The Glaserian fissure opens just above and in front of the ring of bone into which the membrana tympani is inserted; in this situation it is a mere slit about a line in length. It lodges the long process of the malleus, and gives passage to the Laxator tympani muscle, and some tympanic vessels. The aperture of the iter chordee anterius is seen just above the preceding fissure; it leads into a canal (canal of Huguier), which runs parallel with the Glaserian fissure. Through it the chorda tympani nerve leaves the tympanum. The internal wall of the tympanum (fig. 333) is vertical in direction, and looks directly outwards. It presents for examination the following parts :— The fenestra ovalis is a reniform opening, leading from the tympanum into the vestibule; its long diameter is directed horizontally, and its convex border is upwards. The opening in the recent state is closed by the lining membrane com- mon to both cavities, and is occupied by the base of the stapes. This membrane is 333.—View of Inner Wall of Tympanum. (Enlarged.) Fenestra ovalis. Fenestra rotunda. Promontory. Ridge of the Aquseductus Fallopii. Pyramid. Opening for the Stapedius.