Female Organs of Generation. 433.—The Vulva. External Female Organs of Generation. THE external Organs of Generation in the female are the mons Veneris, the labia majora and minora, the clitoris, the meatus urinarius, and the orifice of the vagina. The term ' vulva ' or ' pudendum,' as generally applied, includes all these parts. The mom Veneris is the rounded eminence in front of the pubes, formed by a collection of fatty tissue beneath the integument. It surmounts the vulva, and becomes covered with hair at the time of puberty. The labia majora are two prominent longitudinal cutaneous folds, extending downwards from the mons Veneris to the anterior boundary of the perinieum, and enclosing an elliptical fissure, the common urino-sexuid opening. Each labium is formed externally of integument covered with hair; internally, of mucous mem- brane, which is continuous with the genito- urinary mucous tract; and between the two, of a considerable quantity of areolar tissue, fat, and a tissue resembling the dartos of the scrotum, besides vessels, nerves, and glands. The labia are thicker in front than behind, and joined together at each extremity, forming the anterior and posterior commissures. The interval left between the posterior commissure and the margin of the anus is about an inch in length, and constit utes the perinwuin. Just within the posterior commissure is a small transverse fold, the frcenulum pudendi or yburehette, which is commonly ruptured in the first parturition, and the space between it and the commissure is called the fossa navicujaris. The labia are analogous to the scrotum in the male. The labia minora or nymphm are two small folds of mucous membrane, situated within the labia majora, extending from the clitoris obliquely downwards and out- wards for about an inch and a half on each Bide of the orifice of the vagina, on the sides of which they are lost. They are continuous externally with the labia majora, internally with the inner surface of the vagina. As they converge towards the clitoris in front, each labium divides into two folds, which surround the glans clitoridis, the superior folds uniting to forni the prEeputium clitoridis, the inferior folds being attached to the glans, and forming the