ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 648 The pyloric orifice communicates with the duodenum, the aperture being guarded by a kind of valve—the pylorus. The lesser curvature extends between the (Esophageal and pyloric orifices, along the upper border of the organ, and is connected to the under surface of the liver by the lesser omentum. The greater curvature extends between the same two points, along the lower border, and gives attachment to the great omentum. The surfaces of the organ are limited by these two curvatures. The anterior surface is directed upwards and forwards, and is in relation with the Diaphragm, the under surface of the left lobe of the liver, and with the abdominal parietes, in the epigastric region. The posterior surface is directed downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the pancreas and great vessels of the abdomen, the crura of the Diaphragm, and the solar plexus. The stomach is held in position by the lesser omentum, which extends from the transverse fissure of the liver to its lesser curvature, and by a fold of peritoneum, which passes from the Diaphragm on to the oesophageal end of the stomach, the gastro-phrenic ligament : this constitutes the most fixed point of the stomach, whilst the pyloric end and greater curvature are the most movable parts; hence when the stomach becomes greatly distended, the greater curvature is directed forwards, whilst the anterior and posterior surfaces are directed, the former upwards, and the latter downwards.* Alterations in Position.—There is no organ in the body the position and connections of which present such frequent alterations as the stomach. During inspiration it is displaced i low awards by the descent of the Diaphragm, and elevated by the pressure of the abdominal muscles during expiration. Its position in relation to the surrounding viscera is also changed according to the empty or distended state of the organ. When empty, it occupies only a small part of the left hypochondriac region, the spleen lying behind it; the left lobe of the liver covers it in front, and the under surface of the heart rests upon it above and in front, being separated from it by the left lobe of the liver, besides the Diaphragm and pericardium. This close relation between the stomach and the heart explains the fact that, in gastralgia, the pain is generally referred to the heart., and is often accompanied by palpitation and inter- mission of the pulse. When the stomach is distended the Diaphragm is forced upwards, con- tracting the cavity of the chest; hence the dyspnoea complained of, from inspiration being impeded. The heart is also displaced upwards; hence the oppression in this region, and the palpitation experienced in extreme distension of the stomach. Pressure from without, * According to Dr. Lesshaft, the Professor of Anatomy at St. Petersburg, the statements current in anatomical text-books regarding the normal position of the stomach are erroneous, lie has made careful observations on the point in more than twelve hundred bodies, and has arrived at the following conclusions:—The stomach does not, as is usually asserted, lie hori- zontally in the abdominal cavity, but vertically, so that the fundus touches the Diaphragm ; the smaller curvature and pylorus are to the right, and the larger curvature is to the left. Its position is in the left hypochondrium, and the sit uation of the pylorus is in the vertical line formed by a continuation of the right margin of the sternum. If the stomach is enlarged, no one part can be alone displaced, but all parts are equally moved by the distension. The arrangement of the muscular fibres of the stomach is such that food entering it is moved Towards the pylorus, where it can be most thoroughly mixed with the gastric juices ; and it then passes back along the centre of the cavity to the fundus, where the resistance is least. This movement of the food along the wall to the pylorus, and back again along the centre, is rendered possible by the form of the organ, and it is probable that it is to this movement that the peculiar shape of the fundus is due. As is well known, the fundus is absent in newly born children. Thus the shape of the stomach determines the long retention of food in the organ for the purposes of digestion, and its slow passage through the pylorus. If the transverse colon is distended with gas, it may rise to the left of the stomach, as high as the fourth intercostal space, and even as high as the fourth rib. If the coils of the small intes- tine are similarly distended, the lower part of the stomach may be pressed forwards, and the stomach may assume a more oblique position. Even a large stomach, accustomed to dietetic repletion, maintains a vertical position, but the pylorus is moved a little upwards and to the right.—Lancet, March 11, 1882, p. 406. On the subject of the position of the stomach, the student may refer to a discussion at the International Congress, in which Dr. Lesshaft enunciated this same view. The general opinion of the anatomists present appeared to be that the main.axis of the stomach was placed obliquely, and was therefore opposed to Dr. Lesshaft's views.