491 CEREBRUM. nearly every part. This white central mass has been called the centrum ovale minus. Its surface is studded with numerous minute red dots (jpuncta vasculosa), produced by the escape of blood from divided blood-vessels. In inflammation or great conges- tion of the brain, these are very numerous, and of a dark colour. If the remaining portion of one hemisphere is slightly separated from the other, a broad band of white substance will be observed connecting them, at the bottom of the longitudinal fis- sure ; this is the corpus callosum. The margins of the hemispheres, which overlap this portion of the brain, are called the labia cerebri. Each labium is part of the con- volution of the corpus callosum {gyrus fomicatus) already described; and the space between it and the upper surface of the corpus callosum has been termed the ventricle of the corpus callosum (fig. 275, 2). The hemispheres should now be sliced off, to a level with the corpus callosum, 273.—Section of the Brain. Made on a level with the Corpus Callosum. when the white substance of that structure will be seen connecting the two hemi- spheres. The large expanse of medullary matter now exposed, surrounded by the convoluted margin of grey substance, is called the centrum ovale majus of Vieussens. The corpus callosum is a thick stratum of transverse fibres, exposed at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure. It connects the two hemispheres of the brain, forming their great, transverse commissure ; and forms the roof of a space in the interior of each hemisphere, the lateral ventricle. It is about four inches in length, extending to within an inch and a half of the anterior, and to within two inches and a half of the posterior, part of the brain. It is somewhat broader behind than in front, and is thicker at either end than in its central part, being thickest behind. It presents a somewhat arched form (fig. 278, 5), from before backwards, terminating anteriorly in a rounded border, which curves downwards and backwards, between the anterior