CRANIAL NERVES. Fifth Nerve. The Fifth, or Trifacial Nerve (trigeminus), is the largest cranial nerve, and re- sembles a spinal nerve in several particulars; it arises by two roots, of these the anterior is the smaller and is the motor root, the posterior, the larger and sensory. Moreover, like the spinal nerves the posterior or sensory root has a ganglion developed npon it. The functions of this nerve are various. It is a nerve of special sense, of common sensation, and of motion. It is the great sensitive nerve of the head and face, the motor nerve of the muscles of mastication, and its lingual branch is one of the nerves of the special sense of taste. It arises by two roots, a posterior larger or sensory, and an anterior smaller or motor root. Its superficial origin is from the side of the pons Varolii, a little nearer to the upper than the lower border. The smaller root consists of three or four bundles; in the larger, the bundles are more numerous, varying in number from seventy to a hundred : the two roots are separated from one another by a few of the transverse fibres of the pons. The large root of the fifth or 285.—Nerves of the Orbit and Ophthalmic Ganglion. Side View. trigeminal arises chiefly from the grey tubercles of Eolando, or the upper expanded extremities of the posterior grey horns of the medulla; the small or motor root arises from two masses of large multipolar cells situated each on the inner side and close to the grey tubercle and intimately connected with it. The two roots of the nerve pass forwar ds through an oval opening in the dura mater, on the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, above the internal auditory meatus : they then run between the bone and the dura to the apex of the petrous portion of the tempor al bone, where the fibres of the sensory root form a large semilunar ganglion (Casserian), while the motor root passes beneath the ganglion without having any connection with it, and joins outside the cranium with one of the trunks derived from it. The Casserian or Semilunar Ganglion, is lodged in a depression near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is of a somewhat crescentic form, with its convexity turned forwards. Its upper surface is intimately adherent to the dura mater. Besides the small or motor root, the large superficial petrosal nerve lies underneath the ganglion. Branches. This ganglion receives, on its inner side, filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; and from it some minute branches are given off to the tentorium cerebelli, and the dura mater, in the middle fossa of the cranium. From