The Surgical Anatomy of Inguinal Hernia. Dissection (fig. 438).—For dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia, a male subject, free from fat, should always he selected. The body should be placed in the supine position, the abdomen and pelvis raised by means of blocks placed beneath them, and the lower extremities rotated outwards, so as to make the parts as tense as possible. If the abdominal walls are flaccid, the cavity of the abdomen should be inflated by an aperture through the umbilicus. An incision should be made along the middle line, from the um- bilicus to the pubes, and continued along the front of the scrotum ; and a second incision, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to just below the umbilicus. These incisions should divide the integument; and the triangular-shaped flap included between them should be reflected downwards and outwards, when the superficial fascia will be exposed. The superficial fascia in this region consists of two layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves, and the inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial layer is thick, areolar in texture, containing adipose tissue in its meshes, the quantity of which varies in different subjects. Below, it passes over Puupart's ligament, and is continuous with the outer layer of the superficial fascia of the thigh. This fascia is continued as a tubular prolongation around the outer surface of the cord and testis. In this situation it changes its character ; it becomes thin, destitute of adipose tissue, and of a pale reddish colour, and assists in forming the dartos. From the scrotum, it may be traced backwards to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the perinseum. This layer should be re- moved, by dividing it across in the same direction as the external incisions, and re- flecting it downwards and outwards, when the following vessels and nerves will be exposed :— The superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and superficial external pudic vessels; the terminal filaments of the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves; and the upper chain of inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial epigastric artery crosses Poupart's ligament, and ascends obliquely towards the umbilicus, lying midway between the spine of the ilium and the pubes. It supplies the integument, and anastomoses with the deep epigastric. This vessel is a branch of the common femoral artery, and passes through the saphenous opening of the fascia lata. Its accompanying vein empties itself into the internal saphenous, after having pierced the cribriform fascia. The superficial circumflex iliac artery passes outwards towards the crest of the ilium, generally lying below the level of Poupart's ligament, and sending only a few branches upwards to the abdomen. The superficial external pudic artery passes transversely inwards across the spermatic cord, and supplies the integument of the hypogastric region, and of the penis and scrotum. This vessel is usually divided in the first incision made in the operation for inguinal hernia, and occasionally requires the application of a ligature. The veins accompanying these superficial vessels are usually much larger than the arteries : they terminate in the internal saphenous vein. Lymphatic vessels are found, taking the same course as the blood-vessels : they return the lymph from the superficial structures in the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, penis, perinseal and gluteal regions, and terminate in a small chain of lymphatic glands, three or four in number, which lie on a level with Poupart's ligament.