cxxxii (! ENEUAL AN ATOMV. brane ; and (3) the decidua, derived from the mucous membrane of the uterus. 17. Formation of tin- Placenta.—The villi of the chorion penetrate into follicles in the decidua. These follicles communicate with the uterine sinuses, and contain blood. The villi of the chorion become vascular, con- taining loops of fine blood-vessels, which communicate with the umbilical arteries and veins. The further development of the embryo will perhaps be better under- stood if we follow as briefly as possible the principal facts relating to the chief parts of which the body consists—viz., the spine, the cranium, tbe pharyngeal cavity, mouth, &c., the nervous centres, the organs of the senses, the circulatory system, the alimentary canal and its appendages, Fig. LXXXVII.—Transverse section through the dorsal region of an embryo-chick, end of third day (from Foster and Balfour). ■m c Am. Amnion, tnp. Muscle plate, cv. Cardinal rein. Ao. Dorsal aorta at the point where its two roots begin to ioin. Ch. Notochord. (Pi. Wolffian duct. H'6. Commencement of formation of Wolffian body, ep. Eplblast. .<". Somatopleure. hy. Hypoblast. The section passes through the place where the alimentary canal (hy) communi- cates with the yoik-sac. the organs of respiration, and the genito-urinary organs.* The reader is also referred to the chronological table of the development of the foetus at the end of the Introduction. Development of the Sjrine.—The external layer of the blastoderm (epi- blast), as shown in fig. LXXIX., dips down to form the medullary groove which is afterwards converted into the medullary canal, and in this canal the nervous centres are formed out of epiblastic elements. At the same time the chorda dorsalis, or notochord, is formed out of the mesoblast. This is a rod or cylinder composed of a transparent tube containing em- * The scope of this work only permits the briefest possible reference to these subjects. Those who wish to study the subject of embryology in more detail are referred to Kulliker's Entwickelungsgeschichte, to the chapters on the development of the various organs in the 8th edition of Quaiu's Anatomy, or to the works of Prof, Dalton aud of Foster and Balfour.