7i THE ORBITS. Tub Orbits. The orbits (fig. 65) are two quadrilateral pyramidal cavities, situated at the upper and anterior part of the face, their bases being directed forwards and out- wards, and their apices backwards and inwards. Each orbit is formed of seven bones, the frontal, sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxillary, malar, lachrymal, and palate; but three of these, the frontal, ethmoid,1 and sphenoid, enter into the for- mation of both orbits, so that the two cavities are formed of eleven bones only. Each cavity presents for examination a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall, four angles, a circumference or base, and an apex. The Hoof is concave, directed down- wards and forwards, and formed in front by the orbital plate of the frontal; behind by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. This surface presents internally the depression for the fibro-cartilaginous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle ; externally, the depression for the lachrymal gland ; and posteriorly, the suture connecting the frontal and lesser wing of the sphenoid. The Floor is nearly flat, and of less extent than the roof; it is formed chiefly by the orbital process of the superior maxillary; in front, to a small extent, by the orbital process of the malar, and behind, by the orbital surface of the palate. This surface presents at its anterior and internal part, just external to the lachrymal canal, a depression for the attachment of the Inferior oblique muscle ; externally, the suture between the malar and superior maxillary bones; near its middle, the infra- orbital groove; and posteriorly, the suture between the maxillary and palate bones. The Inner Weill is flattened, and formed from before backwards by the nasal pro- cess of the superior, maxillary, the lachrymal, os planum of the ethmoid, and a small part of the body of the sphenoid. This surface presents the lachrymal groove, and cgest of the lachrymal bone, and the sutures connecting the ethmoid with the lachry- mal bone in front, and the sphenoid behind. The Outer Weill is formed in front by the orbital process of the malar bone; be- hind, by the orbital plate of the sphenoid. On it are seen the orifices of one or two malar canals, and the suture connecting the sphenoid and malar bones. Angles. The superior external angle is formed by the junction of the upper and outer walls; it presents, from before backwards, the suture connecting the frontal with the malar in front, and with the orbital plate of the sphenoid behind; quite posteriorly is the foramen lacerum anterius, or sphenoidal fissure, which transmits the third, fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic vein. The superior internal angle is formed by the junction of the upper and inner wall, and presents the suture connecting the frontal bone with the lachry- mal in front, and with the ethmoid behind. This suture is perforated by two foramina, the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, the former transmitting the anterior ethmoidal artery and nasal nerve, the latter the posterior ethmoidal artery and vein. The inferior external angle, formed by the junction of the outer wall or floor, pre- sents the spheno-maxillary fissure, which transmits the infraorbital vessels and nerve, the ascending branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion, and the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The inferior internal angle is formed by the union of the lachrymal and os planum of the ethmoid, with the superior maxillary and palate bones. The circumference, or base, of the orbit, quadrilateral in form, is bounded above by the supraorbital arch ; below, by the anterior border of the orbital plate of the malar, superior maxillary, and lachrymal bones; exter- nally, by the external angular process of the frontal and the malar bones ; internally, by the internal angular process of the frontal, and the nasal process of the superior maxillary. The circumference is marked by three sutures, the fronto-maxillary internally, the fronto-malar externally, and the malo-maxillary below; it contributes to the formation of the lachrymal groove, and presents, above, the supraorbital notch (or foramen), for the passage of the supraorbital artery, veins, and nerve. The apex, situated at the back of the orbit, corresponds to the optic foramen, a short circular canal, which transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. It will thus be seen that there are nine openings communicating with each orbit, viz. the optic, foramen