ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6So the splenic pulp. Thus the blood passing through the spleen is brought into inti- mate relation with the elements of the pulp, and no doubt undergoes important changes. After these changes have taken place the blood is collected from the interstices of the tissue by the rootlets of the veins, which commence much in the same way as the arteries terminate. Where a vein is about to commence the connective-tissue corpuscles of the pulp arrange themselves in rows, in such a way as to form an elon- gated space or sinus. They become changed in shape, being elongated and spindle-shaped, and overlap each other at their extremities. They thus form a sort of endothelial lining of the path or sinus, which is the radicle of a vein. On the outer surface of these cells are seen delicate transverse lines or markings, which are due to minute elastic fibrillar arranged in a circular manner around the sinus. Thus the channel obtains a continuous external investment, and gradually becomes converted into a small vein, which after a time presents a coat of ordinary connective tissue, lined by a layer of fusiform epithelial cells, which are continuous with the supporting cells of the pulp. The smaller veins unite to form larger ones, which do not accom- pany the arteries, but soon enter the trabecular sheaths of the capsule, and by their junction form from four to six branches, which emerge from the hilum, and, uniting, form the splenic vein, the largest radicle of the vena portse. The veins are remarkable for their numerous anastomoses, while the arteries hardly anastomose at all. The lymphatics originate in two ways, i.e. from the sheaths of the arteries and in the trabeculae. The former accompany the blood-vessels, the latter pass to the super- ficial lymphatic plexus which may be seen on the surface of the organ. The two sets communicate in the interior of the organ. They pass through the lymphatic glands at the hilum, and terminate in the thoracic duct. The nerves are derived from branches of the right and left semilunar ganglia, and right pneumogastric nerve. The termination of the blood-vessels of the spleen in lymphoid tissue necessarily brings the blood into intimate relation with the elements of this tissue, so that the blood passes through its meshes in the same manner as the lymph through the meshes of the adenoid tissue in an absorbent gland. Hence the genei'al opinion now is that the function, or one of the functions, of the spleen is to act on the blood in the same way as the lymph is acted on in the gland—i.e. to develop lymphatic, or white, corpuscles in it. And in support of this view the observation is adduced that the blood which leaves the spleen by the vein is especially rich in white corpuscles. The red blood-corpuscles are found in the spleen-pulp in various conditions of disin- tegration, and Kolliker suggests that the spleen serves as the organ in which the used-up blood-globules are disintegrated in order to form pigment, which is then trans- ferred to the liver by the splenic blood, to be used in the bile. Doubtless the spleen subserves other purposes also. There seems very strong reason for thinking that it acts as a storehouse of nutrition during the intervals of feeding, and possibly as a diverticulum for the circulation, uses for which its remarkable elasticity renders it very fit.