ETHMOID BONE. 39 place in these pieces in the following order : the greater wing and external pterygoid plate are first formed, ossific grannies being deposited close to the foramen rotnndum on each side, at about the second month of foetal life; from thence ossification spreads outwards into the great wing, and downwards into the ex- ternal pterygoid plate. Each internal pterygoid plate is then formed, and becomes united to the external about the middle of fcetal life. The two centres for the posterior part of the body appear as separate nuclei, side by side, beneath the sella Turcica; they join, about the middle of fcetal life, fnto a single piece, which remains un-united to the rest of the bone until after birth. Each lesser wing is formed by a separate centre, which appears on the outer side of the optic foramen, at about the third month; they become united and join with the body at about the eighth month of fcetal life. At about the end of the third year, ossification has made its appearance in the sphenoidal spongy bones. At birth the sphenoid consists of three pieces : viz. the greater wing and ptery- goid processes on each side; the lesser wings and body united. At the first year after birth the greater wings and body are united. From the tenth to the twelth year the spongy bones are partially united to the sphenoid, their junction being complete by the twentieth year. Lastly, the sphenoid joins the occipital. Articulations. The sphenoid articulates with all the bones of the cranium, and five of the face; the two malar, two palate, and vomer : the exact extent of arti- culation with each bone is shown in the accompanying figures. Attachment of Muscles. The Temporal, External pterygoid, Internal pterygoid, Superior constrictor, Tensor palati, Laxator tympani, Levator palpebrse, Obliquus superior, Superior rectus, Internal rectus, Inferior rectus, External rectus. The Ethmoid Bone. 38. -Ethmoid Bone. Outer Surface of Bight Lateral Mass (enlarged). W The Ethmoid (>;fyuic, a sieve) is an exceedingly light spongy bone, of a cubical form, situated at the anterior part of the base of the cranium, between the two orbits, at the root of the nose, and contributing to form each of these cavities. It consists of three parts: a horizontal plate, which forms part of the base of the cranium; a per- pendicular plate, which forms part of the septum nasi; and two lateral masses of cells. The Horizontal or Cribri- form Plate (fig. 38) forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, and is re- ceived into the ethmoid notch of the frontal bone between the two orbital plates. Pro- jecting upwards from the middle line of this plate, is a thick, smooth, triangular pro- resemblance to a cock's comb. Its base joins the cribriform plate. Its posterior border, long, thin, and slightly curved, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebri. Its anterior border, short and thick, articulates with the frontal bone, and presents two small projecting alae, which are received into corresponding depressions in the frontal, completing the foramen csecum behind. Its sides are smooth, and sometimes bulging; in which case it is found to enclose a small sinus. On each side of the crista galli, the cribriform plate is narrow, and deeply gi-ooved, to support the bulb of the with iafJiurbinutcJ 6. cess of bone, the crista galli, so called from its