THE FEMORAL RING. 779 lymphatic vessels, and occasionally a lymphatic gland : this is the femoral or crural canal, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural canal is the narrow interval between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the crural sheath. It exists as a distinct canal only when the sheath has been separated from the vein by dissection, or by the pressure of a hernia or tumour. Its length is from a quarter to half an inch, and it extends from Gimbernat's ligament to the upper part of the saphenous opening. Its anterior wall is very narrow, and formed by a continuation downwards of the fascia transversalis, under Poupart's ligament, covered by the falciform process of the fascia lata. Its posterior wall is formed by a continuation downwards of the iliac fascia covering the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Its outer wall is formed by the fibrous septum separating it from the inner side of the femoral vein. 446.—Hernia. The Relations of the Femoral and Internal Abdominal Rings, seen from within the Abdomen. Right Side. Its inner wall is formed by the junction of the processes of the transversalis and iliac fasciae, which form the inner side of the femoral sheath, and lies in contact with the outer edge of Gimbernat's ligament. This canal has two orifices—a lower one, the saphenous opening, closed by the cribriform fascia; an upper one, the femoral or crural ring, closed by the septum crurale. The femoral or crural ring (fig. 445) is the upper opening of the femoral canal, and leads into the cavity of the abdomen.* It is bounded in front by Poupart's ligament and the deep crural arch ; behind by the pubes, covered by the Pectineus muscle, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata ; internally, by the base of Gim- bernat's ligament, the conjoined tendon, the transversalis fascia, and the deep crural arch; externally, by the fibrous septum lying on the inner side of the femoral vein. The femoral ring is of an oval form; its long diameter, directed transversely, mea- sures about half an inch, and it is larger in the female than in the male, which is one of the reasons of the greater frequency of femoral hernia in the former sex. * This ring, like the crural canal, is a morbid or an artificial product. ' Each femoral hernia makes for itself (for neither outlet exists in the natural anatomy of the region) a crural canal, and a crural (femoral) ring.'—Oallender, op. cit. p. 40.