ci THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. The capsule is composed of a layer of connective tissue, and from its in- ternal surface are given off a number of membranous septa, which pass in- wards towards the centre of the gland, and divide the outer part of its interior into a number of oval compartments, or alveoli (fig. LXI.) This is the cortical portion of the gland. After having penetrated into the gland for some distance, these septa break up into a number of trabecular, which anastomose to interlace with each other in all directions, forming in the central part of the gland a number of intercommunicating spaces, also called alveoli. This is the medullary portion of the gland, and the spaces or alveoli in it not only freely communicate with each other, but also with the alveoli of the cortical portion. Fig. LXII.—Follicle from a lymphatic gland of the dog, in vertical section. tt. Reticular sustentacular substance of the more external portion, 6, of the more internal, and c, of the most external and most finely webbed part on the surface of the follicle, d. Origin of a large lymph-tnbe. e. Of a smaller one. /. Capsule, g. Septa. h-, Vas afferens. i. Investing space of the follicle, with its retinacula. t. One of the divisions of the septa. II. Attachment of the lymph-tubes to the septa. Fig. LXIIL—From the medul- lary substance of an inguinal gland of the ox (after His). . Lymph - tube, with its complicated system of vessels. b. Retinacula stretched between the tube and the septa, c. Portion of another lymph- tube, d. Septa. In these alveoli or spaces is contained the proper gland-substance or lymphoid tissue. The gland-pulp does not, however, completely fill the alveolar spaces, but leaves between its outer margin and the trabecular forming the alveoli a channel or space of nearly uniform width throughout. This is termed the lymph-path or lymph-sinus. Eunning across it are a number of trabecular of retiform connective tissue, which appear to serve the purpose of maintaining the gland-pulp in the centre of the space in its proper position. On account of the peculiar arrangement of the framework of the organ, the gland-pulp in the cortical portion is disposed in the form of nodules, and in the medullary part in the form of rounded cords. It consists of ordinary lymphoid tissue, being made up of a delicate reticulum of retiform tissue, the meshes of which are closely packed with lymph-corpuscles, and traversed by a plexus of capillary blood-vessels. The afferent vessels, as above stated, enter at all parts of the periphery of the gland, and after branching and forming a dense plexus in the