692 THE THORAX. the original single ventricle, and therefore in after life proper to the left ventricle ; the other set formed from the reflected or reduplicated fibres which now form the right ventricle.* To these of course the fibres which cross over from one ventricle to the other may be added. Pettigrew regards the portion of the septum which belongs to the left ventricle as twice that which belongs to the light. For many interesting particulars with regard to the arrangement of the fibres and the shape of the cavities the reader must be referred to the original paper. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the heart are the left or anterior and right or posterior coronary (p. 333). The veins accompany the arteries, and terminate in the r ight auricle. They are the great cardiac vein, the small or anterior cardiac veins, and the venae cordis minima? (vena; Thebesii) (p. 451). The lymphatics terminate in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves are derived from the cardiac plexuses, which are formed partly from the cranial nerves, and partly from the sympathetic. They are freely distributed both on the surface and in the substance of the heart, the separate filaments being furnished with small ganglia, f Peculiarities in the Vascular System of the Fcetus. The chief peculiarities in the heart of the fetus are the direct communication between the two auricles through the foramen ovale, and the large size of the Eusta- chian valve. There are also several minor peculiarities. Thus, the position of the heart is vertical until the fourth month, when it commences to assume an oblique direction. Its .size is also very considerable as compared with the body, the propor- tion at the second month being 1 to 50 : at birth it is as 1 to 120 ; whilst in the adult the average is about 1 to 160. At an early period of fetal life the auricular portion of the heart is larger than the ventricular, the right auricle being more capa- cious than the left; but towards birth the ventricular portion becomes the larger. The thickness of both ventricles is, at first, about equal, but towards birth the left becomes much the thicker of the two. The foramen ovale is situated at the lower and back part of the septum auricu- larum, forming a communication between the auricles. It attains its greatest size at the sixth month. The Eustachian valve is developed from the anterior border of the inferior vena cava at its entrance into the auricle. It is directed upwards on the left side of the opening of this vein, and serves to direct the blood from the inferior vena cava through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. The peculiarities in the arterial system of the fetus are the communication between the pulmonary artery and descending part of the arch of the aorta, by means of the ductus arteriosus, and the communication between the internal iliac arteries and the placenta, by means of the umbilical arteries. The ductus arteriosus is a short tube, about half an inch in length at birth, and of the diameter of a goose-quill. In the early condition it forms the continuation of the pulmonary artery, and opens into the arch of the aorta, just below the origin of the left subclavian artery; and so conducts the chief part of the blood from the right ventricle into the descending aorta. When the branches of the pulmonary artery * If the general idea of this is not at once obvious, it will become so by taking a roll of paper, calling one side of it the posterior and the other the anterior, and bending it at the right side of its middle till the anterior touches the posterior surface. The larger part to the left of the middle line represents the left ventricle, the smaller the right, and the double fold in the middle the septum ; then, if the reflected parts where they touch are gummed to each other, this will represent the coalescence of the septum with the outer wall, whereby the right ventricle becomes a separate tube from the left. The lower openings of these two tubes are closed in by the growth of the external layers. t For full and accurate descriptions of the nerves and ganglia of the heart, the student is referred to Dr. R. Lee's papers on the subject.