cxliii DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART, into fingers or toes is early indicated, and soon a notch or constriction marks the future separation of the hand or foot from the forearm. Next a similar groove appears at the site of the elbow or knee. The indifferent tissue, or blastema, of which the whole projection is at first composed, is differentiated into muscle and cartilage before the appearance of any in- ternal cleft for the joints between the chief bones. The muscles become visible about the seventh or eighth week. The source of their development is not completely determined for the muscles of the limbs. The vertebral muscles appear to be developed from the ' muscular laminae ' of the primitive vertebral discs (fig. LXXVIL, 13), and the muscles of the neck and jaws, as well as those which enclose the cavities of the thorax and abdomen, are also formed from the same source. They do not meet in the middle line of the body till about the fourth month. The cutaneous muscles are developed from the cutaneous portion of the middle blastodermic layer. Development of the Heart.—The first trace of the heart is found about the tenth or twelfth day, in the form of a mass of cells proceeding from the middle layer of the blastodermic vesicle and the anterior wall of the intes- tinal cavity. It soon forms a bent tube lying in front of the embryo, and only connected to it by its vessels (figs. LXXXL, LXXXVI.). The heart is situated at first at the anterior end of the embryo, lying opposite the two last cerebral vesicles. As the head is developed, the heart falls as it were backwards to the lower part of the neck, and then to the thorax. It fills the whole thoracic cavity about the second month. As the lungs and thoracic parietes form, the heart assumes its permanent position. The tube is soon curved into the shape of the letter S, the arterial part being situated above, in front and to the right, the venous below, behind and to the left. Traces of the auricular appendages are early perceptible on the venous part. Then the walls of the ventricular portion begin to thicken in regard to the auricular part. The ventricle is separated by a constriction from the dilated part above, which corresponds to the aortic sinus or bulb (fig. XCVI. a, 1), and from the posterior or auricular dilatation. Then each of these three parts becomes subdivided by a septum. After the completion of the ventricular septum the auricular is commenced. The septum ventriculorum is at first almost transverse, and divides off a smaller portion (the right ventricles) from the common cavity. This septum is complete about the eighth week, and then the interauricular begins to grow, commencing from above and behind, and coalescing with the edge of the interventricular septum so as to leave an orifice (auriculo-ventricular) on either side. The auricular septum, however, is not complete during foetal life, but leaves an aperture (foramen ovale) by which the two auricles communicate. The heart is at first composed of a mass of foetal cells, but its rhythmic contractions can be observed even in this condition before the development of any muscular fibres, and even, according to some authors, before it is in connection with any vessels. Development of Blood Corpuscles and Vessels.—The earliest blood-vessels are observed, as stated above, in the vascular area of the germinal membrane,