THE SALIVARY GLANDS. glossus muscle, placed in front of the aponeurosis of the Tensor palati, and separated from the oral mucous membrane by adenoid tissue. The tonsils (amygdalae) are two glandular organs, situated one on each side of the fauces, between the anterior and posterior pillars of the soft palate. They are of a rounded form, and vary considerably in size in different individuals. Externally the tonsil is in relation with the inner surface of the Superior constrictor (beyond which are the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries), and corresponds to the angle of the lower jaw. Its inner surface presents from twelve to fifteen orifices, leading into small recesses, from which numerous follicles branch out into the substance of the gland. These follicles are lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, covered with epithelium; around each follicle is a layer of closed capsules embedded in the submucous tissue. These capsules are analogous to those of Peyer's glands, consisting of adenoid tissue. No openings from the capsules into the follicles can be recognised. They contain a thick greyish secretion. The arteries supplying the tonsil are the dorsalis lingua? from the lingual, the ascending palatine and tonsillar from the facial, the ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid, and the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. The veins terminate in the tonsillar plexus, on the outer side of the tonsil. The nerves are derived from Meckel's ganglion, and from the glosso-pharyngeal. The Salivary Glands. (Fig. 352.) The principal salivary glands communicating with the mouth, and pouring their secretion into its cavity, are the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. 352.—The Salivary Glands. The Parotid gland, so called from being placed near the ear {wapt't, near; o5s, wro'tf, the ear), is the largest of the three salivary glands, varying in weight from half an ounce to an ounce. It lies upon the side of the face, immediately below and in front of the external ear. It is limited above by the zygoma; below, by the angle of the jaw, and by a horizontal line drawn between it and the mastoid process : anteriorly, it extends to a variable extent over the Masseter muscle ; posteriorly, it