THE SKELETON. from the under surface 40 olfactory nerve, and perforated by foramina, for the passage of its filaments. These foramina are arranged in three rows ; the innermost, which are the largest and least numerous, are lost in grooves on the upper part of the septum : the foramina of the outer row are continued on to the surface of the upper spongy bone. The foramina of the middle row are the smallest; they perforate the bone, and transmit nerves to the roof of the nose. At the front part of the cribriform plate, on each side of the crista galli, is a small fissure which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; and at its posterior part a triangular notch, which receives the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. The Perpendicular Plate (fig. 39) is a thin flattened lamella of bone, which descends of the cribriform plate, and assists in forming the septum of the nose. It is much thinner in the middle than at the circumference, and is generally deflected a little to one side. Its anterior border articu- lates with the frontal spine and crest of the nasal bones. Its pos- terior, divided into two parts, is connected by its upper half with the rostrum of the sphenoid—by its lower half with the vomer. The inferior border serves for the attachment of the tri- angular cartilage of the nose. On each side of the perpendicular plate numerous grooves and canals are seen, leading from foramina on the cribriform plate ; they lodge filaments of the olfactory nerves. The Lateral Masses of the ethmoid consist of a number of thin-walled cellular cavities, the ethniovhd cells, interposed between two vertical plates of bono, the outer one of which forms part of the orbit, and the inner one part of the nasal fossa of the corresponding side. In the disarticulated tone many of these cells appear to be broken; but when the bones are articulated, they are closed in ai every part. The upper surface of each lateral mass presents a number of apparently half-broken cellular spaces; these are closed in when articulated by the edges of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone. Crossing this surface are two grooves on each side, converted into canals by articulation with the frontal; they are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, and open on tin inner wall of the Orbit. The posterior surface also presents large irregular cellular cavities, which are closed in by articulation with the sphenoidal turbinated bone-, and orbital process of the palate. The cells at the anterior surface are completed by the lachrymal bone and nasal process of the superior maxillary, and those below also by the superior maxillary. The outer surface of each lateral mass is formed of a thin smooth square plate of bone, called the on planum : it forms part of the inner, wall of the orbit, and articulates above with the orbital plate of the frontal; below, with tin superior maxillary and orbital process of the palate; in front, with the lachrymal ; and behind, with the sphenoid. From the inferior part of each lateral mass, immediately beneath the OS planum, there projects downwards and backwards an irregular lamina of hone, called the nncij'arm jirocrss, from its hook-like form: it serves to close in the upper part of tile orifice of the antrum, and articulates with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated bone. It is often broken in disarticulating the bones. 39.—Perpendicular Plate of Ethmoid (enlarged). Showu by