THE PERITONEUM. According to the first plan (fig. 357), the abdomen having been opened, the liver should be raised and supported in that position, and the stomach should be depressed, when a thin membranous layer is seen passing from the transverse fissure of the liver to the upper border of the stomach : this is the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum. It consists of two delicate layers of peritoneum, an anterior and a posterior, between which are contained the hepatic vessels and nerves. Of these two layers, the anterior should first be traced, and then the posterior. The anterior layer descends to the lesser curvature of the stomach, and covers its anterior surface as far as the great curvature : it descends for some distance in front of the small intestines, and returning upon itself to the transverse colon, forms the external layer of the great omentum; it then covers the under surface of the trans- verse colon, and, passing to the back part of the abdominal cavity, forms the inferior layer of the transverse meso-colon. It then descends in front of the duodenum, the aorta, and vena cava, as far as the superior mesenteric artery, along which it passes to invest the small intestines, and, returning to the vertebral column, forms the mesentery; whilst, on either side, it covers the ascending and descending colon, and is thus continuous with the peritoneum lining the walls of the abdomen. From the root of the mesentery it descends along the front of the spine into the pelvis, and surrounds the upper part of the rectum, which it holds in its position by means of a distinct fold, the meso-rectnm. Its course in the male and female now differs. In the male it forms a fold between the rectum and bladder, the recto-vesical fold, and ascends over the posterior surface of the latter organ as far as its summit. In the female it descends into the pelvis in front of the rectum, forms a fold between the rectum and vagina, the recto-vaginal fold (Pouch of Douglas), covers a small part of the posterior wall of the vagina, and passes on to the uterus, the fundus and body of which it covers. From the sides of the uterus it is reflected on each side to the wall of the pelvis, forming the broad ligaments; and from the anterior surface of the uterus it ascends upon the posterior wall of the bladder as far as its sixmmit. From this point it may be traced, as in the male, ascending upon the anterior parietes of the abdomen, to the under surface of the Diaphragm; from which it is reflected upon the liver, foi-ming the upper layer of the coronary, and the lateral and longitudinal ligaments. It then covers the upper and under surfaces of the liver, and at the transverse fissure becomes continuous with the anterior layer of the lesser omentum, the point whence its reflection was originally traced. The posterior layer of the lesser omentum descends to the lesser curvature of the stomach, and covers its posterior surface as far as the great curvature; it then descends for some distance in front of the small intestines, and returning upon itself to the transverse colon, forms the internal layer of the great omentum ; it covers the upper surface of the transverse colon, and, passing backwards to the spine, forms the upper layer of the transverse meso-colon. Ascending in front of the pancreas and crui'a of the Diaphragm, it lines the back part of the under sur- face of that muscle, from which it is reflected on to the posterior border of the liver, forming the inferior layer of the coronary ligament. From the under surface of the liver it may be traced to the transverse fissure, where it is continuous with the poste- rior layer of the lesser omentum, the point whence its reflection was originally traced. The space included in the reflections of this layer of the peritoneum is called the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, or cavity of the great omentum. It is bounded, in front, by the lesser omentum, the stomach, and the descending part of the great omentum; behind, by the ascending part of the great omentum, the transverse colon, transverse meso-colon, and its ascending layer; above., by the liver; and below, by the folding of the great omentum. This space communicates with the general peritoneal cavity through the foramen of Winslow, which is situated behind the right, or free, border of the lesser omentum. In order to trace the two layers together, we commence at the top of the abdo- minal cavity ; that is to say, the under surface of the Diaphragm. This muscle is covered throughout its whole extent by peritoneum ; one layer extending from its anterior border-, backwards; the other from its posterior border, forwards. Where t T 2