NERVOUS SYSTEM. 478 dentatum. The grey matter is arranged in the form of a hollow capsule, open at its upper and inner part, and presenting a zigzag, or dentated outline. White fibres pass into, or from the interior of this body, by the aperture in the upper part of the capsule. They join with those fibres of the anterior column which ascend on the outer side, and beneath the olivary body, to form the olivary fasciculus, which ascends to the cerebrum. The restiform body is formed chiefly of fibres from the posterior column of the cord; but it receives some from the lateral column, and a fasciculus from the anterior, and is continued, upwards, to the cerebrum and cerebellum. On entering the pons, it divides into two fasciculi, above the point of the fourth ventricle. The external fasciculus enters the cerebellum; the inner fasciculus joins the posterior pyramid, is continued up along the fourth ventricle, and is traced up to the cerebrum with the fasciculi teretes. The posterior pyramid is formed by the posterior median column of the cord; it joins the fasciculus teres, and is continued with it to the cerebrum. 266.—The Columns of the Medulla Oblongata, and their connection with the Cerebrum and Cerebellum. The course of the fibres of the medulla will be better understood by reference to the accompanying plan; copied, by permission of Mr. H. E. Clark, from Wilson's e Anatomist's Vade-Mecum.' Septum of the medulla oblongata. Above the decussation of the anterior pyramids, numerous white fibres extend, from behind forwards, in the median line, forming a septum, which subdivides the medulla into two lateral halves. Some of these fibres emerge at the anterior median fissure, and form a band which curves round the lower border of the olivary body, or passes transversely across it, and round the sides of the medulla, forming the arciform fibres of Rolando. Others appear in the floor of the fourth ventricle, issuing from the posterior median fissure, and form the white strias in that situation. Grey matter of the medulla oblongata. The grey matter of the medulla is a con- tinuation of that contained in the interior of the spinal cord, besides a series of special deposits or nuclei. In the lower part of the medulla, the grey matter is arranged as in the cord, but at the upper part it becomes more abundant, and is disposed with less apparent