592 ORGANS OF SENSE. Structure. The iris is composed of the following structures :— 1. In front is a layer of polyhedral cells on a delicatelhya line basement-membrane. This layer is continuous with the membrane of Descemet, and in men with dark coloured irides the cells contain pigment-granules. 2. Stroma. The stroma consists of fibres and cells. The former are made up of fine delicate bundles of fibrous tissue of which some few fibres have a circular direc- tion at the circumference of the iris : but the chief mass consists of fibres radiating towards the pupil. They form by their interlacement, a delicate mesh, in which the vessels and nerves are contained. Interspersed between the bundles of connective tissue are numerous branched cells with fine processes. Many of them in dark eyes contain pigment-granules, but in the blue eyes they are unpigmented. 3. The muscular fibre is involuntary, and consists of circular and radiating fibres. The circular fibres (sphincter of the pupil) surround the margin of the pupil on the posterior surface of the iris, like a sphincter, forming a narrow band, about one- thirtieth of an inch in width ; those near the free margin being closely aggregated; those more external somewhat separated, and forming less complete circles. The radiating fibres (dilator of the pupil) converge from the circumference towards the centre, and blend with the circular fibres near the margin of the pupil. 4. Pigment. The situation of the pigment-cells differs in different hides. In the various shades of blue eyes, the only pigment-cells are several layers of small round or polyhedral cells, filled with dark pigment, situated on the posterior surface of the iris and continuous with the pigmentary covering of the ciliary processes. The colour of the eye in these individuals is due to this colouring matter showing more or less through the texture of the iris. In the albino, even this pigment is absent. In the grey, brown, and black eye, there are, as mentioned above, pigment-granules to be found in the cells of the stroma and in the epithelioid layer on the front of the iris, to which the colour of the eye is due. The arteries of the iris are derived from the long and anterior ciliary, and from the vessels of the ciliary processes (see p. 357). The nerves of the iris aie derived from the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion and the long ciliary from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. After reaching the iris in the manner described above (page 512) they form a plexus around the attached margin of the iris; from this are derived non-medul- lated fibres which terminate in the circular and radiating muscular fibres. Their exact mode of termination has not been ascertained. Other fibres from the plexus terminate in a network on the anterior surface of the iris. The fibres derived from the motor root of the lenticular ganglion (third nerve) supply the circular fibres, while those derived from the sympathetic supply the radiating fibres. Membrana pupillaris. In the fatus, the pupil is closed by a delicate, transparent, vascular membrane, the membrana pupillaris, which divides the space in which the iris is suspended into two distinct chambers. This membrane contains numerous minute vessels continued from the margin of the iris to those on the front part of the capsule of the lens. These vessels have a looped arrangement, converging towards each other without anastomising. Between the seventh and eighth month the mem- brane begins to disappear, by its gradual absorption from the centre towards the circumference, and at birth only a few fragments remain. It is said sometimes to remain permanent and produce blindness. The Ciliary muscle (Bowman) consists of unstriped fibres: it forms a greyish, senritransparent, circular band, about one-eighth of an inch broad, on the outer sur- face of the fore part of the choroid. It is thickest in front, and gradually becomes thinner behind. It consists of two sets of fibres, radiating and circular. The former, much the more numerous, arise at the point of junction of the cornea and sclerotic, and passing backwards, are attached to the choroid opposite to the ciliary processes. The circular fibres are internal to the radiating ones and to some extent unconnected with them and have a circular course around the insertions of the iris. They are sometimes called the ' ring muscle' of Muller, and were formerly described as the ciliary ligament. The Ciliary muscle is admitted to be the chief agent in accommodation, i.a