cxlviii GENERAL ANATOMY. anastomosing branch. The right vertebral vein, together with the per- sistent termination of the right cardinal vein, forms the great azygos vein. The distal portion of the left vertebral vein, with the oblique anastomosing branch, forms the small azygos; and the upper part of the left vertebral, with the persistent termination of the left cardinal, forms the left superior intercostal vein. The ' fcetal circulation ' is spoken of at p. 693. Development of the Alinn nturi/ Canal.—The development of the intestinal cavity is, as shown above (p. cxxv), one of the earliest phenomena of em- bryonic life. This original intestine is closed at either end, all the three blastodermic layers being here in contact, and is at first in free communi- cation with the umbilical vesicle (fig. XCIX.b It is divided into three parts—the anterior or cephalic portion of the primitive intestine, the middle or abdominal, and the posterior or pelvic From the first are formed the pharynx and oesophagus, witli the trachea and longs : from the second, the stomach, small intestine and large intestine, as far as the upper part of the rectum; from the third, the middle third of the rectum. The buccal cavity on the one hand, and the lower portion of the rectum on the other, are separate productions from the middle and external layers of the blastodermic membrane, and do not communicate with the common cavity till a later period. The permanence of the. fcetal septum in either case constitutes a well-known deformity—imperforate (esophagus or imper- forate rectum, as the case may be. The anal cavity is at first common to the urogenital and the digestive organ-. The development of the palate has been spoken of above. The tongue appears about the fifth week as a small elevation, behind the inferior maxillary arch, to which is united another projection from the second pharyngeal arch. The epithelial layer is furnished by the external blastodermic membrane. The tonsils appear about the fourth month. The middle portion of the primitive intestine is at first a groove com- municating freely with the umbilical vesicle. The groove is early converted into a straight tube, which, however, is still open where it communicates with the umbilical vesicle. This opening contracts more and more as the embryo advances in development, and as the importance of the vitelline duct and yolk-sac diminishes, until at length all traces of the latter struc- tures disappear in the normal condition. Abnormally, however, a diverti- culum is sometimes formed from the small intestine near the carum. which is regarded with great probability as a pervious portion of the omphalo- mesenteric duct, and which has been found passing into the umbilical cord. The peritoneal folds are furnished by the splanchnoplcural layer of the mesohlast, coated l>y tin epithelial layer of hypoblast. In the cephalic portion of the primitive intestine these folds remain separate on the two sides to form the pleunv, and a central portion is divided off from them to cover the heart and form the pericardium. W hile the abdominal intestine is in the grooved condition, the two peritoneal cavities are also separate, but they early communicate together. As the tube of the abdominal intestine grows in length, it leaves the