476 NERVOUS SYSTEM. basilar groove of the occipital bone, its posterior surface is received into the fossa between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, forming the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is pyramidal in form, its broad ex- tremity directed upwards, its lower end being narrow at its point of connection with the cord. It measures an inch and a quarter in length, three-quarters of an inch in breadth at its widest part, and balf an inch in thickness. Its sur- face is marked, in the median line, in front and behind, by an anterior and posterior median fissure, which are con- tinuous with those of the spinal cord. The anterior fissure contains a fold of pia mater, and terminates just below the pons in a cul-de-sac, the foramen ccecum. The posterior is a deep but narrow fissure, continued upwards along the floor of the fourth ventricle, where it is finally lost. These two fissures divide the medulla into two symme- trical halves, each lateral half being subdivided by minor grooves into four columns, which, from before backwards, are named the anterior pyramid, lateral tract and olivary body, the restiform body, the posterior pyramid. The anterior pyramids, or corpora pyramidalia, are two pyramidal bundles of white matter, placed one on either side of the anterior median fissure, and separated from the olivary body, which is external to them, by a slight depression. At the lower border of the pons they are somewhat constricted; they then become enlarged, and taper slightly as they descend, being continuous below with the anterior columns of the cord. On separating the pyramids below, it will be observed that their inner- most fibres form from four to five bundles on each side, which decussate with one another; this decussation, however, is not formed entirely of fibres from the pyra- mids, but mainly from the deep portion of the lateral columns of the cord which pass forwards to the surface between the diverging anterior columns. The outermost fibres do not decussate ; they are derived from the anterior columns of the cord, and are continued directly upwards through the pons Varolii. Lateral tract and olivary body. The lateral tract is continuous with the lateral column of the cord. Below, it is broad and includes that part of the medulla between the anterior pyramid and restiform body ; but above, it is pushed a little backwards, and narrowed by the projection forwards of the olivary body. The olivary bodies are two prominent oval masses, situated behind the anterior pyramids, from which they are separated by slight grooves. They equal, in breadth, the anterior pyramids, are a little broader above than below, and are about half an inch in length, being separated above from the pons Varolii by a slight depression. Numerous white fibres (Jib?-ai arciformes) are seen winding round the lower end of each body, sometimes crossing their surface. The restiform bodies (fig. 264) are the largest columns of the medulla, and con- tinuous, below, with the posterior columns of the cord. They are two rounded, cord-like eminences, placed between the lateral tracts, in front, and the posterior pyramids, behind; from both of which they are separated by slight grooves. As they ascend they diverge from each other, assist in forming the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle, and then enter the corresponding hemisphere of the cerebellum, forming its inferior peduncle, while other fibres are continued from the restiform bodies into the cerebrum. The posterior pyramids {fasciculi graciles) are two narrow white cords placed