cv THE SKIN. opposite the flexures of the joints, and correspond to the folds in the derma produced by their movements. In other situations, as upon the back of the hand, they are exceedingly fine, and intersect one another at various angles : upon the palmar surface of the hand and fingers, and upon the sole of the foot, these lines are very distinct, and are disposed in curves. They depend upon the large size and peculiar arrangement of the papillae upon which the epidermis is placed. The deep surface of the epidermis is accurately moulded upon the papillary layer of the derma, each papilla being invested by its epidermic sheath ; so that when this layer is removed by maceration, it presents on its under surface a number of pits or depressions corresponding to the elevations in the papillae, as well as the ridges left in the intervals between them. Fine tubular prolongations are from this layer continued into the ducts of the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands. In structure the epidermis consists of flattened cells, agglutinated together, and having a laminated arrangement. The deepest layers of cells, according to Kolliker, are of a columnar form, and are arranged perpendicularly to the free surface of the derma, forming either a single or a double, or even triple layer ; the laminae succeeding these are composed of cells of a more rounded form, the contents of which are soft, opaque, granular, and soluble in acetic acid. . As these cells successively approach the surface by the development of fresh layers from beneath, they assume a flattened form from the evaporation of their fluid contents, and finally form a transparent, dry, membranous scale, lose their nuclei, and apparently become changed in their chemical compo- sition, as they are unaffected now by acetic acid. Klein describes the epidermis as composed of four different strata: I, the rete Malpighii, composed of several strata of epithelial cells, of which the deepest layers are columnar, the rest polyhedral; 2, granular layer, a single stratum of flattened spindle-shaped cells; 3, stratum lucidum, a homogeneous or dimly striated membrane, composed of closely packed scales ; and 4, stratum eorneum, consisting of many layers of horny epithelial scales. The deepest layer of cells are separated from the papillae by an apparently homogeneous basement-membrane, which is most distinctly brought into view in speci- mens prepared with chloride of gold. This, according to Klein, is merely the deepest portion of the epithelium, and is ' made up of the basis of the individual cells which have undergone a chemical and morphological alteration.' * The black colour of the skin in the negro, and the tawny colour among some of the white races, is due to the presence of pigment in the cells of the cuticle. This pigment is more especially distinct in the cells of the deeper layer, or rete mucosum, and is similar to that found in the cells of the pigmentary layer of the retina. As the cells approach the surface and desiccate, the colour becomes partially lost. The arteries which supply the skin divide into numerous branches in the subcutaneous tissue; they then pass through the areolae of the corium, and divide into a dense capillary plexus, which supplies the sudoriferous and sebaceous glands and the hair-follicles, terminating in the superficial layers of the corium by forming a capillary network, from which numerous fine branches ascend to the papillae. * Atlas of Histology, p. 311.