THE KIDNEYS. 725 The Tubuli Urinijeri : their Course.—The tubuli uriniferi commence in a dilated csecal extremity, the Malpighian capsule, and terminate by an opening on the free surface of the papilla?, so that the fluid which they contain passes into the calices and pelvis of the kidney. In their course the tubuli uriniferi present many changes in shape and direction, and are contained partly in the medullary and partly in the cortical portions of the organ. At their junction with the Malpighian capsule they present a somewhat constricted portion, which is termed the neck. Beyond this the tube becomes convo- luted, and pursues a considerable course in the cortical structure, constituting the proximal convoluted tube. After a time the convolutions disappear, and the tube approaches the medullary portion of the kidney in a more or less spiral manner. This section of the tube has been called the spiral tubule of Schachovja. Throughout this portion of their course the tubuli uriniferi have been contained entirely in the cortical structure, and have presented a pretty uniform calibre. They now enter the medullary portion; suddenly become much smaller, quite straight in direction, and dip down for a variable depth into the pyramids, constituting the descending limb of Henle's loop. Bending on themselves, they form a kind of loop, the loop of Henle, and reascending, they become suddenly enlarged and again spiral in direction, form- ing the ascending limb of Henle's loop, and re-enter the cortical structure. This portion of the tube does not present a uniform calibre, but becomes narrower as it ascends and irregular in outline. As a narrow tube it enters the cortex and ascends for a short distance, when it again becomes dilated, irregular, and angular. This section is termed the irregular tubule; it terminates in a convoluted tube, which exactly resembles the proximal convoluted tubule, and is called the distal convoluted tubule. This again terminates in a narrow curved tube, which enters the straight or collecting tube. Each straight, otherwise called a collecting or receiving tube, commences by a small orifice on the summit of one of the papillae, thus opening and discharging its contents into the interior of one of the calices. Traced into the substance of the pyramid, these tubes are found to run from apex to base, dividing dichotomously in their course and slightly diverging from each other. Thus dividing and subdividing, they reach the base of the pyramid, and enter the cortical structure greatly increased in number. Upon entering the cortical portion they continue a straight course for a variable distance, and are arranged in groups, several of these groups corresponding to a single pyramid. The tubes in the centre of the group are the longest, and reach almost to the surface of the kidney, while the external ones are shoi'ter, and advance only a short distance into the cortex. In consequence of this arrangement the cortical portion presents a number of conical masses, the apices of which reach the periphery of the organ, and the bases are applied to the medullary portion. These are termed the i^yramids of Ferrein. As they run through the cortical portion, the straight tubes receive on either side the curved extremity of the convoluted tubes, which, as stated above, commence at the Malpighian capsules. It will be seen from the above description that there is a continuous series of tubes from their commencement in the Malpighian capsules, to their termination at the orifices on the apices of the pyramids of Malpighi, and that the urine, the secre- tion of which commences in the capsule, finds its way through these tubes into the calices of the kidney, and so into the ureter. Commencing at the capsule, the tube first presents a narrow constricted portion, the neck. 2. It forms a wide convoluted tube, the proximal convoluted tube. 3. It becomes spiral, the spiral tubule of Schachowa. 4. It enters the medullary structure as a narrow, straight tube, the descending limb of Henle's loop. 5. Forming a loop and becoming dilated, it ascends, somewhat spirally and gradually diminishing in calibre, and again enters the cortical structure, the ascending limb of Henle's loop. 6. It now becomes irregular and angular in outline, the irregular tubule. 7. It then becomes convoluted, the distal convoluted tubule. 8. Diminishing in size, it forms a curve, the curved tubule. 9. Finally it joins a straight tube, the straight collecting tube, which is continued downwards through the medullary substance to open at the apex of a pyramid.