683 THE HEART. the pericardium. It consists, therefore, of a visceral and parietal portion. The former invests the surface of the heart, and the commencement of the great vessels, to the extent of two inches from their origin; from these it is reflected upon the inner surface of the fibrous layer, lining, below, the upper surface of the central tendon of the Diaphragm. The serous membrane encloses the aorta and pulmo- nary artery in a single tube; but it only partially covers the superior and inferior vena cava and the four pulmonary veins. Its inner surface is smooth and glist- ening, and secretes a thin fluid, which serves to facilitate the movements of the heart. The arteries of the pericardium are derived from the internal mammary, and its musculo-phrenic branch, and from the descending thoracic aorta. The Heart. The Heart is a hollow muscular organ of a conical form, placed between the lungs, and enclosed in the cavity of the pericardium. Position.—The heart is placed obliquely in the chest: the broad attached end, or base, is directed upwards and backwards to the right, and corresponds to the interval between the fifth and eighth dorsal vertebra?; the apex is directed forwards and to the left, and corresponds to the interspace between the cartilage of the fifth and sixth ribs, one inch to the inner side, and two inches below the left nipple. The heart is placed behind the lower two-thirds of the sternum, and projects further into the left than into the right cavity of the chest, extending from the median line about three inches in the former direction, and only one and a half in the latter. Its upper border would correspond to a line drawn across the sternum, on a level with the upper border of the third costal cartilages ; and its lower border, to a line drawn across the lower end of the gladiolus, from the right side of the costo-xiphoid articu- lation, to the point above mentioned, as the situation of the apex. The lungs cover a part of the heart, and during inspiration, when their borders nearly meet behind the sternum, a thin layer of lung covers the roots of all the large vessels. Hence the custom of making a patient hold his breath whilst examining the sounds of the heart. But a considerable portion of the heart is always uncovered by the lungs where they recede from each other below. This ' area of the heart's dulness,' as it is commonly called, is said by Mr. Holden* to be indicated, roughly, but sufficiently for practical purposes, by a circle one inch in radius, the centre of which is midway between the left nipple and the end of the sternum. The anterior surface of the heart is round and convex, directed upwards and forwards, and formed chiefly by the light ventricle and part of the left. Its posterior surface is flattened, and rests upon the Diaphragm, and is formed chiefly by the left ventr icle. The right border is long, thin, and sharp ; the left border short, but thick and round. Size.—The heart, in the adult, measures five inches in length, three inches and a half in breadth in the broadest part, and two inches and a half in thickness. The prevalent weight, in the male, varies from ten to twelve ounces; in the female from eight to ten : its proportions to the body being as 1 to 169 in males ; 1 to 149 in females. The heart continues increasing in weight, and also in length, breadth, and thickness, up to an advanced period of life : this increase is more marked in men than in women. Component Parts.—The heart is subdivided by a longitudinal muscular septum into two lateral halves, which are named respectively, from their position, right and left; and a transverse constriction divides each half of the organ into two cavities, the upper cavity on each side being called the auricle, the lower the ventricle. The right is the venous side of the heart, receiving into its auricle the dark venous blood from the entire body, by the superior and inferior vena cava, and coronary sinus. From the right auricle the blood passes into the light ventricle, and from the right ventricle, through the pulmonary artery, into the lungs. The blood, arterialised by its passage through the lungs, is returned to the left side of the heart by the pulmonary veins, which open into the left auricle ; from the left auricle the blood * ' Landmarks—Medical and Surgical,' 2nd ed. p. 22.