232 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. the lower third of the margin of the internal pterygoid plate and its haniular process, from the contiguous portion of the palate bone and the reflected tendon of the Tensor palati muscle, from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, from the alveolar process above the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge, and by a few fibres from the side of the tongue in connection with the Genio-hyo glossus. From these points, the fibres curve backwards, to be inserted into the median raphe, being also prolonged by means of a fibrous aponeurosis to the pharyngeal spine on the basilar process of the occipital bone. The superior fibres arch beneath the Levator palati and the Eustachian tube, the interval between the upper border of the muscle and the basilar process being deficient in muscular fibres, and closed by fibrous membrane. This interval is known as the sinus of Morgagni. Relations. By its outer surface, with the vertebral column, the carotid vessels, the internal jugular vein, the three divisions of the eighth nerve and the ninth nerve, the Middle constrictor which overlaps it, and the Stylo-pharyngeus. It covers the Palato-pharyngeus and the tonsil, and is lined by the pharyngeal aponeurosis and by mucous membrane. The Stylo-pharvivieus is a long, slender muscle, round above, broad and thin below. It arises from the inner side of the base of the styloid process, passes downwards along the side of the pharynx between the Superior and Middle con- strictors, and spreads out beneath the mucous membrane, where some of its fibres are lost in the Constrictor muscles, and others, joining with the Palato-pharyngeus,. are inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve runs on the outer side of this muscle, and crosses over it in passing forward to the tongue. A portion of the Stylo-pharyngeus separated from the rest of the muscle by the Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and arising above from the base of the skull (spine of the sphenoid or petrous portion of the temporal) is sometimes found and receives the name of Cephalo-pharyngens. Relations. Externally, with the Stylo-glossus muscle, the external carotid artery, the parotid gland, and the Middle constrictor. Internally, with the internal carotid, the internal jugular vein, the Superior constrictor, Palato-pharyngeus and mucous membrane. Nerves. The Constrictors are supplied by branches from the pharyngeal plexus, the Stylo-pharyngeus by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, .and the Inferior con- strictor by an additional branch from the external laryngeal nerve, and by the recurrent laxyngeal. Actions. When deglutition is about to be performed, the pharynx is drawn upwards and dilated in different directions, to receive the morsel propelled into it from the mouth. The Stylo-phaiyngei, which are much farther removed from one another at their orighi than at their insertion, draw the sides of the pharynx upwards and outwards, its breadth in the antero-posterior direction being increased by the larynx and tongue being carried forwards in their ascent. As soon as the morsel is received in the pharynx, the Elevator muscles relax, the bag descends, and the Constrictors contract upon the morsel, and convey it gradually downwards into the oesophagus. Besides its action in deglutition, the pharynx also exerts an important influence in the modulation of the voice, especially in the production of the higher tones. 6. Palatal Begion. Levator Palati. Azygos Uvula?. Tensor Palati. Palato-Glossus. Palato Pharyngeus. Dissection (fig. 161). Lay open the pharynx from behind, by a vertical incision extending from its upper to its lower part, and partially divide the occipital attachment by a transverse incision on each side of the vertical one; the posterior surface of the soft palate is then exposed. Having fixed the uvula so as to make it tense, the mucous membrane and glands should he carefully removed from the posterior surface of the soft palate, and the muscles of this part, are at once exposed. The Levator Ralati is a long, thick, rounded muscle, placed on the outer side