ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. 720 tinuous with a similar network in the medullary portion. This network forms an adventitia to the blood-vessels. In the medullary portion there are but few lymphoid cells, but there are, especially towards the centre, granular cells and concentric cor- puscles. The granular cells are rounded or flask-shaped masses, attached (often by fibrillated extremities) to blood-vessels and to newly formed connective tissue. The concentric corpuscles are composed of a central mass, consisting of one or more granular cells, and of a capsule, which is formed of epithelioid cells, which are continuous with the branched cells forming the network mentioned above. Each follicle is surrounded by a capillary plexus, from which vessels pass into the interior, and radiate from the periphery towards the centre, and form a second zone just within the margin of the medullary portion. In the centre of the medulla there are very few vessels, and they are of minute size. Dr. Watney has recently made the important observation that hemoglobin is found in the thymus, either in cysts or in cells situated near to, or forming part of, the concentric corpuscles. This haemoglobin varies from granules to masses exactly resembling coloured blood-corpuscles, oval in the bird, reptile, and fish; circular in all mammals, except in the camel. Dr. Watney has also discovered, in the lymph issuing from the thymus, similar cells to those found in the gland, and, like them, containing hemoglobin, either in the form of granules or masses. From these facts he arrives at the physiological conclusion that the thymus is one source of the coloured blood-corpuscles. These points are illustrated by the accompanying drawing by Dr. Watney (fig. 409), for which I have to express my thanks to him. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the thymus are derived from the internal mammary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins terminate in the left vena innominata, and in the thyroid veins. The lymphatics are of large size, arise in the substance of the gland, and are said to terminate in the internal jugular vein. Sir A. Cooper believed that these vessels carried into the blood the secretion formed in the substance of the thymus. The nerves are exceedingly minute ; they are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. Branches from the descendens noni and phrenic reach the investing capsule, but do not penetrate into the substance of the gland. Chemical Composition.—The solid animal constituents of the thymus are albumen and fibrine in large quantities, gelatine, and other animal matters. The salts are alkaline and earthy phosphates, with chloride of potassium. It contains about 80 per cent, of water.