369 AXILLA. first two ribs, and inosculates with the first aortic intercostal. In the first inter- costal space, it gives off a branch which is distributed in a manner similar to the distribution of the aortic intercostal s. The branch for the second intercostal space usually joins with one from the first aortic intercostal. Each intercostal gives off a branch to the posterior spinal muscles, and a small one, which passes through the corresponding intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. The deep cervical branch [profunda cervicis) arises, in most cases, from the superior intercostal, and is analogous to the posterior branch of an aortic inter- costal artery. Passing backwards, between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib, it runs up the back part of the neck, between the Complexus and Semispinalis colli muscles, as high as the axis, supplying these and adjacent muscles, and anastomosing with the deep branch of the arteria princeps cervicis of the occipital, and with branches which pass outwards from the vertebral. Surgical Anatomy of the Axilla. The Axilla is a pyramidal space, situated between the upper and lateral part of the chest, and the inner side of the arm. Boundaries. Its apex, which is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, corresponds to the interval between the two scaleni muscles on the first rib. The base, directed downwards, is formed by the integument, and a thick layer of fascia, extending between the lower border of the Pectoralis major in front, and the lower border of the Latissimus dorsi behind; it is broad internally, at the chest, but narrow and pointed externally, at the arm. The anterior boundary is formed by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles, the former covering the whole of the anterior wall of the axilla, the latter covering only its central part. The posterior boundary, which extends somewhat lower than the anterior, is formed by the Sub- scapularis above, the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi below. On the inner side, are the first four ribs with their corresponding Intercostal muscles, and part of the Serratus magnus. On the outer side, where the anterior and posterior boundaries converge, the space is narrow, and bounded by the humerus, the Coraco-brachialis and Biceps muscles. Contents. This space contains the axillary vessels, and brachial plexus of nerves, with their branches, some branches of the intercostal nerves, and a laige number of lymphatic glands, all connected together by a quantity of fat and loose areolar tissue. Their Position. The axillary artery and vein, with the brachial plexus of nerves, extend obliquely along the outer boundary of the axillary space, from its apex to its base, and are placed much nearer the anterior than the posterior wall, the vein lying to the inner or thoracic side of the artery, and partially concealing it. At the fore part of the axillary space, in contact with the Pectoral muscles, are the thoracic branches of the axillary artery, and along the anterior margin of the axilla the long thoracic artery extends to the side of the chest. At the back part, in contact with the lower margin of the Subscapularis muscle, are the subscapular vessels and nerves : winding around the lower border of this muscle, is the dor- salis scapulas artery and veins; and towards the outer extremity of the muscle, the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve are seen curving back- wards to the shoulder. Along the inner or thoracic side no vessel of any importance exists, the upper part of the space being crossed merely by a few small branches from the superior thoracic artery. There are some important nerves, however, in this situation, viz., the posteiior thoracic or external respiratory nerve, descending on the surface of the Serratus magnus, to which it is distributed; and perforating the upper and anterior part of this wall, the intercosto-humeral nerve or nerves, passing across the axilla to the inner side of the arm. The cavity of the axilla is filled by a quantity of loose areolar tissue, a large number of small arteries and veins, all of which are, however, of inconsiderable size, and numerous lymphatic glands ; these are from ten to twelve in number, and situated chiefly on the thoracic side, and lower and back part of this space. B B