463 OF THE. PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. blood-vessels. Those of the parietes of the pelvis, which accompany the gluteal, ischiatic, and obturator vessels, follow the course of the internal iliac artery, and ultimately join the lumbar lymphatics. The efferent vessels from the inguinal glands enter the pelvis beneath Poupart's ligament, where they lie in close relation with the femoral vein ; they then pass through the chain of glands surrounding the external iliac vessels, and finally terminate in the lumbar glands. They receive the deep epigastric and circumflex iliac lymphatics. The lymphatics of the bladder arise from the entire surface of the organ ; the greater number run beneath the peritoneum on its posterior surface, and, after passing through the lymphatic glands in that situation, join with the lymphatics from the prostate and vesiculse seminales, and enter the internal iliac glands. The lymphatics of the rectum are of large size ; after passing through some small glands that lie upon its outer wall and in the meso-rectum, they pass to the lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the uterus consist of two sets, superficial and deep ; the former being placed beneath the peritoneum, the latter in the substance of the organ. The lymphatics of the cervix uteri, together with those from the vagina, enter the internal iliac and sacral glands ; those from the body and fundus of the uterus pass outwards in the broad ligaments, and, being joined by the lymphatics from the ovaries, broad ligaments, and Fallopian tubes, ascend with the ovarian vessels to open into the lumbar glands. In the unimpregnated uterus, they are small; but during gestation, they become very greatly enlarged. The lymphatics of the testicle consist of two sets, superficial and deep ; the former commence on the surface of the tunica vaginalis, the latter in the epididymis and body of the testis. They form several large trunks, which ascend with the spermatic cord, and accompanying the spermatic vessels into the abdomen, open into the lumbar glands; hence the enlargement of these glands in malignant disease of the testis. The lymphatics of the kidney arise on the surface, and also in the interior of the organ; they join at the hilum, and, after receiving the lymphatic vessels from the ureter and suprarenal capsules, open into the lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the liver are divisible into two sets, superficial and deep. The former arise in the sub-peritoneal areolar tissue over the entire surface of the organ. Those on the convex surface may be divided into four groups :—1. Those which pass from behind forwards, consisting of three or four branches, which ascend in the longitudinal ligament, and unite to form a single trunk, which passes up between the fibres of the Diaphragm, behind the ensiform cartilage, to enter the anterior mediastinal glands, and finally ascends to the root of the neck, to terminate in the right lymphatic duct. 2. Another group, which also incline from behind forwards, are reflected over the anterior margin of the liver to its under surface, and from thence pass along the longitudinal fissure to the glands in the gastro-hepatic omentum. 3. A third group incline outwards to the right lateral ligament, and uniting into one or two large trunks, pierce the Diaphragm, and run along its upper surface to enter the anterior mediastinal glands; or, instead of entering the thorax, turn inwards across the crus of the Diaphragm, and open into the commencement of the thoracic duct. 4. The fourth group incline outwards from the surface of the left lobe of the liver to the left lateral ligament, pierce the Diaphragm, and passing forwards, terminate in the glands in the anterior mediastinum. The superficial lymphatics on the under surface of the liver are divided into three sets:—1. Those on the right side of the gall-bladder enter the lumbar glands. 2. Those surrounding the gall-bladder form a remarkable plexus: they accompany the hepatic vessels, and open into the glands in the gastro-hepatic omentum. 3. Those on the left of the gall-bladder pass to the oesophageal glands, and to the glands which are situated along the lesser curvature of the stomach. The deep lymphatics accompany the branches of the portal vein and the hepatic artery and duct through the substance of the liver ; passing out at the transverse