GENERAL ANATOMY. civ seen on the free surface of the epidermis. In these ridges the larger papillae are arranged in a douhle row, with smaller papillae between them; and these rows are subdivided into small square-shaped masses by short transverse furrows, regularly disposed, in the centre of each of which is the minute orifice of the duct of a sweat-gland. No papillae exist in the grooves between the ridges. In structure the papillae resemble the superficial layer of the cutis, consisting of very small and closely interlacing bundles of fibro-areolar tissue. The smaller papillae contain a single capillary loop ; but in the larger the vessels are convoluted to a greater or less degree ; each papilla also contains one or more nerve-fibres, but the mode in which these terminate is uncertain. In those parts in which the sense of touch is highly developed, as in the lips and palm of the hand, the nerve-fibres are connected with the ' tactile corpuscles.' Kolliker considers that the central part of the papillae generally consists of a connective tissue more homo- geneous than that of the outer part, surrounded by a sort of sheath of Fig. LXVI.—Microscopic section of skin, showing the epidermis and derma : a hair in its follicle : the erector pili muscle: sebaceous and sudoriferous g-lands. elastic fibres, and he believes that these corpuscles are merely a variety of this structure. The corpuscles, and their connection with the nerves, have been described above (p. lxxxvii). The epidermis, or cuticle (scarf-skin), is an epithelial structure, accurately moulded on the papillary layers of the derma. It forms a defensive covering to the surface of the true skin, and limits the evaporation of watery vapour from its free surface. It varies in thickness in different parts. Where it is exposed to pressure and the influence of the atmosphere, as upon the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, it is thick, hard, and horny in texture ; whilst that which lies in contact with the rest of the body is soft and cellular in structure. The deeper and softer layers have been called the rete mucosum, the term rete being used from the deepest layer presenting, when isolated, numerous depressions, or complete apertures, which have been occupied by the projecting papillae. The free surface of the epidermis is marked by a network of linear furrows of variable size, marking out the surface into a number of spaces of polygonal or lozenge-shaped form. Some of these furrows are large, as