cxxiv GENERAL ANATOMY. in front and behind—the cephalic and caudal flexures ; and as these flexures increase they pucker up the embryo towards a wide opening or dehiscence below, the situation of the future umbilicus. The embryo also curves over laterally towards the same point. The external blastodermic layer (epi- blast) is reflected at the flexures of the embryo, in the manner shown in fig. LXXYIIL, from the body of the embryo on to the umbilical vesicle and allantois. As the allantois, at least its vascular portion, extends over the whole yolk-sac, to line the chorion internally, it carries the amnion with it until its caudal and cephalic portions come into contact (at a',fig. LXXX.), meet, and coalesce, forming a simple closed cavity. This internal or epithelial lining of the amnion derived from the epiblast is coated over by a fibrous (or muscular'?) layer, which is furnished by the somatopleural part of the mesoblast, as above explained and figured. Fig. LXXX.—Diagrammatic section through the ovum of a mammal in the long axis of the embryo. e. The cranio-vertebral axis. »', i. The cephalic and caudal portions of the primitive alimentary cannl. n. The amnion, a'. The point of reflection into the false amnion, r. Yolk-sac, communicating with the middle part of the intestine by v i, the vitello-intestinal duct. u. The allantois. The ovum is surrounded externally by the villous chorion. The amnion is destitute of vessels. It is exclusively a foetal structure, and in no obvious connection with the parts which are truly uterine. The part of the amnion which was at first in contact with the chorion (and which is shown in fig. LXXX. by the dotted line on either side of a) is called the [false amnion,'' or vesicula serosa. When the amniotic folds come together and communicate, this is entirely separated from the amnion proper, and is either obliterated or takes a share in the development of the chorion. In mammals the epiblast only is believed to be concerned in the formation of the false amnion. The Allantois is the chief agent of the early circulation, i.e. the duct Or tract along which the vessels extend which convey the blood of the embryo to the foetal chorion, where it is exposed to the influence of the