COMMON CAROTID. 335 In order to apply a ligature to this vessel, the patipiit is to be placed upon his back, with the shoulders raised, and the head bent a little backwards, so as to draw out the artery from behind the sternum into the neck. An incision two inches long is then made along the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, terminating at the sternal end of the clavicle. From this point, a second incision is carried about the same length along the upper border of the clavicle. The skin is then dissected back, and the Platysma divided on a director: the sternal end of the Sterno-mastoid is now brought into view, and a director being passed beneath it, and close to its under surface, so as to avoid any small vessels, the muscle is to be divided transversely throughout the greater part of its attach- ment. By pressing aside any loose cellular tissue or vessels that may now appear, the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles will be exposed, and must be divided, a director being previously passed beneath them. The inferior thyroid veins may come into view, and i must be carefully drawn either upwards or downwards, by means of a blunt hook. On no account should these vessels be divided, as it would add much to the difficulty of the opera- tion, and endanger its ultimate success. After tearing through a strong fibro-cellular lamina, the right carotid is brought into view, and being traced downwards, the arteria innominata is arrived at. The left vena innominata should now be depressed, the right vena innominata, the internal jugular vein, the pneumogastric nerve drawn to the right side ; and a curved aneurism needle may then be passed around the vessel, close to its surface, and in a direction from below upwards and inwards; care being taken to avoid the right pleural sac, the trachea, and cardiac nerves. The ligature should be applied to the artery as high as possible, in order to allow room between it and the aorta for the formation of a coagulum. The importance of avoiding the thyroid plexus of veins during the primary steps of the opera- tion, and the pleural sac whilst including the vessel in the ligature, should be most carefully borne in mind, since secondary haemorrhage or pleurisy has been the cause of death in all the fatal cases hitherto recorded. Common Carotid Arteries. The common carotid arteries, although occupying a nearly similar position in the neck, differ in position, and, consequently, in their relations at their origin. The light carotid arises from the arteria innominata, behind the right sterno. clavicular articulation; the left from the highest part of the arch of the aorta- The left carotid is, consequently, longer and placed more deeply in the thorax. It will, therefore, be more convenient to describe first the course and relations of that portion of the left carotid which intervenes between the arch of the aorta and the left sterno-clavicular articulation (see fig. 209). The left carotid within the thorax ascends obliquely outwards from the arch of the aorta to the root of the neck. In front it is separated from the first piece of the sternum by the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland ; behind, it lies on the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct. Internally, it is in relation with the arteria innominata; externally, with the left pneumogastric nerve, and left su bclavian artery. Plan of the Relations op the Left Common Carotid. Thoracic Portion. In Front. Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muucles. Left innominate vein. Remains of thymus gland. Externally. Left pneumogastric nerve. Left subclavian artery. Internally. Arteria innominata. Behind. Trachea. (Esophagus. Thoracic duct. In the neck, the two common carotids resemble each other so closely, that one description will apply to both. Each vessel passes obliquely upwards, from