GROWTH OF THE EMBRYO. CXX1X find nearly ^th of an inch in thickness. The chorion was united to the embryo and umbilical vesicle by a thin tenacious web of albuminous fila- ments, formed probably by coagulation in the spirit in which it had been kept. There were no vessels on the umbilical vesicle. The abdomen of the embryo presented no appearance of intestine, but merely a long shallow groove, forming a common cavity with the yolk-sac. Around this intes- tinal groove the germinal membrane was continuous with that on the surface of the yolk-sac. One extremity of the embryo, probably the cephalic, was enlarged, but this the author believed to be accidental. A more opaque and expanded portion between the cephalic extremity and the surface of the yolk-sac appeared to him to indicate the rudimentary heart. The second embryo (figs. LXXXIV., LXXXV.) was in a slightly more advanced condition. In it, as in the former, the amnion and allantois were not found, though the adhesion of the embryo by its dorsal aspect to the inner side of the chorion renders it probable that the amnion was Fig. LXXXIIL—Human ovum, 12 to 14 days. Fig. LXXXIV.- Human ovum, 15 days. Fig. LXXXV,—Embryo from the preceding ovum. I. Natural size. 2. Enlarged. . Umbilical vesicle. 2. Medullary groove. 3. Cephalic portion of the embryo. 4. Caudal portion. 5. Fragment of mem- brane (amnion ?). formed. The cephalic and caudal extremities could be easily distinguished ; the vertebral groove appeared to be open in its whole extent; there was a more perfect intestinal groove than in the former case, and there was an irregular-shaped mass between the yolk and the cephalic extremity of the embryo, which Professor Thomson believed to be the rudiment of the heart. No distinct trace of omphalomesenteric vessels could be observed.* In an embryo of fifteen to eighteen days, described by Coste, the villi of the chorion were well formed, the umbilical vesicle communicated largely with the intestine, and the allantois was present, united to the inner surface of the chorion, and communicating by a large pedicle with the intestine. Both the allantois and umbilical vesicle were vascular. The amnion was not yet closed. In ova of the third and fourth week the amnion has been found closed; the rudiments of the eye, ear, maxillary projections, pharyngeal arches, cerebral vesicles, anterior and posterior extremities, liver, and umbilical cord are observed (figs. LXXXL, LXXXVL). * A third early embryo is figured and described in tbis paper, but tbe author is more uncertain as to its acre.