PELVIS. 121 I02. behind the symphysis pubis. In the female, the uterus and vagina occupy the interval between these parts. The loioer circumference of the pelvis is very irregular, and forms what is called the outlet. It is bounded by three prominent eminences; one posterior, formed by the point of the coccyx; and one on each side, the tuberosities of the ischia. These eminences are separated by three notches : one in front, the pubic arch, formed by the convergence of the rami of the ischia and pubes on each side. The other notches, one on each side, are formed by the sacrum and coccyx behind, the ischium in front, and the ilium above : they are called the sacro-sciatic notches; in the natural state they are converted into foiamina by the lesser and greater sacro-sciatic ligaments. The diameters of the outlet of the pelvis are two, antero-posterior and trans- verse. The antero-posterior extends from the tip of the coccyx to the lower part of the symphysis pubis, and the transverse from the posterior part of one ischiatic tuberosity to the same point on the opposite side: the average measurement of both is four inches. The antero-posterior diameter varies with the length of the Tr . .. j.,, -r. i • -.i t coccyx, and is capable of increase — Vertical section oi the Pelvis, with lines . • „ indicating the Axes of the Pelvis. 0r diminution, on account of the mobility of that bone. Position of the Pelvis. In the erect posture, the pelvis is placed obliquely with regard to the trunk of the body : the pelvic surface of the symphysis pubis looking up- wards and backwards, the con- cavity of the sacrum and coccyx looking downwards and forwards ; the base of the sacrum in well- formed female bodies, being nearly Four inches above the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the apex of the coccyx a little more than half an inch above its lower border. The obliquity is much greater in the foetus, and at an early period of life, than in the adult. Axes of the Pelvis (fig. 102). The plane of the inlet of the true pelvis will be represented by a line drawn from the base of the sacrum to the upper margin of the symphysis pubis. A line carried at right angles with this at its middle, would correspond at one extremity with the umbilicus, and at the other with the middle of the coccyx; the axis of the inlet is therefore directed downwards and backwards. The axis of the outlet produced upwards would touch the base of the sacrum, and is therefore directed downwards and forwards. The axis of the cavity is curved like the cavity itself: this curve corresponds to the concavity of the sacrum and coccyx, the extremities being indicated by the central points of the inlet and outlet. A knowledge of the direction of these axes serves to explain the course of the foetus in its passage through the pelvis during parturition. It is also important to the surgeon, as indicating the direction of the force required in the removal of calculi from the bladder, and as determining the direction in which instruments should be used in operations upon the pelvic viscera. Differences between the Male and Female, Pelvis. In the male the bones are thicker and stronger, and the muscular eminences and impressions on their surfaces more strongly marked. The male pelvis is altogether more mas- sive ; its cavity is deeper and narrower, and the obturator foramina of larger size. In the female the bones are lighter and more expanded, the muscular impres- sions on their surfaces are only slightly marked, and the pelvis generally is less