118 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. PINE-APPLE TRIFLE. G sponge-cakes. \ lb. macaroons and ratafias. £ a tin of pine-apple. 6 eggs. 1 pint milk. j pint cream. -j- lb. lamp sugar. Cut the sponge-cakes in halves, lay them in a deep glass or silver dish, scatter the broken up macaroons and ratafias amongst them, pour the juice from the pine-apple over and let it soak in. Cut up the pine-apple in small pieces, place them in the dish. Boil the milk and sugar, let it cool a little, beat up the eggs, pour the milk over them, stir well and pour the mixture into a jug, place this in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, stir till the custard thickens and coats the back of the spoon. Continue stirring off the fire till the custard cools a little, pour it over the trifle in the dish and ornament with little heaps of whipped cream. PINE-APPLE CREAM CAKE. Gateau avec Creme d'Ananas. 3 eggs. Their weight in butter, castor sugar and Eureka aerated flour. J pint cream. Sugar to taste, i a tin of pine-apple. Cream the butter and sugar together, add a little flour, then 1 egg, beat it in well; more flour, another egg, beating all the time, then the remainder of flour and other egg; beat for i hour. Pour the mixture into 3 well greased shallow round tins and bake in a quick oven till a skewer thrust in the middle of each cake comes out clean. Let them cool on sieves. Cut the pine-apple into small dice, whip the cream till stiff, add the pine-apple and castor sugar to taste, spread 2 cakes with the cream, place one on top of the other and cover with the third. ^ lb. flour. A lb. butter. PUFF PASTRY. Feuilletage. A little lemon juice. Cold water. Make a stiff paste with the cold water, flour and lemon juice and roll it out on a marble slab with a glass rolling-pin. Spread half the butter in little pieces on the paste, fold it over from both ends and roll it out carefully in an oblong shape. Let it stand 10 minutes, use up the rest of the butter, fold over and roll out. Let it stand 10 minutes. Then roll it out at intervals of 10 minutes, folding it in 3 each time until 7 turns or rollings have been given altogether. It improves by standing a few