42 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. on each cup a slice of blanched hot calf’s or sheep’s brains and a slice of cooked tomato; in the middle of each cup put a tea- spoonful of tarragon sauce, sprinkle over a few long, thin strips of gherkin and serve hot. STEWED SHEEP’S TONGUES. 4 sheep’s tongues. £ pint clear stock. I onion. 1 carrot. 3 cloves. Lanrjues de Moutons. 3 allspice. Pepper and salt to taste. 1 dessertspoonfid flour. 1 dessertspoonful brown sugar. 1 dessertspoonful vinegar. A little browming. Simmer the tongues in enough water to cover them, for about 2^ hours or till tender enough to skin. Place in a saucepan the stock, chopped onion, carrot, pepper, salt and spice, then put in the skinned tongues. Bring all to the boil and add a few meat balls if liked. When the carrot is tender, remove the tongues, halls and carrot, and strain the liquor, ltub the flour, sugar, vinegar and browning together till smooth, stir it into the liquor over the fire till cooked, re-heat the tongues, balls, and carrot cut in strips, in the liquor, and serve on a hot dish with the tongues in the middle, balls and carrot alternately round. STUFFED SPANISH ONIONS. Ocjnons Farcis. Choose G Spanish onions of equal size. Skin them and parboil them for about 1 hour. Pull out the centre of each onion, and fill with the following stuffing:—5 lb. raw liver and 1 oz. under- done meat, minced, pounded and rubbed through a sieve with pepper, salt and a little chopped shallot. Fill up the insides of the onions, and cover with the piece removed, tying them round. Put 2 oz. clarified dripping, and \ pint stock on a baking tin, place the stuffed onions on it, and bake f to 1 hour, according to the size of the onions, basting them frequently. Serve with the gravy strained over them, which has been thickened with a little flour, and coloured with browning. FRIED SWEETBREADS. Ris de Veau a la Villeroi. Cut 2 cooked (boiled and pressed) sweetbreads into \ inch thick slices, and coat them with cold Bechamel sauce. When set,