40 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. more stock if required. Braise them for 5 to 6 hours. When cooked, stamp them out in small rounds, place them in a saute- pan with the sherry, and put it on the stove till all the moisture is absorbed. Glaze them lightly and dish them on a border of potatoes, with a slice of cooked tomato between each. Strain the gravy, remove the fat, and pour the gravy round the dish. SLICED OX TONGUE A LA MONACO. Langue de Bceuf d la Monaco. Thin slices of cooked ox tongue. 1 gill stock. 1 tablespoonful sherry. Crofttons of fried bread. Puree of fresh mushrooms. 4 pint brown sauce. £ oz. glaze. 1 teaspoonful English mustard. 1 teaspoonful French mustard. Slices of marrow. Stamp the slices of ox tongue out in rounds, heat them in the stock which has been flavoured with the sherry. Spread the mushroom puree on the croutons, place a round of tongue on each, then a slice of marrow, prepared as below’. Add the browrn sauce to the liquor in which the tongue was warmed, add the glaze, boil up, add the mustards, pass through a tammy, and serve very hot round the croutons. Do not let the sauce boil after adding mustard, or it will curdle. Blanched and devilled marrow: Blanch the marrow and cut it in slices \ inch thick, mask it wflth devil paste made by mixing a teaspoonful French mustard, a saltspoonful of English mustard, a dessertspoonful chopped chutney, a dust of cayenne, a little salt and pepper. Sprinkle the marrow wflth browned bread- crumbs, bake in a quick oven for 5 minutes. STEWED OX TONGUE. SAUCE PIQUANTE. Langue de BceufSauce Piquante. 1 ox tongue slightly salted. 1 onion. Spices. 2 oz. clarified dripping. 2 tablespoonsful flour. 2 oz. sultanas. 1 glass port wine. Boil the ox tongue in plenty of water, adding the onion and spices to the water. When well cooked, take it. out and remove the skin when cold. The next day, take the fat off the liquor. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, browrn the flour in it, and add to it about $ pint of the liquor in which the tongue was boiled. Add the sultanas and wine to the sauce, and browning if necessary. Stir while it comes to the boil, add the tongue cut in slices, and let all simmer about 10 minutes. Serve garnished with fried crescents of bread.