123 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES MARROW BONES WITH TOAST. Saw the bones in halves, trim neatly and cover them with a stiff paste made with 1^ lbs. flour and some water. Tie the bones up in a cloth and put them into a saucepan in plenty of boiling water and a little salt and boil for 2^ hours. Remove the cloth and the paste, fasten a clean napkin round each bone, arrange on a dish and serve with strips of dry toast round. MARROW PATTIES. Puff pastecases(seepage 103). 1 beef marrow bone. H gills brown sauce (see page 78). 1 shallot, i oz. glaze. 1 wineglass sherry. 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Make a paste of tlour and water, cover the top of the marrow bone with it and boil till the marrow is set. Split the bone, take out the marrow, scald the latter, and then put it in cold water till required. Chop the shallot finely, put it with the sauce, glaze and sherry, and boil till reduced to half the quantity. Cut the marrow into small squares, add it and the parsley to the sauce, put it aside till cold, then fill the puff paste cases with it. SAVOURY MARROW TOAST. Marrow. 1 teaspoonful mixed herbs or chopped parsley. Cayenne or curry powder. 1 hard-boiled egg yolk. Toast or fried bread. Blanch the marrow by putting it into cold water and a little salt, letting it come to the boil, and turning it instantly into cold water till wanted. Then pound it with a seasoning of mixed herbs or chopped parsley, cayenne or curry powder and the hard-boiled yolk. (1 yolk to every 2 tablespoonsful marrow.) Spread when smooth on rounds of toast or fried bread, sprinkle with browned breadcrumbs and heat in the oven, protecting it with greased paper. SMOKED ROE SAVOURIES. Laitances fumees. (1) Spread some squares of hot toast ra'hu thickly with smoked cod’s roe, place a poached egg on top, sprinkle with pepper, and serve at once. (2) Hang the smoked roe up in a muslin bag in the kitchen. When sufficiently hard it can be grated and spread on squares of fried bread; a grilled mushroom on each square would make a good finish.