DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 12 in fresh water, and cook for 5 hours, till perfectly tender; rub them through a sieve. Boil the spinach, rub it through a sieve, mix the two purees, dilute with vegetable stock, season to taste. Stir over the fire till hot, add the butter, and when this is dis- solved, stir in the cream off the fire. Just before serving, slip some strips of savoury custard carefully into it, and serve with dice of fried bread. EGG BALLS. 3 eggs. Salt and pepper. Breadcrumbs. Grated nutmeg. Boil 2 of the eggs hard, throw them into cold water for 5 minutes. Take out the yolks, and rub them smooth with a spoon. Mix this with about an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, and a little salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Mix them with half a beaten egg. Make them into very small round balls, as they swell considerably. GIBLET SOUP. Sixpennyworth giblets. 1 quart brown stock. 1 pint water. Salt and pepper to taste. 1 onion. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 1 pickled walnut or a little browning. Meat-balls (page 14). Wash and clean the giblets well, chop them up, put them in a saucepan with the water, salt, pepper, chopped onion, and pickled walnut chopped small. Let all simmer till tender, strain the water from the giblets into the stock, mix the flour with the lemon juice, stir it into the stock, stir till it thickens, add the giblets and some small meat balls. Serve very hot. GREEN FLAGEOLETS SOUP. Potcirje Sans Souci. 1 lb. flageolet beana. 1 lb. spinach. 1 pint cold water. £ pint unclarifled vegetable stock (see page 8). 1 oz. dripping Soak the beans in cold water for 12 hours, drain them, and put them in a stew-pan with a pint of cold water; let them simmer till quite soft and pulpy, stirring them occasionally— especially at the last—to prevent them burning, adding a very little water as that in the pan evaporates, so that when done there is hardly any liquor left. Pick the spinach, boil it in another pan with a little salt till tender, shake it- occasionally,