DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 28 Add the seasonings, and simmer together for a few minutes. Arrange tlie fillets in a circle on a hot dish, and place the vege- tables in the centre. Serve hot. SOLE A LA TURQUE. 1 sole. 1 per o' 1 oz. blitter. 2 tablespoonsful breadcrumbs. 2 tablespoonsful cold fish. ^ teaspoonful minced herbs. 1 teaspoonful parsley. 1 lemon. 1 hard-boiled egg. ^ pint white sauce. Skin the sole, cut down the centre as if for filleting, and just raise the fillets about 1 inch on either side of the bone. Place the fish on a greased tin. Rub the butter into the breadcrumbs, add the pounded fish, chopped herbs, and parsley, and a little grated lemon peel, and bind all together with the egg. Lay this stuffing under each fillet, and make it into a nice shape. Sprinkle with lemon juice, pepper, and salt, cover with a greased paper, and bake 15 to 20 minutes. Place on a hot dish, pour over the white sauce, and decorate with hard-boiled white and yolk of egg. TURBOT—SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. Clean the turbot, rub it over with a cut lemon, and fold it in a clean cloth. Boil it in salted water, to which 1 dessertspoon vinegar has been added. Drain when cooked, remove the cloth, and serve on a hot dish, garnished with cut lemon and parsley. Serve with it: — Ilallandaisc Sauce: Cream 3 oz. butter, add the yolks of 2 eggs, one at a time, and stir one way only. Add gradually the strained juice of a lemon and a pinch of pepper. Stand the bowl in which the sauce is being made, over a saucepan of boiling water, and stir till the mixture thickens. Add a wine- glass of boiling water, and stir till it is as thick as a custard. WHITEBAIT. Blancliailles. Whitebait. Frying oil or fat. Flour. Fried parsley. Keep the whitebait on ice till required ; dry them carefully in a cloth, sprinkle another cloth with flour, place the whitebait in it, then put them in a wire frying-basket, shake off the loose flour, dip the basket into boiling fat, and fry till crisp ; drain on kitchen-paper, pile on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, serve with cut lemon and cayenne pepper,