BUTTER SWEETS. 123 VANILLA SLICES. Pate a la Vanille. Puff pastry (page 118). 1 dessertspoonful cornflour. ^ pint milk. Yolks of 2 eggs. White of 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful castor sugar. 1 teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Bake the puff pastry in two slices, let it get cold, and spread it with the following mixture:—Mix the cornflour smooth with the cold milk, stir it over the fire till it boils, remove it from the fire and stir in the yolks and white of egg, the sugar and essence of vanilla. Let it heat through again but not boil, then allow it to get almost cold before spreading on the pastry; cut the latter into neat slices and ice the top lightly if liked. VIENNESE CHOCOLATE CAKE. Known as Sach'er Tortc. 5 oz. butter. 5 oz. castor sugar. 5 oz. Vienna flour. 5 oz. chocolate. G eggs. Apricot jam. Place the chocolate on a plate and warm it in the oven till your finger makes an impression on it. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, acid the yolks of the eggs and beat for \ an hour, then add the flour gradually, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs. Grease 2 Victoria sandwich tins well, divide the mixture between the two and bake for about an hour. Let the cakes get cold, then spread one thickly with apricot jam that has been warmed, place the other cake on top and cover the whole with the following chocolate icing:—Warm \ lb. chocolate as before, beat it up with a tablespoonful of cocoa-powder and a little hot water. Stir over the fire till smooth and when boiling mix in ^ lb. icing sugar ,remove from the fire and stir for \ an hour till it is cold. Should it be too solid add a few drops of hot water, if too liquid add a little more icing sugar, but in either case beat it another 10 minutes. Decorate to taste. WAFER CORNETS A LA CREME. Gavffres a la Creme. 2 eggs. | The weight of 2 eggs in sugar. The weight of 1 egg in flour. Mix all the ingredients well together, and then drop with a teaspoon on to an oiled baking-sheet. When half baked, twist into cornet shapes or put round a cornet mould and finish in a cool oven. Serve cold filled with whipped cream, or with white of egg beaten up with sugar and flavouring.