154 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. BRETZEL (GERMAN BISCUITS). G oz. butter. 5 oz. castor su 1 lb. flour. gar. 4 yolks and 2 whites of egga. Grated lemon rind or orange- flower water. Cream the butter and sugar together, stir in the eggs and then the flour and flavouring. Roll pieces into thin strips with the hand, shape into double rings and place on a baking-sheet. Brush them over with yolk of egg and sprinkle with coarse sugar. BUTTER CAKES. 4 lb. flour, 4 lb. butter. 4 lb. brown sugar. 2 egg yolks. Ground cinnamon. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and cinnamon, of which a teaspoonful will probably be required ; form it into a paste with 1 egg yolk. Flour the pastry-board and rolling- pin, roll the paste out rather thinly, cut into rounds with a fluted cutter, and place on a greased tin to bake. Brush the biscuits over with beaten egg yolk, place a half almond or slice of candied peel in the centre and bake till crisp (about 10 minutes), COCOA-NUT CONES. 6 oz. grated cocoa-nut. 4 oz. castor sugar. 14 oz. Remy Wafer paper. 2 egg whites, ina cornflour. Mix the cocoa-nut, sugar and cornflour, and bind them with the stiffly beaten whites. Form into neat little cones at equal distances on the wafer paper, or if this is not obtainable, on a greased baking-tin. Bake them in a very slow oven till they are firm. CHOCOLATE CAKES. 2 large eggs. 1 tablespoonful chocolate. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 4 teaspoonfid The weight of the eggs in butter, castor sugar, and flour. Daking-powder. Cream the butter and sugar together, beat the eggs and sift the flour. Add the egg and flour alternately to the butter and sugar, beat all for 10 minutes, then add the powdered chocolate, vanilla, and baking-powder. Butter some little dariole moulds thickly, and sprinkle them with mixed castor sugar and flour; then pour in the cake mixture and bake 10 minutes in a slow oven. Let them stand a few minutes before turning out. When cold, cover each with chocolate icing, page 158, and sprinkle with chopped almonds or pistachcs.