120 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. hours before being used. In summer it is advantageous to stand the pastry in a tin over ice between tbe rollings. To make Cornets, roll the pastry out thin and cut it in strips about 2 inches wide. Grease the outside of the comet moulds, place the strips carefully round them (see illustration p. 119), lay the moulds on a greased baking-tin, and bake the pastry in a quick oven about 10 minutes. Remove the cornet moulds, let the pastry get cold, then fill with whipped, sweetened, and flavoured cream, or jam and cream to taste. 1 French roll. 4 pint milk. 4 eggs. PURIM FRITTERS. Clarified sugar. “ Hundreds and thousands.’’ Salad oil. Remove the crust from the roll, cut the crumb in 1, inch thick slices, boil the milk, soak the bread in it, but do not let the slices break. Beat up the eggs in a shallow dish, dip the soaked slices of bread in the eggs. Half fry the slices in boiling salad oil; remove them from the oil, dip them again in milk and eggs, then fry them till they are golden brown. Drain them on kitchen paper, arrange them on a glass or silver dish, and pour hot clarified sugar over them. Serve cold, decorated with hundreds and thousands. RICE MOULD. | lb. rice. 1 quart milk. 2 oz. butter. 4 a lemon. 5 eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. Wash the rice, and boil it in the milk till it is soft. Add the grated rind of half a lemon and the castor sugar. When it has cooled, add the 5 yolks well beaten, 1 oz. of butter, and, lastly, the stiffly beaten whites. Butter a cake tin thickly, sprinkle with biscuit crumbs, put in the mixture, and bake it for 1 hour in a moderate oven. Serve hot, and turn it out of the tin. ROYAL | lb. Savoy biscuits, or sponge-cakes. 2 oz. ratafias. 2 oz. jam. pint milk. TRIFLE. 4 pint double cream. 2 eggs. Candied fruits and cherries. 4 glass brandy and sherry. A little sugar, and lemon juice. Lay the ratafias at the bottom of a deep glass dish and sprinkle them with brandy. Put on these a layer of sponge- cakes spread with jam and sprinkled with sherry. Boil the milk, and pour it over the beaten eggs, sweeten it, and boil it up gently until it thickens slightly. Pour this over the biscuits. Decorate the top with whipped cream and ornament with candied fruit and cherries,