1G0 dainty Dinners and dishes. the ground almonds. Mix thoroughly for about 10 minutes, then place little heaps of the mixture on wafer paper, bake on a flat tin in a very slow oven till a light golden colour. The macaroons should not go flat, and when cold, are not very crisp. lb. x ‘2 5 oz. Hour. butter. 4 eggs. MADEIRA CAKE. I 1 teaspoonful baking-powder. 5 oz. castor sugar. 1 tablespoonful brandy. Cream the butter and sugar, add alternately the flour and yolks of eggs, previously well beaten, beat all for 10 minutes, then add the baking-powder and very stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Line a mould with buttered paper, fill it with the mixture, place a piece of citron peel on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. . lb. butter. b. castor sugar MADELENES. ^ lb. flour. Weight of lb. in Pfrt'S Cream the butter, add the Stigar and the egg yolks. Mix the flour in very gradually, then add the stiffly beaten egg whites. Half fill small Madelene moulds (greased), and bake in a quick oven. : MARBLED CAKE. | tcaspoonful carbonate of soda. 9 oz. flour. \ lb. butter 2 eggs.. 1 oz. mixed peel 2 oz castor sugar. brown sugar, 4 oz. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 1 tablespoonful treacle or golden syrup. ,t pint of milk. Mix together half the flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, half the car- bonate of soda and cream of tartar, and a pinch of salt. Whisk the whites of the eggs, add half the milk, and stir into the dry ingredients; lastly, add half the butter melted, and work all well till thoroughly mixed. This is for the light stratum. For the dark mixture: —Mix the rest of the flour with the brown sugar, the rest of the carbonate of soda and cream of tartar, and the peel cut up finely. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add them to the remaining half of the milk, with the treacle and the rest of the butter melted. Mix thoroughly, beat vig- orously and let it stand for ^ an hour. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, fill it with alternate light and dark layers, and bake about U hours in a moderate oven. If golden syrup is used instead of treacle, the colour of the, dark layer must be deepened by ground spice.