DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 90 BEACONSFIELD PUDDING. i lb- syrup. ^ lb. flour, treacle or golden 4 teaspoonful ground ginger, i teaspoonful powdered cinna- mon. ^ teaspoonful allspice. 2 eggs. 2 oz. Demerara sugar. 2 oz. finely chopped suet. 4 teaspoonful carbonate of soda. Warm the treacle, sift the flour into it, and then add the sugar, suet, and spices. Beat the eggs well, and dissolve the carbonate of soda in a little water. Mix all thoroughly together, and pour into a well greased mould. Boil for 2 hours or longer, and serve hot. BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 14 lbs. blackberries. ยง lb. castor sugar. Bread. | pint water. Custard sauce. Tune a pudding basin with slices of bread, cut about 4 an inch thick. Stew the blackberries with the sugar and water till they are tender, and pour them at once into the prepared basin. Cover the top with a round of bread, put a plate over, on which a heavy weight is placed. Let it stand a day, by which time the bread should be quite soaked with the juice. Turn it out, and serve cold with custard sauce round. CABINET PUDDING. 2 oz. stoned raisins, cur- rants, and glace cherries. 2 oz. candied peel. A few almonds. G sponge cakes. 4 egg yolks. 4 pint almond milk. 1 tablespoonful brandy, fi oz. castor sugar. | pint custard sauce (page 80). Lay a few of the cut up fruits at the bottom of a well greased mould, then a layer of sliced spongo cakes, then fruit, and con- tinue these layers till the mould is two-thirds full. Beat up the egg yolks, add the almond milk boiling, the brandy, and castor sugar. When it is well mixed, strain it into the mould, let it stand 10 minutes, cover it with greased paper, and steam it for 4 hour. Turn it out, and serve with a rich custard sauce. CALEDONIAN CREAM. 1 tablespoonful sieved straw- 4 whites of eggs, berry jam. Sifted sugar to taste. Beat the whites of egg very stiffly, add the jam, mix well, and add sugar to taste. Pile it up lightly on a silver dish, and serve as soon as possible, as the cream sinks when left.