DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. 26 FILLETS OF SOLE IN ASPIC. Filets cle Soles en Aspic. 2 small filleted soles. Parsley or chervil. £ pint aspic jelly. Seasoning and lemon juice. Ilavigotte sauce. Trim the fillets neatly, sprinkle them with chopped parsley and seasoning. Roll them up lightly, place them on an oiled baking tin, squeeze lemon juice over them, cover with an oiled paper, and bake in a moderate oven for 15 minutes. Turn them on to a plate, and let them cool. Wet some small moulds, line them with aspic jelly, garnish with parsley and chervil, set this again with aspic, put a rolled fillet in each, fill up with just liquid aspic, and set on one side till cold. Turn out, and force a little ravigotte sauce, thickened with aspic jelly, on to each. Garnish with watercress, picked and tossed in oil and vinegar, and with little blocks of aspic. FILLETS OF SOLE A L’ESPAGNOLE. Filets de Soles d VEspagnole. Arrange the fillets with the ends crossing each other on a greased baking tin, and squeeze a little lemon juice over them. Bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes, place them round a dish, keep them hot, and prepare a sauce as follows:—Peel a small Spanish onion, cut it in thin slices, mince it and fry in salad oil till quite cooked, but not coloured. Peel some tomatoes, and remove the pips (have double as much tomato as onion), add them to the onion, with pepper and salt to taste. Stir the mixture well over the fire till it is slightly reduced, then care- fully place it in the middle of the fillets, sprinkle with parsley, and serve. FILLETS OF SOLE A L’ORLIE. Filets de Soles d VOrlie. Fillets of sole or other white fish. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 small sliced onion. Parsley, salt am Frying batter made of :—6 oz. flour, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter or salad oil, 1 gill tepid water. Tomato sauce (see page 86.) popper to taste. Trim the fillets, and marinade them for an hour in the lemon juice, onion, parsley, pepper and salt. Put the flour in a basin with a little salt, yolk of the egg, oiled butter, or salad oil; stir in gradually about a gill of tepid water, working all together with a wooden spoon, till the batter is smooth and looks like