158 dainty dinners And dishes. ALMOND ICING. 4 lb. ground almonds. 2 egg whites. 4 lb. icing sugar. Flavourings. Mix the almonds and sugar together, then add sufficient un- beaten egg whites to make a stiff paste, flavour, and turn it out on to a sugared board. Work it w7ith the hands to a smooth paste. Form it into a round the shape of the cake, put it on the top, and smooth it with a knife. If this icing is firm, it may be covered at once with Royal (sugar) icing; if it is soft, leave it to dry in the kitchen for a day before icing again. BUTTER ICING or VIENNESE ICING. 2 oz. fresh butter. 1 dessertspoonful brand}', coffee 4 oz. icing sugar. essence or other flavouring. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the sieved sugar, add the flavouring, and stir well till it is very smooth. Pipe it on to the cake in roses, etc., or use it as a layer between little cakes. CHOCOLATE ICING. 4 lb. icing sugar. A few drops of vanilla. 2 oz. grated chocolate. 2 tablespoonsful cold water. Place the sieved sugar in a basin and stand the basin over a pan of boiling water. Stir in the chocolate, water and vanilla, and stir well till all is melted and smooth. Pour it over the cakes, or dip little cakes into the icing. Coffee icing is made in the same way, using coffee essence instead of the water and chocolate, and omitting the vanilla. White vanilla icing is also similarly prepared, using a little more vanilla essence. ORANGE ICING. i lb. icing sugar. | The juice of one orange. Place the sieved sugar and the strained orange juice in a basin, and set the basin over a pan of boiling water. Stir the sugar and juice together till it is well melted, and pour at once over the cake. This is a semi-transparent icing. ROYAL ICING. i ]b icing sugar. A few drops of flavouring 1 or 2 egg whites. essence. Colouring if desired. Sieve the sugar, add the flavouring and stir in 1 unbeaten egg white, and stir well. If too thick, add a little more egg wdnte, and stir till the mixture is very smooth. Beat it for at least 15 minutes, then cover the cake, smoothing it with a