101 MEAT SWEETS. NOUGAT. ^ lb. almonds. j ^ lb. lump sugar. Blanch the almonds, and cut them into thin strips, dry them in an open oven on kitchen paper. Melt the sugar in a double saucepan over the fire, without adding any water. Stir till the sugar boils. Remove it from the fire, and add the cut up almonds. Well oil some little cups or dariole moulds, and press the nougat to the shape while warm. They will slip out of the moulds when cold, and can be kept some time if placed in covered tins. NOYAU JELLY WITH APRICOTS. Gelee de Noyau aux Abricots. 1 pint of water. Juice of half lemon, pint noyau. 1 oz. isinglass. 6 oz. lump sugar. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Apricots. Place the isinglass in a stew-pan with the sugar. Wash the egg-shells, crush them, beat up the whites slightly, add the water and lemon juice, and put all to the other ingredients in the stew-pan. Put it on the fire and beat with a wire whisk till the mixture comes to the boil. Remove it from the fire, let it cool for 10 minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag or clean kitchen cloth arranged on a chair. If not perfectly clear the first time, strain it again. When quite cold, add the noyau. If fresh apricots are used, cut them in halves, cook them in syrup and drain them well. Break the stones, blanch and peel the kernels and divide them in halves. Rinse a plain mould in cold water, set it on ice or in a tin containing salt and water, pour some jelly in and let it set, then put a layer of apricot and kernels, then more jelly, continuing till the mould is full. Turn out when cold. This jelly can also be made in small moulds, putting first a layer of jelly, then one half apricot, and 2 or 3 kernels, and filling up with jelly. ORANGES AND COCOA-NUT. G oranges. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 cocoa-nut. h pint clarified sugar. Peel the oranges, divide them into strips, removing all white skin. Arrange them in a ring in a silver dish. Grate the cocoa- nut, mix with the sugar, and pile in the centre of the ring of orange. Pour cold clarified sugar over the orange.