39 ENTREES. finely chopped button mushrooms, breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, a sprinkling of mixed herbs, a little shredded shallot, and a grate of lemon peel. Dip the cutlets in egg, then mask them with the mixture, dip them in egg and breadcrumb, and fry them. Drain them on kitchen paper, place them on a hot dish round a mound of mashed potato, and pour a well flavoured brown gravy round them. MUTTON CUTLETS A LA REFORME. Cotelettes de Moulon a la Reforme. 4 gill red wine. 1 dessertspoonful red currant jelly. £ lb. mushrooms. ^ pint brown sauce. A small piece of glaze. 4 lbs. best end neck of mutton. 2 eggs. Breadcrumbs. Shallot. Parsley. 2 oz. clarified fat. Cook the wine, red currant jelly and half the mushrooms, finely chopped, together for a few minutes. Add the brown sauce and glaze, and cook slowly half an hour to reduce it. Cut tho meat into neat cutlets, and dip them into the following mixture : —Beat the eggs on a plate with some chopped cooked mushroom, finely minced shallot and parsley. Then breadcrumb the cutlets and fry in hot clarified fat as quickly as possible, turning them with a knife to avoid pricking them. Drain on kitchen paper and serve on a small ring of mashed potato, in tho centre of which the sauce is poured. Garnish with little heaps of shredded vegetables, etc., using for this purpose—carrot, turnip, gherkin, truffles, mushrooms, hard-boiled white of egg, and lean tongue. Serve very hot. BRAISED OX PALATES. 2 ox palates. 1 oz. dripping. 1 sliced onion. 2 tomatoes. Palais de Bceuf Braise. Herbs and a few peppercorns. | pint good stock. 1 wineglass of sherry. Mashed potato. A little sliced carrot, celery, turnip. Cleanse and blanch the ox palates, and press them till quite flat between 2 plates with a weight on top. Put the dripping in a clean saucepan, and add the sliced vegetables, except tho tomatoes. Add the herbs and seasoning and place the palates on top of the vegetables. Cover with a greased paper, then cover the pan and fry for about £ hour. Now add the stock, and place the pan in the oven. Baste the palates continually and add