37 ENTREES. FILLETS OF BEEF A LA JARDINIERE. Filets de Baud' d la Jardiniere. 2 lbs. fillet of beef. 2 oz. clarified fat. ^ pint stock. $ oz. glaze. Pepper, salt. 1 teaspoonful flour. Carrots. Turnips. Peas or parsnips. Small onions. Cut the meat into neat fillets, allowing a small piece of fat to each, fry them very quickly, and arrange round a dish. Melt ^ oz. of the fat, stir in the flour, ^ oz. of glaze, the stock, season with pepper and salt, boil for 5 minutes, and strain over the fillets. Divide the vegetables into pieces the size and shape of a small olive, and boil all in separate saucepans till tender; drain them, and put them all into a pan with a little clarified fat and \ oz. of glaze. Shake them till the glaze is dissolved, and dish them in the centre of the fillets. FILLETS OF BEEF WITH OLIVES. Tournedos aux Olives. A marinade of :—2 table- spoonsful oil, 2 table- spoonsful vinegar, 1 slice onion, 1 pinch sweet herbs, and a little grated lemon peel. H lbs. undercut of sirloin. 1 tablespoonful salad oil. ^ gill good stock or gravy. 1 squeeze of lemon juice. 8 or 10 Spanish olives. Cayenne. Mashed potatoes. Cut the meat into pieces § inch thick and 2^ inches long; marinade them and leave for 1 hour, turning occasionally; take them out, drain carefully, and remove all moisture. Place one tablespoonful salad oil in a clean stew-pan, and as soon as it boils dust the fillets with black pepper and a little salt, and fry for 10 or 12 minutes, turning them occasionally. When done, dish on a hot dish, pour away the grease, but not the gravy, add to the latter the stock or gravy, lemon juice, cayenne, and the peel from 8 or 10 Spanish olives; bring gently to the boil, re- move any scum, and then boil up sharply to reduce the sauce a little; pour it round the fillets, fill the centre of dish with potato and serve. GIBLET RISOTTO. Risotto. 2 pints second stock. Ciblels. 1 breakfast-cupful of rice. 2 oz. clarified dripping. 5 pint tomato puree. Boil the cleaned giblets and the rice in hot stock for about