121 BUTTER SWEETS SLIPPERY PUDDING. 4 eggs. 10 lumps sugar. Creme re nr cr see. Kinds of 2 lemons, steeped for half an hour in 1 pint boiling milk. Beat up the eggs, pour the milk on them (it should be nearly boiling); pour into a buttered basin and steam for 1 hour and then stand the pudding with a plate over the basin to set for ^ an hour on the stove before turning it out. Sauce. £ 11). white sugar. Juice of 2 lemons. Wineglassful water. Wineglassful sherry. Warm all together, but do not let it come to the boil. 1 lb. flour. £ lh. ground almonds. £ lb. orange and lemon peel. 3 lbs. loaf sugar. Orange-flower water. SIESTA CAKE. 2 oz. Jordan almonds. 1 lh. butter. 4 lb. citron peel. (3 eggs. 1 <h ssert spoonful baking-powder 1 teacup of milk. Melt the butter, beat up the eggs, add them, and gradually mix in the flour, ground almonds, and milk, the baking-powder and a pinch of salt. Beat it thoroughly for 1 hour with the hand. Cut the peel up finely. Butter a round dish, put in first a layer of the dough, then a layer of sliced citron peel, then dough, then orange peel, etc., and continue till the in- gredients are used up. Make the layers lightly, and finish with the dough. Put it in a moderate oven as soon as it is ready and bake for 1 hour. Cook the loaf sugar with 1 pint of water and flavour it with orange-flower water. This must be ready as a strong syrup when the cake comes out of the oven, as it must be poured over hot. Ornament the top with blanched and browned almonds and strips of citron. Pour more syrup over when it is soaked in and strew the top with hundreds and thousands before serving. It is improved by standing in syrup for a day. ALMOND SOUFFLE. Souffle aux Amenities. Few drops almond essence. 2 dessertspoonsful castor sugar. 4 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. | pint milk. Melt the butter, mix in the flour, add the milk and stir well. Remove from the fire, add the sugar and flavouring, beat in the yolks of 3 eggs and add the stiffly-beaten whites of 4. Pin a band of sandwich-paper round the top of the souffle-dish, pour in the mixture and bake in a very hot oven 10 to 13 minutes. Serve immediately. To make Coffee Souffle, substitute 4 gill strong coffee for the almond essence,