DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 108 3 lbs. apples. 1 lemon. Sugar. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Charlotte aux Famines. Cinnamon and cloves. Bread. Butter. Peel, core and quarter the apples and put them into a stew- pan with sugar to taste, a little cinnamon, and a few cloves tied up in muslin. Allow the apples to pulp and stir constantly to prevent them from burning. Reduce them to a stiff jam. Cut a piece of bread the size of the bottom of a plain mould, and some narrow pieces for the sides. Dip the pieces into melted butter and line the mould with them, brushing over the inside with beaten egg to join it well. Remove the flavourings from the apple pulp, pour it into the bread lined mould, cover with another piece of bread. Bake till crisp, turn out and dust with sifted sugar. MIGNON BATTER PUDDINGS. 2 oz. Hour. 2 egg's. Pinch of salt. ^ pint milk. Jam. Pass the flour through a sieve into a basin, add a pinch of salt; make a hole in the centre of the flour, break an egg in and beat it well into the Hour. Add the other egg and beat again, then pour in the milk gradually and beat the mixture till there are no lumps in it; leave the batter to stand for at least an hour. Butter some patty-pans well, 3 parts fill them with batter and bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. Warm the jam, put a little on each small pudding, and serve at once. BEIGNETS SOUFFLES. | pint water. 1 oz. butter. 3 oz. Vienoa flour. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 whole eggs. 1 yolk. Few drops essence. Frying oil. Put the water, sugar and butter in a saucepan and bring it to the boil; remove from fire and stir in the Hour, beating vigorously with a wooden spoon till it is smooth; when it leaves the sides of the saucepan quite clean, remove from the fire and stir till cool, add the eggs one by one and stir the essence in well. Turn on to a plate, take small pieces in the shape of an egg and fry in hot (not boiling) oil till a golden brown, drain paper, fill with jam, or, if eaten cold, with whipped and flavoured cream, or thick custard.