141 SWEETMEATS. only be allowed to dissolve. Make small balls of different coloured and flavoured fondant mixture, or use cubes of pre- served ginger, blanched almonds, etc. Take each ball or cube on a wire fork or very fine skewer and dip it in the melted chocolate. Slip each one carefully on to waxed paper and let them dry till next day. CREAM WALNUTS. Prepare the cream by putting one white of egg into a basin, and adding finely sifted icing sugar till the mixture is thick and smooth, stirring all the time. Add a few drops of any flavouring liked—vanilla, coffee essence, rose, lemon or almond, and colour with a small quantity of paste colour. Knead it and mould it with the fingers into balls or shapes. For cream walnuts coffee is the best flavouring. Roll the cream into balls and place half a dried walnut on either side of a ball, and flatten by pressing the walnuts on well. MARRONS GLACES. Peel the chestnuts whole, and boil them with a small quantity of sugar, till tender. Boil 1 lb. loaf sugar with ^ pint water till it becomes spun sugar. Remove it from the fire, and dip the chestnuts in at cnce, leaving them in a few minutes to become saturated. Take them out carefully with a silver fork and place them on a warm sieve to dry in a warm place. Warm up the syrup the following day, and repeat the dipping and drying processes. The whole chestnuts should be placed on tiny sweet papers. Many chest- nuts break in the cooking. MARZIPAN. \ lb. ground almonds. | \ ll>. finely sifted sugar. A little orange-flower water. Put the ingredients into a copper saucepan over a slow fire, and stir till the ingredients are well blended, and no longer stick to the hand when touched. Turn the mixture on to a sugared board, and mould it to any shape required. Parts can be coloured green and pink if liked. This can be used as a sweetmeat, or employed to fill stoned dates, French plums, or glace cherries. Marzipan potatoes are made by rolling into small oblong shapes, denting them a little, and rolling them in powdered chocolate.