Ill BUTTER SWEETS. G oz. sifted sugar. 5 eggs. LIGHT CHOCOLATE PUDDING. Pointing au Chocolat. 4 lb. chocolate. 1 pint milk. 12 rusks. 4 lb. butter. Vanilla. Grate the chocolate and the rusks, and boil the butter in the milk. When boiling add the chocolate and rusks, keeping back 1 large spoonful of each. Stir together 4 egg yolks, 1 whole egg and the sugar until the latter is dissolved; add a little vanilla, and mix all together. Beat the 4 egg whites to a snow, add them and the rest of the chocolate and rusks lightly to the mixture. Grease a mould well, pour in the mixture, and steam 1 hour. To be served with boiled custard or chocolate sauce. LITTLE COCOA-NUT PUDDINGS. 2 oz. fresh buiter. 2 oz. grated cocoa-nut. 4 oz. moist sugar. 2 small eggs. Grated rind of 4 lemon. Juice of 4 lemon. Melt the butter, add to it the cocoa-nut, sugar, lemon rind, and beaten eggs. Beat this mixture well together, add the strained lemon juice, place the mixture in slightly greased patty- pans, and bake for 4 an hour in a moderate oven. CREAM CODLING 2 lbs. codling apples. Sugar to taste. A little orange-flower water. TART FOR NEW YEAR. Puff pastry. Custard made with 4 yolks of eggs and 4 pint milk. Peel and core the apples, cut them in slices, add sugar to taste, a little water, and stew them till soft. Pass them through a sieve, add a little orange-flower water and leave till cold. Boll out the puff pastry (made the day before if possible) 4 of an inch thick, place strips round the wetted edge of the pie- dish, arrange the apple compote high in the middle of the dish, lay on a top-crust, ornament and bake in a hot oven. When cold, cut out a small round piece from the centre of the crust and pour in a rich, thick custard, replacing the round of pastry if liked. STEAMED COFFEE CUSTARDS. Make 4 pint very strong coffee. 2 oz. castor sugar. G yolks of eggs. 1 gill cream. When the coffee is nearly cold, sweeten it, and beat in the yolks of eggs and cream; mix well, pour into small china cases and steam for 20 minutes.