DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 170 MADEIRA MARMALADE. 2 dozen Seville oranges. Loaf sugar. 0 sweet oranges. (Jold water. 1 wineglasoiul whisky. Cut the oranges into quarters, and remove the pips. Slice them very thinly, and add 3 pints of water to every pound of sliced fruit, and let it stand 24 hours. Then boil until the chips are quite tender. Let it stand another 24 hours, after which weigh the boiled fruit, and to every pound allow 1 lb. loaf sugar. Boil again from £ to 1 hour, when it should be clear and well jellied. Add a wineglassful of whisky when done. A few lemons can be sliced with the oranges, if liked. PLUM JAM. Stone the plums, and add some of the kernels to the fruit. Allow 6 lbs. loaf sugar and 1 quart of water to every 6 lbs. of fruit, weighed after stoning. Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes, or until the syrup has cleared itself. Add the fruit, and boil for § of an hour. Jam made by this recipe will be quite firm and clear like jelly, and can be turned out whole from the pot, like a mould. QUINCE AND APPLE COMPOTE. Take the cores, seeds, and skins, of the quinces, left from the fruit used for jelly; for every pound of quince trimmings allow 1 lb. peeled and cored apples with f lb. sugar io each pound of fruit, and just enough water to keep the mixture from burning. Boil this all slowly together for about 2 hours, stirring frequently, pass it through a sieve and pot it. QUINCE JELLY. Peel, halve, and core the fruit, weigh it, and to each pound allow 1 pint cold spring water, dropping the fruit into this as quickly as possible, and let it all simmer together gently till the fruit is broken, but not mashed, or the colour will be spoilt. Let it now run through a jelly-bag, or clean cloth at its leisure, with no pressure of any kind, and when all the juice is extracted, measure it, and boil it in a delicately clean preserving-pan for lo minutes; then for each pint of juice add £ lb. or 1 lb. sugar, and boil all well together till it turns pink and will jelly, skimming most carefully all the time.