122 DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES. BURNT ALMOND SOUFFLE. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. Eureka aerated flour oz. castor sugar. 1 n Souffle aux Amancles Pralinees. 10 drops vanilla essence. U gills milk. 3 eggs, oz. burnt almonds. Melt half the sugar with a few drops of water in a stew-pan, stir till it becomes light brown, pour in the milk and boil up, stirring frequently. Melt the butter in another stew-pan, stir in the flour, mix it well with a wooden spoon and add gradually the prepared milk. Stir till it forms a smooth paste, then mix in the rest of the sugar; pound the almonds and add them. Allow the mixture to cool a little, then stir in the yolks of eggs one by one, beat well and add vanilla. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix them in lightly but thoroughly. Butter a plain mould, pin a hand of buttered paper round edge, pour in mixture and steam for about 40 minutes. POTATO SOUFFLE. Souffle aux Pommes de Terre. 1 tablespoonful potato flour. 1 tablespoonful castor sugar. ^ [lint milk. Flavouring to taste, fl eggs. £ teaspoonful casumen. Mix the potato flour, casumen and sugar with the milk, put it into a saucepan and stir it over the fire till it boils. Remove it from the fire and flavour the mixture to taste; beat up the yolks of the eggs with a little sugar and add them, then mix in lightly the stiffly beaten whites. Pour into a buttered souffle-dish and bake for ^ an hour in x quick oven. THATCHED PUDDING. 2 oz. buffer. £ pint milk. 4 eggs. 3 dessertspoonsful flour. Rind of 1 lemon. 2 oz. sifted sugar. 2 tablespoonsful apricot jam. 2 tablespoonsful strawberry jam. 1 oz. sweet almonds. Melt the butter. Mix the flour with a little cold milk to a smooth paste, pour over it the remainder of the milk boiling hot; add the sugar, butter, grated lemon rind, and mix all well together. When cool, stir in the yolks of eggs, well beaten ; add the whites, whisked to a stiff froth and stirred in the last thing before putting the pudding in the oven. Bake for 20 minutes ; when done, turn it out of the pie-dish, spread the two jams over in alternate quarters and ornament with almonds.