27 FISH. rich cream; let it stand 2 hours, then heat in lightly the white of egg, whipped to a stiff froth, and use. Drain the fish from the marinade, dip each piece in the batter, fry a golden brown, drain, sprinkle with minced parsley, and pile on a dish. Serve tomato sauce with them. FILLETS OF SOLE A LA VENITIENNE. Filets cle Soles a la Venitienne. The fillets and bones soles. | lb. butter. Salt and pepper. Lemon juice. 2 gills water. G peppercorns. Bouquet of herbs. of 4 1 sliced shallot. 2 cloves. G potatoes. 1 gill milk. 2 tablespooDsful line flour. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill cream. Chopped parsley. Trim the fillets neatly, roll each round a cork-shaped piece of parboiled potato, tie with lino string, brush each with liquid butter, place them on a well-buttered tin, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon juice; lay a buttered paper over, and bake in a moderate oven for 10 to 15 minutes. Stew the bones and trim- mings of the fish in a little water, adding salt, peppercorns, herbs, sliced shallot, and cloves, let this all boil for about an hour, then strain. With a sharp knife cut the remaining peeled potatoes into cork-shaped pieces, and boil them till soft in milk and water. Melt 2 oz. of the butter in a small stew-pan, mix the flour in gradually, stirring all the time, then add \ pint of the fish-stock, and stir the sauce till it is smooth and thick. Take two-thirds of the sauce, season it to taste, stir in the well beaten egg yolks and a few drops of lemon juice. Remove the string from the fillets, place them in a circle on a silver dish, pour the sauce over them. Toss the potato-corks in the remainder of the white sauce, then place them in the centre of the dish, pour the hot cream over them, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve hot. SAVALADE OF SOLE. Sole a la Savalade. 2 soles. 2 Spanish onions. Frying oil. 3 large tomatoes. Pepper, salt and cayenne. Fillet the soles, and fry them a little brown in boiling oil. Slice the onions, and fry them in oil. Drain off the frying oil, add the fish to the onions and the tomatoes, peeled and sliced.