ADVERTISEMENTS. 101 A WONDERFUL FOOD i i “The most Concentrated, Flesh- forming, Nourishing Food on Earth.” (V^ile •*Lancet,” Juhj 29,p., 151.) SHOULD BE USED DAILY IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD. PRIDEAUX’S CASUMEN THE MARVELLOUS LIFE FOOD. Added in the designated quantities to FOOD AND DRINK it increases their Nutritive value TENFOLD. “CASUMEN” is the nutritive elemontof pure English Milk, extracted and rendered into a light, white, dry, flaky, odourless, tasteless powder. “CASUMEN” will dissolve (without boiling) in nearly all fluids, and can he added to the morning cup of Cocoa, Tea, or Coffee, etc. It may be mixed with flour and with most farinaceous food-stuffs before cooking, vastly increasing their lightness and nourishing qualities. A small quantity of any food containing “CASUMEN” is far more nutritious and digestible than a large quantity without it. “CASUMEN” is the most perfect food known for the prevention and cure of Consumption, by sustaining and restoring the wasting human system ; and for all Kidney troubles. “CASUMEN” is specially recommended to those who lead sedentary lives, professional and military men, students, brain-workers, business men, and all working at high pressure, also sufferers from Tuberculosis, Consumption. Diabetes, Dyspepsia, Gout, Rheumatism, Extreme Exhaustion from Influenza, and all Wasting Diseases, sustaining and restorative alike to those in health as well as the invalid, the weak and the sickly. Send for full detailed prospectus containing full analytical report by The Lancet; a table of the remarkable food value of “CASUMEN,” as compared with articles of everyday diet; directions for use, etc. Price (in boxes), 2 lb., 4s. ; 1 lb., 2s. ; \ lb., is. ; 1 lb., 6d.; and 2 oz., 3d. I lb. post sample is. Bulk in bags, is. gd. per lb., of Chemists, Stores, Grocers, and Dairies, or direct from PRIDEAUX’S PURE CASEIN AND LIFE FOOD CO., LTD., Motcombe, Dorset, England. Directions for the use of “ CASUMEN.” Twenty-five per cent, of the powder to be mixed with Dry Coffee, Cocoa, etc., and then used in the ordinary way. Ten to twenty per cent, can be mixed with Rico, Sago, Arrowroot, Oatmeal, Corn- flour, and all Farinaceous Foods. Dry Casumen may be added to Orange Marmalade with great dietetic advantage. For Sandwiches sprinkle the Dry Casumen over Broad and Butter. Dissolve in a little water before adding to hot liquid. Prideaux’s Pure Casein and Life Food Go., Ltd. Motcombe, Dorset, England.