DAINTY DINNERS AND DISHES 114 FRUIT CREAMS. 4 oz. isinglass. 4 pint milk. 1 pint double crcain. Creme tie Fruits varies. 1 tinned pine-apple or 1 pot straw ben y or other jam. lb. sifted sugar. Dissolve the isinglass in 1 gill milk, add 1 gill boiling milk and stir it by the side of the fire till the isinglass is melted; add this slowly to the whipped cream, stirring the whole time, then add the flavouring. Dor a pine-apple cream, cut the pine into small pieces, add the juice and a little lemon juice and the sugar, whisk till nearly set and pour into a wetted mould. Jams must be warmed with a little water, then passed through a sieve before being added. GOOSEBERRY FOOL CREAM. 4 pint cream. I quart gooseberries. Creme tie Groscilles. Loaf sugar. A little water. Stew the gooseberries in sufficient water to cover them, and add sugar to taste. When tender, pass them through a fine sieve, stir in the cream (or half milk and cream), mix well, and serve cold. HONEYCOMB CREAM. Blancmange aux Fruits. 3 teacupxful milk. 1 teacupful castor sugar. 3 eggs. 4 oz. isinglass. 1 teaspoonfid vanilla. Glace cherries and angelica. Put the milk, isinglass, sugar and vanilla in a saucepan over the fire till the isinglass is dissolved, let it cool a little, then stir in slowly the 3 yolks, well beaten, and let it come nearly to the boil. Remove from the fire and let it cool, then add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Rinse a mould out with cold water, decorate with cherries and angelica, pour the mixture carefully into it and let it get cold. LECKER CREAM. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg. H pints milk. 4 tablespoonsful flour. 2 oz. castor sugar. Grated lemon peel. 4 1b. ratafias. Beat up the yolks and white, add the milk gradually, and mix in the flour verf carefully. Add the sugar and grated lemon peel to flavour. Boil over a slow fire, stirring constantly, until the flour is quite dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish with the ratafias at the bottom, and strain the cream on to them. Decorate with coloured sugar.