MEAT SWEETS 93 CLARET JELLY (FROM OX FOOT). 1 ox foot. 3 quarts water. 1£ pints claret. | lb. loaf sugar. Rind and juice of 2 lemons. ^ inch cinnamon stick. 3 cloves. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Well wash the ox foot, place it in a large saucepan with the cold water, cover, and when it comes to the boil skim it, and let it boil gently but continuously, for 5 hours. Strain it through a hair sieve and put it aside till next day; take the meat off the foot and use it for stews, fritters, etc. When set, there should be a stiff jelly ; skim the oil carefully off the top and use it to make pastry, or in any other way instead of butter; wipe the top of the jelly with a clean cloth and put half of it into a clean stew-pan. Add the claret, loaf sugar, rind and juice of the lemons, cinnamon, and cloves. Wash the eggs, whip the whites half stiff, crush the shells, add them to the other in- gredients. Whisk all over the fire till it comes to the boil, stand the pan at the side of the stove for a few minutes, strain the jelly through the jelly-bag or cloth (see illustration page 95), pour it into a wetted mould and let it get cold. COCOA-NUT TART. 2 cocoa-nuts. 1 Yolks of 5 eggs. ^ lb. loaf sugar. Puff pastry. Peel and grate the cocoa-nuts; dissolve the sugar over the fire with the milk of the nuts, when it boils add the grated cocoa-nut and let it boil again and then get cool. Beat the yolks of the eggs, add them to the cocoa-nut mixture and beat for of an hour. Line a tart-dish with thin puff pastry, spread with the above mixture and bake in a moderate oven. COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Petits Gateaux. 4 yolks and 2 egg whites. | 6 oz. sifted sugar. 5 oz. warmed flour. Whisk the yolks and sugar together for 20 minutes and stir in. the stiffly beaten wdiites. Arid the warmed flour, and bake ia greased cups or dariole moulds about 20 to 30 minutes. They can be served hot or cold, and either with clarified sugar poured over, or they can be rolled in apricot jam and sprinkled with chopped almonds or cocoa-nut.