237 three gliitaei muscles. The sciatic artery passes out of the pelvis through the lower part of the great sciatic notch, below the pyriformis ; its principal branches de- scend between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, and are lost in the surrounding muscles. The piidic artery escapes from the pelvis along with the last de- scribed vessel; it soon, however, re-enters the cavity through the lesser sciatic notch, and pursues its course forwards and inwards towards the perinaeum and pubis, lying at first on the internal surface of the obturator internus, and afterwards on the rami of the ischium and pubis, its branches are distributed to the external or- gans of generation, and to the muscles in the perinaeum, (See Anatomy of the Vascular System.) Each of these arteries have their corresponding veins, which take a similar course, and terminate in the internal iliac vein. The nerves which are found in this situation are the superior and inferior glutasal, the posterior cutaneous, the pudic, the great and lesser sciatic; these are all branches of the sacral plexus. The superior glutceal nm-e accompanies the glutaeal artery, and is distributed principally to the glutaeus medius and minimus mus- cles. llie inferior glutceal nerve escapes below the pyriform muscle, and is distributed principally to the gluteus maximus. The inferior or lesser sci- atic nerve accompanies the last' through the sciatic notch, descends obliquely inwards round the tuber ischii, and is disributed to the surrounding muscles and integuments. The posterior cutaneous nerve also paTsses through the lower part of the great sciatic notch, descends beneath the glutoeus maximus, and then becoming cutaneous, divides into several long branches, which may be traced along the posterior sur- face of the thigh, even to the leg, where in general they will be found to communicate with the posterior cutaneous nerves of that region. The pudic nerves take the same course as the pudic artery, and termi- nate in corresponding branches. The great sciatic or posterior crural nerve, is the largest nerve in the body ; it passes out of the pelvis below, but often through the pyriform muscle, descends behind the hip joint in the fossa between the trochanter and tuber ischii, covered