497 internal causes are not in any degree afi’ected by tlie neighbouring muscles; but the anterior and posterior ligaments, with the odontoid, must be injured in any displacement forwards or backwards. It is to be re- marked that dislocation of tlie dentata, or of one or more of the cervical vertebrse, always accompany this displacement of the atlas. OF DISLOCATIOX OF THE ATLAS FROM THE AXIS. The first cervical vertebra may be dislocated from the second ; 1st, directly backwards, with the lacera- tion of the transverse, and odontoid ligaments; and of the apparatus ligamentosus colli. The inter-trans- verse muscle is also torn. 2nd, By a violent rotation of the head, the lateral por- tions of the transverse ligament, and the odontoid being ruptured, the dentata may slip back under the transverse ligament, and thus be dislocated. 3rd, By a fracture of the processes dentatus. This may take place when violence is applied in such a direc- tion that the ligaments attached to the processus den- tatus are powerfully extended, by which this process is broken off. Simple dislocation of the atlas from the axis has hi- therto been considered the only one which can take place in the cervical region. Between the occipital bone and first cervical vertebra it cannot happen from external force; because, though there are no strong connecting ligaments, the articulatory surfaces are too closely joined, and the movements between them too slight and limited. Besides, the rotatory motion of the head, in which alone this accident could occur, is strictly confined to the atlas and axis. Obstacles still more powerful oppose a dislocation of the other cervical vertebrae. The oblique direction of the articulat^ory surfaces, by vvhich rotation is prevented ; the peculiar mode in which the bodies of these vertebrae are articu- lated ; not with a smooth surface, as in the dorsal, but with a depresssion on the superior surface, from which two hook-like processes ascend and embrace the body of the vertebra above it: the inter-spinous and inter- L u 2 *