506 is removed from the body of the pubis, and is not as prominent as in the natural state. In the dislocation into the obturator foramen, the distance between the trochanter major and the body of the pubis is lessened ; while that between this process and the anterior supe- rior spine is greater than usual. In dislocation upwards and backwards the head of the bone rests on the dorsum of the ileum. 1 he ujtper part of the capsular ligament is ruptured ; and the ex- ternal accessory and round ligaments are torn. In ro- tation inwards the head of the femur is pressed against the back part of the capsular ligament, and if the rotation be carried far, a considerable portion of the bone is out- side the cotyloid cavity: hence the species of disloca- tion now described is most likely to occur when rotation inwards is accompanied by external violence. When dislocation has occurred the three glutaei mus- cles are those principally concerned in keeping the head of the bone fixed on the dorsum of the ileum j but when the head of the bone is sufficiently raised to pass over the edge of the acetabulum, the psoas and iliacus with the obturator externus and pectinalis, vvill assist to bring it into the proper situation. Although in common cases of dislocation no other injury is done to the joint than what has been already described, the dissection of a luxation upwards and backwards has been published, in which the gemini, pyritormis, obturators, and qua- dratus femoris, were completely torn acioss, with lace- ration of some fibres of the pectinalis. _ . . In the dislocation backwards on the ischiatic notch the head of the bone rests on the pyriformis muscle. This dislocation also is most likely to happen when the thigh is rotated inwards and bent towards the abdomen. The pyriformis, gemini, and obturator internus muscles keen the bone in the dislocated position; while the psoas iliacus and obturator externus favour reduction. When the femur is dislocated forwards on the obtura- tor foramen, the capsular ligament and the internal ac- cessory fibres are lacerated. The ligamentum teres is not always ruptured. The pectinaeus and adductor brevis (if not lacerated, which olten takes place) will