30 the genio-hyo-glossus internally, and the hyo and stylo-glossi externally. Use, to shorten the tongue, and bend the tip downwards and to one side. Ex- ternal to the muscles now described, we see the three styloid muscles. Stylo-Hyoideus arises from the outer side of the styloid process near its base, descends obliquely for- wards parallel to the posterior belly of the digastric, whose tendon generally perforates this muscle, inserted into the cornu and body of the os hyoides and into the fascia, which connects the digastric tendon to this bone. Use, to co-operate with the posterior part of the digas- tric, in raising and drawing back the os hyoides and tongue. This muscle is nearly superficial, but at first is covered by the parotid ; the digastric lies to its ex- ternal side, and the external carotid artery to its in- ternal; this vessel is posterior to the lower part of the muscle, but anterior to its origin; a ligament often ac- companies the stylo-hyoid muscle, from the styloid process to the cornu of the os hyoides; it is named the stylo-hyoid ligament, and is sometimes ossified. Raise the digastric and stylo-hyoid, and we see the remain- ing styloid muscles. Stylo-Glossus arises tendinous and narrow from the styloid process near its point, and from the stylo- maxillary ligament; descends obliquely forwards and inwards, and is inserted into the side of the tongue ; its fibres overlap and unite with those of the hyo-glossus, and can be traced as far as the tip.— Use, to draw the tongue backwards, and to one side, and to raise the tip behind the upper incisor teeth. It is covered by the sub-maxillary and lingual glands, by the gustatory nerve and mucous membrane. Stylo-Pharyngeus, long and narrow, arises from the back part of the root of the styloid process, de- scends inwards and backwards, passes between the su- perior and middle constrictors of the pharynx, with which it mixes ; is inserted with these into the side of the pharynx, also into the cornu of the os hyoides and thyroid cartilage. Use, to elevate, dilate, and draw forward the pharynx, so as to receive the food from the tongue. It is covered by the stylo-hyoid, middle con-