258 proceed forwards along ihe internal edge of the long flexor tendons, each ends in a thin aponeurosis, which is inserted into the internal side of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes, and joins the tendinous expansion of the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the toes. Use, to adduct and to assist in flexing the four toes, they may also extend their second and last phalanges. These muscles are covered in the sole of the foot by the superficial layer; their tendinous insertions are su- perficial, and are best seen on the dorsum of the toes. Detach this second layer of muscles and throw it also forwards towards the toes. The third layer of the plantar muscles consists ot the flexor poUicis brevis, adductor pollicis, transversalis pedis, and flexor minimi digiti. . , , Flexor Follicis Brevis, narrow posteriorly, broad and notched anteriorly ; arises by a strong tendon from the lower and anterior part of the os calcis, also troni the external cuneiform bone, it forms a fleshy bell}', which passes forwards and inwards, and divides into two short tendons; these are inserted into the sesamoid bones beneath the first phalanx ot the great toe. Use, to flex the first joint of the great toe, also to approxi- mate this toe to the others. This muscle forms a sort of sheath for the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. Adductor Pollicis, is situated external to the last muscle, or more in the centre of the foot; it is also inseparably attached to it; it arises tendinous and fleshy from the strong calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and from the base of the second and third metatarsal bones, it passes forwards and inwards, and is along with the external portion of the last muscle into the external sasamoid bone. Use, to draw the great toe out- wards towards the other toes, also to flex it, so a^ to bring the great toe beneath the other toes. By some this?nuscle is named the abductor pollicis, its action being then referred to the mesial line. -j u Transversalis Pedis, arises by distinct fles y slips from the anterior extremities ot the metatarsal bones ; the fibres pass inwards and t^'va ds, converging to the external sesamoid bone of the gieat me, "mo wWcI. they are inserlcd along mth the last