494 LAENNEC’S DIVISION OF THE REGIONS OF THE THORAX. The chest of a healthy person, when slightly struck, ou^ht to yield over its whole extent a clear and distinct sound. The character of the sound derived from per- cussion, is different in the different parts of the chest; on which account it has been divided by Laennec into into fifteen regions, twelve of which are double. 1. Subclavian region. This includes merely that portion of the chest covered by the clavicle. ^ When struck about the middle or sternal extremity, this bone yields a clear sound, but its humeral extremity gives rather a dull sound: a knowledge of the morbid or na- tural sounds of the chest in this region, is of great im- portance; for from it are usually derived the first signs of the development of tubercles in the lungs, which are found in the upper part of the right lung, even where they exist in no other part of the chest. 2. Anterior-superior region. This is bounded by the clavicle and by the 4-th rib (inclusive) below. The sound, though clear, is somewhat less so than over the sternal end of the clavicle. 3. Mammary region. This begins below the fourth rib, and terminates with the eighth. In the female, the mammary gland, in the male, the inferior edge of the pectoralis major prevents this region from yielding as good a sound as the anterior-superior region. 4-. Submammary region. This extends from the ei'^hth to the cartilaginous border of the false ribs. On the right side the sound is often dull, caused by the size of the liver; while on the left, the sound is frequently more clear than natural, which is attributed to the presence of the stomach distended with gas. Sternal regions, 5. superior, 6. middle, and 7, inferior. The sound is as clear over the whole extent of the sternum, as on the sternal end of the cavicle. However, the inferior region sometimes yields a duller sound, in consequence of the accumulation of fat about the ^ Axillary region. This extends from the axilla to the fourth rib inclusive: the sound here is nalurall} clear,