492 scarcely ever found diseaesed except in old men; it is rarely inflamed, an abcess however has been met with (unaccom- panied by any thickening,) in itssubstance, arising from common inflammation. Schirrus, The most common disease of the prostate gland is schirrus; the gland in its natural state is known to heabout the size of a chest- nut, but when it is affected with schirrus, it is often en- larged to the size of the fist. The common appearances observed in schirrus in other parts of the body, can be plainly seen in this gland ; when cut into, it appears to consist of a very solid, whitish, or brown substance, with membranous septa, running tlirough it in various direc- tions. According to the degree of enlargement that takes place, the urine is passed through the bladder with greater or less difficulty, as well as an instrument for drawing it oft‘. Calculi have been found lodged in the ducts of the prostate gland ; they are usually small granules of a dark colour, and give it a mottled ap- pearance when cut into. Uterus. When the uterus becomes inflamed, it takes place almost always under the same circumstances, viz. very soon after parturition. When it is inflamed the peritoneum in the neighbourhood is most commonly affected, and frequently over its whole extent. The uterus, rvhen inflamed, exhibits the same appearances as the inflammation of the substance of other parts; the inflammation is found to creep along the appendages of the uterus, especially the fallopian tubes and ovaries. It often advances to suppuration, and the pus is gene- rally found in the large veins of the womb. When the peritoneum is affected by the inflammation, it has been remarked, that the extravasated fluid and coagulable lymph are found in a greater proportion to the degree of inflammation, than in common peritonitis. Polypus. Polypi are very frequently found in the uterus; they may grow at any period of life, but they are rarely met with in the young. By a polypus is meant a dis- eased mass, which adheres to the cavitv of the ulterus, by a sort of a neck or narrower portion. Polypus is of two different kinds ; the most common kind is hard, and consists of a substance divided by thick membranous septa ; this sort of polypus varies very much in its size,