507 keep the bone in its new situation ; while the gluttei and all the muscles arising behind the acetabulum will con- tribute to bring it back to its proper place. In disloca- tion upwards and forwards the head of the bone rests on the ramus of the pubes under Poupart’s ligament, where it may be plainly felt. The gemini, obturator internus, and pyriformis (if not ruptured) would favour reduction. A calculation has been made, that out of twenty dislocations of the hip joint, twelve will take place on the dorsum ilii; five on the ischiatic notch; two on the foramen ovale ; and one on the pubes. OF CrSLOCATIONS OF THE JOINT OF THE ICNEEt Dislocation of the patella may take place either upwards, inwards, or outwards : the latter is the more frequent form : a dislocation upwards could not occur without rupture of the inferior ligament of the patella, which is so strong that frequently in violent action of the extensor muscles, the patella itself snaps across be- fore this ligament gives way. When the knee is much bent dislocation in either direction cannot take place. The extent of the articulating surfaces of the femur, aitd the force with which the patella is pressed in be- tween the condyles prevents such an accident. The position most favourable to this luxation is where the knee is slightly bent and inclined inwards. When com- plete luxation of the patella outwards Inis taken place, the patella rests over the external condyle of the femur, in which place it is fixed by the rectus, crureus, and rasti muscles: hence the necessity for bending the thigh on the pelvis, in order to relax these muscles as much as possible. The extent of the synovial mem- brane permits this displacement to occur without any rupture. Dislocation of the patella inwards is so simi- lar in its nature to the outward luxation that it does not require any notice. The tibia may be dislocated from the femur, back- wards, forwards, or to either side. Of these the only one likely to be complete is the backward : lateral lux- ations are always partial. There is no joint in the body