228 vein, and joins the tendon of the vastus internus; in this part of the thigh the artery is enclosed in a perfect tendinous sheath, consisting anteriorly of the aponeu- rosis just mentioned, posteriorly and internally of the tendons of the adductors, and externally of the vastus internus: at the lower end of the sheath the artery passes into the ham through a large oval opening which is bounded superiorly by the adductor longus and mao-nus, externally by the vastus internus, internally by Uie adductor magnus, and interiorly by the united tendons of the adductor magnus and vastus internus. The femoral artery in this course first passes over a tew fibres of the psoas, next over the pectinseus and ad- ductor brevis, the adductor longus, and a small portion of the magnus. , , . -r. The femoral artery, immediately below Pouparts licrament, gives off, 1st, some cutaneous branches; 2d, small arteries to the inguinal glands; 3d, about two inches below Poupart’s ligament, a very large branch, the profunda; 4lh. several muscular branches to the sartorius and vastus internus; and 5th, just betore it enters the ham the anastomotica magna winch is dis- tributed to the muscles and integuments at the inner side of the knee. The profunda is the lai'gest branch of the femoral; it descends behind that vessel and to its inner side, and gives several branches to the muscles of the thigh, namely, the external and internal circumflex, and the three or four perforating artmies. (See Ana- tomy of the Vascular System.) The femoral takes theLme course as the artery; m the groin it always lies to its internal or pubic side, but as .t descends it becomes posterior to it. In dissecting the muscles on the fore-part of the thigh, numerous branches of e anterior crural nerve are met with ; this neive in the rroin is separated into several branches, many ot these Tcome cutaneous, others pass to the muscles on he fore-part of the thigh, and two or three accompanj. t le femoral artery; one of these, the nervus iaphenus, enters its tendhious sheath, and descending along the fo^^^ artery, as far as the opening in the ten- don of the triceps, then leaves that vessel, descends be tween the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis muscle.