395 between all the vertebra:, from the second to the sacrum; they are composed of dense, yellow, elastic fibres, united angularly to each other towards the base of each spinous process. rile spinous processes of the vertebrtE are also connected to each otlier by ligamentous bands, term- ed supraspinous, and inter-spinous, (the ligamenta sub-flava might be called infra-spinous). Between the transverse processes also ligamentous fibres exist which are named inter-transverse ligaments. articulations of the ribs. The head of each rib is joined to the spine by an anterior and an inter-articular ligament, and by syno- vial membrane ; the anterior ligament, arises from the front of the head of the rib, and thence extends over the articulation in a radiated manner, and is inserted into the side of the vertebra above and below, and into the inter-vertebral substance. The inter-articular ligament, arises from the projecting ridge in the arti- cular surface of the rib, and is inserted into the cavity in the inter-vertebral substance in which the head is received. The upper and lower divisions of this joint are lined by distinct synovial membranes. 'I he tubercle of each rib is united to the transverse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae, to the bodies of which the head is attached by three liga- ments and a synovial membrane. First, the inferior costo-transverse ascends from the neck of each rib ob- liquel}' outwards to the transverse process above ; se- cond and third, the posterior and external costo-trans- verse connect the tubercle of each rib to the corres- ponding transverse process. The synovial membranes covering the cartilaginous surfaces of the transverse processes and tubercles of the ribs, are more loose than those belonging to the heads of the ribs. ihe cartilages of the ribs at their costal ends are convex, and are very closely united to the concave surfaces in the extremities of the bones. The ster- nal ends ot the cartilages of the seven true ribs arc convex, adapted to the hollows in the edge of the