117 two planes, a posterior and an anterior. The Inte- RossEi Antici, or Interni or Palmares are four in number; they arise from the sides of the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first phalanges, and into the tendinous expansion v/hich covers the dorsum of each finger: the 1st or prior, or externus indicis, arises from the radial side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the external side of the first phalanx of the forefinger. Use, to abduct the forefinger; the 2d or posterior, or internus, or adductor indicis, rovse^from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is in- seiied into the inner side of the first phalanx of the fore- finger; 3d or prior, or externus or adductor annularis «775esfrom the radial side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and is inserted mto the external side of the first phalanx of the ring finger. Use, to draw the ring finger towards the thumb; the 4th, or abductor minimi digiti arises from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the outside of the 1st phalanx of the little finger. Use, to draw the little finger towards the thumb. The Posterior Interossei, are seen on the back part of the hand ; they are longer than the anterior; they each arise b)'' two sets of fibres from the opposed sides of two metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the base of the first phalanx of each finger, and into the posterior tendinous expansion ; the 1st, or prior, or ex- ternus medii, arises from the second and third metacar- pal bones, fills the space between these two, and is in- serted into the outer side of the base of the 1st phalanx of the middle finger. Use, to draw the middle finger towards the thumb; the 2d, or externus medii is situ- ated between the metacarpal bones of the middle and ring finger, and is inserted into the inner side of the first phalanx of the middle finger. Use, to draw the middle towards the ring finger ; the 3d, or externus annularis, is between the 4th and 5th metacarpal bones; and is in- serted into the inner side of the ring finger. Use, to draw the ring finger inwards. All these muscles can also extend the fingers. Some consider the dorsal in- terossei as four in number, making the abductor indicis the first of this class.