The Governors, Physicians and Surgeons of the Infirmary, the Students attending the Infirmary, and the Members of the Newcastle and Gateshead Pathological Society, are allowed the use of the Li- brary gratis; other Practitioners or Students on becoming Subscribers, the former of je"!. Ir., and the latter lOi. fid. annually. Every Student before taking out any Books, shall deposit with the House Surgeon, jfl., which shall be returned to him upon his ceasing to use the Library, and returning all Books he may have out. That the Library be open for the Issue of Books on the mornings of every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, from II to 12 o’clock, and also on the Evenings of the Meetings of the Pathological Society, when application for Books must be made. No New Book, Pamphlet, or Periodical shall circulate till it has been a Week in the Library. In the town and its vicinity, a Pamphlet or Periodical Number may be kept four days; an 8vo volume, or under, a fortnight; a 4to, three weeks; and a folio a month. In thecountry,each may be kept till the Saturday next following the expiration of such periods. Only two Books and a Periodical to be taken out at one time with- out leave from the Committee. No Book can be taken out a second time by the same person till the expiration of a iveek after its return. . The Books may be detained a longer period by the permission of the Committee, but any person so detaining them without such per- mission shall forfeit Id. per day for every Book or PampWet. The fines, however, shall not exceed the value of the Book or Pamphlet, which shall in every instance be returned. „ The Person taking away a Book shall be answerable for its full value, and if he lose or damage it, shall make such reparation as shall satisfy the Committee. , , r- •- Dictionaries,Books ol Plates, and such other Books as the Commit- tee may think proper, shall not be taken out without leave of such *^”iro°l>erson shall be allowed the use of the Library who does not comply with the above Rules.