114. first phalanx of the thumb, and is inserted into the pos- terior part of the second or last phalanx. Use, to ex- tend the last phalanx of tbe thumb upon the first, and to assist the former muscles in extending and supinating the hand. The tendon of this muscle is separated from the two former, ©n the outer and back part of the wrist, by a considerable interval, in which we perceive tlrc ten- dons of the radial extensors Of the carpus, and the radial artery; the relations of this muscle in other respects are nearly similarto those of the other extensors of thethumb. Extensor Indicis, or Indicator, arises from the middle of the posterior surface of the ulna and inter- osseous membrane; its tendon passes under the annu- lar ligament along with those of the common extensor, is attached to the radial side of that tendon which be- longs to the forefinger, and is inserted along with it into its 2d and 3d phalanges. Use, it assists the common ex- tensor, or produces the extension of the forefinger alone, as in pointing. This muscle is concealed by the exten- sor communis and ulnaris,. lies to the ulnar side of the extensor pollicis major, and its tendon passes under those of the common extensor. Next dissect the mus,r cles of the hand : first, those in, the palm, which consist, externally, of the muscles of the thumb ; internally, of those of the little finger, and in the middle of the lum. bricales superficially, and the anterior interossei, deep seated. The short muscles of the thumb are the abduc- tor pollicis, opponens pollicis, flexor pollicis brevis, ad- ductor pollicis, and abductor indicis. Abductor Pollicis, a?ises broad and thin from the anterior part of the annular ligament, os naviculare and trapezium, inserted into the outside of the base of the 1st phalanx, and by an expansion into both phalanges, its name implies itsw^e, to separate the thumb from the fin- gers ; it lies superficial, and is most external of these small muscles. Opponens Pollicis, or Flexor Ossis Metacarpi, arises from the annular ligament and os naviculare; in- serted into the anterior extremity of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Use, to approximate the thumb to the fingers; it is internal to and overlapped by the last mus- cle; it lies on a part of the annular ligament, and of the following muscle.