g. Lateral region. This is bounded by the iourth rib above, and terminates with the eighth. The sound is always good on the left side ; on the right it is altered frequently by the liver rising higher than usual, ami compressing the right lung. JO. Inferior lateral region. This is bounded above by the eighth rib, and terminates at the border of the false ribs. This region also, on account of the liver, yields often a completely dull sound on the right side, while on the contrary the left, for reasons before men- tioned, gives a clearer sound than natural, even where there be effusion of fluid into the pleura, or where the inferior portion of the left lung be obstructed. 11. Acromial region. This is comprehended between the clavicle, the upper edge of the trapezius, the head of the humerus, and the lower part of the neck. The soft parts interposed in this place prevent all sound from percussion. 12. Upper scapular region. This corresponds to the supra-spinous fossa of the scapula, and yields hardly any sound on account of the muscle which fills it. The spine of the scapula, which forms the inferior boundary of this region, sometimes yields a faint sound when the arms are strongly compressed across. 13. Lovrer scapular region. This corresponds to the infra-spinous portion of the scapula. It yields no sound on percussion, because this portion of the clavicle is covered by the infra-spinous muscle. 14. Inter-scapular region. This includes the space between the dorsal edge of the scapula and the spine, when the arms are crossed on the breast. The muscles of this region necessarily render every sound dull; sometimes however, in thin persons, it gives a low but di^tinct sound, if the head be bent and the arms crossed in order to make tense the trapezius and rbomboidei mus- cles. The spine in this region gives a good sound; as likewise that portion of the chest included between the superior dorsal angle of the scapula and the first dorsal vertebra. 1.5. Inferior dorsal region. This begins at the level of the inferior angle of the scapula, terminating at the twelfth dorsal vertebra. Percussion of this recrion