s wards and forwards. This muscle is very closely con- nected to (he scalp, particularly in front, but loosely to the cranium, it can thus move easily on the latter, car- rying with it the former. Its origin is connected with the sterno-mastoid, trapezius and splenius muscles, and its insertion with those of the eyebrows. Some de- scribe the occipito-frontalis, not as one, but as four dis- tinct muscles, two on each side, under the names of the occipital and frontal muscles of each side, and consider the cranial aponeurosis as their common insertion. Se- veral vessels and nerves perforate this muscle, and ra- mify on its surface and in the integument, viz. ante- riorly, the supraorbital branches of the ophthalmic nerve and artery ; laterally, the temporal and posterior auris aiteries with branches of the portio dura and in- ferior maxillary nerves, and posteriorl}'^, the occipital arteries spread their branches upwards and forwards, accompanied by the occipital nerves, branches of the cervical plexus; the integuments in this region are thus abundantly supplied with vessels and nerves from differ- ent sources, a circumstance not only of anatomical but of practical importance. The common muscles of the ear are three in number, VIZ. superior, anterior, and posterior auris: ’ Superior Auris, or Attollens Aurem, is a small, tlun,^ triangular muscle, arising tendinous from the cranial aponeurosis on the side of the cranium, just above the external ear; the fibres descend converging, become fleshy, and are inserted into the upper and an- terior part of the cartilage of the ear :~use, to raise the cartilage, and deepen its cavit_y. This muscle is be- tween the skin and temporal fascia. Anterior Auris, or Attrahens Aurem, is con- nected with the last, is small, and often indistinct • it arises from the posterior part of the zygomatic process and from the cranial aponeurosis, passes backwards and downwards, and is inserted into the anterior part of the helix ; use, to draw the external ear forwards and up- wards. 1 his muscle is superficial, and lies on the tem- poral fascia, vessels and nerves. Posterior Auris, or Retraiiens .Vurem, often consists of two or three distinct fasciculi, it is the