84 the abdominal muscles in expiration; also, by fixing the lower ribs it increases the power of the diaphragm, and by aiding this muscle in enlarging the thorax it assists in inspiration ; the two serrati also, by making tense the aponeurosis which connects them to each other, compress and support the deep muscles in this region ; reflect from its origin the superior serra- tus, and we shall see the following muscle. Splenius, is long and flat, fleshy and tendinous, lying beneath the trapezius, and extending in an ob- lique direction from below, upwards, forwards, and outwards; it is divided into two portions, the inferior, or splenius colli, and the superior or splenius capitis. The splenius colli arises from the spines of the 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th dorsal, ascends obliquely outwards, and is inserted by distinct tendons into the transverse pro. cesses of the three or four superior cervical vertebra; behind the origins of the levator scapulae. Use^ to bend the neck backwards, and to one side. Splenitis capitis is larger than the last, superior and internal to which it lies ; it arises from the spinous processes of the two superior dorsal and three inferior cervical vertebrae, and from the ligamentum nuchae ; it ascends a little ob- liquely outwards, and becoming larger, is inserted into the back part of the mastoid process, overlapping the sterno-mastoid, and into the occipital bone, below the superior transverse ridge. Use, to bend back the head, and when one only acts to turn the head to that side ; thus co-operating with the sterno-mastoid of the oppo- site side. • 1 1 The splenii capitis muscles diverge superiorly, and the complexi appear between them. Detach the splenii from the spinous processes, and divide the fascia lum- borum, and the next layer of muscles will appear; this consists of the sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and spinalis dorsi, cervicalis descendens, tranversalis colli, trachelo-mastoideus and complexus. Sacro-lumbalis, Longissimus Dorsi, and Spi- nalis Dorsi, these three muscles are so closely con- nected interiorly as to appear but one mass, and seveial fibres must be divided in order to separate them from each other. Sacro-lumbalis is the largest of the three ;