prc^sion in front of the ear, where the condyle of the lower jinv shonlcl be felt, and the imisdes of the side of the lace appear flat and diminished. Wlien displace- ment of one condyle only occurs, the arches of the teeth of the upper and lower jaws do not correspond ; and the depression in IVont of the ear is only felt on the’ dislocated side. The muscles concerned in a disloca- tion of the lower jaw are the depressing muscles of the jaw; the two pterygoid muscles, but chiefly the exter- nal ; and the anterior portion of the raasseter. OF DISLOCATION OF THE CLAVICLE. At its sternal end the clavicle may be dislocated up- wards, forwards, or backwards. Displacement upwards or backwards are too rare to merit any notice. Jn dis- location forwards the anterior, posterior, and inter-cla- vicular ligaments are ruptured ; and occasionally the tendinous expansion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid on the clavicle and sternum. The costo-clavicular ligament must also be ruptured ; and this is the one which chief- ly resists displacement when the shoulder is elevated At Its scapular extremity, the clavicle may be displaced either above or below the acromion ; the latter case is extremely rare. When the clavicle passes above the acromion, the shoulder inclines in, being unsupported by this bone, and its extremity projects under the skin 0 the shoulder. The superior, inferior, and coraco- Clavicular ligaments are sometimes ruptured. The cla- vicular portion of the trapezius is the only muscle which by elevating the clavicle, can assist in this displacement’. OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. The shoulder joint, from the great extent of its mo- tions and term of its articulating surfaces, is more liable to dislocation tlian any other in the body. Primary dislocations of the humerus may occur into the axilla, forwards under the pectoral muscles, or back- vrards. Ihis latter species is extremely rare; a dislo- cation upwards could not occur without fracture of the acromion, and therefore cannot be considered among