invvarcl5, aiui is inseried into tlie cuneiform process. Use, to bend the head forwards and to one side on the atlas: this muscle lies to the outer side, but is in part concealed by the last. Rectus Capitis Lateralis, very short, arises from the transverse process of the atlas, ascends, and is in- serted into the semilunar ridge or jugular process of the occipital bone. Use, with the last muscle it can bend the head forwards or incline it to one side. This muscle is external to that last described; it lies on the verte- bral artery, and is covered by the jugular vein. Scalenus Anticus, arises tendinous from the ante- rior tubercles of the transverse processes of the Sd, 4th, 5th and 6th cervical vertebrae; the fibres descend ob- liquely forwards and outwards, form aflat muscle, which is inserted tendinous into the upper surface of the first rib, near its cartilage. Use, to bend the neck forwards and laterally, also to elevate and fix the rib as in inspi- ration. The phrenic nerve descends on the anterior surface of this muscle ; the subclavian vein crosses its insertion; the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid lie ante- rior to it; the subclavian artery and brachial plexus are behind it, and the vertebral vessels separate it from the longus colli. Scalenus Medius, arises from the posterior tuber- cles of the transverse processes of four or five inferior cervical vertebra;, by small tendinous fibres ; these be- come fleshy, and descend obliquely outwards and back- wards, and are inserted into the upper surface of the second rib behind the subclavian artery. Use, similar to the last. This muscle is covered by the brachial plexus, subclavian artery, and anterior scalenus. Scalenus Posticus, from the posterior tuber- cles of two or three lower cervical vertebra;, descends behind the former, and is inserted into the upper edge of the second rib, between its tubercle and angle. Use, to elevate the second rib, to bend the neck to one side, and a little backwards. One or two branches of the brachial.plexus sometimes separate this from the middle scalenus, at other times there is no distinction between them, excepting in their insertion: behind the posterior scalenus lie the transversalis and splenius colli, also the