199 urine would be sent retrograde into the ureters, instead ot forward into the urethra. These lines, however, seldom present this structure so distinctly as has been desciibed, and how far their supposed use is correctly ascribed to them is very questionable. The of the bladder is a small eminence at the apex of the tri- gone, much better marked in some than in others ; it IS merely a thickening and peculiar organization of the sub-mucous tissue; it is nearly opposite, but a little anterior to the third or middle lobe of the prostate gland. Tlie trigone is the most sensible and vascular part of the bladder: posterior to the trigone the blad- der IS frequently, particularly in old subjects, dilated into a sort of pouch. In the female the trigone is smal- ler, but broader in proportion than in the male, and the uvula is less distinct.—The urethra is the next di- vision of the urinary organs to be examined ; as this canal, however, in the male, is the common passacre for the urine and seminal fluid, or as it is a part both of the urinary and generative organs, we shall postpone the description of it until we have considered the latter. The organs of generation in the male are the testicles and their appendices, the vesiculae seminales, the pros- tate and anti-prostatic glands, (the latter have been al- ready examined,) the penis, and the urethra. We shall describe these organs in the following order: 1st the testes with their coverings; 2d, the vasa deferentia: .id, the vesiculae seminales; 4th, the prostate gland • .jth, the penis; and 6th, the urethra. ’ DISSECTION OF THE ORGANS OF GENERATION IN THE MALE. 1st. The Testes; these two glands are, in the very young fcetus, contained in the abdomen beneath each kidney ; a short time, however, previous to birth, they descend into that situation which they are found to occupy in the adult, and are surrounded by several tu- nics, VIZ. the scrotum, dartos, superficial fascia, tunica' eommunifi, tamca vaginalis, and tunica albuginea