491 stance of the kidney becomes more and more com- pressed, is gradually absorbed, and nothing is left but a capsule, containing numerous cells, communicating with one another. Bladder. The mucous membrane of the bladder is occasionally found inflamed, the inflam- mation may be general or confined to one particular part ; the portion which is most frequently inflamed is that near the neck, and commonly arises from the pre- sence of a rough stone ; from the naturally pale appear- ance of the mucous membrane in the dead body, any crowding of vessels containing arterial blood which takes place in inflammation makes this state of parts easy of detection; if the inflammation be violent, the muscular coat may become engaged, and abscesses and ulcers are not unfrequently the consequence; they sometimes proceed so far as to destroy a portion of the bladder, and form communications between it and the neigh bouring viscera ; with the rectum in the male, and va- gina in the female; they have also been known to open into the cavity ot the abdomen, producing peritonitis and death from extravasation of urine : abscesses about the neck of the bladder are generally found as a con- sequence of the operation of lithotomy being badly per- formed. Calculi. Calculi are not uncommonly formed in the bladder ; their formation is confined to no par- ticular period of life ; they are formed in very young children and persons of middle and advanced age ; they are very seldom met with in females ; this is owing to the size of the urethra in that sex, which allows them to be discharged before they become large, and also from a tendency to their formation not being so strong in females. The stones which are found in the bladder are either originally formed in the kidneys, and pass through the ureters into the bladder, or they are at first formed in the bladder itself. Calculi lie either loosely in the cavity ol the bladder, or are confined to some fixed situation from particular circumstances ; when they are of a small size, they are sometimes lodged in pouches, formed by the. protrusion of the mucous coat of the bladder, between the fasciculi of its muscular fibres. Lrinary calculi have sometimes a smooth, uniform surface, but more frecjuontly the surface is granulated and rough. Prostate gland. This gland is