402 into the trapezium and scaphoid, internally into the cuneiform and unciform bones. The articulations between the cavpus and metacar- pus are secured by transverse and oblique fibrous bands, which cover the synovial membranes, and pass in different directions; the articulations between the heads of the metacarpal bones and the first phalanges are furnislied with very loose synovial membranes and latei’al ligaments; the phalanges of the fingers are articulated to each other by syno- vial membranes and lateral ligaments. IXIO-FEMORAL ARTICULATION, OR HIP JOINT. The head of the femur is received into the ace- tabulum, which cavity is deepened by the colyloid ligament, which is a circular fibrous band adhering to the edge of the bony cup, and lined by synovial membrane ; the notch at the inner prrt of the cavity is partly closed by the transverse ligament, which is at- tached to the opposite points of the pubis and ischium. The capsule of this joint is the strongest in the body. It consists, like the capsule of the shoulder joint, of a fibrous and a synovial membrane. The fibrous membrane is attached above to the circumference of the acetabulum ; and below, to the root of the trochanter major, and to the two oblique inter-tro- chanteric lines; it is very strong externally and ante- riorly, thill internally. The synovial membrane is reflected from the inside of the fibrous membrane upon the periosteum of the neck, and upon the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur; from the latter it is reflected around the inter-articular lio’araent, and is then continued to the cartilaginous surface of the acetabulum. The attachment of the fibrous layer extends upon the femur, a little way beyond the synovial membrane, especially at the outer and posterior part of the joint. The accessory or iliofemoral ligament extends from the inferior spinous process of the ilium obliquely down- wards and inwards, adhering to the fore-part of the cap- sule, and is inserted into the fore-part ot the leaser tio- chamer.