6 the external commissure. The horizontal tendon of this muscle [tendo palpebrarum or tendo oculi) passes across the lachrymal sac a little above its centre, and a strong aponeurosis, derived from its upper and lower edge, covers all the anterior surface of the sac, and ad- heres to the margins of the bony gutter, in which it is lodged. This tendon can be seen or felt through the integuments during life, particularly when the muscle is in action, or when the eyelids are drawn towards the temple. In the operation of opening the lachrymal sac, the incision should commence immediately below this tendon, and be carried obliquely downwards and outwards, to the extent of about half an inch. Sepa- rate the orbicularis from the occipito-frontalis over the internal half of the superciliary arch, the tensor tarsi and the corrugatar supercilii will be exposed. Tensor Tarsi, arises tendinous from the posterior edge of the os unguis, passes forwards, divides into two portions, which are inserted into the lachrymal ducts, along which the fibres extend nearly as far as the puncta ; use to draw the puncta and eyelids into close contact with the eye, also to press the puncta towards the nose, to compress the lachrymal sac, and to force out the secretion from the follicles of the ca- runcula lacrymalis. CoRRUGATOR SuPERCiLii, arises fleshy from the in- ternal angular process of the os frontis, passes upwards and outwards, and is inserted into the middle of the eyebrow, mixing with the orbicularis and occipito-fron- talis muscles ; use, to depress and approximate the eyebrows, throwing the skin of the forehead into verti- cal wrinkles : this pair of muscles cannot act sepaiately; they directly oppose the occipito-frontalis. They are covered by the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis, and lie on the os frontis and on the frontal nerve and ves- ssls* Pyramidalis Nasi, long, thin, often wanting. Guises from the occipito-frontalis, descends close to its fellow, along the nasal bones, becomes broad and apo- neurotic, and is inserted into the compressor nasi muscle. Use, it raises the skin covering the ossa nasi. Compressor Nasi, is thin and triangular, placed