409 so ul, yet flexible column, placed in the middle and back pait ot the trunk, and extending from the head to the sacrum. All the vertebrae agree in the general outline, which IS as follow-s ; each vertebra consists of a body and ot several projections or processes : the hodu occu- pies the anterior central part; it is thick and spongy, and lat lei ciicular or oval; its flat surfaces above and below give attachment to the intervertebral ligaments; the mar- pn ot each is tipped with a compact white substance; anterior y it is tiansversely convex and very porous, postpior y concave, so as to form part of the spinal canal or toramen ; this surface is perforated by several holes for vessels. The processes of each vertebra are nine, two Iperal or the laminae, two transverse, four ob- lique or articulating, and one spinous. . The /a/erai processes or /a7mnee, arise, one on each side by a sort of pedicle from the posterior part of the body; tlpy pass backwards, bounding the sides of the spnalhole, aii^d unite posteriorly in the spinous process : they are broad behind, but narrow where they join the body, being grooved put above and below into a notch : fl.! Iflarger ; these no/c/ies, when e vertebrae are joined, form the intervertebral holes for the passage of the spinal nerves. The spiT^ous process is the mo=t projecting part of the vertebra in the poste- nor median line; its base is bifurcated, its apex gene- rally ends in a point or tubercle. The transverse procmc. arise from the laminaa, and are directed out- arise from^fh'^^ ** or de rpnril the transverse, two ascend, two and hpl^w above and belo w. 1 he spinal hole or canal is bounded by the ceS<?nP processes ; it is oval or triangular. The pro- of a more compact structure than the bodies, which are very light and spongy 4 Te developed by three poinls oYione, and articulating processes; sometimes a fourth point L„dT'?‘‘, process is Jd?n! IZe ttae I"f.>>« remains cartilaginous for some time. In addition to these three principal ossific N N