47 ary tcno-epiglottidean fold of eacli side there are small glands called arytenoid, and in front of the epiglottis, behind the os hyoides, the epiglottidean gland is situated; this opens by small ducts on the posterior or laryngeal surface of the epiglottis. The openings of the larynx are two, the superior or the glottis, and the inferior, or the rima glottidis. The opening of the glottis has been already noticed ; it is immediately behind the tongue and epiglottis, and is of a triangular form, the base an- teriorly. The rima glottidis is three quarters of an inch below the glottis; it is like a slit, being very narrow from side to side, and of a triangular figure, the base posteri- orly formed by the bases of the arytenoid, and by the upper and posterior edge of the cricoid ; the apex is anteriorly in the angle of the thyroid cartilage, the chordae vocales form the sides : below the rima glottidis the larynx enlarges within the cricoid cartilage, and is of a circular figure, and soon terminates in the trachea. The muscles of the larynx are symmetrical, they are found on the front, sides, and back part; those on the fore part are the thyro-hyoid, and crico-thyroid; on each side are the thyro and lateral crico-arytenoid, and posteriorly are the arytenoid and posterior crico- arytenoid. Thyro-hYoiDEus, broad and flat, arises from the oblique ridge on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, ascends a little outwards, and is inserted into the lower edge of the cornu of the os hyoides. Use, to elevate and draw forwards the larynx beneath the tongue and epiglottis, and so cause the glottis to be closed in deglutition. This muscle is partly covered by the integuments and sterno-hyoid ; it appears like a continuation of the ster- no-thyroid. Crico-thyroideus, inferior to the former, short and triangular; arises narrow from the forepart of the cri- coid cartilage, ascends obliquely outwards, and is in- serted broad into the lower border of the thyroid. Use, to approximate these cartilages, and to draw forward the cricoid. The crico-thyroid ligament occupies the space between these muscles; they ar^e covered by the sterno-liyoid. Jlaise the ala of the thyroid cartilage on one side, and the lateral muscles of the larynx will be exposed.