512 in this way producing a flattened appearance in the blood vessels. A much cheaper and better injection for com- mon purposes than the above has been employed ; it is made of Tallow 2lbs. Magnesia Usta §ss. Chinese Vermilion ^i. This possesses all the advantage,s of the wax injection without any of its inconveniences ; it is as transparent nearly as the wax, never melts in the hottest weather, and is not disposed to crack; if this injection be used very hot, an extremity may be injected without having been previously heated ; but this should never be done except by persons skilled in the art of injecting. Jf we wish to trace the minute branches of arteries, and examine their various communications, there are no injections better adapted for common purposes than that of tallow and red lead well mixed and heated, or the cold paint injection ; if the latter be well thrown in, the minutest arteries, for instance the ciliary, will be in- jected; it is made of White lead, well ground, 2lbs. Turpentine Varnish §xii. Drying Oil ^vi. The lead is intimately mixed with the varnish, and then the oil is to be added ; they are all to be well mixed up to- gether, to the consistence of cream, and in this state it is to be thrown into the arteries : the same precautions, with re- gard to the exclusion of air from the syringe, and the de- gree offeree to be used, are to be observed in this as well as in the hot injection. Arteries are always injected from the aorta or some other large trunk; while veins are in- jected differently : in making preparations of veins, it is necessary to inject them from the extreme branches towards the trunks, on account of the direction of the valves; for instance, the veins of the arm are to be in- jected from a small branch on the back of the hand, and those of the leg and thigh from some branch on the dorsum of the foot. Previously to the injection being made, it is necessary that' the veins should be well washed out with warm water, to remove the coagula of blood which they generall}' contain : if the veins ot the arm are to be injected, an opening should be made in