354 about half aline in depth. This fluid is supposed to be secreted by a fine membrane, which is continued from the cornea over the iris, and througli its pupillary mar- gin to its posterior surface; in the human eye, how- ever, it is impossible to trace any such membrane through this extent. This fluid supports the cornea and the iris, the latter can float and move freely in a fluid of such Uiin consistence. The crystalline kuinour is a transparent double con- vex lens, a little more prominent behind than before, imbedded in the fore-part of the vitreous humour be- hind the anterior third of the eyCj and a little nearer to its nasal than its temporal side. Its axis corresponds to that of the pupil; it is surrounded by a fine capsule, which is thin and soft posteriorly, but anteriorly dense, and peculiarly elastic ; a small quantity of fluid (liquor Moi-gagni) is contained between the lens and its cap- sule ; the lens is retained in its place by the hyaloid membrane, which splits into two laminae at its border ; these laminae pass, one before, the other behind it, and become connected to the proper capsule; a small tri- angular canal (canal of Petit) is enclosed between these layers, the base is formed by the circumference of the lens. This canal is intersected by fine septa, it therefore presents a cellular or vesicular appearance when distended by air or injection. Some describe this canal as formed by the division of the lamina vasculosa into two layers. The lens is soft and pulpy externally, more dense towards the centre, or a little internal to that point; maceration or boiling causes it to separate into wedge or triangular shaped pieces, the apices to- wards the centre; each piece appears composed of suc- cessive plates, and each plate lias a fibrous structure. In the foetus the lens is reddish and very soft; in the adult it is transparent, and in the old it has an amber or yellowish cast towards the centre; the capsule ot the crystalline lens receives some fine vessels from the central artery of the retina. 'I he lens refracts the rays of light, and causes them to converge to a focus on the retina. The vitreous humour fills the two posterior thirds of the globe of the eye, it is thin and almost w'atery, but