489 diseases of the liver (if we except adhesions) is the tu- berciilated state of the organ ; this appearance is never met in young persons, but seems to be peculiar to the adult and aged ; the whole of its substance is generally engaged, and when this is the case, the liver becomes niuch harder, irregular on its surtkce, and smaller in size than naturaldropsy of the abdomen generally ac- companies this state of the organ. Hydatids. There is no gland, except the kidney, in which hydatids are so frequently found as in the liver; they are contained in in cysts ot a cartilaginous nature, in the substance of the organ; sometimes the cyst holds but one of these animalcules, and in others it contains many varying in size from that of a pin’s head to a hen’s egg ; rarely they are found attached to the inside of the cyst, but generally floating in the serous fluid which it contains. Cysts. Cysts of a cartilaginous structure, holding earthy mat- ter, are also found lodged in the substance of the liver. Gall bladder. When the substance of the liver is in- flamed, the gall bladder takes on the inflammatory pro- cess, but seldom proceeds into ulceration ; the most common morbid appearance, discovered in this viscus, is the formation of gall stones: when there is but one in the gall bladder, it is generally a large oval one, closely filling up the cavity of the bag, and preventing it from receivingbile; but oftener itcontains many, even amount- ing to some hundreds, and from rubbing on each other in a small space, they acquire many sides and angles ; calculous matter as fine as powder, is also to be met with in the gall bag. Spleen. The membrane covering the spleen is inflamed in general peritonitis ; the appear- ance is the same as that which is so often described in speaking of the inflammations of other viscera; the sub- stance of the spleen is rarely inflamed, and abscess is'not common ; the softness described by some authors can scarcely be considered a deviation from natural struc- ture. i he coats of the spleen are sometimes converted into cartilaginous or bony matter, and this disease may, in a great measure, be considered as peculiar to the spleen. Pancreas. The pancreas is rarely found in a diseased state; calculi have been found in its ducts, it has also been seen harder in its structure than natural, ap-