*^ * *^' ^' iliiliiiii R53658P0236Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.Org/details/b21980202_0001A SYSTEM O F SURGERY: BY BENJAMIN BELL, MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF SURGEONS • OF ^REjLAND AND EDINBURGH, ONB OF THE SURGEONS TO THE ROYAB INFIRMARY, AND FELLOW OF TSE ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH. ILLUSTRATED WlTH QO P F E RP L AT DS. ^ — ^ VOLUME L % THE SIXTH EDITION, CORRECTED AND ENLARGED. EDINBURGH; ^ PRINTED F0P:*BELL & BRADFUTE J AND G. G. & J. R O B I N S O N, A N D MURRAY & HIGHLEY, LONDON, W,DCC,XCVI.PREFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION. I Have reafon to hope, that this, the fixth edition of my Syftem of Surge- ry, will be found confiderably improved: I have been at pains to Inf^rt in it all fuch real improvements as have been made in Surgery fincp the firft editions of this work were publilhed ; and to give reprefentations of fuch ufeful inftruments as have been invented during that period. It is alfo my intention, ftill to keep thefe objects in view, and to incorporate in fuch future editions as may be called for, all fuch improvements as'may come to my knowledge. I mud beg leave, however, to obferve, that I do not engage to notice all that may be mentioned to me as improvements, or a 2 thatIV PREFACE* that authors may judge proper to publlfli: For not having done fo, I have already indeed been pointedly blamed : But au- thors Ihould recolledl, that with what- ever partiality they may view their own produdions, and thofe improvements which they themfeives or their friends may bring forth, that others may not va? lue them fo highly. Anxious,to avoid controverfial writing, in which, a full occupation of my time, in what I judge to be more ufeful purfuits, does not permit ine to engage, and to which my inclination is altogether ad- verfe, nothing fliall tempt me to give way to it. This remark I am induced to fug-r geft, from being informed, that fome have written in fuch a manner on different parts of my publications, as if they wilh- ed and expedted that I fhould reply to them: Books of this defcription, how- ever, for the reafons I have given, J fhall never read 3 but I fhall be plea- fed to learn, that the labours of thofe who have written them are not entirely loft, and that they derive the fatisfadlion pfPREFACE. V of proving ufeful, by pointing out to others fuch errors as I may have fallen into. Not doubting, that every work mufl: rife or fall according to its merit, I lhall con- tinue, as I have hitherto done, without re- gard to the opinions of individuals, to de- tail, what, from experience and obferva- tion, I judge to be the beft pradice, and to ftate my opinions clearly and decided- ly; but, without endeavouring to force thefe opinions upon others, I fliall leave it to the Public to determine, whether thefe, or thofe of other men, fubmitted to their confideration, ought to be followed. In fpeaking of the late improvements in Surgery, I have elfewhere obferved, what may here with propriety be repeat- ed, that were I to endeavour to trace all that have been propofed within thefe laft fifty or fixty years, I Ihould often find it difficult, and in fome inftances impoffibie to determine, by whom the pradice as now eftabllfhed was introduced ; and in order to give a fair account of the pro- grefs of the different operations of .Sur- gery, from their rude to their improved " ^ 3 ilate,Vi PREFACE. ftate, I fhould be under the neceflity of entering upon a full chronological hiftory of each : While this kind of in- quiry could ferve no ufeful purpofe, it would tend to render more prolix, a work which, from the variety of its objedts, mufl: neceflarily extend to a great length : I fliall, therefore, in general, decline it: When the author, however, of any re- markable improvement is with certainty known, I fliall never fail to give him all the credit which his difcovery feems to merit: but to notice every inconfiderable alteration that may be prdpofed upon operations, and to enumerate the opinions contained in many publications, often the effufions of men of no pradtice or obfer- vation, as it could tend to no utility, it will not therefore be attempted. I have alfo formerly remarked, that I wilh every where to avoid theoretical dif- quifitions : When the fubjedl under con- lideration can be rendered more clear and intelligible, I have^ occafionally employ- " ed fuch reafoning as experience and com- monPREFACE. va mon fenfp feem evidently to fupport; but I have ftudioufly guarded againft the dif- cuflion of doubtful fpeculative opinions ; In addition to this I may obferve, in the words of a celebrated German praftitlon- er, that I have carefully avoided^general maximiS : In no fcience, he obferves, does felf-fufficiency, or bold and general afler- tions, and decided axiomis, more‘^certainly mark ignorance and want of experience than in the Science of Medicine Info- much, that in whatever publication they abound, there is much caufe to iiifpedl, that the author has not enjoyed thofe full , opportunities of obferving the progrefs of difeafes, and the nurnberlefs varieties that they affume, which every man ought to have done before he attempts to give in- formation to others. To this publication it has been object- ed, that it is too minute, and of courfe too extenlive. But it miiil be recolledted, that it is chiefly written for thofe who are learning, or who are yet young in ^4 the ' * Aug. Gottlieb Hitcher, M. D,vill PREFACE. the profeffion of Surgery, and not io much for men of experience, who alone ha've ftated this objedtion, and who in this inftance feem to have forgot the Reps by which they themfelves gained the knowledge which they poflefs, or that they ever required afliftance in the more early part of their chirurgical purfuits. It was a want of this kind of afliftance^ when I entered on the ftudy and pradtice of Surgery, and which at that time was generally felt and complained of, that fir ft fuggefted to me the propriety of publifhing this work ; and if it fliall con- tinue to afford to the younger part of the profeflion, what I have reafon to hope it has hitherto done, an eafier me- thod than they formerly .poflefled, of acquiring knowledge in the pradtical part of Surgery, and of the principles on which it is founded, I fhall not be diC- pbfed, from the remarks of a few, to al* ter the manner in which it is written.^ At fome future period, I, or my fon, now engaged in the fame profeflion, may give an abridgement of the whole, which may ferve as a manual or diredlory, forP R E F A C E. it for thofe occupied in the line of chirur- gical operatioiis ; but the concife defcripr tion of an abridged work, would be ill calculated for thofe who have feen no- thing, and who have therefore all to learn. In this edition, a confiderable change will be perceived in the arrangement of the fubjedls; and the Volume on Inflam- mation and Ulcers, formerly publifhed feparately, now makes part of the pre- fent work. At the end of every volume are Inferted the Plates which more parti- cularly belong to it; and a lift of the whole Plates is given immediately after the Contents of each, by which any par- ticular Plate may be readily found. A General Index is alfo fubjoined to the laft volume. • To prevent inconvenience or unnecef- fary expence to the purchafets of former editions, I propofe, fo foon as I can get it done, to colled and publifn in a fepa- rate volume, all fuch parts of the prefent edition as are new, and to fubjoin the - additionalPREFACE. X additional Plates, and a General Ind^x for the former editions. With a view to illuftrate this work, and to give me an opportunity of adverting more particularly than can be done in a general fyftem, to many of the more im- portant parts of Surgery, I have, for ma- ny years paft, been occaiionally employ- ed in arranging for the prefs, narrations of fuch accidents and difeafes, in the management of which I have been per- fonally concerned, as I conceive will an- fwer this purpofe ^ and they ^ill be judged to be the more valuable, as a great proportion of all that I fhall feledl will relate to circumftances, in which I have had .occafion to adt on conililtation with ocher practitioners. Two volumes of this kind, I have reafon to think, will be ready in the qourfe of the enluing year, and they will be publilhed under the title of Consultations and Obser- vations on many of the more important Parts of Surgery. i Edinburgh, \ Dec. I. 1795. J ,CONTENTS, Pag© CHAPTER I. On Inflammation, - 17 Sedt. I. Of the Symptoms and Caufes of Inflammation^ - ib. § I. General Remarks on Inflamma- tion^ - - ib. §2. Of the Symptoms and termina- tions of Fhlegmon^ « ' 18 § 3. Of the Exciting and Predif- pofing Caufes of Inflammation^ 21 § 4. Of the Proximate Caufe of In- flammation^ - - 23 Sedt.CONTENTS. XII Page Se6l. IL of the Treatment of Inflam- mation by Refolution, - 30 § I. Refolution of Inflamed Tu- mors, 7iot always proper, - ib^ § 2. Of the Remedies to be employed for the Refolution of an Inflamed Part^ - - 33 § 3. Remarhs on the Preparations of Lead, and other Sedatives, 33 Se6l. III. Of Suppuration, 50 § I. General Remarks on Sappura- ' tion, -- - ib. §2. Of the Formation of Pus, - 51 § 3. Of Remedies for producing Suppuration, - - 57 § 4. Of Ahfceffes, and the proper Period for opening them, - 69 § 5. Of the different Methods of opening Abfceffes, - 72 Sea.XI ;i CONTENTS. Page Seel. IV. Of Mortificationj - 88 § I. General Remarks on Gangrene^ ib. § 2. Obfervations on Carbuncles^ 92 § 3. Of the Caufes of Grangrene^ 94 \ 4. Of the Prognofis in Gangrene^ g8 § 5* Of the Remedies for Gangrene^ 100 CHAPTER II. / (y Tumors,"- . - - 116 Se6t, I. Of "Tumors in General^ and their ClaJJificationy - ib. Se6l. II. Of ^cute or Inflammatory Tumors^ - - 124 § I. Of PryfipelaSy - ib* § 2. Of Inflammation of the Ear^ 130 hZ' Of Angina, - - 132 § 4-xit CONTENTS. Page § 4. Of Inflammation and Ahfeefs of the Livery - - 135 § 5. Of Inflammation and Abfeeffes in the Mammay - , I44 § 6. 0/' Inflammation of the Tefles, 149 § 7. Of Venereal Buboesy - 152 § 8. Of Lumbar Abfeeffesy - 166 § 9. Of Paronychia or Whitloey 178 §10. Of Chilblainsy - 186 §11. Of Sprains and ContufionSy igi Sed:. III. Of Chronic or Indolent *LumorSy - 201 § I. General Remarks'' on Indolent fumorSy - - ib. §2. Of Encyjled fumoySy - 202 §3^ Of Ganglionsy * 220 §4-CONTENT S. XV Page § 4. Of Swellings of the Burfee Mu- cofce^ - - 223 §5. Of ColleEtions within the Cap- fular Ligaments of Joints^ 228 , §6. Of Concretions and Excre- fcences within the Capjular Liga- mhits of JointSy - 234 §7. Of Anafarca or Oedema^ 241 §8. Of the Spina Bifiday - 245 § g> Of Scrophulous TumorSy 250 §10. Of White Swellings of the Joint Sy - - 256 §11. Of Bronchoceky - 283 §12. Of Navi Materniy - 298 §13. Of WartSy - 301 § 14. Of Flejhy ExcrefcenceSy 306 § 15. Of Cornsy - - 308 § 16. Of Simple Exojlojisy Venereal Nodesy and Spina Vetitofay 310 CHAP-mi C4DNTENTS. Page CHAPTER IIL . C/Wounds, ^ - 33j Sect. I. Of Wounds in General^ ib. Se£t. II. Of the Cure of Simple In-- eifed'Wounds, ^ - 3^7 Se(ft; IIL Of PunStured Wounds, 424 Sed. IV. Of Lacerated and Contufed Wounds, - - 438 Sed. V. Of Wounds in the Veins, 455 Sed.VI. Of Wounds inihe Lymphatics, 458 Sed. VII. Of Wounds of the Nerves and Tendons, - - 460- - Sed. VIII. Of Wounds in the Liga- ments, - , - - 474 ARRANGE-ARRANGEMENT of the PLATES, All the Plates are placed at the end of their refpeBive Volumes. In VoL. III. Hates I. Plates VII. II. VIII, III. IX. IV. X. V. XL VI. In VoL. IV. Plates XII. Plates XXVII. XIII. XXVIII. XIV. XXIX. XV. XXX. XVI. XXXI. XVIL XXXII. XVIII. xxxin. XIX. XXXIV. XX. XXXV. XXI. XXXVL XXII. XXXVII. XXIII. XXXVIIL XXIV. XXXIX. XXV. XXVI. XL.X ARRANGEMENT In VoL. V. iXLL Plates LV. XLII. LVI. XLIII. LVII. XLIV. LVIII. XLV. LIX. XLVL LX. XLVII. LXI. XLVIIL LXII. XLIX. LXIII. L. LXIV. Lh LXV. LII. LXVI. LIII. LXVII. LIV. In VoL. VI. ; LXVIII. Plates LXXVIIL LXIX. LXXIX. LXX. LXXX. LXXL LXXXI. LXXII. LXXXII. LXXIII. LXXXIII. LXXIV. LXXXIV. LXXV. LXXXV. LXXVI. LXXXVI. LXXVIL LXXXVIL PLATESXI OF THE PLATES, In VoL. VIL Plates LXXXVIII. LXXXIX. XC. XCI. XCII2 XCIII/ XCIV. XCV. XCVL XCVII. XGVIII. XCIX. c. Plates Cl. CII. cm. CIV. cv. CVL evil. CVIIL CiX. CX. CXI. CXIL CXIIL A;cA SYSTEM O F SURGERY. C H x\ P T E R I. On Inflammation. SECTION L Of the Symptoms and Caufes of Inflammation. § I. General Remarks on Inflammation. Inflammation is the mofl: frequent, as it is perhaps the moft important ob- jed of the Surgeon’s attention. We daily meet with it as the confequence of opera- tions, and in the treatment of Wounds, Contufions, and Ulcers, It is therefore VoL. I, B confidered20 Of the Symptoms and Chap; Thefe the middle, or towards Its mofl: depending part, gets a clear ftiining appearance, and becomes lefs painful; the different fymp- toms of fever then abate, and a fluid, up- on prefliire, is found to fludluate under- neath. In this manner inflamruation is fald to terminate in what is termed Sup- puration. But if the pain, rednefs, and tenfion of the part increafe, while the fulnefs of pulfe and other febrile fymptoms are augmented, at the fame time that there is little change in the tumor in point of fize, there is then much reafon to fufpeft that Gangrene or Mortification will enfue. Mortification firfl appears by a change of colour in the part affeded, which, from being of a bright red, comes to acquire a leaden or livid caft, while fmall veficles, containing a thin acrid ferum, are dif- perfed over its furface—-the pain abates— the pulfe links, but continues frequent— the tumor at lafl: lofes its tenfenefs—turns black and flaccid—and thus terminates in a real mortified or dead fpot.21 Seft. I. Caufes of Inflammation* B 3 Thefe Thefe are the feveral ordinary confe- quences of inflammation. We fhall now proceed to treat of the various caufes of the difeafe, and laflly of the method of cure, § 3* exciting and predifpofing Caufes of Inflammation. The exciting caufes of inflammation, are in general whatever tend to ftimulate, or produce pain and irritation : Such as, all variety of wounds, whether Ample, lacerated, or pundlured, and with whatever inflrument they may be produced—-alfo bruifes and burns, whether by the adual or potential cautery—likewife all corroAve and irritating applications, as, the different flrong acids, cantharides, and all the clafs of rubefacientia. Ligatures may likewife be mentioned, and tumors that ad: as li- gatures by producing an undue compref- flon on any of the blood veffels and nerves; as alfo, violent exercife of any particular member, and cold applied to a particular part.22 Of the Symptoms and Chap. I. Tliefe are the moft common external caufes of phlegmon ; but there are others which tend to produce the fame effecl, which we are to confider entirely as internal; fuch are the different vitiated hates of the fluids, excited by the prefence of morbid matters of different kinds, as the matter of Lues Venerea, Small Pox, Meafles, and Scrophula. Fevers too that end in critical inflammation and confe- quent abfceffes, feem likewife to a6t in the fame manner. Under one or other of thefe heads are comprehended almoft all the exciting cau- fes of inflammation. It is not improper, however, here to obferve, that there are other caufes, which, with propriety, may be faid to be of the predifpoling kind, by tending to produce fuch a flate of the fyftem, as renders it more fufceptible of inflammatory complaints l;han It naturally would be. The mofl: remarkable of thefe is, a full plethoric habit of body, induced either by a very nourifliing diet, or want of exercife 5 or, perhaps, by a combina- tionSe<S. I. Caufes of Inflammation. 23 tion of both. We alfo obferve, that in- flammatory difeafes are more frequent in young than in old people, and in men more than in women. § 4. Of the proximate Caufe of Inflammation. Various opinions have prevailed on the proximate caufe of inflammation : fome of which have never been generally admit- ted, and others, after having prevailed for a time, have at lafl: too been rejeded. The dodrine on this fubjed, which for fome years has prevailed in this Univerfity, as it readily accounts for the adion of the feveral exciting caufes of inflammation, for the effeds of the difeafe, and for the operation of the medicines employed in the cure, appears mofl clearly to explain the proximate caufe of all inflammatory afledions. From obferving the different phsenome- na which occur in inflammation, an in- creafed adion of the veflels of the part af- feded feems in every cafe evidently to take B 4 place ;24 of the Symptoms and Chap. I, place; and as, from an increafed adion in the arteries of a part, all the circumftances of inflammation are explained, we are hence induced to confider this ftate of the veflTels as the proximate caufe of the diforder. This opinion, as we have already obfer- ved, is greatly fupported by a review of the feveral exciting caufes of inflamma- tion ; which being in general of an irri- tating or ftimulating nature, their applica- tion to living or fenfible parts, muft of courfe be productive of a preternatural ex- ertion of the veflels in fuch parts. Thus, to reafon from analogy, we obferve, that fternutatories applied to the internal mem- brane of the nofe—the aliments to the fto- mach and inteftines—and the blood to the internal furface of the veflels in which it is contained, all ferve as fo many ftimulants to adion in thefe different parts; and in the fame manner, corrofive or other irri? rating fubftances, when applied to the coats of the arteries, naturally in them produce theSed. I. Caufes of Inflammation, 25 the flime efFeds as in other mufcular or- gans. We thus in a very probable manner ac- count for the ad ion of all dired ftimu- lants in the produdion of inflammation. It frequently happens, however, that in- flammation takes place when the applica- tion of ftimulants, or irritating fubftances, cannot in any degree be fufpeded. In flich cafes, the increafed adion of the ar- teries and of the heart when it occurs, feems to be fupported by a fpafm or con- ftridion of the extreme veflels, either of a particular part, or of the general fyflem. And hence, from the known tonic or a- flringent power of cold, we account for the frequent occurrence of inflammatory affedions in our cold feafons of winter and fpring^ and hence, too, the throat and lungs are more efpecially fubjed to diforders attended with inflammation, from thefe parts being more particularly liable to the immediate adion of cold. Dr Cullen, who confidered fpafm as the foie proximate caufe of inflammation, when treating26 Of the Symptoms and Chap. L treatingof this fubjed,fays, ‘^That a fpafm of the extreme veflels takes place in in- flammation, is prefumed from what is at the fame time the Jftate of the whole arte- rial fyftem. In all confiderable inflam- mations, though arifing in one part only, an affedion is communicated to the whole fyltem^ in confequence of which, an in- flammation is readily produced in other parts befides that firft affeded. This ge- neral affedion is well known to phyficians, under the name of Diathefis Phlogijlica. It mofl; commonly appears in perfons of the moft rigid fibres; is often manifeftly in- duced by the tonic or aftringent power of cold; is increafed by all tonic and ftimu- lant powers applied to the body; is always attended by a hardnefs of the pulfe ; and is mofl effedually taken off by the relax^ iiig power of blood-letting. From thefe circumftances, it is probable, that the dia- thefis phlogiftica confifls in an increafed tone, or contradility, and perhaps con- tradion^Sed. I. Caufes of Inflammation. 27 tracUon, of the mufcular fibres of the whole arterial fyftem An increafed adlon in the velTels of a part, being admitted as the proximate caufe of inflammation, we can pretty certainly account for the operation of the feveral predifpofing caufes ^ and upon the fame fuppofition may be explained the different fymptoms which occur in the courfe of the diforder. Thus the increafed adion of an artery, by forcing or propelling into the fmaller fets ofveflels, red globules, and other denfe parts of the blood which they cannot ea- fily tranfmit, very readily accounts for the rednefs, tumor, tenfion, and throbbing pain, which occur in every cafe of phleg- mon: As likewife, in fbme meafure, for the augmentation of heat, which increafed at- trition muft in fuch cafes always produce. It is probable, however, that the accumu- lation of animal heat alone, which mufl neceffarily arife from a larger proportion of blood being fent to a part than it natu- rally * See Firft Lines of the Pradtice of Phyfic, p. 88!!aB Of the Symptoms and Chap. L rally receives, will have a confiderable in- fluence in the produdlion of an increafed degree of heat. The method of cure, as we have already ohferved, tends alfo to confirm the general dodtrlnewe have given of the caufe. Thus the moft effedlual remedies, in almofl: eve- ry cafe of inflammation, are exadly fuch as would be recommended for the remo- val of an Increafed tone in any particular part, were we convinced that this alone was the difeafe, A low diet, blood- letting, and other weakening evacuations, together with emollient fedative applica- tions : but this, when we come to fpeak more particularly of the different reme- dies, will more fully appear. In almofl every cafe of external Inflam- mation, except, perhaps, when it is very extenfive, and runs deep, and the different fymptoms are all violent, we may ven- ture upon a favourable prognofis. For, if Refoiution, which is the eafieft and moft defirable termination, is not effeded, Sup- puration will moft readily be the confe- quence %Se6l. I. Caufes of Inflammation. 29 quence \ and the danger occurring from this, ,when the conftitution is otherwife healthy, is not commonly very material. When, however, the inflamed part is of confiderable extent, while the diffe- rent local and general fymptoms of fe- ver at the fame time are violent, a good deal of danger is to be dreaded. For, be- fides the rifk to the conflitution from the fever itfelf, if the fymptoms continue high for any length of time, without fhowing fome tendency either to Refolution or Sup- puration, Gangrene will, in fuch circum- ftances, probably follow 3 and in what manner this may terminate, is always un- certain. SEC-36 of the 7reatment of Chap. L SECTION II. Of the "Treatment of Injiammation by Refo- lution^ § I. Refolution of inflamed Tumors, in fome injlances, not to he attempted^, IN the treatment of phlegmon, we ought, in general, to have it in view to ac- complifli a cure by refolution. Some ex- ceptions, however, occur to this, in which the removal of Inflammatory tumors by refolution ought not to be attempted. Thus, tumors fucceeding to fevers, and other internal diforders, ought always to be brought to fuppuration \ for nature in that way pointing out an exit for fome fuperabundance of fluids exifting in the fyftem, it might probably be produdtive of hazard to give her any interruption. It is, on the contrary, indeed, in all fuch cafesSed. II. Inflammation hy Refolution. 31 cafes the fafeft pradlice to affift her as much as poffible, by the ufe of fuch appli- cations ^s will mod readily bring the fuel- ling to fuppuration. There are other tumors again, proceed- ing from an internal caufe too, in which it is perhaps heft to do nothing either with a view to refolve or fuppurate: Thus, In fwellings proceeding from fcrophuia, it might be dangerous to make ufe of repel- lent applications, at the fame time that it is not often advifeable to promote their fuppuration, from the cure of the fores which fucceed to this proving always te- dious and uncertain 3 and fuch fwellings, it is well known, may remain for a great length of time, without any fort of rilk to the patient 3 fo that, in general, we think it mod prudent never to meddle with them. In Lues Venerea too, as we are poflefled of almod a certain antidote for the difor- der,3 and as buboes, and other inflammato- ry fwellings that .^occur in it, are common- ly, when opened, exceedingly troiiblefome, and32 of the ’Treatment of Chap. and very difficult of cure ; it is perhaps, for thefe reafons, the beff pradlice to re- move them by difcuflion : And this more efpecially, as their being brought to fup- puration, can by no means free the patient from the difeafe ^ but leaves him, on the contrary, under the fame necef- fity of undergoing a mercurial courfe, as if no evacuation from the tumor had ta- ken place. In cafes of Eryfipelas likewife, which is a variety of inflammation, but which is eafily diftinguifhed from real phlegmon, by the colour of the inflamed part not be- ing of fuch a bright red, but having a more dark copper-like appearance; and by the fwelling that occurs in it, not rifing e- vidently into a tumor, but being rather diflTufed, and ending as it were impercepti- bly upon the furrounding parts, we Ihould always endeavour to remove the difeafe by difcuflion; as, when fwellings of this nature fuppurate, they feldom either af^ ford good pus, or heal kindly when open- ed. HenceSe6l. II. Inflammation by Refolution, 33 Hence it appears, that with a few ex- ceptions, it is the heft pradice to endea- vour to remove inflammatory tumors by refolution. § 2. Of the Remedies to be employed for the Refolution of an inflamed Part. In the incipient ftate of phlegmon, \vhen the fymptoms are not fo violent as to affedl: the general fyfl:em, topical reme- dies alone, with a due attention to regi- men, often prove fuccefsful. But when, on the contrary, the inflammation runs high, and accompanied with general fymptoms of fever, it then becomes ne- ceflary at the fame time to pay attention to thefe. In almofl; every cafe of phlegmon, it has been the prevailing practice to employ warm fomentations and cataplafms 3 but, as w^arm emollient applications have the moft powerful influence in promoting flip- puration, as will be fliewn more particu- VoL. I. C krlyOf the "freatment of Chap. L 34 larly hereafter, the ufe of fuch remedies, while the refolution of fwellings is prac- ticable, muft neceffarily be improper. In the treatment of phlegmon by refo- lution, the firfl: circumftance requiring attention, is the removal of the exci- ting caufes of the difeafe^ fuch as, extra- neous bodies in wounds 3 pieces of frac- tured bones; luxations; and, in Ihort, whatever may appear to have influence in exciting pain or irritation. Of the various applications ufually em- ployed for inflammation, thofe of a feda- tive nature are chiefly to be depended on > and, next to thefe, emollients. Of the former kind, may be confidered all the different preparations of lead dif- folved in vinegar; and it is prefumed tqo, that the vegetable acid, by itfelf, likewife ads as a fedative. As emollients, the bland expreffed oils are often ufed with advantage ^ as alfo ointments of a foft confiftence, made with any of thefe and pure wax. I § 5-35 SecS. II. Inflammation hy Refolution. § 3. Remarks on the Preparations of Leady and other fedative Applications. In fpeaking* of fedative applications for external Inflammation, it will not be un- derftood that I mean to recommend in- dlfcriminately the whole clafs of medi- cines which In different circumftances are found to be of this nature. Thus^ opium, though one of the mofl: powerful of all fedatives, yet, as its external application to the human body is ufually attended with fome degree of irritation, however ufeful it may at times have been found in fome variety of inflammatory affedlons, it will never probably, as an exteimd ap- plication, be generally admitted. Warm emollent fomentations, too, though they no doubt, a6l powerfully as fedatives, as tending, from their nature, more effedually to remove tenfion and pain, than perhaps any other remedy, yet, from much experience of their effeds, in local inflammation, I have long been con- C 2 vinced36 Of the ^treatment of Chap. 1^. vinced, when the refolution of inflamed tumors is wiflied for, that fuch applica- tions very commonly do harm: For, in general, they either tend to promote fup- puration, or when long continued, are apt to induce fuch a relaxed ftate of the parts, as renders the thorough removal of the tumor always tedious. No fuch reafons, however, have occur- red againft the preparations of lead. On the contrary, we may affirm, that while they may be ufd with perfeft fafety, they prove alfo much more powerful as difcutients than any other remedy with which we are acquainted. We are induced to fuppofe, that the preparations of lead a6t chiefly as feda- tives, not only from their effeds upon the llomach, which appear all to be of a fe- datlve tendency ; but from their imme- diate and obvious operation when applied externally to an inflamed part: which, when the preparation is of a proper ftrength, is almofl: conftantly an abatement of the aifferent fymptoms of pain and tenfioUj^Sedl. II. Injlammation hy Refolution. 37 tenfion, at the fame time that an agree- able foothing fenfation communicated to all the parts to which they are ap- plied. Mr Goulard, in his diflertation upon the external ufe of the preparations of lead, recommends them as almoft equally proper in every ftage of inflammation. Even when tumors have come to full flip- puration, a proper ufe, he lays, of his Ex- traShm Saturniy not by its repelling qua- lity, for he will not allow it to be poflef- fed of filch, but by its occafioning an ex- fiidation of the contained matter, renders It almoft always unneceflary, he fays, to open them. He likewife mentions the fame remedy as a proper application in gangrene. From my own experience, however, of the pre- parations of lead, I cannot take upon me to recommend them in either .of thefe •cafes. I have, indeed, made trial of them in gangrenous cafes, but without any evi- dent efteds being produced by them : and, however ftrongly they may be recom- G 3 mended38 Of the "Treatment of Chap. I. mended by Mr Goulard, in the cure of ab- fceiles, or colleiSions of completely formed pus, I muft own, that, in this ftate of the difeafe, I never thought of employing them. So that it is in the real inflamma- tory ftate of the complaint only, and while a cure by difcuflion may ftill be expedled, that fuch applications are here meant to be advifed. From the known deliterious elFedls of lead, when taken into the fyftem, an objec- tion has, by forae authors, been raifed a- gainft a free ufe of the preparations of lead, even when externally applied. That lead, in different forms, has, on be^ ing taken into the ftomach, frequently proved poifonous, there is no reafon to doubt ^ and that, in fome particular in- ftances, difagreeable fymptoms have oc-. curred, where fonae of the preparations of lead have been externally ufed, is alfo per- haps certain. That fuch bad fymptoms, however, if they were not merely accidental, pr produced by other caufes, are, at leaft in general, very rare effects of the remedy in queftion.SecS. II. Injlammation hy Rejolution. 39 queftlon, I can venture, I think, certainly to affirm* For in all the experience which I have had of the external application of the preparations of lead, and in many cafes, particularly of burns, I have known the greateft part of the whole furface of the body covered with them for days, nay, even for weeks together, I do not recoi- led an inflance of any difagreeable fymp- tom being produced by them. Of all the preparations of lead for ex- ternal life, Saccharum Saturni^ or CeruJJa Acetata^ as it is now termed, is perhaps the beft, as It has all the advantages of the others ^ while, in it the exad ftrength of the preparation is more certainly aC- certained. For although in the Extrait de Saturn of Goulard, as likewife in xh^ Ace turn Lythargirites of our Difpenfatories, which :are b©th, it may be obferved, very nearly the fame, we may be very certain of the <}uantity of lead employed to the vinegar ; yet we can never, but by cryflallifation, know exadly, or even nearly, how much 4>f the lead the menftruum may have diC- C 4 folved,Of the Treatment of Chap, I, 4P folved, as this muft depend upon difFerent circumftances, and particularly on the ftrength of the acid, and ex^dl degree of heat that may be employed > which are points, we may obferve, not always in our powder exadly to regulate. For thefe rea- fons, therefore, the fait, or fugar of lead, as it is called, fliould be always preferred, when it can be procured in an unadultera- ted ftate; but, as of late it has often been found mixed with chalk, and other fubftan- ces not foluble in water, I have elfewhere had occafion to remark, that till this abufe is obviated, the Acetum Lythargiri will ne- celTarily be preferred. The bed mode of applying the remedy, feerns to be in the form of a watery folu- tion; for the preparation of which, the following proportions are, for general ufe, found to anfwer : ^ Sacchar. faturn, unc. fs. Solve in acet, pur. unc. iv. Et adde aq. fontan. deftillat. lb, ii, The addition of viueg r r n ers the fo- Intion much more complete than it other? wifeSe(S. II. Injiammation ly Refolution. 41 wife would be; and without it, indeed, when fuch a large proportion of the lead is ufed, a confiderable part of it common- ly feparates and falls to the bottom. This is the form which I commonly em- ploy for the ufe of this remedy 3 but as Goulard’s extract and water are preferred by many, I think it right to mention his method of preparing them.—The extrad: is prepared as follows: To each quart, containing thirty-two ounces, of French wine-vinegar, add one pound of litharge of gold. Put them into a glazed earthen veflel, and let them fim- mer for an hour, or an hour and a quar- ter, upon a gentle fire, taking care to ftir them during the ebullition with a wo%den fpatula : The veflel is now to be removed from the fire ^ and the fseces being allow- ed to fubfide, the liquor upon the top muft be poured into bottles for ufe. The water ufed by Mr Goulard, which he terms the Vegeto-mineral water^ is pre- pared by adding two tea-fpoonfuls, which he fpecifies to be one hundred drops, of thisOf the treatment of Chap. L 42 this extrad, to a quart of water, and four tea-fpoonfuls of brandy. The quantity of the extract and brandy to be diminiflied or increafed according to the nature of the diforder, or degree of fenlibility in the part affeded. In making ufe of either of thefe folu- tions, as it is of confequence to have the parts alFedted kept conftantly moift, cata- plafms prepared with them and crumb of bread, in general anfwer that intention ex- ceedingly well. But, when the inflamed part is fo tender and painful as not eafily to bear the weight of a poultice, a circum- fiance by no means uncommon, pieces of foft linen, moiftened with the folution, anfw^ the purpofe tolerably well: Al- though, when this objedEion to the ufe of cataplafms does not occur, as they retain the moiflure longer, they fhould always be preferred. Thefe applications fhould be always made when cold, or at leaft with no greater warmth than is merely neceflary for preventing pain or uneafi- nefs; they fhould be kept almofl conftant- lySedt. II. Inflammation by Rejolution. ^43; ly at the part, and renewed always before turning hard. Among the remedies recommended for external ufe in cafes of inflammation, we mentioned Emollients. Thefe, when the tenfion and irritation on the Ikin are con- fiderable, prove often ferviceable: the parts affedled, being, in this ftate of the difeafe, gently rubbed over with any of the mild exprefled oils two or three times a-day, the tenfion, irritation, and pain, are thereby much relieved, and the dlfcufllon of the tumor thereby greatly promoted. In every cafe of inflammation, indeed, emollient applications would aflTord relief. But as the preparations of lead prove ftill more efiedlual, and as unguents of every kind tend conflderably to blunt the adion of lead 5 thefe two fets of remedies fiiould never be combined : Nor fliould emollients be ever prefcribed, but when irritation, tenfion, of pain, are fo confiderable as to^ render their application indilpeniible. When parts aflfeded with inflammation are not very tenoer, and efpecialiy when they44 Q/* T^reatment of Ohap, L they He deep, the application of the vege- table acid is often employed with advan- tage ; and the beft form of ufing it is in cataplafms, made with the ftrongeft vine- gar and crumb of bread. In fuch cafes, too, I have fametimes found, that an al- ternate ufe of this remedy, with the fa- turnine folution already pointed out, has produced more beneficial effedls, than we commonly derive from the continued ufe of any one of them. At the fame time that thefe applications are continued, bleeding with leeches, or cupping and fcarifying as near as pollible to the part affedted, proves generally ufe- ful, and, in no cafe of local inflammation, flioiild ever be omitted. In all fuch cafes, the whole body, and more efpecially the difeafed part, fliould be preferved as free as poffible from every kind of motion: The patient ihould be kept upon a cooling regimen, and Ihould abftain entirely from the ufe of wine and fpirits. In all the flighter degrees of inflamma- tion, a due perfeverance in the remediesSed. II# Inflammation by Refolution. 45 we have mentioned, will, in general, be found fufficient. But, when the pulfe is quick, full, or hard, and accompanied with other fymptoms of fever, general blood- letting ought never to be omitted^ the quantity to be determined by the violence of the diforder, age, and ftrength of the patient. The ufe of gentle laxatives, too, together with cooling diaphoretics, prove in fuch circumftances very commonly ufe- ful. Thefe evacuations being premifed, we ought to endeavour to procure eafe and reft to the patient; which in the treat- ment of every inflammatory tumor is an objed of the firft importance. Where the patient is deprived of natural reft, and in all cafes accompanied with pain and irritation, opium is the remedy upon which alone we can place dependence- In large wounds, efpecially after amputa- tions and other capital operations; in pundures of all kinds too 3 large dofes of opium very commonly prove ufeful. In all fuch cafes, however, opium, in order46 Of the treatment of Chap. L to have a proper Influence, mufl be given in full dofes: otherwife it often does harnij a circumftance to be confidered as the chief reafon of opiates having by many been unjuftly condemned in every cafe of inflammation. With proper attention to the circum- fiances we have mentioned, the refolution of the tumor will, in general, begin to take place in the courfe of three or four days; at leafl before the end of this pe- riod, it may for the mod part be known how the diforder will terminate. If the heat, pain, and other attending fymptoms, abate ; and efpecially if the tumor begins to decreafe, without the appearance of Gangrene, we may then, with fome cer- tainty, conclude;, that perfeverance in the fame mode of treatment, will at lafl ac- complifh a cure by refolution. But, on the contrary, if all the fymp- toms rather increafe^ and efpecially, if the tumor turns larger, and fomewhat foft, with an increafe of throbbing pain 3 we may then with certainty conclude that fuppurationSed. II. Inflammation by Refolution. 47 fuppuration will take place ; In fuch cir- cumftances, thofe applications fhould be laid afide that were advifed while a cure by refolution was judged to be pradlicable, at the fame time that nature fhould be as much as poflible alhfted in the formation of pus, or what is called maturation of the tumor. For this reafon, blood-letting, and other evacuations which may have been advi- fable in attempting to remove the fwelling by difcuffion, fhould never be carried a greater length than may be merely necef- fary for rendering the febrile fymptoms moderate ^ for where the fyftem is much reduced, and fuppuration afterwards takes place, the maturation of the tumor not only proceeds flowly, but the patient be- comes unable to bear the difcharge that muft enfue from the opening or burfting of the abfcefs. But although we have remarked above, that if fome appearances of refolution do not take place in the courfe of a few days fuppuration will moft probably enfiie, and4§ Of the "treatment of Ghap. and that confequently a change of treat- ment will becomenecellary, yet this, It mult be obferved, Is to be taken in a limited fenfe. For the time of defifting from one mode of treatment and commencing the other, mufl; always in fome meafure de- pend on the feat of the inflammation; fuch diforders being in fome parts much more apt to terminate in fpeedy fuppura-^ tion than in others. Thus, in the cellular membrane, as well as in every foft part of the body, inflamma- tory tumors terminate much more readily ahd quickly than when tough membranous parts are affeded. Hence, in the coats of the eye and of the tefticles, very violent in- flammation often continues for many days, nay, even for weeks, without either aba- ting in the fymptoms, or ending in fup- puration. In fuch cafes, therefore, that go on even to conliderable length, we need not be afraid of continuing the difcutient applications for a much longer time than otherwife would be proper; nor fhould we ever be deterred from uling I them^Sed:. ll. Inflammation by Refolution. 49 them, unlefs either an evident fuppiiratlon has taken place, or there appears from the violence of the fymptoms a confiderable rllk, either of gangrene, or of fome incu- rable obftrudion: In which event, we Ihould no doubt endeavour to promote the fuppuratlon' of the tumor. Among other applications for the re- moval of inflammation by refolution, bli*> fters ought not to be omitted, and I have in fome inftances known them prove ufe- ful, even where fuppuration has taken place. In the early ftages of inflamma- tion, blifters fliould be applied dii*e6tly upon the pained part ^ but when the Ikin is much inflamed, they excite fo much pain that we rather apply -them to the contiguous found parts: in this manner they have appeared to promote the difcuflion of ve- nereal buboes, even where matter has been evidently formed. VoL. I. D SEC-Of Suppuration, Chap. £ 5-0 I SECTION III. Of Suppuration, § I. General^emarks on Suppuration, By the term Suppuration^ is underftood, that procefs, by which the contents of tumors and ulcers are converted into a whitifli, thick, opaque, fomewhat fetid matter, termed Pus, This, for the moil: part, is the effedl of nature alone ^ but we know from experience, that the formation of pus can be promoted by the efforts of art: Before proceeding, however, to con- fider the treatment neceffary for this pur- pofe, it will not be improper to premife an examination of the different opinions that have prevailed on the nature of pus, and this efpecially, as it will tend to elu- cidateSea. III. 51 of Suppuration. cidate many of the obfervations that will afterwards occur. § 2. Of the Formation of Pus. By many pus has been fuppbfed to com lift in a diflblution of the blood-veflels, nerves, mufcles, and other folids, of the parts in which inflammation occurs. This was the opinion of Boerhaave Platner f, and many others. Others, again, have fupppofed purulent matter to be formed in the blood; and that it is fecretedj in its complete ftate, in- to Abfcefles, Wounds, and Ulcers. That the firft of thefe opinions is ill founded, is obvious from our obferving, that very extenflve wounds and ulcers con- tinue often for a great length of time, without being attended with any lofs of fubftance; which would not be the cafe, if the difcharge which they afford was produced by a diflblution of the folids D 2 gf * Aphorifm, 387. f V. Inflitutiones Chirurgiss, § 54.52 Of Suppuration. Chap*^ I. I of the parts in which they are feated. Ifllies^ likewife, afford inftances of this; by their yielding^ for a mimber of years, even a daily difcharge of pus, without pro- ducing any evident alteration in the date of the folids, The other opinion has probably arifen from abfcelles being fometimes obferved to form fiiddenly, and without being pre- ceded by any obvious inflammation; fo that the matter contained in them has been fuppofed to be at once depofited from the blood, in a date completely purulent. Previous, however, to the formation of pus in any part, if due attention was given, fome degree of inflainmatioii, it is pro- bable, would be always obferved. But as inflammation often occurs in a flight de- gree, and without being attended with much pain, it may fometimes proceed to the date of fuppuration, without being fooner obferved by the patient: and this we know, in internal abfcefles efpecially, is not unfrequently the cafe. We are told, indeed, of very quick tranflations of matterSed. III. Of Suppuration, 53 matter from one part of the body to ano- ther : but if fuch inftances ever occur without the intervention of inflammation, a circumflance, however, much to be doubted ; yet, ft ill, it is no material ob^ jedion to our argument, as liich cafes can only be confidered as particular^ and very Mnufual, exertions of the fyftem. It may be remarked alfo, that if puru- lent matter frequently exiiied in the blood, as it undoubtedly would do if this opinion was well founded; in fome cafes, at leaft, it would furely be liable to detedion: but no matter of this kind has ever yet been difeovered in blood. Such pus, too, as is found in wounds and ulcers, would not at firft appear thin and ferous, as it always <ioes, if depofited in a completely formed ftate. The moft probable opinion hitherto ad- vanced concerning the formation of pus, is, that it is a change produced by a cer- tain degree of fermentation, upon the fe- rous part of the blood, after being fecreted into the cavities of ulcers and abfeefles ; D 3 and54 Of Suppuration. Chap. I. and that this fermentation is produced ei- ther by the natural heat of the part, or by heat artificially applied. Thar it is the ferum only of blood, which is proper for the formation of pus, and that it is produced by the application of a certain degree of heat, was firft made probable by an experiment related by Sir John Pringle in the appendix to his trea- tife on the difeafes of the army ^ ^ and the opinion was afterwards confirmed by Other experiments of the fame nature made by Mr Gaber, and related by him at full length in the fecond volume of the A£ia Taurinenfia. Sir John Pringle found, that pure fe« rum, kept for fome.days in a furnace re- gulated to the human heat, after becoming turbid, dropped a white purulent fedi- ment. The craflamentum of blood, in the fame fpace of time and degree of heat, changed from a deep crimfon to a dark livid colour; fo that, when any part of it ^as mixed with water, it appeared of a tawney f Experiment xlv.Of Suppuration, 55 Sed. III. tawney hue. Serum, digefted with a few red globules, and in the fame circumftan- ces, was of the fame colour. Mr Gaber’s experiments tend all to elu- cidate and corroborate the fame opinion, namely, That pure unmixed pus is form- ed only from ferum. The addition of red globules to ferum, and craflamentum digefted by itfelf, exhibited nearly the fame appearances as thofe quoted above from Sir John Pringle Fat, which is thought by many to be a principal ingre- dient in the compofition of pus, was found by Mr Gaber, when exppfed to the above mentioned trial, to exhibit no appearances of that matter ; nor were any of the fiefliy parts when digefted either with ferum or water, convertible into it. From all which, it may be concluded, that the addition of any of tbefe articles to ferum, inllead of rendering it capable of producing good pus, has always the very contrary elFed ; and that it is pure ferum alone from which pus can be ob- tained. D4 * V. Ail. Taurin. toI. ii. page 87. Itof Suppuration^ Chap, L ^6 It may here be remarked, once for all, that what is meant by pure ferum^ is not that finer halitus, which, in a healthy fiate of the body, is conftantly fecreting into the different cavities, merely for the pur- pofe of lubricating and keeping them moift, and which is again generally abforbed ; but it is a ferous fluid of the fame nature with that which feparates fppntaneoufly from blood, upon that fluid being allowed to remain at reft, when difcharged either from an artery or a vein; and in which, though there is never fuppofed to be any mixture of red globules, yet there is cer^ tainly always more or lefs of the coagu- lable lymph ; fome proportion of which feems abfolutely neceflary for ferum to poflTefs, to render it capable of producing pus. The feveral effeds we have mentioned as being produced by digeftion upon ferum out of the body, there is reafon to think will occur from it, when colleded in the cavities of ulcers and abfceffes; and, from thp refult of the different experiments al- lude4) Sed:. III. Of Suppuration. 57 luded to, It is probable, that, according as ferum is there depolited more or lefs free from mixtures of fat, red globules, and other fubftances, It will yield pus of a more pure or vitiated nature. 'JThis account of the formation of pus, is the mofl: fatisfadory, we conceive, of any that has as yet been given; and this efpe- cially, as it renders evident, as will after- wards appear, the operation of the reme- dies which ufually prove mofl; effedual in promoting fuppuration. § 3* Q/* neceffary Remedies for promoting Suppuration. When, for the reafons we have enu- merated, it is judged mofl: proper to ufe means for promoting the fuppuration of an inflamed part, then all the remedies we have recommended, in order to promote the refolution of the tumor, mufl; be laid afide. No farther evacuations, as was obferved ^bove, are to be admitted ^ and if the pa- tient58 of Suppuration. Chap. I. tient has been much weakened, a full al* lowance of diet, and even a proportion of wine will be neceffary. For although a high degree of inflamma- tion proves always unfavourable to fuppu- ration, by promoting the progrefs of Gan- grene, as will afterwards be mentioned, or as tending to propel into the cellular membrane, which in general is the feat of abfcefles, a quantity of red globules, toge- ther with the ferum of the blood, which alone ought to be extravafated for the for- mation of good pus ; yet, in order to have a due quantity of ferum fecreted for the purpofe of fuppuration ^ and, at the fame time, to have its fermentation properly carried on, the different inflammatory fymptoms mufl: never be allowed to fubfide fuddenly ; otherwife an abfcefs, contain^ ing ill-digefted matter, as it is termed, will mofl: probably be produced. Thus we find in finall-pox, which are fo many fmall phlegmafiae, that although blood-letting and other evacuations to a certain extent prove frequently ufeful, that a59 Of Suppuration* Sea. III. a proper fuppuration never takes place of the patient has been much debilitated by any confiderable difcharge ^ and the fame thing very certainly occurs, infimilar cir- cumftances, in abfceffes of a larger fize. The patient, therefore, Ihould neither be allowed to live fo fully as might raife the inflammation too high, nor reduced in fuch a manner, by evacuations and low diet, as to induce the contrary extreme. Having in this manner endeavoured to procure a difcharge into the cellular mem- brane, of ferum proper for the formation of pus, the next circumftance requiring at- tention, is, that a due fermentation be ex- cited, and preferved in it, fo that its pro- grefs towards perfed: maturation, may go eafily and regularly on. This indication is chiefly elFeded by the ufe of fuch applications as tend to preferve a proper and conftant degree of heat in the part aflPeded : infomuch, that it feems probably owing to a want of at- tention to this circumftance, that the greateft part of all the fofter fwellings do ' not6o Of Suppuration. Chap. L not fuppurate ; and that according the degree of heat in which they are kept, whether from the proportion of inflam- mation by which they are at firfl: produ- ced, or from the natural heat of the part they are feated in, they form into tumor$ of melicerous, fleatomatous, and other confiftences. For unlefs a due degree of heat be applied and continued, ferurn be- ing merely extravafated will never pro- duce pus : Hence in afcites, and other dropfical diforders, large quantities of ferum remain in this ftate for a great length of time, without any fuppuration taking place ^ and this merely from fuch colledtions being produced without any inflammation at firfl, fo that no afliftance is afforded from any degree of preternatu- ral heat; and the natural \iQi\t of fuch parts, in which ferous colleftions ufually occur, is feldom fo confiderable as to pro- duce fuch an effedl. The degree of heat heft fuited for pro- moting fuppuration, is not perhaps eafily to be determined; but the more confider- able6t Sed. III. Of Suppuration. able it is, at leaft to a certain extent, the more quickly, it is probable, pus will be formed. This we find, indeed, from Mr Gaber’s experiments, is fo far the cafe ^: and the obfervation is likewife confirmed by daily experience in every cafe of phlegmon^ in which the tumor, caeteris paribus, al- ways proceeds more quickly or flowly to fuppuration, as it is feated nearer to, or at a greater diftance from, the heart. Hence, in any of the extremities, parti- cularly in the legs, inflammatory difor- ders proceed flowly to fuppuration; while thofe on the trunk, and about the head, go on more quickly. Thus, inflamma- tion of the ears and throat frequently ar- rives at a thorough maturation, and even burfts ' of itfelf in the courfe of forty- eight hours from the firfl: attack. We ought, therefore, to be particular- ly attentive to the prefervation of a due degree * When fpeaking of pus being formed in, and fub- fiding from ferum digefted in a degree of heat equal to that of the human body, Mr Gaber fays, “ Eo autem citius fubiidebat quo calor erat major.** Loco citato^Chap. I; of Suppuration. 62 degree of heat in every inflamfed part intended to be brought to fuppuration) but more efpecially in fituations very di- ftant from the heart, where artificial heat is moft wanted, and where, if duly ap- plied, almoft every tumor, though feated on the extremities, might probably be made to fuppurate in the fame fpace of time with thofe in the ears and other parts we have juft taken notice of. I am not only convinced, by experi- ence, of what is here aflerted of the ad- vantages to be obtained from a due atten- tion to this matter ^ but alfo, from a courfe of experiments I was engaged in fome years ago upon the fame fubjedf. But as the refult of thefe were almoft exadlly fi- milar to thofe related by Mr Gaber, no exact account was preferved of them: this, however, I particularly remember, that in a heat equal to loo^ of Farenheit’s thermometer, the depofitiou of matter from ferum took place in little more than half the time that was requifite for the fame effedt at even eighty degrees. ItSed. III. Of Suppuration. 6'3 It was the profecution of thefe experi- ments that firft fuggefted to me the pro- bability of the advantages to be derived from the prefervation of a due degree of heat in inflamed parts ; and I have accord- ingly, on many occafions fince that period, found the treatment of inch cafes go on much more eafily than otherwife I fliould either have expeded or have been able to ex'plain. Warm fomentations and cataplafins are the means commonly employed for the application of heat to an inflamed part; and when regularly and frequent- ly renewed, nothing, it is probable, can more effedually anfwer the purpofe. But, in the ordinary manner in which they are applied, being renewed only once, or at moft twice, in the day, they muft frequently do* more harm than good. For as foon as the degree of heat which they at firft poflefs, is diflipated, the moifture which they keep up, with the confequent evaporation that cnfues, muft always render the part much colder64 of Suppuration. Chap. 1< colder than if it had been merely wrap- ped in flannel, without the ufe of any fuch application. In order to receive all the advantages of fuch remedies, the part affeded Ihould be well fomented with flannels prefled out of any warm emollient decodion, applied as warm as the patient can eafily bear them, continued at leafl: half an hour at once, and renewed four or five times a-day. Immediately after the fomentation is o- ver, a large emollient poultice fliould like- wife be applied warm, and renewed every fecond or third hour at fartheft. Of all the forms recommended for emollient ca- taplafms, a common milk-and-bfead poul- tice, with a proportion of butter or oil, is perhaps the moft eligible ^ as it not only pofiefles all the advantages of the others, but can at all times be more eafily obtain- ed. Roafted onions, garlic, and other acrid vegetables, are frequently made ufe of as additions to maturating cataplafms: When there is not a due flegree of inflammations inSecS. III. Of Suppuration. 65 in the tumor, and when it appears proba- ble that the fuppiiratlon would be quicken- ed by the imflammatory fymptoms being fomewhat increafed, the addition of fuch fubftances may prove ufeful; but when ftimulants are neceflliry in fuch cafes, a fmall proportion of (trained galbanum, or of any of the warm gums, diflblved in the yolk of an egg, and added to the poul- tices, is not only a more elegant, but a more certain form of applying them. In fome cafes, too, the fame intention may I be more certainly accomplifhed, by com- bining a fmall quantity of cantharides with any application we mean to employ. Whenever the inflammation, however, takes place in a proper degree, fuch ftimu- lating fubftances can never be necelTary ) and from the different obfervations we have already made, there is reafon to think, that in many inftances they might even do mif- chief. In fuch tumors as, from their being at- tended with little or no inflammation, are commonly faid to be of a cold nature, as VoL. I. E they66 Of Suppuration. Chap, I, they are generally indolent, and proceed very ilowly to fuppuratlon, pladers com- pofed of the warm gums are often em- ployed with advantage: in fuch cafes, they prove ufeful, not only by the ftimu- lus and irritation which they excite, but by the heat v/hich they tend to preferve in the part. They become particularly necelTary, when the patient, by being obli- ged to go abroad, cannot have cataplafms frequently enough renewed, or fo conve- niently applied: but when fome fuch ob- jedlion does not occur, the latter, for very obvious reafons, Ihould always be prefer- red. Dry cupping, as it is termed, that is, cupping without the ufe of the fcarificator, upon, or as near as poffible to, the part aifedted, is frequently ufed with advantage for promoting the fuppuration of tumors: it is only, however, in fuch as thefe laft mentioned, where there feems to be a de- ficiency of inflammation, that it can ever either be neceflary or ufeful ^ but in all tumors of an indolent nature, and where there67 Se6l. III. Of Suppuration^ there is ftill feme probability of fuppura- tion taking place, I have feldom obferyed fuch good effeds from any other remedy. Thefe different applications, under the reftriclions I have mentioned^ being con- tinued for a longer or fliorter period, ac- cording to the fize of the tumor, its fitua- tion and other circiimftances, a thorough fuppuration may, in general, at lafl be ex- peded* Matter being fully formed in a tumor, is known by the remiffion of all the fymp- toms which takes places the dolor pulfati- lis, that before was frequent, now goes off; and the patient complains of a more dull, conftant, heavy pain: the tumor points at fome particular part, generally near to its middle; where,, if the matter is not eneyfted, or deep-feated, a whitifh yellow appearance is obferved, inftead of a deep red that formerly took place; and the fluduation of a fluid underneath, is, upon prefliire, very evidently difeovered* Some- times, indeed, when an abfeefs is thickly covered with mufcular and other parts; E 2 and68 Of Suppuration. Chap. Iv and when, from concurring clrcumftances^ there can be little doubt of there being even a very confiderable collection of mat- ter, yet the fluctuation cannot be readily diftinguifhed: but it does not often hap- pen, that matter is fo very deeply lodged as not to be difcovered upon proper exa- mination. This, however, is a circumftance of much importance In pradice, and de- ferves, it may be remarked, more atten- tion than it commonly meets with. In no part of the furgeon’s employment, is experience in fimilar cafes of more ufe to^ him than in this; and however Ample it may appear, yet nothing, it is certain, more readily diilinguiflies a man of ob- fervation, than his being able eaflly tn deted colledions of deep-feated matter: whilft nothing, on the contrary, fo mate- rially afleds the charader of a furgeon,. as his having, in fuch cafes, given an in- accurate or unjuil: prognoiis; for the e- vent, in diforders of this nature, comes generally at lafl: to be clearly demonii ra- ted to all concerned. Together'■Sed:. III. Of Suppuration^ 69 In E3 Together with the feveral local fymp- toms of the exiftence of pus which I have enumerated, the frequent fhiverings that patients are liable to on its firft forma- tion, may likewife be mentioned: thefe, however, feldom occur, fo as to be di- ftindly obferved, unlefs the colledion is confiderable, or feated internally in ibme of the vifcera. But, in every large ab- fcefs, they are almoft conftantly met with^ and, when they appear along with other fymptoms of fuppuration, they tend ,always to afcertain the real nature of the diford en § 4. Of Abfceffes^ and of the proper Period for opening them. In the treatment of ahfcelles, it is a ge- neral rule, not to difcharge their contents till a thorough fappuration has taken place: for, when laid open long before this period, and while any confiderable hardnefs remains, they commonly prove troublefome, and feldom heal kindlv.Of Suppuration. Chap. I. 70 In fome cafes, however, it is neceflary' to deviate from this general rule, and to open them a good deal fooner; particu- larly in all fuch critical abfcefles as oc- cur in malignant fevers. In the plague, too, we are commonly advifed to open fuch tumors as foon as they are tolerably advan- ced, and not to wait till they are fully ma- turated^ for, in fuch inftances, it is found that the patient receives more benefit from an early difcharge of matter, than he can fuffer harm from having any fwelling of this nature fomewhat prematurely laid open. AbfcefTes, too, fituated on any of thq joints, or upon either of the large cavities of the breafl and abdomen, and more efpecially when they feem to run deep, fhouid always be opened as foon as the leaft fludluation of matter is difcovered., For, when the refiftance is on every fide equal, they will juft as readily point inter- nally as outwardly ; and the confequence of a large abfcefs burfting into either of the large cavities, is well known moft fre-Sed. III. Of Suppuration. 7^ E4 In queritly to prove fatal; An Inftance of which, In the following cafe, I had fome time ago an opportunity of obferving,which, with very little attention, might have been prevented. A furgeon of eminence, and of extern five pradice, was applied to by a young healthy-looking man, with a large abfcefs upon the left fide of his chefl:. A fluid, upon preflTure, was evidently found to fluc- tuate ; and an opening was determined up> on, to give vent to the matter. But the operator being much engaged in bufinefs, could not fix on an earlier period for doing it than the third day from the firfl: appli- cation of the patient; who unluckily died fuddenly in his bed, the night before the abfcefs was to have been opened. On examining the body, the tumor was found to have difappeared entirely, with- out any external opening being perceived ^ and, on laying open the thorax, the matter was obferved to have burft inwardly upon the lungs, and hence had produced imme- diate fuffocation.Chap. I. Of Suppuration^ 72 In all other cafes, however, the rule In opening abfcelTes fliould be, to allow a thorough fuppuration to take place, before giving vent to the matter: We have next to determine on the mode in which itlhould be done. § 5. .0/' the different Methods of opening Two methods of opening abfceiles have been recommended by authors, namely, by Caudic and Incifion. To the former, however, there are many objedions. It Is not attended with any fuperior advan- tage to a iirnple incifion; upon a tender inflamed part, It gives much more pain; it is more flow in its effeds; and the furgeon never has the command of it fo entirely as to deftroy thofe parts he would incline, and no more : for all the different kinds of cauflic, notwithflanding the greatefl:attention, willfometimesfpread farther, and penetrate deeper than was in- tended. Of this I, iome years ago, faw a verySea. III. 73 of Suppuration. very remarkable inftance ^ and in a fitua^ tion, too, In which it Is not lb likely to happen, as in other parts of the body. Caufllc was applied to the anterior part of the fcrotum, with a view to produce a radical cure of a hydrocele : but whether there had been little water colleaed, or whether a preternatural adhefion of the teftis to the tunica vaginalis had, at this part, been produced, is uncertain; but the cauftic penetrated to the body of the tefticle, and gave the patient, as may rea- dily be imagined, a great deal of dill refs. It did, to be fure, accomplifh a cure: but the danger attending fuch an acci- dent, although it probably might not fre- quently occur, is, I fhould imagine, a very flrong objection to the ufe of cau- flic in all fuch cafes; and it is now in- deed very generally, I believe, laid afide, the preference being juflly given to the fcalpel. When tumors are not large, they are commonly opened by a longitudinal incl- fion, with a lancet or fcalpel. This Ihould be74 Of Suppuration. Chap. I. be fo direded as to terminate at the mofl: depending part of the fwelling, and fhould be of fuch a fize as may give a free dif- charge to the matter; about two thirds of the length of the tumor is for this pur- pofe perfedlly fufficient. When abfcefies, however, are of great extent, they are commonly laid open through their whole length; and when the teguments have been much ftretched, we are advifed by many to take part of them away altogether. But this is a prac- tice which feldom, or perhaps never, fliould be followed; as there are fcarcely any abfcelles fo large as to deftroy entire- ly the contrailile power of the integu- ments ; and while this remains in any degree, there is ftill caufe to hope that the parts may again recover their former tone and dimenfions. It is furprifing in- deed to what extent this obfervation ap- plies. In many inftances, the Ikin has been known to recover its tone entirely, after having been for a time completely deprived of lU Thefe75 Se(5. III. Of Suppuration. Thefe are the feveral modes of opening abfceiles with the fcalpel. Some incon- veniences, however, are found to proceed from all of them: As foon as an incifion is made into a tumor, the whole contain- ed matter is difcharged fuddenly and at once : Whereby, when the collection is confiderable, faintings and other difagree- able fymptoms are often induced; and a free admiflion of air is given to a great extent of ulcerated furface. The bad eifeCts of air on all varieties of fores, is well known to every praCtitioner^ but its pernicious influence, on a newly opened abfcefs, is often really aftonifhing. Jt firft occafions a total change in the na- ture of the matter, and turns it from per- haps a very laudable pus to an ill-digefted fanies 3 and afterwards brings on a quick- nefs of pulfe, debilitating fweats, and o- ther fuch fymptoms, which, for the mod part, when the collection has been confi- derable, either carries the patient off in a fhort time, or terminates in a confirmed phthifis, which fooner or later proves fatal. This76 Of Suppuration^ Chap. L This I have, In many inftances, had oc^ cafion to obferve; and that, in fuch cafes, it is the admiilion of air alone which pro^ duces thefe bad fymptoms, is rendered highly probable from a great proportion of patients who have laboured under fuch diforders, having remained for a very con- fiderable time, with large abfcelles fully formed,and wi thout having any hedic fy mp.- tom whatever: But whenever they have exceeded an ordinary or moderate fize, I have feldom known an inftance of their being opened by a large incifion, without almoft every hedic fymptom taking places and this generally in lefs than forty-eight hours from the time of the abfcefs being laid open. In what manner the admiffion of air to an abfcefs operates in producing fuch a powerful and fudden effed, is perhaps dif. ficult to determine. The irritation produ^ ced by it, on a large extent of ulcerated furface, may probably be one reafon :—By ading as a ftimulus on the extremities of the different abforbents opening into the fore^77 Se6i. Ill, Of Suppuration, fore, It may occafion a larger abforption of matter than would otherwife take place ;—and It may llkewlfe, by rendering the matter more putrid than before, give even to the fame quantity abforbed greater adllvltyjn producing the different fymp- toms of fever. That this conjedure is well founded, with refped to an increafe of putrefcency being the principal caufe of the bad effeds produced by the admiflion of air to fores, is, from different circumftances, at lead: ex- ceedingly probable. For, in the firft place, although the difcharge from abfcefles is commonly mild, and free from any dif- agreeable fetor on their being newly laid open; it almoft conftantly becomes thin, acrid, and more fetid in the courfe of a few dreflings, which is a certain proof of a greater degree of putrefcency having then taken place. On this principle, too, we may account for the operation of many of the remedies commonly employed in the treatment of fores; and more efpe- cially of thofe powerful antifeptics, fixed air and Peruvian WeyS Of Suppuration. Chap. L 2 We know from experiment likewife, that other fubftances, as well as that part of the blood from which pus is formed, is rendered putrid, and more quickly fo, by the admiflion of air, than otherwife, while in the fame degree of heat, they probably ever wmuld be From thefe confiderations, therefore, the greatefl: caution appears to be necefla-^ ry for preventing, as much as poffible, the admiflion of air to the internal fiirface of every colledion of matter; and this, we may remark, is very eafily and eflfedlually done, by opening collections of this kind by means of a feton or cord, inftead of having recourfe either to cauftic or the fcalpel. This method of difcharging the con- tents of tumors, by the introdudion of a cord, is attended with every advantage of that by incifion: it, moreover, empties the fwellings, of whatever fize they may be, * Vide Sir Jchn Pringle’s and Mr Gaber’s experi» ments on this fubjed. Loc, cit.Se£t. III. Of Suppuration. 79 be, not fuddenly, but very gradually ^ it efiedually prevents a free admiffion of air 5 it is not commonly attended with fo much pain and inflammation^ nor is the cica- trix occafipned by it ever inconvenient, or •unfeemly, as it often is after a large in- cifion. At one time it was the practice in the Royal Infirmary of this place, to open large abfceffes, as well as thofe of a fmall- er lize, by extenfive incifions : the confe- quences were fuch as I have related 3 ma- ny of the patients were thrown into fuch obftinate hedtic fevers as they never re- covered from ^ and others, though they did get better at the time, were common- ly fo much reduced, that they were apt to be feized with other diforders, from which they feldom recovered. This was the moft frequent refult of our treatment of large abfcefles by incifions ^ and flmilar confequences will ftill be found to prevail where this pradice is continu- ed : but fince the feton came to be gene- rally ufed, few or no fiich difagreeable circumflancesof Suppuration. Chap. L §o circumflances have occurred. Many of the largeft tumors have been opened in this manner; and when the patients are otherwife healthy, they very commonly do well; with this farther advantage, that a cure Is frequently obtained in lefs than half the time ufually found neceflary on a tumor being opened with a large inci- lion. The opening of abfcefles by the intro- dudion of a feton, has been mentioned by different authors, and in fmall colledions of matter has been frequently pradifed; but never fo generally, I believe, as it has been here within thefe laft thirty years, both in the hofpital and in private. And in juftice to Mr James Rae, late furgeon in this place, it muft be acknowledged, that we are chiefly Indebted for it to his recom- mendation, he having firfl: propofed the general ufe of fetons in fuch cafes, at the fame time that he invented a fet of inflru- ments, by which they are eafily inferted in almoft all abfceffes, however deep-feat- ed, and among whatever parts they may I run;?III. Of Suppuration. 8i run; and this too, without any rl(k of wounding the large blood-veflels, nerves, or contiguous tendons. Several fets of theft inliruments, for ab- fcefles of different fizes, are kept in the Infirmary here : they fulfil the intention, as I have obftrved, exceedingly well, and are a very ingenious contrivance. But as the curved diredlor delineated in plate III. anfwers the purpoft equally well, and is in itftlf fully more fimple, it will for this reafon be found more convenient. It is uftd in the following manner. An opening fufficiently large for the cord, being made with a lancet in the fu- perior part of the abftefs,* the director, threaded with a cord of candle-wick cot- ton, or foft filk, proportioned in thiek- nefs to the fize of the tumor, is then to be introduced, and its point pufhed downwards till it is felt externally, exact- ly oppofite to the molt depending part of the fwelling. The director being kept firm by an afliflant, an incifion is to be made with a ftalpel upon its under extremity, VoL. I. F of82 of Suppuration. Cliap<rro- of a length fomewhat more confiderable than the opening fir ft made by the lancet: for when this is negledled, and when of courfe the under orifice is not larger than the upper, the matter is very apt to tran- fude above; which always proves incon- venient to the patien:, but which in this manner may be eafily avoided. The di- rector is now to be drawn downwards, with fo much of the cord as to leave two or three inches hanging out at the lower orifice. In order to caufe the cotton run eafily on its firft introduction, as likewife at the fubfequent dreflings, as much of it as is to be ufed at the time fhould be well rubbed over with any emollient oint- ment. In twenty-four hours or thereby from, the infertion of the cord, it ought to be drawn downwards, fo as to admit of all that part of it being cut off which had been lodged in the abfcefs; and in this^ manner the fame quantity fhould he mo- ved daily, as long as from circumftances. it may appear to be neceflary. I A83 Se£l. lit. Of Suppuration. A regular and flow difcharge of the matter is thus produced ; the fides of the abfcefs are thereby allowed to contrad gradually; and a flight inflammation be- ing produced over the whole internal fur-^ face of the difeafed parts, they are thus made to unite much fooner than they o- therwife would do. As the difcharge becomes lefs, fo the fize of the fe- lon fhould alfo be gradually leflened; and it is eafily done, by withdrawing a thread of the cotton once in two or three daySi At laft, when there is little more matter afforded than might be looked for from the fize of the cord, it may be alto- gether taken out; and gentle preffure be- ing continued upon the parts affeded by a roller for a few days longer, a pretty certain and kfting cure may generally be expeded. In the introdudion of the feton it was exprefsly faid, that it fhould be made from above downwards ; that is, by an opening made in the fuperior part of the abfcefsi The reafon for fuch a reftridion F 2 IS84 of Suppuration. Cliap. is this, that when the firfl: opening is made in the depending part of the fwelling, a confiderable quantity of matter immedi- ately runs out, which, as it caufes the lides of the upper part of it to collapfe, renders it more difficult to introduce the diredlor through the whole courfe of the abfcefs, than when done in the manner direded : when properly executed, the bottom as well as every other part of the tumor is kept diftended to the laft, very little of the matter efcaping by the upper orifice. Being introduced in this way, too, the quantity of cord that ftill remains to be ufed is kept clean and dry ^ which it cannot poflibly be. when inferred from beneath.. To Ibme thefe circumftances may ap- pear too trifling to deferve fuch particu- lar notice ; but too much can never be faid in rendering the account of a benefi- cial practice clear and evident. All that has hitherto been faid of the ufe of fetons in cafes of abfcefs from re- cent inflammation, applies with equal pro- priety85 Sed. III. Of Suppuration, priety to tumors of long duration, when the matter contained in them is either of a purulent nature, or of a confiflence not much thicker than pus. All eticyfted tu- mors of the thinner melicerous kind, are as fuccefsfully treated in this manner, as recent abfcefles: fo that the pradice is by no means confined to one kind of tumor only; and it may even probably be em- ployed In others, for which it has not as yet been advifed. It anfwers particularly well in all col- ledions of matter in glandular parts, where the admiffion of air is attended with even worfe confequences than in other parts. Thus, when it is judged advifable to open fcrophulous fwellings, they commonly heal much fooner and more eafily with the fe- ton than by a large incifion. Venereal buboes, too, when fully maturated, and when the teguments are not become too thin by being long overftretched, heal more readily by this management, than with any other. From the pradice anfwering fo well in every cafe of abfcefs, it was at laft, a good F 3 manyChap, I, 86 Of Suppuration. many years ago, employed by the late Mr Rae, in the Infirmary here, in the hydro- cele, or colledion of water in the tunica njaginalis tejlis j and, a confiderable time thereafter, the practice was adopted by the late Mr Pot. I muft acknowledge, however, that from the feveral inftances I have yet feen of its effedls in this diforder, I am inclined to think, that it ought not to be preferred to the fimple incilion. For, though I never knew an inftance, when the operation was properly done, of its failing to produce a radical cure, yet the fridlion of the cord upon the body of the teftis, to which, in this operation, it is immediately applied, generally occafions a very high degree of inflammation; confiderably more than is commonly produced by the fimple incifion. This was my opinion in the year 1778, when the firfl; edition of this book was publiihed. Since that period, I have had no other reafon to alter it, than to be more and more convinced that the treatment of hydrocele by feton, is productive of moreISeft. III. Of Suppuration. 87 pain than any other method of cure now in ufe ^ while, at the fame time, it is not more certain in its effeds than tlie Ample incifion. And, accordingly, although I could not at that time fpeak with preci- fion of the merits of this operation, I am now fatisfied that the cure by incifion ought, in every inftance, to be preferred. But when, in fuch cafes, it is refolved to employ the feton, the method of intro- ducing it, as we have direded for abfcefi fes, with a curved diredor of a proper fize, feems more Ample, though in other re- fpeds perhaps not better, than the mode Tecommended by Mr Pott, which being with the help of a common trocar, appears to be neither fafe nor eafily performed. For inftances have occurred, even v/ith very able furgeons now living, where th^ hody of the teftis has been wounded by jDunduring with that inftrument.88 Of Mortification. Chap. I. SECTION IV. Of Mortification. § I. General Remarks on Gangrene. HE termination of inflammation, by Refolution and Suppuration, having been fully confidered, we come next in order to fpeak of Gangrene or Mortifica- The feveral appearances of Gangrene having been already enumerated, it is not now neceflary to mention them : Only, it may be remarked, that a thorough morti- fication, or the laft ftage of gangrene, is known only by the difeafed part becoming totally black, by its lofing all pain and fenfution, at the fame time that it ufiially emits a confiderable fetor : at laft, too, a tion. foftnefsof Mortification. Sea, IV. 89 foftnefs or flaccldity takes place, together with an entire diflblution of the different parts of which the organ is compofed. This does not indeed happen in every inftance of Gangrene; for there are fome inftances of what is called Dry Gangrene, in which the parts continue totally mor- tified for a great length of time, without either turning flaccid, or running into diffolution. Such cafes, however, do not occur from inflammation. They commonly hap- pen from the flow of blood to fuch parts being flopped by compreflion viz* by tumors, ligatures, or other fimilar cau- fes, obflruaing the principal arteries that ufed to fupply them ; which, when the ftoppage of the circulation is com- plete, always occafions a very flow mor- tification ; and as the parts, in fuch inftances, are no longer fupplied with frefli quantities of fluids, while a confix derable exhalation muft ftill be going on, fuch a degree of humidity cannot there- fore occur, as in other cafes of gangrene. HenceOf Mortification. Chap. L 90 Hence this fpecies of the dlforder haSj per- haps with propriety enough, been termed the Dry Gangrene. Another variety of the difeafe is men- tioned by authors, vi%. the White Gan- grene *; in which the parts fuppofed to be mortified do not turn black, but retain nearly their former colour. Whether this complaint, however, can with propriety be denominated Gangrene, may probably be doubted: but as it is chiefly that fpe- cies of the diforder which fucceeds to in- flammation, that we can now with propriety confider, and in which no fucli varieties are ever obferved, we fliall not at prefent carry our inquiry farther; and it is the Icfs neceflary, as nearly the whole courfe of the treatment, to be afterwards point- ed out, applies, with almofl: equal proprie- ty, to every variety of the difeafe, Of all the inflammatory complaints to which the fyftem is liable, that variety of the diforder termed Eryfipelas, is obferved mofl: frequently to terminate in gangrene; and Quefnay, Traite de la Gangrene, p. 337.Se(S. IV. Of Mortification. 91 and whenever phlegmon Is In any degree conjoined with eryfipelas, as fometimes happens, It feems thereby to acquire a fi- mllar tendency, not only In being more difficult to bring to fuppuratlon than thq true phlegmon, but by going on more fre- quently to the ftate of mortification. The beft and fureft means of prevent- ing mortification, Is to endeavour to ob- tain either the refolutlon or fuppuratlon of the tumor, by a due application of the remedies we have already pointed out. But, In fome cafes, the diforder is far ad- vanced, and gangrene already begun, be- fore the furgeon’s aflifiance is called In; and, in others, the inflammation runs fo high, and proceeds fo quickly, that gan- grene takes place notwithftanding all the remedies we can employ: In fome in- ftances, this happens fo quickly, that the inflammation is fcarcely difcerned till mortification appears to commence.§2 Of Mortification. Chap. I. § 2. Obfervations on Curbuncles as a Species of Gangrene. This rapid progrefs of inflammation occurs mofl: frequently in cafes of Car- buncle, what by the French is termed Charbon; in which the inflammation pro- ceeds fo quickly to mortification, that in fome cafes no evident tumor takes place, and the parts become black, and completely mortified, often in the courfe of twenty-four hours from the firfl at- tack. The quick progrefs ufually made by Carbuncle, renders it the worfl: and per- haps the mofl: dangerous fpecies of inflam-' marioh. Patients indeed often recover from external carbuncles, when not very exten five, and not feated on any of the large blood-veflels and nerves ^ but when they fix upon any of the vifcera, they mufl, probably in every inflance, prove fatal, as, no remedies with which we are acquainted can prevent their progrefs towards the lafl flage of mortification. As93 SecS. IV. Of Mortification^ As carbuncles commonly appear without any evident caufe, they are in general inoll probably owing to a fcorbutic or pu- trid Hate of the fluids; for, when putref- cency prevails in the fyftem, every in- flammatory tumor that occurs, proceeds much more readily to the mortified flate than inflammation in other circumftances ever does. This opinion of carbuncles depending upon a putrefcent flate of the fyflem, feems to be confirmed by their occurring mofl frequently as a fymptom in peflilen- tial difeafes; for, although they are fome- times met with even In this country, where the plague is now never known, yet the real carbuncle is by no means a common occurrence. In fuch inftances we eafily account for gangrene, from the predifpofition in the fyflem to putrid diforders : But in what manner is it produced by inflammation In other cafes, and where no fuch difpofition can be fuppofed to take place ? This we fball proceed to invefligate.94 Of Mortification. Chap. § 3. Of the Gaufes of Gangrene. An increafed adtion In the veflels of afFeded parts, we have already endeavour- ed to eftablllh as the immediate or proxi- mate caufe of inflammation ; and the fame caufe will, in many Inftances, account for the rife of mortification. One evident effcd of an Increafed ac- tion in the veflels, in every cafe of inflam- mation, is a propulfion, into the fmaller capillaries, of a greater quantity of the more denfe parts of the blood than natural- ly they were meant to tranfmit. When this is not confiderable, a due circulation is frequently in a fhort time reftored, and no bad confequences enfue, nay, even when an adual extravafation of the ferous part of the blood into the cellular mem- brane has in fome degree taken place, the fluid is often reabforbed, and a cure is thus obtained by refolution. But when fuch ex- travafation produced by a farther increafe of this undue adion of the veflels, has taken place to a ftill greater degree, fuppuration is then the mofl: frequent confequence. When,Sea. IV. 9$ of Mortification* When, again, a ftrong exciting caufe is applied to a conftitution already pre- dlfpofed to inflammation; as a lace- rated wound, for inftance, in a young healthy man; the violent irritation, and Gonfequent increafed adion of the veflels that enfues, occafions the red particles of the blood to be likewife poured forth to- gether with the ferum. In this manner a colledion of an extravafated fluid is pro- duced, and the great degree of preternatu- ral heat kept up by the diforder, very rea- dily excites in it fome degree of fermen- tation; which, from the nature of the fluid it has to ad upon, not being able to produce purulent matter *, and the craf- famentum of blood being particularly li- able to run into the putrid fermentation f, mortification, * Mr Gaber, when fpeaking of his experiments upon the craflamentum of blood, fays, that he could never obtain genuine pus from it; and farther adds, “ Vero fimilius ergo fanguinem caeteris puris principiis admix- t-um, ipfum magis fcstidum et deterius reddere/’ &c. Isoco citato^ P* 87. t For fome animal fubftances, fuch as urine, the bile, and the cralTamentum of blood, foon putrefy. Sir John Pringle’s Experiments, Appendix, p. vi.p6 Of Mortification. Chap. I feparation mortification, which we may here confi- dor as the ultimate ftage of putrefadlon^ comes in courfe to be produced: Mortification being, In this manner, ex- cited, the progrefs which it afterwards makes, does not appear difficult to ex- plain. The putrefcent particles of the tumor, by infinuating into the cellular membrane of the contiguous parts, as In this manner they extend the contagion, fo they foon bring thefe likewife to fuffen In this way, the mortification continues to advance; till meeting with a part, per- haps, naturally more irritable than the others, or which by this time has been rendered fo by the different remedies tO' be pointed out, a certain degree of new inflammation comes to be eafily induced, in confequence of the ftimulus which pu- trid particles muff always occafion: This, as it renders the parts more firm and coin- pad:, makes them lefs eafily penetrable by the putrefcent contagion; and a fuppura^ tion of courfe enfuing as a confequence of the preceding inflammation, a complete97 Se6l. IV. Of Mortification. reparation of the difeafed from the found parts, is thereby, in general, fooil accom- pliftied. At lead, that fuch an inflammation, with a confequent fuppuration, does, in cafes of gangrene, alw^ays happen before the difeafed parts feparate from the found, is a fadt well known to every pradlitioner^ and, that the caufe afligned above for thefe appearances is the true one, is rendered highly probable, by the different circum- ftances I have mentioned. Thus the local fymptoms of gangrene appear to be pretty clearly explained; and the finking of the pulfe, which, in extenfive mortification, always occurs, and which Is by much the molt remarkable change that takes place in the fyftem, is a very natural confequence of that debi- lity, which feems to be a conftant and neceflary attendant on a putrefcent flate of the fluids, from whatever caufe it may have arifen 3 a circumftance we have par- ticularly demonftrated in putrid fever, and in fcurvy, where a languid pulfe and ge- Voi,. I. G neral98 Of Mortification. Chap. I,. neral debility are always confidered as the moft charac5lerlftic fymptoms. § 4. Of the Frognofis in Gangrene. In every cafe of gangrene, the progno- fis ftiould at firft be doubtful ^ for even in the flighteft affedtlons of this nature, the fyftem, from the contagion it receives by the abforption of putrid matter, is, in fome Inftances, fo much Injured, that the patients are fuddenly carried off^ without appearing previoufly to have been in any imminent danger. In fuch cafes, however, as fucceed toin- fiammation from an external caufe, wherer the gangrene is neither very deep nor ex- tenfive, and where it does not feem to fpread, the prognodic ought to be much more favourable than in thofe arifing fud- denly from an internal caufe, where the mortification runs deep, and more efpe- cially when It is ftill continuing to ad- vance ; in which circumftance the greateft danger is always to be apprehended. X Indeed^Sed. IV. . Of Mortificatioju 99 Indeed, no perfon whatever, with any confiderable mortification, even from an external caufe, can be faid to be free from rilk, till the difeafed parts are feparared, and entirely caff off from the found ; the poifon of putrid mi ifmata being of fuch a penetrating and deftrudive na ure, that inany inftances have occurred rf patients being quickly carried off, leemingly from this circumrtance alone, long after the progrefs of the mortification had ceafed. In fuch cafes we prefume^ that the pu- trefcent miafmata prove deltrudive, chiefly by their deleterious influence on the ner- vous fyftera. In long continued cafes of mortification, the general mafs of fluids may fometimes fuffer from the abforption of putrid effluvia ; but as patients, labour- ing under mortification, frequently die fuddenly, and before any putrefcency has appeared in the fyflem at large, we con- clude that this mofl: probably happens from fome effed produced either upon the nerves themfelves, qr on the fenforium, from whence they originate. But in whatever G 2 mannerloo of Mortification, Chap. I. manner the putrid femes of a mortified fpot may operate, their influence is fre- quently fo pernicious as to warrant the conclufion I wifh to eiiablilh, namely, that no perfon labouring under mortifica- tion, can be faid to be free from danger till all the difeafed parts are removed. § 5- Of the necejfary Remedies in Gangrene. In the cure of Gangrene, when no blood-letting or other evacuation has been prefcribed during the preceding ftate of inflammation, if the pulfe continues quick, full, or hard; and efpecialiy if the pa- tient is young and plethoric ; it then be- comes necelfary, even although mortifi- cation may have commenced, to empty the veflels by one general blood-letting; w^hich, by moderating the fever, proves often the fureft means of preventing the progrefs of the diforder : And, in this view, blood-letting, in fuch cafes, may, in rea- lity, be confidered as an antifeptic ; and it often, indeed, in this particular ftate ofSea. IV. 101 of Mortification. of mortification, proves more ufeful than any other remedy we employ. In the fame view that we recommend blood-letting, gentle laxatives, and a free ufe of acidulated cooling drink, become neceflary. But as, in the farther progrefs and continuance of mortification, the pa- tient is very apt to fink, and the pulfe to turn languid, every evacuation, efpecially of blood, fhould be direded with caution, and never carried farther than may feem neceflary for rendering fuch fymptoms modeiate as at the time appear to be too violent. When, again, as is moft frequently the cafe when gangrene has made much pro- grefs, the patient is much reduced, either by fevere evacuations, or merely by the effeds of the diforder^ when the pulfe is low, and the other fymptoms of fever not confiderable; in thefe circumttances a very contrary treatment becomes necef- fary : the principal indication now being, to prevent the fyftem from finking too much, by a proper ufe of cordials, and e- G 3 fpecially102 Of Mortification* Chap, I* fpecially by thofe of the tonic kind; while, by the fame means, we enable it to free itfelf from, or to caft off, the mortified parts. For, as we have already obferved, the feparation of gangrenous from healthy found parts, being always the efFe£l of in- flammation, it fhould be our chief care to aflifl: nature as much as pollible, in excit- ing in the fyftem, by every proper means, that difpofition which, from experience, we know to be mo ft favourable for the production of inflammation; which, when fpeaking of the general predifpofing caufes of inflammatory complaints, we have en-^ deavoured to fhow, is a full plethoric ftate of the veflels, and which at the fame time is generally conjoined with a more invi- gorated tone of the velTels themfelves. It may, perhaps, be imagined, that thi$ indication proves, in fome meafure, con- tradictory to what we have juft had octa^ fibn to mention of the propriety of blood- letting in fome cafes of gangrene; but when duly confidered, it will not appear tp be io. For we well know, that, in eve- ^7103 Sed:. IV. Of Mortification. ry difeafe to which the fyftem is liable, an over-dofe of the moft effedual remedy will often prove juft as detrimental as a medicine of the moft oppofite tendency : and, in the fame manner, though a certain degree of inflammation is, perhaps, necef- fary for the cure of gangrene; yet, in a very high degree, it becomes always hurt- ful. With a view to fulfil the intention of this indication, a good nourifliing diet be- comes neceflary, with fiich a proportion of generous wine as the ftrengtli of the patient, and fymptoms of the difeafe, may feem to require. By a due attention to regimen, parti- cularly by a proper allowance of wine, much more real advantage is commonly obtained, than we ever experience from the whole tribe of flimulating warm cor- dials. When, however, the patient is lan- guid and much reduced, fome of thefe, fuch as the volatile alkali, and confecStio cardiaca, may, at the fame time, and in fnch quantities, be prefcribed, as the im- G 4 mediate104 Q/' Mortification. Chap. I, mediate fituation of the patient may feem to render neceflary. But of all the medicines hitherto ufed in mortification, none proves fo certainly efficacious as the Cortex Peruvianus, which has often a very evident and powerful in- fluence in putting a flop to the diforder. As it is a very powerful tonic, it may pro- bably adl by invigorating the general fy^ ftem; and thus, by rendering it more fu- fceptible of that inflammatory tendency, which we have Ihown to be fo neceflary for effedting a feparation of mortified parts, it may in this manner enable it to throw them off. It may likewife, per- haps, in fome inftances, adl as an antifeptic, merely by corredling putrefadlion; but in order to have fuch influence in this man- ner, it ought, I imagine, to be locally ap-^ plied to the difeafed parts. But in whatever manner the bark may operate, it can in no cafe of mortification be, with propriety, omitted, excepting in the firfl: fl:age of the difeafe, while fe- veral of the inflammatory fymptoms yet remainSedl. IV, Of Mortification. remain violent: As foon as thefe are abated, it may always, both with fafety and advantage, be employed. The beft rule for the quantity of bark to be exhibited in gangrene, is that the dofes fliould be large, and as frequently repeated as the hate of the ftomach will permit. It proves often, indeed, a great inconvenience in gangrene, that the fto- mach cannot contain a fufficient quantity of the bark in fubftance, which is always the beft mode of uling it; but particular- ly in gangrene, where none of the finer preparations of bark are ever to be truft- ed. Of all the forms employed for exhibit- ing bark in fubftance, 1 have generally found it fit ealieft on the ftomach when conjoined with one or other of the fpi- rituous waters; and to the ufe of which, in fuch cafes of gangrene as require bark to be given, there can never be any objec- tion. The following formula is far from being difagreeable, and I have known it anfwerio6 Of Mortification. Chap. I. anfwer with patients whofe ftomachs re- Jeded every other. Aq. alexiter. fimp. cinnamon, fort, aa unc. ill. tindur. aromat. unc. ii. Pulv. cort. Peruv. fubtil. unc. fs. mifce; coch. ii. Omni lemihora fumendis, agitata phiala. In this manner a drachm of the bark i? taken every hour, which frequently in iefs than twenty-four hours, has fome in- fluence on the appearance of the difeafe^ Much depends upon the medicine being in fine powder, as patients often bear coa- fiderable quantities in that ftate, when they rejed even very finall dofes of a coarfe powder. As a fpecies of bark has, of late years, been employed, of a more deep red co- lour than the kind in ordinary ufe, 1 think it right to mention the refult of my own experience of it. I cannot pretend to form any judgment of the effeds of this remedy in the cure of intermittents, as, in Edinburgh and its environs, agues are feldomSed. IV. Of Mortificatimi. 107 feldom met with. But, fo far as I have yet feen, its influence, in cafes of gam grene, and in correding the thin fetid difcharge of putrid ulcers, is inferior to that of the befl; ordinary bark of a brown or cinnamon colour. One very remark- able inftance of this it may not be impro- per to mention: A gentleman, for feve- ral years, had laboured under a finuous ulcer, the difcharge of which, once in two or three months, always became thin, pu- trid, and very acrid. The influence of common bark, in correding this, was fo remarkable, that a few dofes commonly had a confiderable eflfed in rendering the matter thick, and lefs ofFenfive. From the tafte, and other fenfible qualities of the red bark, being llronger than thofe of the ordinary kind, I was at firfl: inclined to think favourably of it; and among o- thers I prefcribed it to this patient. But I although he continued for feveral days to I take it in the fame dofes he had always I ufed of the other, he did not experience any advantage from it while, on the o- therlo8 Of Mortification. Chap. I. ther hand, on the common bark being again employed, the matter, from being thin and fetid, v as quickly converted in- to pus of a proper conliftence. One trial, however, is by no means fuf- ficient for enabling us to form a juft opi- nion of any medicine: And accordingly I w^as refolved to put it to the fame teft in future occurrences of a fimilar nature. It has now been three times tried in the fame manner, and the refult has been al- ways the fame. The red bark has never produced any change on the nature of the difcharge, while the influence of the o- ther has been uniformly the fame. In- deed, our patient is now fo much convin- ced of the inefficacy of the former, that it is with reludlance he is induced to take it; although, at firft, his expediations from it were raifed very high, not only from the opinion I had endeavoured to give of it, but from the high panegyrics beftowed on it by others. This is the moft remarkable cafe I have met with for comparing the effeds ofSecS. IV. Of Mortification. 109 of the different kinds of bark: but I have likewife feen the red bark fail in other cafes, where the common kind of it pro- ved evidently urefal; fo that, although I cannot with certainty fay that the red bark will never prove ufeful in cafes of mortification, and in fuch ulcers as we have defcribed, yet from the refult of all the experience I have yet had of it, I am inclined to confider it as of an inferior nature to the other. Farther obfervation, however, is neceffary to determine a mat- ter of fuch importance.^ ^ Together with bark, the vitriolic acid is frequently employed with advantage ^ and the beft form of ufing it is, by acidu- lating the patient’s drink with elixir of vitriol. Thefe are almoft the only internal re- medies to be depended on in cafe of gan- grene. Many others, indeed, have been recommended ^ but all the advantages to be obtained from any of them, may be procured with more certainty from fome or all of thofe I have enumerated. Alid Of Mortification. Chap. L A variety of external applications are pointed out by authors, particularly thofe of the antifeptic kind; fuch as, all the warm gums and balfams, ardent fpirlts, and even alcohol: and to admit of their nearer application to the found parts with a view to the prefervation of thefe from putrefadlion, deep fcarifications through the difeafed and Into the found parts have been generally recommended. But although fuch articles may be of nfe in preferving dead animal-fubftances from corruption; yet that they will prove equally ferviceable when applied to living bodies, is probably much to be doubted : There is even caufe to imagine, by the ftrong irritation which they excite when applied to a living fibre, that, in fuch cafes as the prefent, they may rather do harm ; it being only, as I have obfer- ved already, a very flight degree of in- flammation that is required. The inci- fions, too, when carried into the found parts, with a view to facilitate the opera- tion of fuch remedies, may likewife do harm ^lit Seel. IV. Of Mortification* harm; not only from the rifk of wound- ing the blood-veffels, nerves, and tendons, that lie in the way; but alfo, by allowing a free and farther entrance of the putref- cent matter into the parts not yet affedt- ed: And unlefs they are carried fo deep as freely to reach the found parts, appli- cations of the antifeptic kind can never have any effed: in anfwering the purpofe for which they are intended. For thefe reafons, and from never having obferved any advantages to accrue from fcarifica- tions, I have long thought that they ought to be laid afide Theriac ‘ * Although I was coavinced, from experience, of what 1 have advanced againft the ufe of fcarifications, as well as of the impropriety and inefficacy of very warm fti- mulating applications in mortification ; it was not with- out diffidence that I firfl; ventured to affert it, the opi- nion at that time being in a great meafure new. I am now happy to find, however, in a late publication, the fame praftice recommended from the bell authority. F'ide Chirurgical Obfervations by Percival Pot, F. R. S. &c. In the fame publication is given a particular deferip- tion o-t a fpecies of mortification incident to the toes and feet, in which Peruvian bark has little or no influence, and in which opium, given in large dofes, frequently repeated, proves a very eflfedual remedy.112 Of Mortification. Chap* I* Theme was, in former times, and ftill is, with fome pradHtioners, a very com- mon application in p;an8;rene ; but from any opportunities I have had of feeing it nfed, I cannot fay that it ever feemed to produce any obvious advantage. All the advantages we derive from the great varietj of applications ufually point- ed out for gangrene, are obtained with more eafe, and generally with more cer- tainty, from the ufe of any ftimulating em- brocation ; which, by exciting a flight ir- ritation upon the furface, and efpecially when aflifted by a free ufe of bark, at laft commonly excites the wifhed for degree of inflammation. With this view, I have frequently employed a weak folution of fal ammoniac in vinegar and water, and often with advantage : a drachm of the fait to two ounces of vinegar, and fix of water, form a mixture of a proper ftrength for every purpofe of this kind ; but the degree of llimulus can be eafily either in- creafed or diminiflied, by ufing a larger or fmaller proportion of the fait. Although 3^edl. IV. Of Mof'tijication. i 13 Although, for the reafons I have alrea- dy advanced, incifions may not, in gene- ral, be proper: .yet, whenever the morti- fication runs deep, fcarifications fliould be made into the difeafed parts, with a view to remove a portion of them, which, by taking off a confiderable load of putrid dead mat- ter, not only leilens the fetor, which, in fuch cafes, is always confiderable, but of- ten renders it more eafy for the found parts to throw off the remainder : When incifions, however, are employed for this purpofe, care (hould be taken that they be not carried fo deep as to injure the found parts. W^hen, by the means we have recom- mended, or by" the effeds of a natural ex- ertion of the fyftem, a flight inflamma- tion begins to arife between the difeafed and found parts, we may, in general, with fome certainty, exped: that, in due time, an entire feparation will take place: and, when a full fuppuration has fairly com- menced, there will be ftill lefs caufe to doubt of a cure being to be obtained. VoL. I. H On114 Of Mortification. Chap. I\r On the mortified parts being removed^ the remaining fore, being in the ftate of a fimple purulent ulcer, muft be treated as fores of this defcription ufually are, with mild eafy dreffings; at the fame time,, that the ftrength of the patient Ihould be fupported by the continuance of nourilh- ing diet, the bark, and fuch quantities of wine as may be neceflary. In this manner, all ulcers produced by gangrene, may be healed, where the dif- eafe has not been very extenfive ^ but where mortification, feated on any of the extremities, has penetrated deep, fo as to reach the bones, and where the furround- ing foft parts are deftroyed, amputation of the member becomes our only refource:^ This meafure, however, fhould never be advifed, till a full and complete fepara* tion of the mortified parts has taken place; and it ought, in every cafe of gangrene, to be held as an eftabliflied maxim, never to amputate a member till a full flop has been put to the difeafe, or till the morti- fied parts have been completely fepara- I tedSedl; IV. Of Mortifcatioiu 115 ted from the found : For, although the parts immediately contiguous to thofe evi- dently difeafed, may outwardly appear to be found, yet there can never be any cer- tainty of thofe, even diredly beneath, re- maining fo till a reparation occurs ; fo that, till a feparation has taken place, the difeafe will ftill be apt to return upon the remaining flump. It mull be obferved, however, that as foon as an entire feparation of the gan- grene is perceived, no time flioiild be loft in putting the operation in pradice ^ for, as long as any of the corrupted parts re- main In contad with the found, the fyftem inuft ftill be fuffering confiderably, by the conftant abfdrption of putrefcent particles, that fo long will ftill be going omii6 Of T^umors^ Chap. f£ CHAPTER II. Of Tumors. SECTION I. Of "Tumors in Ge'neraL VERY praeternatural enlargement, in whatever part of the body it is feat- ed, may be termed a Tumor. ^Tumors daily occur in one form or ano* ther : They are often followed with im- portant confequences, and frequently give much embarraflment both to patients and furgeons: For thefe reafons they merit particular attention. WeSed:. I. in General. 117 We meet with much variety in the ge- neral appearances of tumors, as well as in the method of treatment heft fuited for their removal: But fuch varieties only fhould be mentioned in a work of this kind, as require fome peculiarity in the method of cure. Tumors may with propriety be divided into two general dalles: Into thofe that are of an acute or inflammatory nature 3 and fiich'as are chronic or indolent. Authors have for the mofl part diftinguifhed them into fuch as are faid to be of a warm na- ture, and thofe which they fuppofe to be cold, from their being dellitute of pain and rednefs, fymptoms which we common- ly obferve to accompany heat. Bnt the terms we have mentioned of Acute or In- flammatory, and Chronic or Indolent, are more fcientific; at the fame time that they are more expreffive of the real nature of the different affedions : For it will be found to hold perhaps univerfally, that tumors are acute or indolent, that is, that ifhey are rapid or flow in their progrefs, H 3 pearlyof fumors ii8 Chap. II. nearly in proportion to the degree of in^ flammation with which they are attended# I mean therefore to rank in the firft clafs pf tumors, all fuch as from their com^ meneement are accompanied with inflam- mation ; and in the fecond, all thofe which are not evidently accompanied with this fymptom. It will unavoidably happen, however, that fome tumors will be mentioned under one clafs, which, during fome part of their progrefs, may appear to belong to the other: Thus, a tumor beginning from inflammation, may terminate in a ftate of perfed indolence ; while others, which at firfl: were evidently chronic or indo- lent, may at lafl: become highly inflam- matory. We Ihall endeavour, however, to characterize them by thofe fymptoms which appear moft obvioufly at their com- mencement; a mode of dirtindion which appears to be the moil accurate; for it is not what a tumor may eventually become, but what it adually is on its firfl appear^ ance, that can admit of any defcripiion: Andin General. Sedl. I. 119 And although all the variety of tumors which fall within our obfervation, or of which I mean to t ea , re enumerated in the following claffification, many of them will fall with more propriety to be conli- dered in other parts of the work. Thus, the confideration of aneurifm and thrombus fucceeds to blooddettiiig, as being moft frequently induced by that operation. CoIledHons of matter in the Antrum Max- illare, gum, boils, and other affecTtions of the mouth, fall to be noticed immediately after toothach; while we have already finlfhed the confideration of abfcefs and mortification, as the confequences of phlegmon. Class I. Acute or Inflammatory l^uiiiors. Phlegmon, with its confequences, abfcefs and mortification. jEryfipelas. H4 Ophthalmia.120 Of T^umors Chap. II. Ophthalmia. Inflammation of the ear. Angina, or inflammation of the throat. Inflammation and abfcefs of the liver. of the breafts of women, of the tefles. of the aims and perinaeum,^ Venereal buboes. Lumbar abfcefles. Paronychia or whitloe. Chilblains. Sprains and contufions. Class II, Chronic or indolent Tumors^ Encyfted tumors, ufually fo termed, Ganglions, Swellings of the burfae muccfae. Concretions and preternatural excreA cences within the capfular ligaments of joints. Aneurifms.in General. Se(5):. I. 121 ^neurifms. The true, the falfe, and varicofe aneurifms, Varicofe veins. Hemorrhoidal fwellings. Hydropic fwellings. anafarca or oedema, hydrocephalus, hydrops pedtorls, and hydrops pericardii, afcites. dropfy of the ovarla, hydrocele. fpina bifida. Swellings in the fublingual glands. Tumors containing air. General emphyfema produced by air efca- ping from the lungs into the cellular fubftance, as fometimes happens from the fpiculse of fradured ribs penetra- ting the fubllance of the lungs. Local emphyfematous tumors produced by putrefadion in a particular part. This is a rare occurrence ; but cafes of it are recorded by different authors. Tympanitis,X22 Of humors Chap. II. Tympanitis. Tumors formed by the difplacement of pciiticular parts. Herniae : of the brain. inguitial and fcrotal. congenital. crural. umbilical. ventral. at the foramen ovale, in the perinaeum. of the alimentary canal and mefentery. of the omentum, of the liver^ fpleen, and other abdominal vifcera. of the bladder. of the inteflines into the vagina, Protrufion of the eye-ball, Prolapliis uteri. Prolapfus ani. Tumors formed by the difplacement of bones in cafes of diflocation. Scrophulous tumors. Whitein GeneraL Seft. I. laj White fwellings of the joints. Bronchocele, Scarcomatous tumors. Sarcocele. Schlrrus. Cancer. Polypous excrefcences in the nofe and throat. Polypi in the ear. in the uterus. Condylomatous tumors in the anus. Excrefcences in the urethra. Ngevi materni. Warts. Corns. * Tumors from aifedlions of the bones. Simple exoftofes. Venereal nodes. Spina veritofa. SEC-Chap. IL 0/ Acute or 124 SECTION II. Of Acute or Inflammatory T^umors. TRE general theory and management of inflammation have been fully con- fidered in the preceding chapter. We muft therefore refer for this part of ourfubje6l to what was then faid upon it: And in confidering thofe varieties of tumors in which inflammation takes place, fuch circumftances only will be noticed as from peculiarity of fituation, or fome other caufe, require a particular mode of treats ment. § I. 0/* Eryfipelas. Erysipelas as being a variety of in- flammation, has in fome inftances been mi^ ftaken for phlegmon : The two aflfedions, however.Se6i. II. Inflammatory l^umors. 125' however, may for the moft part be eafily diftinguflied : In phlegmon, the inflamma- tion is circumfcribed and elevated. In general, it is feated in the cellular fub- ftance \ and any eflPufion which takes place is for the moft part converted into puru- lent matter : But in eryfipelas, the tumor is diffufed, and not much elevated 3 it fel- dom proceeds deeper than the fkin ^ any effufion with which it is attended is com- monly thin and acrid, and not convertible into pus, and the fkin acquires a kind of copper-colour inftead of that crimfon-red which occurs in the firft ftage of phleg- mon. By experience we know, that fores pro- ceeding from eryfipelas are difficult to cure : It fliould therefore be our firft ob- jedl to endeavour to prevent that effufion by which thefe fores are produced. Some indeed allege, that this pradiice muft be attended with rifk, as eryfipelas for the moft part appears to proceed from an af- fedion of the conftitution ^ and hence we are advifed rather to encourage the dif. charge126 Of Acute or Chap, it; charge of that matter which nature in fueh cafes feems inclined to depofit. This ob- fervation, however, is not confirmed by experience, for we find that the difcuflion of eryfipelatous affedions may be attempt- ed with the fame freedom and fafety as^ inflammation of any other kind. A common prejudice prevails againfl the ufe of unduous and other moifl: applica- tions in eryfipelas ; and fine flour, ftarch^ or hair-powder, arc almoft the only reme- dies employed externally. Thefe are ufed with a view to abforb the acrid matter, which eryfipelatous inflammation often throws out in the form of puftules, and which unduous and moifl: applications are rather fuppofed to encourage. But to me it appears that they prove more ufeful in preventing the efllifion or for- mation of that matter, than in abforb- ing it afterwards. By foothing or allay- ing that uneafy fenfation which ufually accompanies eryfipelas, and which they often do very effedually, they necefla- riiy tend to leiTen that preternatural ac- tionSe£t. II. Inflammatory T^umors. 127 tion of the afFedled veflels, which in every cafe of inflammation we confider as the caufe of the fubfequent eflufion ; and as they ufually prove more pleafant in every refpedl than moifl; applications, they fliould therefore in the firft ftages of the difeafe be preferred. It hap- pens indeed in feme cafes, that they have little or perhaps no effed: in procuring relief. In fuch inftances, 1 have fome- times found, that by keeping the inflamed part expofed to the air, and wetting k every now and then with a feather foaked in a weak folution of faccharum Saturni, immediate eafe has been procured, and no difadvantage has afterwards occurred from it. In general, however, the dry farinaceous powders anfwer better. Almoft an univerfal prejudice has pre- yailed againft blood-letting and other e- vacuations in eryfipelas. And as it is commonly Tuppofed to be attended with fome degree of putrefcency, inftead of evacuations, bark, wine, and warm fti- mulating cordials, have been recommend- ed.of Acute or Chap. Ili ed. It appears, however, that the idea^ of praditioners upon this point have not been founded on obfervation: For it is now known, that blood may be difchi«r- ged with the fame fafety in eryfipelas as in other cafes of inflammation; and by doing fo, and adhering in every refped to an antiphlogiftic regimen, we have it often in our power to prevent the difeafe from terminating in thofe effufions which we have mentioned, and which at all times we fhould endeavour to do. It is proper, however, to remark, that local blood-letting, which in other va- rieties of inflammation proves often ufe- ful, is not here admiflible : For the ori- fices by which the blood is drawn off are apt to degenerate into thofe troublefome ulcers, which eryfipelas when it termi- nates in effufion, is very apt to produce. By one or more general blood-lettings, according to the ftrength of the patient} by the ufe of gentle laxatives, mild fu-^ dorifics, and a cooling diet ^ and by fre- I queQtly'Se6t. II. Inflammatory "Tumors. 129 quently dufting the part afFefted with one or other of the powders I have mentioned, ^Imoft every eryfipelatous tu- mor may be difcufled : But when ef- fufion is found to have occurred in any confiderable quantity, it fliould be dif- charged immediately by a fmall opening in the moft depending part of it. In this ftate of the difeafe, emollient cata- plafms are commonly applied with a view to bring the contents of the fwell- ing to fuppuration. This, however, proves always pernicious : For the effufion be- ing of a nature which cannot be convert- ed into pus, poultices can never be of the fame ufe as in cafes of phlegmon; and as it is commonly fliarp and acrid, when allowed to remain, it is apt to do mifchief by corroding the Ikin and other contiguous parts. The beft applicatioiis in this ftate of the difeafe, are the faturnine ointments, fiich as Goulard’s cerate, or the common wax-ointment, with a fmall proportion of Saccaharum Saturni. § 2. VOL. I. 1130 Of Acute or Chap. IL § 2. Of Inflammation of the Ear. The palTage, as well as the bottom of the ear; Is entirely membranous; con- ’ fequently the inflammation which attacks it proves alw ys pamful: For we know that Inflammation of membranous parts gives more pain than that of parts of ^ loofer texture ^ as the blood veflels in the former do not yield fo readily as thofe of the latter, to the diftention with which im flammation is accompanied. The remedies to be employed in inflam- matory affedlions of the ear, Ihould be re- gulated by the Itage of the difeafe. When the Inflammation has fubfifted fo long as to give reafon to fufpeft that it will ter- minate in fuppuration, which it Is apt to do quickly, emollient applications prove mofi ufeful : The ear fhould be frequently fomented with warm emollient fleams 3 and it often proves fe viceable to cover the affeded fide of the head with large r / , ' emollient jjr'"Se£i:. IL Inflammatory I^umors. 131 emollient poultices. But in the com- mencement of the afledion, we fliould in general attempt to prevent iuppuration: For it is often difficult to obviate the ef- fefts of it when matter is once formed in the ear; and a long continued difcharge is frequently produiUve of deafnefs. With this view, nothing proves in gene- ral fo effectual as the application of a fmall blifter behind the ear : And by pouring a few drops of laudanum into the paflage, or of compound fpirit of la- vender mixed with a fmall proportion of oil, we very commonly have it in our . power to remove or abate the pain ; and the irritation being in this manner re- moved, the riik of fuppuration is thereby leflened. Our endeavours, however, for this pur- pofe will often prove abortive: In which event, and when it is evident that matter is formed, we fhould endeavour to bring it off as freely as poflible, by bathing the ear in warm water, and even by injeding g little warm water into it. By thefe I a means132 Of Atute or Chap. II; means we may often put a flop to the dif- charge: Bat when it ftill continues to flow, aftringent injedtions, of lime water, or mild faturnine folutions, fliould be employed; which feldom fail when the difeafe is folely confined to the i'oft parts of the ear. When the bones of the ear are affeded, which in general may be known by the matter having a very offen- fiVe fmell, and being of a black or dark brown colour, all that art can do, is to keep the paffage clear by the ufe of injec- tions. The cure of deafnefs is in fuch cafes not to be looked for, and we trull to nature alone for throwing out the dip eafed bones. § 3. 0/' Angina. Every inflammatory affedion of the throat is termed Angina, or Squiiizy. As abfcelles in thefe parts prove always troublefome, and in fome cafes dangerous, we fhould endeavour to cure every inflam- mation with which they are attacked by ?refolution. WithSe<5.11.*^ Inflammatory T*umors. 133 With this view, one or more general blood-lettings fliould be prefcribed, ac- cording to the ftrength of the patient. Smart purgatives prove particularly ufe- ful; and fome advantage is often derived from diaphoretics. None of thefe remedies, however, can be depended on with fuch certainty as the local difcharge of blood from the part af- fedled, and "the application of a blifter to the contiguous parts. In Plate LVli. tigs. i. and 3. inftruinents are delineated for the purpofe of drawing blood from the throat by means of fcarlficarions ^ and when em- ployed with freedom on the firfl: appear- ance of inflammation, fuppuration may very commonly be prevented. Foment- ing the throat with fleams of warm vine- gar proves fometimes ufeful; and confi- derable advantage has in different inflan- ces been derived from aftringent gargles, of infufions of oak-bark, of red rofe leaves with a proportion of alum or vitriolic a- cid, and of Saccharum Saturni diffolved in water. A general prejudice prevails a- I 3 , gainft134 or Chap. IL gainft the ufe of fatiirnine applications in the form of gargles, from their being fup- pofed to be of a poifooous nature. But although I have often ufed them, I never knew ail Inftance of their doing harm; and they have frequently proved highly ferviceable. In fmail quantities I believe they might be fwailowed with fafety; but we all know that gargles may be employ- ed without any part of the liquor being allowed to go over. It will often happen, however, that thefe and all other remedies will fail, either from their being applied too late, or from the inflammation being very violent. When liippuration is evidently to take place, it fliould be promoted by the external appli- cation of warm poultices to the throat, and by the patient being made to inlpire the warm fleams of milk, or of any emol- lient deco<flion, by means of the machine delineated in Plate LVII. fig. 2. When matter is fully formed, it fliould be dif- charged by an opening made into the ab- fcefs with one of the inilmments mention- ed above for fcanfying the throat. § 4-Se£i:. II*. Inflammatory Tumors. 135 § 4. 0/' Inflammation and Ahfcefs of the Liver. The fubftance of the liver being foft and of a yielding nature, we would not a priori Imagine that it Ihould be liable to inflame. We find, however, in warm climates, par- ticularly in the Fall Indies, that this vif- cus becomes more frequently Inflamed than perhaps any other of the body ; pro- bably from the bile in thefe climates be- ing apt to become fo acrid as to excite ir- ritation In the parts to which it is applied. In fome cafes too, the liver inflames from external violence. Inflammation of the, liver is attended with a dull uneafy fenfation over all the contiguous parts, with cholic pains and licknefs at ftomach ^ the patient Is liable to frequent cold and hot fits; and for the moft part, the colour of his Ikin, as well as his urine, is tinged yellow. When fuppuration. takes place, and e- fpecially when the abfcefs is large, the patient complains of pain extending up the right fide to the top of the flioulder. 1 4 InChap. II. of Acute or 136 In fome cafes this fymptom occurs even in the inflammatory ftate of the diforder; but it happens more frequently after the formation of matter, probably from the weight of the abfcefs ,ading upon the dia- phragm and pleura, with which the liver is connedled. The region of the liver be- comes daily more tenfe; and If the con- vex part of it Is chiefly affedled, a foft- nefs, and even a fludluatlon of matter Is often difcovered through the teguments of the abdomen. In the commencement of this affedllon, thefe remedies prove rnofl fuccefsful, which prove mofl: ufeful in other cafes of local inflammation. Blood-letting fliould be immediately prefcribed ^ the quantity to be determined by the ftrength of the pa- tient : But inftead of taking it from a vein, it fliould be drawn oflTby cupping and fca- rifylng the part affedled. When the fca- rifications are made of a fufficient depth, almoft any quantity of blood may be got in this manner; and no remedy with which we are acquainted proves fo . Textual in removingSed. II. Inflammatory T!umors. '137 removing the inflammation. Bliflering the pained part is alfo frequently of fer- vice; the bowels fhould be kept moderate- ly open with mild laxatives ; and a gentle perfpiration fliould be encouraged over the whole bod}^ In general, this treatment will prove fuccefsful, when employed early in the difeafe; but when the fymptoms do not foon yield, mercurials fliould t>e advifed without any farther delay : For in the re- moval of inflammatory affedions of the liver, nothing has hitherto proved fo ef- fedual as mercury in one form or another. The common mercurial pill of the Edin- burgh Difpenfatory anfwers as well as any others and it feems to ad with more cer- tainty when conjoined with fmall dofes of opium. Fridions with mercurial oint- ment upon the part alFeded, are fome- times employed with advantage: But whatever form of the medicine is ufed, it fliould be quickly carried fo far as to affed the mouth, which fliould be kept, moderately fore for feveral weeks, unlefs the138 of Acute or Chap. IL the difeafe fubfides immediately ^ in which cafe a Ihorter courfe will be fufficlent. As it is of importance in all cafes of this kind to give a free dilcharge to the bile, if the patient does not otherwife get regular and eafy ftools, he fliould, during the mercurial courfe, have a gentle faline purgative every third or fourth day, by which the difcuflion of the inflammation is often much promoted* Suppuration, however, will often take place, notwithftanding all that can be done to prevent it; and when found to have happened, an incifion fliould be made into the abfcefs to difcharge the matter. When the abfcefs is feated on the convex or prominent part of the liver, and the quantity of matter contained in it confi- derable, we readily difcover it by the touch y and in this cafe there is no room to hefitate. But even where we have not this for our diredtion, a little attention will often enable us to difcover with cer- tainty whether fuppuration has occurred or not. If along with pain in the right flioulderSed. II. Inflammatory humors. 159 Ihoulder and neck, It is obferved that the region of the liver is more bulky than it was before, and that the correfponding te- guments are become foft and oedematous i, and efpecially if the patient complains of frequent fhivering fits, a fymptom which Very conftantly accompanies internal fup- puration; we may conclude with much certainty that matter is formed. Wherever an abfcefs is feated, the mat- ter fhould be difcharged, perhaps as foon as It is known that complete maturation has taken place. But abfceffes in any of the larger cavities, efpecially when they lie fo deep as the liver or any of the viC- cera, fhould be opened even before there is reafon to fuppofe that all the effufed fluids are fo completely converted into pus as we might otherwife wKh them to be. Indeed this fhould be confidered as an eftabliflied maxim in pradice ^ for the chance of thefe colledions burfting in- wardly is much greater than of their open- ing outwardly, where the teguments which cover them are thick and ftrong, when compared140 of Acute or Chap. II. compared with the perltonseum, the only membrane lying between them and the inteftines. Abfeefles of the liver have been known to burd through the dia- phragm, fo as to be emptied into the tho- rax : In a few cafes the matter has been carried into the duodenum by the com-- mon paflage of the bile; and fometimes, by the great arch of the colon adhering to the liver, a communication has been formed between them; by which the mat- ter of abfeefles in this fituation has been very completely evacuated: But for the moft part, when not difeharged by an ex- ternal opening, the abfeefs burfts into the abdomen. With a view to prevent fuch a fatal oc- currence, the afliftance of furgery fhould be immediately defired as foon as the ap- pearances and fymptoms we have men- tioned give caufe to fufped that matter is "^colleded: An incifion of a fufficient length -' fhould be made with a fcalpel through the i^^external teguments in the moft depending part of the tumor; and on reaching the abfeefs^Se6l. II. Inflammatory humors. 141^ abfcefs, it may either be opened with the point of the fcalpel, or with a lancet; but^ piercing it with a trocar is preferable, as; in this manner we have it in our power to> evacuate the matter flowly and gradually, which in large collections is a point of im- portance, and therefore merits attention. Even this opening into the abfcefs, how- ever, Ihould be afterwards enlarged, other- wife there would be fome rifk of its do- ling before the cyft containing the matter collapfes fufficiently for the prevention of farther collections. This being done, a pledgit of foft lint covered with any e- mollient ointment, or merely dipped in oil, Ihould be gently infinuated to a fuffi- cient depth between the lips of the wound, to prevent them from uniting till the ab- fcefs collapfes and fills up from the bot- tom; a procefs that will be much haften- ed by a proper application of prdliire up- on the tumefied parts, by means of a flan- nel roller pafTed two or three times round the body. When the vacuity producedd)y the diC* charge of matter does not foon fill up, it willOf Acute or Chap. IL 142 will be proper to introduce a canula to preferve a free paflage for any matter that may afterwards form. But this pre- caution is feldom neceflary ; for abfcelles in the liver heal fooner, and with fewer inconveniencies, than fimilar affedions in perhaps any other part of the body. Indeed this is fo well afcertalned, that I would advife an opening to be made into the abfcefs in every inftance where there is the leaft caufe to fufpedt that matter has formed in the liver. Many practi- tioners indeed aflert, that no attempt of this kind is admiffible unlefs the abfcefs is feated in the convex part of the liver. It muft be allowed, that abfcefles in this lituation are much more acceffible than fuch as are feated in the concave part of it. But wherever they are fituated, a pro- per vent Ihiould be procured for the mat^ ter ; for if not evacuated by an exr ternal opening, we may conclude almoft with certainty, that it will be emptied in- to the abdomen, by which the patient will inevitably die. InSe<S. II. Inflammatory 'tumors. 143 In all alFe6lions of the liver that occur in warm climates, the bark is commonly employed on the firft appearance of any of the fymptoms: The putrefcent ten- dency of the bile is the oftenfible reafon of this. But I believe It will be found, that no dependence Ihould be placed up- on the bark during the firft or inflamma- tory ftage of this difeafe. In this period of the diforder it may even do mifchief 3 but when fuppuration has taken place, and when the matter is difcharged from the abfcefs, bark proves equally ufeful, as In fimilar affedtions of other parts of the body. When, by too long delay. It unfortu- nately happens that an abfcefs either burfts into the cavity of the cheft or in- to the abdomen, the matter ftiould be drawn off immediately 3 in the one cafe, by the operation of the empyema, de- fcribed in Chapter XXVI. ^ and in the o- ther, by the common operation of the pa- facentefis, Chapter XXV. §5’144 Of Acute or Chap. IL § 5* 0/ Inflammation and Abfcejfes in the Breajls of Women. The breafts of women are liable to fuf- fer from the fame caufes which excite in- flammation in other parts of the body; hut abfcefles in the breaft occur moft fre- quently in nurfes by the gorging or flop- page of the milk, which almofl conflant- ly takes place from hidden or imprudent expofure to cold : The breafl becomes ftiff, fwelled, and painful; the milk runs off in fmall quantities, but not fo as to af- ford effedlual relief; and the patient grows hot and refllefs, while much thirfl prevails, accompanied with a full quick pulfe. Praditloners are divided with refped: to the treatment befl fuited to cafes of this kind : By fome it is faid, that milk tumors of the breafl fhould always be dif- cufled ; while others aflert, that when this pra6lice does not fucceed, it often does mifchief, by inducing fwellings of a fchir- rous nature, which cannot afterwards be 3 diflblved,Sedl. IL Inflammatory humors. 145 dillblved, and which are apt to terminate in cancer. In judging of this point, from my own obfervation, it does not appear to me that there is room for doubt: Our pradlice in inflamed breails fhould be the fame as in every cafe of inflammation, wherever it is feated. In the firfl: ftages of the diforder, difcuflion of the tumor (hould be always attempted^ while it would be in vain, and highly improper, to advife it when the fwelling has been of fuch duration as to have any tendency to fuppurate. The rifle of our inducing fchirrus by this prac- tice, feems to be in a great pieafure ima- ginary : It rather appears, indeed, that cancer is more apt to occur from the im- proper management of thofe fores which enfue from colledtions of matter in the mamma, than from any means that can be ufed to prevent the matter from form- ing. We are farther induced to follow the practice, from the great diftrefs which always attends fuppuration in the mam- ma : Indeed, the pain and raifery of the Vol.L K patient146 of Acute or Chap. IL patient is in fuch cafes often fo great, that no doubt can remain with unprejudiced pradlitioners of the propriety of endea- vouring in every cafe to prevent it. It is'fcarcely neceflary to remark, that the fame remedies prove ufeful here, that fucceed in the dlfcuflion of inflammation in other parts : But It is truly furprifing, that there fhould be almofl: an univerfal prejudice in every inflamed breafl: againfl; the moft powerful of all difcutients, blood- letting. Afraid of this evacuation tend- ing to dlminifh the quantity of milk, we avoid it entirely. In this, however, I am convinced we are wrong. In every cafe of this kind, I have been in the practice of bleeding freely. It has not appeared to diminilh the flow of milk ; while its ef- fects in preventing fuppuration, are, for the moft part, evident. ‘ The quantity of blood to be taken away, muft always be determined by the violence of the inflam- mation, and ftrength of the patient: But, in general, the pradlice will be more effec- tual, when as much as the patient can bear to147 Se6l. II. Inflammatory l!umors. to lofe, is taken at once, than when the fame, or even a greater quantity, is taken at different times. Purgatives prove par- ticularly ufeful; and a cooling diet is equally necelfary here, as in other cafes of inflammation. As nothing tends more to prevent the difeuflion of inflamed tumors than pain, nothing fhould be omitted that can tend to remove it : And as no remedy proves fo effedual as opium, it fhould always be given, and in fuch dofes as are fufficient for the purpofe. With a,view to remove the tenfion of the breaft, the parts fhould be gently rubbed with althea ointment, or with oil: But the applications upon which moft dependence is to be placed, are thofe of a cooling aflringent nature ; fuch as a folution of fal ammoniac in vinegar and watery fpiritus Mindereri^ and all the faturnine applications. Cloths dipped in any of thefe, fliould be kept conftantly ap- plied to the breaft 3 by which, and by at- tention to the other parts of the treat- ment already advifed, almoft every tumor K 2 of148 Of Acute or Chap. II. of this kind may be removed, unlefs the inflammation has been of long duration; in which cafe, when the pain and tenfion are confiderable, it is more advifable to endeavour to bring the tutnor to fuppurate, than to attempt any other method of cure. For this purpoie, we rely with mofl: cer- tainty on a frequent renewal of warm fo- mentations and poultices; and when mat- ter appears to be fully formed, it fhould be difcharged by an opening made in the mofl: depending part of the colledion: At leafl, an opening fhould always be ad- vifed, when it is found that the matter is pointing at an improper part, where it would not find a free vent. In the treatment of inflamed breafls, which occur in nurfing, it is a doubt with many praditioners, whether the milk fhould be drawn off or not. Indeed many affert, that drawing k off, either by con- tinuing the child or with glaffes, does mif- chief; and therefore they advife it not to be attempted. I have never obferved, however, that any inconvenience enfued frontSed. II. Inflammatory Tumors. H9 from it; and as it always procures relief, I advife it in every inftance. When the breaft is much fwelled; the nipple cannot be laid hold of by the child : In fuch cafes, the glaiTes reprefented in Plate LXVII. may be ufed with advantage. § 6. 0/* Inflammation of the Tejles. Inflammation of the teftes may be in^ duced in various ways : By the applica- tion of cold ; by external violence; and by every other caufe that tends to excite inflammation In other parts of the body. But the moft frequent caufe of it is go- norrhoea virulenta. The common opi- nion refpeding this was, that it occurred from the matter in gonorrhoea falling down, as it was termed, upon the teftes : And this appeared the more probable,from its being obferved that the teftes were apt to fwell upon the difcharge being ftopped, at the fame time that the infedion of the teftes was commonly relieved by a return of the running. K3 It150 Of Acute or Chap. II. It is now known, however, that no com- munication fubfifts between the urethra and tefles, by which matter can be con- veyed from the one to the other: And the mofi: probable opinion is, that in the fwelled teftes from gonorrhoea, the inflam- mation is communicated from the urethra, and fpreads along the vafa deferentia to the teftes, • A hidden ftop being put to the difcharge, whether by the ufe of irritating injedlions, or by any other caufe, is very commonly attended with an increafed degree of in- flammation : to abate which, nothing proves more effecftual than a return of the running. In this way, we account more clearly than in any other, for the effedt produced upon the teftes by the ftate of the running. Inflammation of the teftes very rare- ly terminates in fuppuration : But this Ihould not prevent the moft timeous ap- plication of thofe remedies which we know to be the moft powerful difcutients. Blood-letting is perhaps the moft: effec- tualSe6l. II. Inflammatory Humors. 151 tual remedy; but it always proves moft ferviceable when the blood is taken di- redly from the part affeded by means of leeches. After difcharging a fufhcient quantity, the fwelling fhould be kept con- ftantly moift with a folutlon of Saccharum Saturni; the fcrotum and teftes fliould be properly fufpended ; the bowels Ihould be kept moderately open ^ a low diet fliould be prefcribed 3 and the patient Ihould be ftridly confined to a horizontal pofture. When there is caufe to fufped that the conftitution is tainted with lues venerea, nothing will prove ferviceable If a mer- curial courfe is negleded. And when it appears that the difeafe has been induced by the difcharge having been too fuddenly checked, we fhould endeavour to promote a return of it, by bathing the penis in warm water ; by injediing warm oil into the u- rethra ; or by the ufe of bougies. In this manner, we fcarcely can fail of removing Inflammation of the tefles by difcuflion: But when the contrary hap- pens, either from the ufe of the remedies K 4 not152 of Acute or Chap, II. not being duly perfifted in, or from the inflammation being particularly violent, and when fuppuration is found to have taken place, the matter muft be difchar- ged by an opening made in the moft de- pending part of the abfcefs; which in €very refpecS fliould be treated like col- lections of pus in other parts of the body. § 7. Of Venereal Buboes. Swellings of the lymphatic glands from the abforption of the venereal vi- rus are termed Venereal Buboes. They may appear in any gland feated between a venereal fore and the heart: But they are moft frequent In the groin, in con- feqiience of the abforption of venereal matter from fores in the penis. For the moft part they are produced by matter abforbed from chancres, and in fome cafes the glands fwell from fympathy in gonor- rhoea : But inftances likewife occur of bu- boes arifing without any previous ulcera- tionSe6l. II. Inflammutory Tumors. 153 tion or difcharge from the penis, where the matter appears to be abforbed without any perceptible erofion of the Ikin. The moft material point to be deter- mined in the treatment of bubo is, whe- ther we Ihould endeavour to difcufs the fwelling, or bring it to fuppuration? While the opinion prevailed that buboes were produced by the depofition of venereal matter from the fyftem, it was not furpri- ling to find pradlitloners advifing us in e- very inftance to promote their fuppura- tion : For on this fuppofition it was pro- bable that nature meant by thefe fwell- ings to throw off the Infedion. But now 'when we know that buboes arife from matter palling into the fyftem, that the quantity of venereal matter is increafed inftead of being diminiflied, by their be- ing brought to fuppurate ^ and that the fores which enfue from them are often very difficult to cure ; fcarcely any will doubt of the propriety of endeavouring to remove them by difcuflion. With this view the patient flioiild be put upon an antiphlogiftic regimen. His bowels154 0/ -^cute or Chap. II. bowels fliould be kept open by the ufe of purgatives ; leeches Ihould be applied to the hardened gland ^ and It fliould be kept conftantly wet with a ftrong folutlon of faccharum faturnl. Along with thefe, however,mercury fliould be given in quan- tities fufficient for eradicating the difeafe : And as we know from experience that mercury proves moft effeftual when made to pafs through the difeafed glands, it fliould always be applied in the form of un6lion to thofe parts in which the lym- phatics of the affeiled glands are known to originate: A practice which will al- niofl: always be found to prove more ef- fedual than the dire6l application of mercury to the glands themfelves. Thus in the difcuflion of a bubo in the groin, fri6iion with mercurial ointment upon the thigh and leg will prove more fuc- cefsful than rubbing it upon the gland itfelf. To many this has been long known; and it would appear that the practice could fcarcely fail of occurring to any who have paid attention to the dif- coveriesSedi II. Inflammatory T^umors. 155 coverles made by the moderns in the ana- tomy of the lymphatic fyltem. When buboes are early noticed, the courfe, we are now recommending will feldom fail in difcuffing them, if the mercurial fridtions are properly applied and continued for a fulEcient length of time. It often happens, however, that all our efforts fail, either from the dif- eafe being too far advanced before the mercury is applied, or from the tumor not being altogether venereal, but of a mixed nature ; a circumftance which is not unfrequent. Thus, it frequently happens that buboes are combined with fcrophula and fcurvy, and in fome cafes with eryfipelas or with common phleg- mon. In fuch cafes we are not furpri- fed at the failure of mercury : And ac- cordingly we fometimes find, that in- ftead of forwarding the difcuffion of the fwelling, it tends rather to bring it to fuppuration. Cafes of this kind prove often very perplexing both to the patient and practitioner ^ fo that no point in pradice156 Chap. IL of Acute or practice requires more exacS attennon and difcrimination : For by proceeding to throw in great quantities of mercury, as is ufually done while buboes remain obftinate, we often do harm, not merely to the local affedlion, but to the fyflem at large; at the fame time that in every inftance the fafety of the patient requires filch a quantity to be exhibited as is fufE- cient for eradicating the venereal virus. In all fuch cafes, the beft pradice, I be- lieve, is to defifl: from the ufe of mercury as foon as it appears that no advantage is derived from it. In the mean time, by a change of diet and other circumftances, fuch an alteration may be affeded in the conftitution, that a fecond trial of mer- cury may prove fuccefsful: At leaft, in different inftances, this has fucceeded with me, where I had much reafon to think that perfifling longer with mercury at firft would have done harm. When it is found that a bubo cannot be difcufled, and that it will probably fuppu- rate, a frequent renewal of warm emol- lientSe£t. II. Inflammatory T^umors. 157 lient poultices and fomentations are the remedies to be moft depended upon. The opening of buboes when fiippu- ration has taken place next demands our attention. Some difluade us from open- ing buboes at all, alleging that they heal fooner when allowed to burft of them- felves,: While a fmall punfture with a lancet, a longitudinal cut through the whole extent of the fwelling, or the ap- plication of cauftic, have all had their abettors. When a bubo is altogether venereal, and not conneded with any other af- fedion, any of thefe methods will fucceed, provided a fufficient quantity of mercury is exhibited: But when a bubo termi- nates in a fore difficult of cure, we are too apt to blame the particular method in which it was opened ; for in whatever manner it is done, we know that the cure will often prove tedious and perplexing. The objed of praditioners fliould be nearly the fame here as in colledions of matter in any other part. Such an openingof jlcute or Chap. II. 158 opening fliould be made as will afFord a free vent to the matter : But there is feldom any neceflity for making it lar- ger. In large buboes, indeed, the tegu- ments are apt to be fo loofe and flabby, and the texture of the Ikin fo much de- ftroyed, that the cure would be render- ed tedious were it allowed to remain. In fuch cafes it is advifable to difcharge the matter with cauftic applied in fuch a manner as to deflroy any part of the teguments that appear to be fuperabun- dant. This, however, is feldom neceflary; and for the mofl: part it will be found that an opening made from the centre of the tumor, where the matter commonly points, down to the mofl: depending part of it, will prove fufficient. Even a fmaller opening than this would often anfwer; but it is better to make it of a fufficient fize at once, than to be obliged to repeat a very painful operation perhaps once and again, as is often neceffary when buboes of a large fize are opened by fmall pundures. In fmall buboes, a mere pundureSed. II. Inflammatory Tumors. 159 pundure will fometimes prove fufficient; nay in thefe, the matter being allowed to burft, often anfwers extremely well: But when the colledion is large, this fliould never be depended on. When buboes come forward to full ma- turation, without much injury being done to the Ikin, I have in different inftances difcharged the matter by the introdudlon of a fmall cord; and the pradice has fucceeded. This requires, however, the teguments to be firmer than they com- monly are when a bubo is ready to be opened. We all know that it is of much im- portance to prevent the air from finding accefs to fores; and as we fometimes ob- ferve buboes ooze out the matter which they contain by a number of fmall open- ings over their furface, and as thefe com- monly heal eafily, I conclude that they do fo from the openings being fo fmall as to exclude the air entirely. In different cafes, I have with this view attempted to imitate nature, by making a number of fmall 21^0 Of Acute or Chap. II. fmall pundures with the point of a lan- cet over the whole extent of the bubo; and for the moft part with fuccefs. The matter comes flowly off; the fides of the abfeefs contrad gradually; and when completely emptied, we commonly find the whole parts that have been affeded, fufficlently firm, without any fores or fi- nufes remaining. While means are employed to promote thefuppurationof a bubo, the patient ftiould mu continue the mercurial courfe, by which no time will be loft; and the fore, which is the confequence of the opening, will af- terwards heal more quickly than If the mercury had been interrupted. The fore, however, often proves tedious, even where we are convinced that a fufficient quantity of mercury has been given, and where there is reafon to fuppofe that the fiphylitic vi- rus is eradicated. The edges become hard and livid; the matter thin, ftiarp, and fe- tid ; and inftead of healing, the ulceration gradually becomes more extenfive ; or if it heals in fome parts, it breaks out in o- thers, 3Se£t. II. Inflammatory Timors. i6£ thers, giving a honey-comb appearance to all the under part of the abdomen and up- per part of the thigh. The fituatlon of patients with fuch fores is truly deplorable. The pain with which they are attended Is often Intenfe^ the abforption of acrid matter induces hec- tive fever; the patients become hot and reftlefs through the night; and alrnoft a total want of appetite renders them fobn much emaciated. As I have happened to be concerned in a confiderable number of fuch cafes. I can fpeak with fome confidence of the method of treatment. In the firfl: place, v/e are here to fuppofe, that the patient has taken a fuf- ficient quantity of mercury, and that no finufes are left, in which matter in any quantity will be allowed to lodge, Ci- cuta, in fuchcircumfiances, has fometimes proved ufeful; and I have had different indances of the the fores being healed by the external application of it when no advantage was derived from any of the ufual dreffings. In fuch cafes, it was applied VoL. I. L in162 of Acute or CRap. M in the form of poultices, by mixing the juice of the frefh herb with the commort emollient cataplafm. I have fometimes^^ obferved too, that in the internal exhibi- tion of cicuta, the recent exprelled juice has proved more effedtual than any other form of it* I have given the hyofcyamus and belladona very complete trials in va- rious inftances ; but commonly with no material advantage. Sarfaparilla, guaieum, and mezereon, all prove ufeful here ; and they feem to a6l with moft advantage^ when ufed all at the fame time: guaieum and mezereon prove even ferviceable when ufed feperately ; but I have, in different inftances, found that they a6t with more advantage, when combined in the follow- ing form with farfaparilla : Rafiif. ligni guaiac. Radicis farfaparillae, Jifs. Corticis radicis mezerei, 31. Radicis gljcyrrhizse, 3iii. Aq. fontanae, Ibiii. coque ad tbii. Colaturae adde Syrup, altheae, ThisSed. II. Inflammatory humors^ 163 This quantity to be ufed daily, by drink- ing a cupful from ime to time. But the mdft effedlual courfe I hav hi- therto tried, is the application of canftic round all the edges and hardened parts of the fores, at the fame time that opium in coofiderable quantities is given inwardly. For a confiderable time, 1 trufted entirely to drellings of the emollient kind, being afraid of irritating parts already highly fenfible. In fome cafes, a faturnine oint^ ment has proved fuccefsful; and in others, the common calamine cerate has anfwered^ but for the moft part, on thofe days in which cauftic is not applied, I have found more advantage from the ufe of red pre- cipitate, than from any other remedy. In fome cafes, it is neceflary to fprinkle it over the furface of the fore, in the form of a dry powder; but in others, it proves fufficient to add it to any of the common ointments. Inftead of creating pain, it commonly removes it ^ and it feldom fails to alter the difcharge from a thin fl^arp fanies to a thick well digefted pus. Mu- L 2 Gilage1^4 Of Acute or Chap. II» cilage of gum arable, impregnated with calomel, fometimes anfwers in the heal- ing of thefe fores, when the ufual dreflings fail: A drachm, or even more, of calo- mel may be mixed with one ounce of thick mucilage. Lunar cauftic, at firft, fometimes gives pain; but this foon fubfides, efpecially when opium is ufed at the fame time. In- deed, opium of itfelf proves often ufeful in thefe fores, ft has been highly ex- tolled of late for the cure of every ftage of the venereal difeafe. I have had no proof of its ever curing any fymptom tru- ly venereal; but I have had feveral in- ftances of fores remaining after the vene- real difeafe, being completely removed by it, where large quantities of mercury had previoully been given in vain. It often ap- pears that thefe fores, as well as others proceeding from different caufes, are kept up by that pain and irritation with which evey are accompanied when the matter is thin and acrid. Opium, by removing this ftate of irritability, feems to deftroy theSe6l. II. Inflammatory Tumors. the difpofition in the veflels of the fore to form that kind of matter which, by its own acrimony, ferves to perpetuate itfelf; and this being accomplifhed, if no other interruption takes place, nature alone will feldom fail to complete the cure. If this idea is well founded, there can be no ne- ceffityfor giving opium in fuch large quam titles as of late have been advifed. On the fuppofition of opium being poflefled of fome Ipeclfic powers in the cure of the venereal difeafe, it has been given in as large dofes as the patient could poffibly bear; and by beginning with fmall dofes, and increafing them gradually, there have 'been inftances of its being taken to the extent of half a drachm or more, two or three times a day. I have not heard, how- ever, that any advantage has been derived from it in thofe large quantities, that did not accrue from a more moderate ufe of it: And in the courfe of my own experi- ence, I have found it equally effeilual, when it merely lellened or removed pain, as when given in the largeft dofes 5 while L 3 the166 Chap. II, Of Acute or the Inconveniencies which ufually arife from thefe have never been of any im= portance § 8. (y Lumbar Abfcejfes. Every colle6Hon of matter feated on any part of the loins, may be denomina-r ted a Lumbar Abfcefs. But it is that va- raity of the difeafe we are now to con- lider, which originates about the fupe- rior part of the os facrum ^ and in which we find, by difledion, that the matter contained in a cyfl, is lodged on the an- terior furface of the internal iliac and pfoas mufcles. Thefe abfcefTes are preceded by pain and tenfion over the loins ^ which often fhoot up along the courfe of the fpine, and down towards the thighs; and is fre- quently * A more particular account of buboes, and of the fores which enfue from them, may be feen in a treatife which I have newly publilhed on the venereal difeafe, than could with propriety be inferted here.II. Inflammatory Tumors. 167 quently accompanied with difficulty of ftanding . in an ered pofture. In fome cafes, thefe fymptoms are fufpeded to be nephritic ; but for the mofl: part the di- feafe affiimes the appearance of lumbago. When fuppuration enfues, fhivering fits are apt to occur: But the pain, which at firft was acute, becoming dull and lefs perceptible, the patient is led to conclude that he is getting better, till the matter, after falling down in a gradual manner behind the peritonaeum, is obferved to point outwardly, either at the anus by the fide of the redum, or on the upper and fore part of the thigh, where the large blood-vellels pafs out, beneath Paupart’s ligament, from the abdomen. When the matter takes the courfe of the gut, and appears near to the anus, it cither foon burfts, or is laid open on the fuppofition of its being an abfcefs ori- ginating in the contiguous parts. But when it pafles down with the femoral artery, which we find to be moll frequent- ij the cafe, as it lies deep, and is cover-i68 Of Acute or Chap. II. ed with the ftrong tendinous fafcia of the thigh, Inftead of pointing at any par- ticular part, It falls gradually lower till in fome cafes It reaches near to the joint of the knee. In fome I have known thefe abfceifes firfi: appear Immediately within the fpine of the Ileum, and the matter burfl: nut above the os pubis, but in general before burfting, it falls farther down upon the thigh. The tumor Is feldom attended with more pain than might be expeded to oc- cur from the diftention of the fafcia and contiguous parts by the matter colleded beneath. There is no difcolouring of the fkin ; the teguments, for the mod part, retaining their natural appearance to the lafl. A fluduation of a fluid is evident- ly difcovered through the whole extent of the tumor, particularly when the patient is ered ; For at this time the fwelling is always more tenfe than when the body Is lying in a horizontal pofture, when a con- Jlderable part of the matter runs along the fac towards its origin in the loins. WeSed. II. Injlammatory l*umors. 169 The We have already obferved, that this variety of abfcefs, when the matter falls down towards the anus, may be miftaken for a common phlegmon originating in the neighbourhood of the redum. But no farther inconvenience can occur from this miftake, than that the fore, which enfues from laying it^ open, or from the matter burfting out, will not fo readily heal as when the difeafe is local: And it is probable that this is one caufe of ab- fcefles in thefe parts being in fome in- ftances fo idifficult to cure. But in the more ordinary form of the difeafe, where the matter falls down beneath Paupart’s 'ligament, the tumor exhibits appearances fo fimilar to thofe of a crural hernia, that the one has often been miftaken for the other. Of this I have feen different im ftances, even where praditioners of ex- perience were deceived. This proceeds, however, from inattention y for the two difeafes may be clearly diftinguiftied from each other.Kjo Of Acute or Chap. IL The hiftory of the rife and progrefs of the fwelling Ihould be fir ft attended to. A crural hernia ufually appears fudden- ly, after feme unufual exertion, and with- out any previous fymptom; for the moft part it is attended with obftrudion to the paflage of the faeces, with vomiting, and other fymptoms^ of hernia ; and from the firft, the tumor is attended with pain on being handled. But in the lumbar abfcefs, before the matter appears at the top of the thigh, the patient is previoufly diftrefled with fymptoms of inflammation over all the under part of his back and loins. No obftrucftion of the bowels takes place, nor any fymptom of hernia ; and the patient admits of the tumor be- ing freely handled. In the crural her- nia, the fwelling feldom arrives at any confiderable bulk; and when it does be- come large, it is by flow degrees : No fluduation is perceived in it; but, on the contrary, it feels either foft like dough, or knotty and unequal, according as the omentum or faeces contained in it have beenSecft. II. Injlammatory l*umors. 171 the been long lodged in it or not. But in lumbar abfcefles of this kind, the tumor commonly falls quickly down the thigh for the fpace of feveral inches ; a fludua- tion is always perceived ; and no inequa- lities are obferved in it In hernia, even when not ftrangulated, fome degree of preffure is ufually neceflary to make the contents of the tumor recede. But in the lumbar abfcefs, the tumor becomes flac- cid immediately on the patient lying down, whether any preflhre is applied to it or not: And it often happens, when the matter has fallen any confiderable way down the thigh, that the upper part of the cyft at the top of the thigh is found perfedly clear 3 that is, a certain fpace can be difcovered between the up- per part of the matter and the inferior border of the abdominal mulcles, which can never be done in any kind of hernia; and which, therefore in this ftate of the diieafe, is always a certain means of di- ftindion. It is fcarcely neceflary to ob- ferve, that in this kind of examinationof Acute or Chap. IL 172 the patient (hould be put into different poftures. By due attention to thefe circumftances we may always diftinguifh one of thefe tumors from the other. Both indeed may occur at the fame time in the fame thigh, by which a mixture of appearances will be produced. This, however, mufl be extremely rare; and when It does take place, as the matter of the abfcefs and the parts protruded from the abdomen will always be contained in feparate facs, the combination will for the moft part be ea- fily difcovered. In the treatment of thefe affections, the period of the difeafe firft requires atten- tion. While the inflammatory date con- tinues, the ftriCteft antiphlogiftic courfe fliould be adopted, in order if poflible to prevent the formation of matter. For the moft part, we difcover, that it has been> induced by fome injury being done to the fmall of the back or loins, not unfre- quently by a twift in wreftling; by carrying a heavy load, or by a fevere bruife^ and if accidents of this nature wereSe(S. II. Inflammatory Tumors. 173 were immediately treated with that at- tention which their importance merits^ thofe difagreeable confequences which are apt to enfue from them might frequently be prevented. Whenever a patient, who has fuffered in this manner, complains of fevere pain in the injured part, blood-let- ting fhould be immediately advifed 3 and as local blood-letting proves always in fuch cafes moft effedlual, it fliould be done by cupping and fcarifying the pained part. The affeded parts being deeply feated, the lancets of the fcarificator fhould be made to go to a confiderable depth; for which purpofe the fpring of the inftrument fliould be flronger than ufual, by which means any quantity of blood we may judge pro- per may be taken with eafe ; and I am con- vinced, that by carrying this pradice a fufficient length, we might very common- ly, in the early ftages of the difeafe, re- move it entirely. It is diiEcult to fay when injuries of thefe parts would termi- nate in fuppuration or otherwife; but I have met with different initances, where, from 2174 Q/* or Chap. 11^ from the feverity of the pain and other fymptoms, there was much cauf© to fufpedt that matter would have formed, if it had not been prevented by a timeous and plen- tiful difcharge of blood from the injured parts; a remedy which commonly gives immediate relief to the pain, however vio- lent it may be. But at the fame time that we depend chiefly on local blood-letting, other remedies which experience fhows to prove ufeful in inflammation fliould not be negledted: Of thefe, blifters, opiates, and gentle purgatives are moft to be relied up- on. Thefe, however, as well as every other remedy, will in fome inftances fail; and in others, practitioners are not called till fuppuration has taken place, and till the matter has actually begun to point, either in the neighbourhood of the anus, or on the fore part of the thigh. In this fitua- tion, what are we to do ? Are we to allow the matter to remain, or to difcharge it by making an opening into it ? In my opi- nion there is no room for hefitation: The 1 matterSe(3. II. Injtainmatory Ttumors. 175 matter ftiould be evacuated as foon as a fludiiation Is diftindly perceived in the tumor. I know, however, that praditioners are of different opinions upon this point: For it Is alleged, that as thefe abfceffes are fo deeply feated, it would be in vain to at- tempt the cure of them; and therefore that no advantage can be derived from, laying them open; while much harm^ they obferve, may accrue from the air be- ing freely admitted to them. But it does not appear that this reafoning is founded on obfervation. I have always held it as a leading principle in furgery, that the matter of every abfcefs, feated upon or near to any of the large cavities of the body, fhould be difcharged as foon as its exiftence is clearly afcertalned: So that in the treatment of the lumber abfcefs, I have uniformly given vent to the matter, and without any bad confequences enfu- ing; while much mifchlef may occur from this being omitted. We find by difiec- tion after death that thefe abfcefles, when ofChap* IL of Acute or 176 of long duration, affedl not only the fofter parts covering the vertebrae of the loins^ but the fubftance of the vertebrae them-^ felves; which in fome cafes have been found carious, and even partially diflblved in the matter of the abfcefs. Now thefe accidents are furely more likely to happen when the matter is allowed to continue in the abfcefs, than when difcharged early: At the fame time, by emptying the fac, the matter is prevented from burfting into the cavity of the abdomen: Which in diffe- rent inftances has happened, to the great inconvenience and hazard of the patient. The matter, however, ought certainly to be difcharged in fuch a way as to prevent the air as effedually as poflible from get- ting accefs to the cavity of the abfcefs. With this view a trocar may be ufed with advantage. By prefling the matter down to the moft depending part of the abfcefs, the fkin is made fo tenfe, that a trocar is readily introduced. I tried this in one cafe with very complete fuccefs 3 and the patient wore a fmall canula in the open-Se6t. II. Inflammatory "Tumors^ 177 ing for feveral months, by which the mat- ter was freely difcharged. But when the cafe is not perfectly obvious, and where any doubt remains of the contents of the tumor, inftead of pufliing a trocar into it, the opening (Imuld be made in a flow gra- dual manner with a fcalpel, in the fame manner as is pradifed in cafes of hernia^ fo that in the event of any of the contents of the abdomen being down, no injury may be done to them. After the matter has continued to flow for fome time, and if at the end of two or three weeks the quantity does not be^ come confiderably lefs, it may prove ufe- ful to throw up with a fy ringe a weak folu- tlon of faccharum faturni, lime-water, or any other gentle aflringent; by which the difcharge will be gradually dimlnifli- ed, and at lafl may ceafe entirely. But although this fhould never happen, and although the patient, during life, fhould fubmit to the inconveniency of a conflant flilllcidium of matter from the fore ^ yet even this would be preferable to the rifk VoL. I. M of178 Of Acute or Chap. II. of allowing every abfcefs of this kind to remain unopened. As I have happened to meet with many inftances of this difeafe; as practitioners are divided in opinion refpeding it; and as no diftindl account of it is given by au- thors ; 1 have therefore judged it proper to ^eak of it more fully than otherwife might have beeu necellary. § 9, 0/* the Paronychia or Whitloe, The paronychia is a painful inflamma- tory fwelling, occupying the extremities of the fingers, mofl frequently under the nails. Several varieties of this difeafe are de- fcribed by authors ^ but three only require to be diftinguifhed, and even thefe are all of the fame nature, the one being only more deeply feated than the others. In the firft, the patient complains of an uneafy burning fenfation for feveral days over the point of the finger 3 the part be- comes tender and painful to the touch 3 a flight 'Sedl. II. Inflammatory "fumors. 179 flight degree of fwelllng takes place, but with little or no difcoloration^ an 1 if the inflammation be not removed by refolu- tion, an effufion is at lafl: produced be- tween the Ikin and parts beneath. On difcharging this by an incifion, it appears to be a thin, clear, acrid ferum; and the patient, in general, gets complete relief by the operation. In the fecond variety of the difeafe the fame fet of fymptoms take place ; only the pain is more fevere, and attended with fome uneafinefs over the whole finger and hand. The efflifion of matter is not fo perceptible as in the other; and on lay- ing it open, it is found to lie beneath the mufcles of the finger, between thefe parts and the periofleum. And in the third, the pain is flill more intenfe in the point of the finger, at the fame time that the whole hand and arm becomes ftiflT, fwelled, and painful. The lymphatics leading from the finger, and even the glands in the arm-pit, fwell and inflame j and on making an incifion into 2 thei8o Of Acute or Chap. IL the efFulion, it is found to lie between the periofteum and bone, the whole corre- fponding phalanx being in general cari- ous. Swellings of this kind may be produced by various caufes. They frequently oc- cur from external violence, particularly from punftures and contufion: But they happen more frequently without any ob- vious caufe, and without our being able to account for them. Two fets of remedies are employed in paronychia : The one coniifts of fomenta- tions, poultices, and other emollients; the other of ardent fpirits, vinegar and other aftringents. As we find from experience that no ad- vantage is derived from the elFufion which occurs in this difeafe; on the contrary, that it is always produdive of much ad- ditional pain, all thofe applications fliould be avoided which have any tendency to promote it. Some praditioners have been induced to employ waim emollient poul- tices on the firil appearance of the fwel- lingSed. II. Inflammatory humors. 18 r ling. This they do with a view to pro- mote fuppuration ; but I have never obfer- ved that any advantage accrues from it. The matter of a whitloe is never of the purulent kind, nor is it ever converted into pus, or rendered mild by poultices, or any other remedy. We fliould endeavour th re- fore in every inflance to prevent it from being efRifed; and this is done with mofl certainty by local blood-letting, and the ufe of aftringent applications. Indeed the fame remedies prove moft effedual here, that we find to he to In the removal of in- flammation in other parts. In various inftances, I have found even fevere degrees of pain almiofl Immediately removed by the application of leeches over the dif- eafed phalanx of the finger. But in the more violent degrees of pain, where the arm fwells, and efpecially when fever takes place, general blood-letting becomes likewife neceflary, at the fame time that large dofes of opiates are indicated. After as much blood is difcharged by leeches as is judged proper, the immer-* M 3 lionI82 Chap. II. Of Acute or fion of the pained parts In ftrong brandy, or even In fpirit of wine or alcohol, is one of the bed remedies: And when the bites are fomewhat healed, or when leech- es have not been employed, fpirit of tur- pentine or ftrong vinegar may be ufed in the fame manner. It Is proper, however, to remark, that it is in the firft ftages only of this affec- tion that remedies of this kind can prove ufeful: For when efiufion has adually taken place, that ftate of the difeafe is produced which they were meant to pre- vent ; and it does not appear that they have any effed: in removing it. As foon as we are convinced that effufion has oc- curred, an opening fliould be made with- out deldy : For we have already obferved, that it is in vain to attempt to convert the effufed fluid into pus ; and being in itfelf acrid, it is apt to injure the conti- guous parts, while at the fame time the patient is kept in an extreme degree of pain as long as it remains confined. When the colledloii is fuperficial, and merelySe<S. II. Inflammatory Tumors. 183 merely covered with ikin, this is a very Ample operation. A puncture with a lancet commonly proves fufficient: But when the matter is more deeply feated, It requires fome attention to avoid the flexor and extenfor tendons of the finger. When the matter lies above the peri- ofteum, all that we have to do is to make the opening fufficlently large for difchar- ging it, and to drefs the fore as if It was produced by any other caufe. But, when the matter lies between the periofteum and bone, the latter is always render- ed carious : ' Hence it Is the common pradlice to endeavour to keep the inci- fion open till an exfoliation of the dif- eafed parts of the bone takes place 3 but I have never obferved any advantage ac- crue from this. The procefs is not only extremely painful, but tedious. The matter is apt to lodge beneath the nail; painful fungous excrefcences fprout out over the fore, which it is difficult even with the llrongefl: cauftic to keep down ; and at lafl: it very commonly happens, af- M 4 terOf Acute or Chap. II. I ter the patient has fufFered federal months of diftrefs, that inftead of a partial exfo- liation, the whole difeafed phalanx comes away. I am therefore convinced, that much time and trouble would be faved both to the patient and furgeon, If the dif- eafed bone was Immediately removed on making the opening to difcharge the matter. By making a free incifion along the whole length of the difeafed phalanx, the bone is eafily removed with common forceps. The pain attending it is indeed fevere, but it is only momentary : And the mea- fure, which does not deprive the patient of the life of the joint fo much as might be imagined, is feldom oppofed when the furgeon advifes it. I have had feveral inflances of people who in this man- ner loft the laft phalanx of bone in one finger, having fuch a degree ot firmnefs in the parts which remained, as to fuller very little inconvenience from the want of it. When the difeafed bone is removed, the remaining fore, commonly heals eafily. It requiresSed. II. Inflammatory 'Tumors* 185 requires fome attention, however, to pre- ferve the lips of the fore from adhering till it fills up from the bottom. This is mofl: eafily done by infinuating between them at each drefling a fmall pledgit of foft lint, fpread with any mild emollient oint- ment. In almofl: every variety of paronychia, the nail is apt to fall off: But this proves only a temporary inconvenience; for when the parts are properly protected, nature never fails to fupply the deficiency. In the commencement of paronychia, the lafl: phalanx of the finger only is af- feded : And to whatever extent the pain and fwelling of the fofter parts may fpread, we feldom find that the bone of the contiguous phalanx fufifers, unlefs from improper management in allowing the dileafed bone to. remain, or the acrid matter to lodge too long. In fuch cafes, the furrounding teguments are apt to fwell and inflame, and fmall ulcerations to occur over the whole extent of the ca- rious bone. In this fituationwe are often underi86 Of Acute or Chap. II. under the neeeffity of advifing the finger to be amputated, in order to prevent the difeafe from fpreading to the hand. §10.0/' Chilblains. These are painful inflammatory fwel- lings, to which the fingers, toes, heels, ears, and other extreme parts of the body, are liable, on being much expofed to fe- vere degrees of cold. The tumor is for the mod part of a deep purple, or fome- what of a leaden colour : The pain with which it is attended is not conftant, but {hooting and pungent ^ and in general, it is accompanied with a very diftrefsful de- gree of itching. In fome cafes the fkin remains entire, even although the tume- faction is confiderable > but in others it burfts or cracks, and difcharges a thin fetid matter. And where the degree of cold has either been very great, or the application of it long continued, all the parts that have been affected are apt to mortifySe£l. TI. Inflammatory Tumors. 187 mortify and foiigh off, by which a very foul ill conditioned ulcer is alwa;ys left. VVe have oblerved above, that it is the extreme parts of the body chiefly that are liable to be attacked with chilblains : And we likewiffe find, that they are more frequent in delicate children and old people than in thofe who are robuft. It is alfo remarked, that they are particu- larly feverein people of fcrophulous con- ftitutions. The beft preventative of chilblains is to avoid expofure to cold and dampnefs 5 for when once a perlbn has fuffered from fwellings of this kind, if the injured parts be not protefted by fufficient coverings, they are apt to return every winter. Much diftrefs, therefore, and inconvenience, may be prevented by due attention to this circumftance. Chilblains may be confi lered as a leffer degree of what is ufually termed froft-bi- ting: Hence parts attacked with them fliould never be quickly warmed. The pa- Iti^nt Ihould not be allowed to approach a fire :Chap. IL i88 Of Acute or fife: Inftead of which, he fhould be put into a cold apartment ; and the frofi-bit parts fhould be firft well rubbed with fnow when it can be procured, and afterwards immerfed in cold water. Nothing proves fo certainly hurtful to parts in this ftate as heat fuddenly applied. Even fnow and cold water afford a warm fenfation to parts at- tacked with chilblains ; but it is found by experience that no detriment enfues from this. After the parts have been treated in this manner, the patient may in a gradual way be brought into a greater degree of heat; but he fhould for a confiderable time be kept at a dlilance from fire. Rub- bing the parts with fait will in this fitua- tion prove ufefu.l; and immerfion in warm wine is likewife employed with advam tage. - A patient much benumbed with cold fhould not even have cordials given to him fuddenly. A glafe of cold wine may at firft be allowed. Afterwards warm wine may be given, either by itfelf or mixed with any of the warmer fpices: AndSed. II. Inflammatory Ttumors, 189 And when ftronger cordials are required, ardent fpirits may be employed. Remedies of this kind, however, are only neceflary in the - more fevere de- grees of thefe aflfedions. In common cafes of chilblains occurring in this country, as foon as the part is perceived to be affected, it fhould be well rubbed either with fpiritof turpentine, or campho- rated fplrlt of wine ; and pieces of foft linen moiftened in one of other of thefe fhould be kept conflantly applied to it. In this manner we have it often in our power to remove fwellings which other- wife would be productive of much di- ftrefs : But we muft again obferve, that the beft advice that can be given to patients liable to chilblains, is to protect the parts much expofed to fufferfrom cold as much as poflible during the winter^ and when by accident they get wet with fnow, which proves more particularly hurtful than moi- llure of any other kind, that they fhould be dried as quickly as poflible. As fome patients fuffer feverely with chilblains every winter, our being able to preventChap. II, of Acute or 190 prevent them without that inconvenience, which always attends confinement and much caution, would often be an objedt of importance; and it is a point upon which praditioners are frequently con- fulted. In different inftances 1 have found fea^bathing during fummer prove ufe- ful, and in one patient who had fuf- fered feverely from the effeds of cold for feveral winters, I advifed a chamber-bath to be ufed even during winter; by which the parts which ufed to fuffer were fa much ftrengthened, that feveral years have elapfed without any return of the difeafe. When chilblains ulcerate, by the tegu- ments being altogether thrown off, or merely cracking and oozing out matter, warm poultices and emollient ointments are commonly employed. For the pur- pofe of cleanfing the fores, and inducing a difcharge of right matter, poultices may with propriety be advifed for a few days 3 but they fhould never be long continued: Nor fhould emollient ointments be much perfifted in ^ for they very univerfally in- duce 3Sed. II. Inflammatory T^umors. 191 duce fungous excrefcences over the fores, which are often difficult to remove. The daily application of cauhic to the edges of the fore, and dreffing the fore itfelf with common digeftive ointment, mixed with a due proportion of red precipitate, are the befl preventatives of this. Common dia- chylon plafter, fpread upon thin leather, makes an ufeful application for fores of this kind. § II. Of Sprains and Contufions. Contusions of the fofter parts of the body, and fprains of the tendons and liga- ments of joints, are ufually produdive of immediate painful inflammatory fwel- lings. Slight affedions of this kind feldom meet with much attention ; but when the injury is fevere, it often requires the ut- mofl: fkill of the praditioner, as well as much caution on the part of the patient, to remove thofe effeds which enfue from it, and which otherv/ife might continue during life. Alltgi Of Acute or Chap. It. An increafed adllon in the arteries of an injured part, by which red globules are forced into velTels which naturally do not admit them, will account for all the phe- nomena which ufually attend inflammation: But in the feverer degrees of fprains and contufions, along with an increafed adion of the arteries in the part, which muft ne* ceflarily refult from the pain with which they are accompanied, it is evident that inftantaneous eflPafion likewife takes place, from the rupture of a great number of fmall veflels. In no other way can we account for thofe tumors of confiderable bulk, which often fucceed almofl; inftan- taneoufly to fprains. For the mofl: part the efflifion muft be of the ferous kind, as the Ikin ufually retains its natural co- lour for fome time after the accident.: Eut the tumefied parts are fometimes of a deep red, and on other occafions of a leaden colour, from the firft 5 owing to a rupture of fome of the vefiPels containing red blood. InSeel. II. Inflammatory Tumors* I93 In the treatment of fprains and contu- lions, two circumftances chiefly require attention. In the firfl: place, we fhould endeavour to prevent the twelling, as far as this can be done, and afterwards thofe remedies fhould be employed which we know to prove mofl: powerful in prevent- ing or removing inflammation. It is alleged, indeed, by fome, that the fwelling which occurs from contufions ne- ver does harm, and therefore requires no particular attention. In contufions of the cellular fubftance, or even of the mufcles, I allow that this is often the cafe 3 for to whatever extent the tumefadion may pro- ceed, the effufed fluid is in thefe parts very commonly abforbed. But even here the fwelling in fome cafes proves extremely obftinate: And in fprains of the tendons and ligaments, a very troublefome, pain- ful tbicknefs of the parts that have been injured, is apt to continue for a great length of time y in fome cafes, even for life : And I have commonly obferved, that this has in general been nearly in propor- VoL. I. N tionOf Acute or 194 Chap. II. tion to the fize of the tumor which occur- red at firft; for it would appear that efRi- fions thrown out by ligamentous parts are not fo readily abforbed as thofe which oc- cur in other parts of the body. Hence in all thefe accidents, it is an object of im- portance to prevent the fwelling from ar- riving at any confiderable magnitude. With this view, we depend chiefly on a- idringent applications 3 fuch as the lees of red wine, ardent fpirits of every kind, and vinegar. By immerfing a fprained or con- tufed part in any of thefe immediately on receiving the injury, if the effufion be not altogether prevented, it will at leaft be rendered much lefs than otherwife it pro- bably would be. And it often happens that the immediate application of cold proves equally ufeful. Plunging a fprain- ed limb into the coldeft water that can be procured, or even into water rendered ar- tificially colder than natural, is a pradice that often proves ufeful; and it fliould be always advifed in the firfl: place, till one or other of the articles mentioned above can195 Sedl. II. Inflammatory "Tumors. can be procured 3 for as the efFufion takes place quickly, no time fhould be loft in the application of the remedies. It fortunately happens, that thofe appli- cations which prove moft effedual in pre- venting the effufion that enfues from fprains, prove likewife ufeful in prevent- ing inflammation. But as this fymptom is in fevere fprains apt to proceed to a great height, other remedies are required in the treatment of it 3 and none that I have ever employed prove fo effedual as local blood-letting. By the time that cold water and other difcutients may be fup- pofed to have produced any effedl, and which will be in the fpace of an hour, a number of leeches fhould be applied over all the tumefied part 3 or, in contufions of flefliy mufcular parts, cupping and fcari- fying will be found to anfwer equally well. But in whatever way it is done, a quanti- ty of blood fliould be drawn off fomewhat proportioned to the ftrength of the patient and violence of the injury. N 2 ForI 3 g6 O f Acute or Cllap. IL For a long while paft, I have been in the conftant practice of employing local blood-letting in fprains and contufions of every kind; and in all of them, whether the injury has been flight or fevere, it has proved an ufeful, plea^fant, remedy. In the flighter kind of fprains, one plentiful evacuation of blood by means of leeches, will in genera] prove fufficient. But when the parts are much injured, we are under the neceffity of applying them repeatedly. They fliould be ordered indeed from time to time as long as any confiderable pain remains in the affecled parts. Even when the inflammation and fwelling of the tegu- ments are gone, a fulnefs or thickening is often difcovered in the tendons and other deep-feated parts; and we conclude, that they continue inflamed, as long as they are much pained either by prefliire or mo- tion. In this fituation nothing ever proves fo effedtual as the application of leeches : The remedy indeed feems to prove equal- ly ufeful, whether the inflammation be feated entirely in the lki% or in the more deep-Sed. II. Inflammatory Tumors. T97 deep-feated parts; fo that it fliould not in any cafe be omitted. In violent fprains the pain is often fo fevere, as to induce quicknefs of pulfe and other fymptoms of fever. In fuch cafes, along with local blood-letting, it is fome- times neceflary to take blood from fome of the larger vefTels. Opiates become ne- ceflary, together with all the remedies that prove ufeful in fevers arifing from inflam- mation. After blood has been freely evacuated from a fprained part, the befl: application that can be ufed for fome days at firfl, is a folution of cerufla acetata, and after- wards, for the removal of that thickened ftate of the ligaments and tendons which often fucceeds to fprains, the pouring of warm water upon the part two or three times daily, for the fpace of a quarter of an hour or fo each time, proves often ufeful. Even common fpring water fre- quently anfwers the purpofe ^ but it feems to prove more penetrating when im- pregnated with fea fait, or crude lal am- moniac : We have likewife reaion to think, N 3 thatOf Acute or Chap- II- that the warm waters of Bath and Buxton are rendered more effed:ual in cafes of this kind, by the impregnations which they contain, than they otherwife would be. Along with warm bathing, fridions with emollient applications prove fome- times ufeful in removing this thickening of the parts induced by fprains. But they require to be perfifted in for a confiderr^ able time. During the cure of a contufion or fprain, the injured part fhould be kept as much as poffible in an eafy pofture. In every inftance this fhould be attended to, but more efpecially when the pain is very fe- vere, an occurrence which probably de- pends on the fibres of fome of the fprain- ed tendons being ruptured, and which no- thing will cure fo readily as the limb in which it has happened being kept for a confiderable time in a relaxed eafy po- fture. We have already mentioned the warm bath as a remedy in fprains. In various cafes cold bathing alfo proves ferviceable,Sc(S. II. Inflammatory Tumors. 199 After fprains hav^ been of fome duration, the injured part is apt to continue weak and relaxed, even when the pain and fuel- ling are gone. In this fituation, cold wa- ter being poured upon the part from a height, or being fuddenly dafhed upon it, and repeated once or twice daily, will prove more effe<Sual In ftrengthening the weakened limb than perhaps any other re- medy. It is for the removal of debility only, however, that cold bathing fhould be employed; and there is much reafon to think that it has done mifchlef when ufed in the more early ftages of fprains. While much thickening of the tendons and liga- ments remains, and which often proves the moft formidable, as well as the moft obftinate fymptom which accompanies fprains, a long continued ufe of cold ba- thing feems to do harm, by rendering the thickening more firm than it was before, while the contrary elFed: often refults from a proper application of warm water. A bandage or roller applied over the injured parts, as tight as the patient caii Is 4 eaiiiy200 Chap. II, Of Acute or eafily bear it, proves often ufeful in fprains. By fupporting the relaxed parts, it not only prevents pain, but the oedema- tous fvvellings alfo, to which fprained limbs are often liable. The roller fhould be of flannel, which yields more readily than li- nen to any variety in the fize of the limb, while it ferves as the moft effedtual pre- ventative of thofe rheumatic affedions with which limbs that have futfered much from fprains are liable to be attacked. The roller muft be carried fpirally up- wards from the inferior part of the limb, with an equal preflhre on every part of it, in order to prevent oedema, which might ptherwife take place, SEC-Sed. III. Of Chronic^ &c. lot SECTION III. Of Chronic or Indolent fumors. § I. General Remarks. The general charader of this clafs of tumors is, that they are flow in their progrefs, and not neceflarily attend- ed with inflammation. Tumors of every kind may eventually, indeed, induce in- flammation: Thus, fwellings which have long remained indolent, by an increafe of bulk will often diftend ^he fkin fo much as to become inflamed ; and all the va- rieties of hernia, although no^ necef- farily accompanied with inflamm ticn, for they frequently take place without it, tend often to induce it, lor rea- fons202 Of Chronic or Chap. II. fons too obvious to require being men- tioned. But in thefe, we confider inflam- mation as an accidental occurrence only, and in no way connedled with the rife or formation of the difeafe. Of the chro- nic tumors we Ihall firfl: confider thofe that are encyfled. § 2. 0/ EncyJIed Tumors. Every tumor might be confidered as encyfled, the contents of which are fur- rounded with a bag or cyfl, as is the cafe with every variety of hernia and hydro- cele, as well as with fome other tu- mors, but in common pradHce thofe tu- mors only are termed Encyfled that are contained in cyfls of a preternatural for- mation. In common language, thefe, as well as various tumors of the farcomatous kind, are termed Wens. The different parts of which an ani- mal body is compofed, are connedted to- gether by a common medium, termed the CellularSe£l. III. Indolent l!umors. 203 Cellular Subftance; which is fo imiver- fally diffufed, that it feems to form a very confiderable part of every fibre. In a ftate of health the cells of this fubftance communicate with each other; and, like the large cavities of the body, they are kept foft and moift by a fecretion con> ftantly paffing into them by the exha- lents, and returning from them by the ab- forbents. In fome parts of the body this fecretion would appear to be entirely of a ferous nature ; while in others it confifts evidently of oil or fat. While the abforption of this fluid is in proportion to the quantity exhaled, no accumulation takes place : But vari- ous caufes may concur to deflroy the equi- librium ; and in whatever way this may happen, if more is fecreted than is car- ried off by the abforbents, a fulnefs or fwel- ling mufl neceflarily enfue. Where this fuperabundance is of the ferous kind, a dropfical fwelling will be produced 3 when of an oily nature, obefity or fatnefs will take place. A204 of Chronic or Chap. IL A general dlfpofitlon in the fyftem to this kind of accumulation is a frequent occurrence; but caufes fometimes occur by which eolledions are produced in particular parts. In a found ftate of the cellular fubftance, that natural commu- nication we have mentioned as fubfifting between the different cells of which it is compofed, mufl neceffarily prevent any partial or circumfcribed colledtion. And accordingly we know, that all ferous ef- fufions very readily pafs from one part of this membrane to another. But this communication may be intenmpted by inflammation as well as other caufes, and accumulation of this natural fluid may therefore take place In a particular part. We thus account for the formation of encyfted tumors ; to which different names have been applied, according to the confiflence and appearance of their contents. When of the conliftence of ho- ney, the tumor is termed Meliceris: When of a foft cheefy confiflence, or refembling dough, it is termed an Atheroma} and Steatoma, when formed of fat. ButSea. III. 2ds Indolent "Tumors. . But it is proper to remark, that various degrees of confidence are obfcrved in each of thefe. Thus the fteatoma is fome- times foft like butter, and at other times firm like fuet: And the fame kind of va- riety occurs in the contents of the athe- roma and melicerls, which in fome cafes are equal in firmnefs to new cheefe, and in others not firmer than the thinned honey. The matter forming fteatomatous tu- mors, we conclude to be from the firfi: of an oily or fatty nature ; and that their different degrees of confidence will de- pend upon the remora of their contents^ and quantity of thinner parts of them that hi^ppen to be abforbed. And I think it probable, that atheromatous and melice- rous tumors are originally formed by a depofition of ferum, with perhaps a con- fiderable proportion of coagulable lymph and that the degrees of confidence of which wx find them, will depend upon va- rious caufes: Upon the pardcular quantity of coagulable lymph Contained in them 3of Chronic or Chap. II. 2o6 upon their being of longer or fliorter con- tinuance ; and particularly, upon their ha- ving been inflamed or not ^ and upon the extent to which this inflammation may have proceeded. For the moft part, practitioners accu- ftomed to this branch of bufinefs may be able to diftinguilh with fufficient exaCtnefs the nature of thefe tumors before laying them open. Thus, in general, the fteato- ma is of a firm confiftence : It is common- ly loofe, and rolls more readily than the o- thers under the Ikin 3 and its furface is apt to be unequal: The atheroma is foft and compreflible, but no fluctuation is obferved in it: While, in the meliceris, the fluctu- ation of a fluid or thin matter is in gene- ral very dlltinCtly perceived. It is proper, however, to remark, that neither thefe, nor any other means of diltinCiion, will at all times prove fufficient : For in fome cafes the fleatoma, inftead of being firm- er than the others, is confiderably fofter 3 infomuch that I have met with different inftances of the fat of which they are formed.Sed. III. Indolent stumors. 207 formed, fluduating or moving between the fingers like thin purulent matter ^ and where accordingly the opinion that was prevloufly formed of it was altogether erroneous. The atheroma and mellceris are fometimes combined in the fame tu- mor : One part of it will be of a foft pultaceous nature, and contained in a fe- parate cyft or cell, while the reft is per- haps of the fame confiftence with puru- lent matter. In a few cafes too, the ftea- toma it conjoined with thefe ^ but this is not a frequent occurrence. In judging of the nature of thefe tu- mors, fome advantage may be derived from attending to their fituation. Thus we obferve, that In fome parts of the bo- dy, fat is more apt to be depofited in the cellular fubftance than in others. In fome parts indeed, fat is fcarcely ever perceived in it; as is the cafe over a great part of the head ^ while in others, parti- cularly over the prominent part of the abdomen, we commonly meet with it e- ven in the leaneft fubjeds. Now I be- lieve 22oS of Chronic or Chap. II. lieve it will be obferved, that fteato- matous tumours are feldom, if ever met with in thofe parts of the body which are not ufually in a ftate of health fup- plied with fat; At leaf! this has been fo much the cafe in the courfe of my practice, that I have never met with an inftance of it; and it tends much to con- firm the idea which I have endeavoured to eftablifh of the formation of thefe tumors. The head, as I have obferved, is very fparingly fupplied with fat, at the fame time that we find it more liable than any part of the body to encyfted tumors > but thefe tumors are very univerfally of the atheromatous or melicerous kinds Nor have I ever met with the fteatoma- tous tumor but where fat is ufually depo- lited in the contiguous cellular fubftance. They * By Atheromatous and Melicerous, I mean to exprefs (liiFerent degrees of coniiftenee of a curd j pultacous mat- ter. By fome, the firmer kinds of this have been mif- taken for, and defcribed as the contents of the fteatoma- tous tumor; but they will be found to be in every re- fpecl different from the fatty fubftance contained in thr real fteatoma.Sed. in. Indolent T^umors. 209 They are rarely indeed obferved on that part of the body which is mod: plentifully fnpplied with fat. We feldom rreet with thefe or any other variety of encyfti d tu- mor on the abdomen: and at firft view this may be confidered as an objedfion to our theory: On flirther attention, how-* ever, it will rather appear to fupport it. The parietes of the abdomen being form- ed of foft yielding parts, with no bone or hard body beneath, we may readily fup- pofe that they will fcarcely, if at all, be affeded with preffure : So that this caiife erf obftrudion will not here have the fame effedl as on the head and other parts where the cellular fubdance lies immediately a- bove the bone. All the tumors of the encyded kind are fmall at drd, and increafe by flow de- grees. They are of very different fliapes and fizes : In fome they refemble a wal- nut ; on the head they are commonly round and fmooth, and do not often ar- rive at any great bulk 3 but in other parts of the body they are often of an irregu- VoL. I. O larChap. II. 210 Of Chronic or lar form, at the fame time that they are more apt to acquire a greater fize. 1 have met with fteatomatous tumors weighing upwards of twenty pounds; and fometimes they are double this weight. They, are never at firfl: attended with pain; and the Ikin for a confiderable time retains its na- tural colour. But when by long duration they become large, the veins of the Ikin, as well as thofe of the fae, become large and varicofe; and the prominent part of the tumor acquires, a clear red colour, fi- milar to that which accompanies inflam- mation : But it feems to be different from this, as it is feldom attended with pain, unlefs when injured by external violence. A blow or bruife will readily indeed ex- cite inflammation, by which the Ikin will become tender and painful, and will crack or burft, if not prevented by the contents of the tumor being difcharged by an ope- ration. This is the ordinary progrefs of thefe tumors : But it is proper to remark, that although they never advance quickly, yet 3Sedt. Ill- 2II Indolent I’umors. in fome lituations they terminate much fooner, and arrive at a greater bulk than in others. Thus, in the head they do not ufually become bigger than a large egg. In a few cafes, indeed, they are larger ^ but for the moft part they terminate be- fore they acquire this fize, by the tegu- ments becoming tenfe and thin, and even burfting if not prevented in the manner we have mentioned. But on other parts of the body, particularly on the back, on the flioulders, and thighs, the teguments fometimes retain their natural appearance long after a tumor has become very large. This feems to proceed from different de- grees of laxity in the fkin. In the head,, the teguments are firm, and do not yield fo readily to diflention as in other parts of the body ; by which any tumors ly- ing beneath them muft neceflarily be more quickly brought to a period. The fituation of thefe tumors has like- wife a confiderable effed: on the firmnefs with which they are attached to the con- tiguous parts. In fome parts they are fo O 2 loofe212 Of Chronic or Chap. II.- loofe and moveable, efpecially while they continue fmall, that they readily yield even to flight degrees of prefTure : But in others, particularly where covered with any fibres of mufcles, they are apt to be firmly fixed from their commencement. The attachment of tumors is alfo influenced by their remaining more or lefs free of inflammation ; for they never become inflamed, even in the flighteft manner^ without fome degree of adhefion being produced between the cyfls and corre- fponding teguments. In the treatment of encyfted tumors,> we are direded by authors to attempt to cure them in the fir ft place by refolution ; and if this fails, by extirpation. With a view to accomplifli a cure by refolu- tion, fridions with mercurial ointments are recommended, together with gum- plafters, and a variety of other applica- tions. No praditioner, however, of the prefent age, will depend upon this ma- nagement ^ nor will he exped to be able to remove thefe tumors in any other man- ^ ner than by the aid of furgery. WeSedl. III. Indoknt T'umors, 213 We fhall therefore fippofe that the re- moval of one of them by an operation is agreed upon : The next point to be de- termined is the mode of effeding it; and this in a great meafure fliould de- pend upon the contents of the fac. If they appear to be of the thin melicerous kind, which for the moft part will be the cafe if a diftind fluduation is perceived through the whole body of the tumor, it ought to be treated like a common ab- fcefs. In fmall colledions, the matter may be difcharged by laying the moft depend- ing part of the tumor open with a com- mon lancet, and treating it in the ordi- nary way till it fills up or adheres from the bottom : But as in large fwellings of this kind, the free admiflion of air proves always hurtful, the opening fhould be made in a manner the lead: likely to be attended with this inconvenience. In a preceding part of this work, I have re- commended the paffing of a feton or cord through large abfeeffes as the beft method of opening them ^ and as the fame me- O 3 thod214 of Chronic or Chap. II. thod may with equal propriety be em- ployed in encyfted tumors formed by col- lections of thin matter, we fhall now re- fer to what was then faid upon the fub^ je6t I fhall at prefent only obferve, that the cord fhould pafs through the whole extent of the tumor, from the fu- perior part of it to the moft depending point 3 and that the inferior opening at which it pafles out fhould be fufficiently large for admitting the matter to be freely difcharged. In this manner I have had many inflances of large encyfted tumors being healed with much more eafe than almoft ever happens under the ordinary method of treatment. Several years ago, I gave my opinion upon this point at con- fiderable length ^ and farther experience of the advantages which refult from it has tended much to confirm it f. This method of cure, however, is on- ly applicable where the contents of tu- mors are fo thin as to be eafily difchar- ged •* Vide Chap. I. t Vide Treatife on Ulcers, &c. Part LSed. III. Indolent I’umors. 215 O 4 that ged by a fmall opening. When too firm to admit of this, they muft either be emptied by an extenfive opening into the cyfl, or the cyfl; with its contents muft be difleded out. Where a cyft containing matter ad- heres fo firmly to the contiguous parts as to require much time to remove it by difledlon, it ftiould never be attempted. It will be fufficlent to lay it freely open through its whole extent, and to remove any portions of it that may be loofe. The contents of the tumor will In this manner be completely removed: And the cure may either be effeded in the ufual way, by preferving the wound open till it fills up with granulations from the bottom ; or it may be attempted by drawing the divided edges of the fkin to- gether, and trufting to moderate preflure and the ordinary effeds of inflammation for producing a complete reunion. I have fucceeded in both ways y and I think it neceflary to obferve, that both are equal- ly certain. To thofe accuftomed to thinkChap. II, 2c6 of Chronic or that it Is neceffary to remove the cyfts of thefe tumors entirely, it will at firft ap- pear to be unfafe to ^llow any part of them to remain : Many I know are of this opinion, but experience would foon con- vince them that it may be done with fafe- ty : When we refolve, however, on remo- ving the cyft, It is better to open it by a longitudinal cut through the whole tu- mor than to remove it entire. When the cyh is empty, it is more readily laid hold of with the fingers or forceps, and more eafily difleded out, than when the bag remains full and diftended. When the bag is thus removed, fhc teguments fliould be laid together and retained with adhefive plafters, or with two or three futures, as the operator may incline: And if an equal p refill re is made over the whole, a cure may thus is ob- tained by the firft intention. In every part of the body this is an objed of Im- portance, as it tends to fhorten the cure ; but it is particularly proper in the face and other external parts of the body, wherfSea. Ill, 217 Indolent "Tumors. where the cicatrix produced by a tedious fore proves for the mod part very un- feemly. The arteries which fupply the cyfts of thefe tumors are fometimes fo large as to pour out much blood when they are cut. In this cafe, they Ihould be immediately fecured with ligatures: And if the threads are left of fuch a length as to hang out at the lips of the wound, they prove no ob- ftacle to the cure being completed in the manner we have direded 3 for when ap- plied with the tenaculum, as they ought to be, they may be drawn away with eafe and fafety at the end of the fecond or third dreffing. By an ill-timed caution, fome praditioners, from an apprehenlion that ligatures in fuch circumftanees may do harm, have advifed that none of the arteries which appear in the removal of thefe tumors fliould be tied. Nay, fome have gone fo far as to fay, that it is fel- dom or never neceffary to apply ligatures to fuch arteries as are cut in the removal of fcirrhous breads: But as I have known differentChap. II. 2i8 Of Chronic or different inftances of patients dying fud- denly from lofs of blood where this pre- caution was negleded, and as I never met with a fingle cafe of any harm being done by attending to it, I would advife every artery to be fecured that does not flop im- mediately on being divided. Belides the real danger to be expeded from thi% be- ing negleded, it is apt to fruftrate our in- tention of healing the fore without the formation of matter.—In the removal of cancerous breads, where the edges of the divided Ikin have been drawn together fo as to cover the fore, by the burfting of an artery which had not been fecured, fucli a quantity of blood has been effufed between the teguments and parts beneath, as has either prevented them from uniting, or has rendered it neceffary to remove the bandages, and to lay the parts again open in order to difcover the bleeding veflel. Of this I have met with fuch a number of inftances, that I am convinced every prac- titioner of experience muft probably have done the fame. InSedl. III. Indolent Tumors. 219 In tumors of an ordinary fize, there is no neceflity for removing any part of the fkin. By a Angle incifion along the courfe of the tumor, in the manner I have direct- ed, the fac will either be laid fufficiently open, or it may be removed with equal eafe as if it were opened by a crucial in- cifion ^ and although the (kin may at firft appear to be too extenfive, yet in the courfe of a (hort time it will contract fo as merely to cover the parts beneath. But in tumors that are extenfive, where the (kin is fo much diftended as to give caufe to imagine that it will be much puckered if part of it is not removed, fome portion of it (hould be taken away. This will be befl: effected by including in two femilunar cuts as much of the (kin as ought to be removed ^ and this being done, the portion of (kin thus feparated muft be taken away along with the cyft. In the fame manner, when we are operating up- on a tumor where the prominent part of the (kin is either ulcerated, or rendered fo thin by diftention that we cannot with proprietyChap. IL Of Chronic or 22CS propriety attempt to fave it, fuch parts of it as are thus affedled fliould be included between two femilunar cuts, and removed in the manner I have mentioned. In o- ther refpecSs, the cure muft be conducfted as if none of the fkin were taken away, by drawing the divided edges of the te- guments together, and endeavouring to make them unite by the firfl: intention, in the manner khave advifed. Where tumors of this kind are fo large as to render it proper to remove any part of the Ikin, w^e are deiired by fome prac- titioners to do it with cauftic ; and by o- thers cauftic is ufed for opening every tu- mor. Cauftic, however, fliould never be employed wh^re patients have refolution to fubmit to the life of the icalpeh § 3* Q/" Ganglions, By the term Ganglion, we here mean an indolent moveable tumor which forms upon the tendons in different parts of the body,Sea. III. Indolent humors. 22t body, but moft frequently on the back part of the hand and joint df the wrift. Thefe tumors pollefs a confiderable de- gree of eladicity; by which they may in general be diftinguifhed from the encyd- ed tumors defcribed in the lafl; fedion. They feldom arrive at any great bulk; they are not often attended with pain; and for the mod part the fkin retains its natural appearance. On being laid open, thdy are found to contain a tough, vifcid> tranfparent fluid, refembiing the white of an egg. It feldom happens that ganglinous tu- mors become fo large as to render them the objedls of furgery. On their firfl ap- pearance, they may often be removed en- tirely, either by moderate fridtion fre- quently repeated, or gentle prelTure with thin plates of lead properly fecured with a bandage. In this manner, they are more readily difcufled than any other kind of dwelling: But neither the fricSion nor the prefliire fliould be carried too far, o- therwife the /kin may be fo much fretted as;Of Chronic or 222 Chap. IL as to give rife to inflammation; by which fuppuration, and abfcefles difficult to cure, may be induced. When this method of removing a gan- glion does not fucceed, nothing farther fliould be attempted while the tumor re- mains of a moderate fize: But when it becomes fo large as to prove troublefome, either by impeding the motion of a joint, or in any other manner, it ought to be re-* moved by excifion in the fame manner as we have advifed in the treatment of en- cyfted tumors when the cyfl: is to be ta- ken away; that is, by making a longitudi- nal gut through the teguments over the whole extent of the tumor; and after fe- parating the fkin on each fide, to difled it oflf from the tendon : Or, when it is found to adhere fo firmly to the contiguous parts as to render this impradicable, an inci- fion may be made into it of fuch a depth as to difcharge the contents of it, after which a cure may be effeded by prefer- ving the wound open till it fills up with granulations from the bottom. / IilKSeft. III. Indolent Ttumors. 223 In general, praftitioners are averfe to operate on thefe tumors, on the fuppofi- tion of the wound being difficult to heal; but I have feldom known this to be the cafe. § 4. Of^ Swellings of the Burfee Mucofee, • The burfse mucofas are fmall membra- nous bags feated upon, or very contiguous to the different large joints. They natu- rally contain a thin, trarifparent, gelati- nous fluid, which feems to be intended for lubricating the parts upon which the ten- dons move that pafs over the joints. They are met with in other parts of the body, but chiefly about the hip-joint, the knee, ankle, fhoulder, elbow, and wrifl: In a date of health, the fluid contain- ed in thefe burfas or facs is in fuch fmall quantity * The heft account that has yet appeared of the ft- tuation and number of the Burfas Mucofae, may be feen in a late publication upoti this fubjedf by Dr Alexander Monro of this Univetfity,22>4 Of Chronic or Chap. II. quantity, that it cannot be difcovered till they are laid open by difledion: But in fome cafes it accumulates to hich an ex* tent as to produce tumors of confidera:ble bulk. This is not an unfrequent efFed of contufions and fprains 3 and I have often met with it as a confequence of rheuma- tifin. The fwelling is feldom attended with much pain : It yields to prefllire, but is more elaftic than where ordinary mat- ter is contained : At firft it is always con- fined to one part of the joint 3 but in fome cafes the quantity of accumulating fluid becomes fo confiderable as nearly to fur- round the joint.—The fkin always retains its natural appearance, unlefs attacked with inflammation. The contents of thefe tumors are found to be of different kinds, and this feems to depend on the caufe by which the fwelling is produced 3 a circumftance which merits particular attention. Thus when the tu- mor is induced by rheumatifm, the con- tents of the fac are commonly thin and altogether fluid, refembling the fynovia I ofSccS. III. Indole^it "tumors. 225 of the different joints; at lead: this has been the cafe in any of thofe which I have known opened: While in fuch as proceed from fprains, we ufually find, mixed with this tranfparent fluid, a confiderable quan« tity of fmall elaftic concretions. In a few cafes 1 have met with thefe concre- tions of a foft texture, fo as to be eafily compreffed between the fingers; but in general they are too firm to admit of this. We may commonly, however, judge of this, even before the tumor is opened, by the kind of fludluation that takes place. When the concretions are foft, the fluc- tuation is ufually diftindl^ but when they are firm, it is not fo clearly perceived, and they are eafily felt beneath the fin- gers on being prefled from one part of the fac to another, , In pradice it will be found to be an ob- jed of importance, our being able to di- ftinguifn between thofe colledions which proceed from rheumatifm, and fuch as are the confequences of old fprains: For in the former, I believe, it will be feldom VoL. I. P neceffary226 Of Chronic or Chap. II. iiecefTary to propofe any operation; as in moft inftances, perhaps in all^ the fwel- llng will at lafl: difappear, merely by keep- ing the parts warm with flannel; by fre- quent fridlons; by warm water being fre- quently pumped upon them; or by the ap- plication of bliflers. At lead: this has hap- pened in almoft every rheumatic cafe of this kind in which 1 have been concern- ed.—^But In thofe dwellings of the burfse mucofae, which originate from fprains, al- though the quantity of eifufed fluid may remain ftationary, or may even leflen in quantity, it will feldom, if ever, difappear entirely. In fuch cafes, therefore, when the tumor arrives at fuch a flze as to prove troublefome, we are under the neceility of propofing an operation for removing it. The only operation that is admiflible, is the opening the fac, fo as to dlfcharge the matter contained in it, and to pre- ferve the wound open till it fills up with granulations from the bottom. In rnofl: fituations this may be done with fafety ^ but 3Sed. III. Indolent humors. 227 but in fome parts, particularly about the joint of the wrift, thefe colledions are fo covered with tendons that the greateft caution is required in every operation of this kind. When the contiguity of ten- dons prevents the fac from being opened to fuch an extent as may probably enfure a cure, it will be better to lay it open at each end > and after preffing out the con- tents, to pafs a fmall feton or cord from one opening to the other. In this man- ner a flight degree of inflammation will be excited on the infide of the fac, when the cord may be withdrawn, fo as to ad- mit of a cure being attempted by gentle prefliire, applied with a roller over the courfe of the tumor. I have fometimes fucceeded in this way, when a cure could not be obtained by any other means; and when the cord is cautioufly introduced with a blunt probe, no harm occurs from it, even when it pafles beneath fome of the tendons. The cord, however, fliould not be continued fo long as to induce much pain or inflammation; for in the P 2 neighoourhood228 Of Chronic or Chap; l^o neighbourhood of large joints this might prove alarming: And we know from ex- perience, that even a flight degree of in- flammation anfwers the purpofe fufficient- ly- A good deal of ftiffnefs commonly re- mains upon that part of the joint where the tumor was fituated. The moft effec- tual remedy for this, Is frequent fridlions with emollients, and a proper application of warm fleams to the part affedied. § 5. Of ColleSiions within the Capfular Liga- ments of Joints. Collections of various kinds are met with In the capfular ligaments of joints. Blood may be effiifcd within them. In- flammation is here, as in other parts, fre- quently fucceeded by the formation of mattery and ferous effufions occur in them, forming what are commonly termed Drop- fical Swellings of the joints. Thefe-^edt. ILL Indolent T'umors. 229 Thefe fwelllngs fliould be diftinguiflied with precifion from others which they re- femble. They are moft apt to be con- founded with colledions in the burfae mu- cofae, or matter effufed in the cellular fub- ftance covering the joints. From the fir ft of thefe they may in general be diftin- guilhed, by the contained fluid paffing with freedom from one fide of the joint to the Other; and from its being diffufed over the whole of it: Whereas, when contained in one of the burfge, the tumor is more circumfcribed^ being for the moft part fixed above or upon one fide of the joint. Colledions of matter in the burfae mucofae are feldom painful, while every tumor feated within the capfular liga- ments of joints is apt to excite violent degrees of pain. They are more eafily diftinguiflied from matter collected in the cellular fubftance covering the joints. In the laft, the col- ledion is evideiitly fuperficial 3 and it is not fo much confined to the joint itfelf, being in general found to extend in every P 3 diredionOf Chronic or Chap. II. 230 diredion farther than the boundaries of the capfular ligaments. We judge of the nature of the fluid col- lected in thefe fwellings by the circum- ftances which have preceded them, as well as by the fymptoms With which they are accompanied. When a violent bruife of a joint is immediately fucceeded by a large elfufion within the capfular liga- ment, it will probably be found to confift chiefly of blood. This is not a frequent occurrence; but as I have now met with it in two iuftances, I conclude that it may happen in others. When inflammation of a joint termi- nates in effufion within the capfular liga- ment, there will be reafon to imagine that the matter forming the tumor is of a thin ferous kind, with fome tendency to puru- lency : For welhconditioned pus is feldom met with in ligamentous or membra- nous parts. And laftly, when collections within the capfular ligaments fucceed to rheumatic afl'edions, there will be much reafon to fuppofe that they are entirely ferous ISed. III. Indolent "tumors. 231 ferous; for we know from obfervation, that effufions which take place in rheu- matifm are very commonly of this kind. The importance of our being able to afcertain the kind of matter contained in thefe fwellings, becomes obvious from the difference of pradice which they require: As the making an opening into a large joint is always hazardous, from the pain and inflammation which it is apt to ex- cite, it Ihould never be attempted but from neceflity. One of the caufes, in general, fuppofed to require it, is matter colleded within the capfular ligaments : But when by experience we difcover that a particu- lar kind of matter may be allowed to col- led in this fituation without any detri- ment, we rather allow it to remain, than incur the rilk which might enfue from letting it out. Now this is uniformly the cafe with thofe effufions which fucceed to rheumatifm. Whether colleded in the bur- fae mucofse, as mentipned in the preceding article, or within the capfular ligament of a joint, they Ihould never be laid open. P4 Ofof Chronic or Chap. IL 232 Of whatever fize they may be, they will very commonly be difcufled by the reme- dies we have mentioned, namely, by fric- tions ; the pouring of warm water upon the parts affedled; proper covering with flannel; and the ufe of blilters 3 or, when thefe fail, fupporting the tumefied parts with a laced flocking, or a roller, will of- ten prove fuccefsful. But whether we are able to diflipate the fwelling entirely or not, when we are convinced that it is of the rheumatic kind, no opening fliould be made into it. The patient may con- tinue to complain of fome uneafinefs and ftiffnefs in the joint, but this will be tri- fling when compared with the pain and inflammation which may occur from lay- ing it open. But when matter is colledt- ed in the cavities of joints, which may do mifchief by lodging, or which does not readily admit of abforption, an opening fliould be made for difcharging it. The matter which foruiS in confequence of high degrees of inflammation, and effiifed bloodjSed. III. Indolent lumors. 233 blood, are of this kind. Blood is fre- quently extravafated among foft parts without much detriment; but when in contad with cartilage or bone, it foon hurts them materially; and the fame ef- fed follows from the lodgment of matter formed by inflammation. The danger accruing from this opera- tion feems to depend in a great meaiure upon air finding admiflion to the cavity of the joint, which ought therefore to be as much as poflible guarded againft. For this purpofe the opening fhould be made with a trocar 3 and if the Ikin is previoufly drawn tight to the upper part of the tu- mor, by pulling it down immediately on withdrawing the canula after all the fluid is evacuated, the rifk of air being admit- ted will thus be leflened, A piece of ad- hefive plafter fhould be diredly laid over the opening in the Ikin; and the whole joint fhould be firmly fiipported, either with a laced ftocking, or a flannel roller properly applied round it. As234 Of Chronic or Chap. II. As a farther preventative of bad con- fequences from this operation, if the pa- tient is plethoric, he Ihould be blooded to fuch an extent as his ftrength will bear : He fhould be put upon a ftricl anti- phlogiftic regimen ; and in every refpedl fliould be managed with caution : For in- flammation being very apt to enfue from it, we cannot be too much on our guard againfl: it. § 6, Of Concretions and preternatural Ex- crefcences within the Capfular Ligaments of Joints. We fometimes find joints become pain- ful, and their motion much impeded, by the preternatural formation of fubftances within the capfular ligaments. In fome thefe bodies are fmall and loofe, and of a firmnefs equal to that of cartilage ^ and in others they are of a foft membra- nous nature, fprouting from an eroded fur- face of one of the bones forming the joint, or235 Sea. III. Indolent humors. or from the inner farface of the capfular ligament. In fome cafes, they remain fixed, or nearly fo, without being much aflfeaed either by preflTure or the motion of the joint: This is particularly the cafe in thofe that are foft and membranous, which are in fome degree fixed by their attach- ments. But the others, which have near- ly the firmnefs of cartilage, are commonly fo moveable, that their fituation is alter- ed by every motion of the limb ; and they flip fo eafily on being touched, that it is difficult to fix them even with the fin- gers. In the former, which remain fixed near- ly to the fame fituation, the pain is con- ftant, but feldom fevere 3 whereas in the latter, it is only felt in particular fituations, chiefly 1 fuppofe when the conneding membrane pafles between the ends of the bones : But in thefe cafes it proves of- ten fo fevere as to be altogether infup- portable. I have known different in- ftances of this, where in certain poftures ofChap. II. Of Chronic or 236 of the leg, for it is in the knee in which thefe concretions feem chiefly to occur^ the pain became fuddenly fo exquiflte as to induce fainting. And where this re- turns frequently, the patient is fo much afraid of it, that he inclines rather to avoid walking aimoft entirely than incur the ri(k of inducing it. Nay, in fome cafes, I have known the patient roufed from the mofl profound fleep, by the limb being merely moved when in bed. As thefe fubftances are of a nature that will probably for ever refill: the power of medicine, and as they can only be remo- ved by the joint being laid open, the que- fhion to be determined is, Whether this ought to be attempted or not ? Many Ipeak of this as an operation of fo little hazard, that pradlitioners are apt to ad^ vife it In all cafes where the pain indu^ ced by the difeafe Is fevere. In two ca- fes, indeed, which fell under my own management, the joints of the knee were laid open; the foreign bodies were re^ moved 3 and the wounds healed aimoft withSed. III. Indolent Tumors. 2yf to with the fame eafe, as might have been expeded in fimilar injuries in any other part. But fince that period, different inftances have occurred where this ope- ration induced the moft alarming fymp- toms; and even terminated in fuch a manner as to render it neceffary to am- putate the limb, f never obferved indeed fuch high degrees of inflammation from any other caufe ; neither is it confined to the joint itfelf The whole limb, both a- bove and below the wound, becomes ftiff and fwelled in a remarkable degree, with painful inflammatory tend on, extend ing from one end of it to the other. The uncertain fuccefs of this operation may make us doubtful in every inftance of advifing it. The following is the opi- nion I have formed of it, drawn from a good deal of experience in cafes of this kind. Where concretions formed within the capfular ligaments of joints, appear, upon examination with the fingers, to be loofe and detached, if the pain which they excite is feyere, rather than fubmitOf Chronic or 23* Chap. II. to to this, we fhould venture In a cautious manner to take them out, by making an incifion Into the joint : But wherever there is reafon to rufped; that the concre- tions are conneded with any part of the joint, the patient fhould rather be advifed to fubmit to the pain which they induce, and which in general will be rendered moderate by avoiding exercife, than to run the rifk attending this operation. The pain Indeed, even in a retired life, may become infupportable. In this cafe I would advife the amputation of the limb. The remedy is no doubt fevere,^ but it is lefs painful, as well as lefs ha- zardous, than the excifion of any of thofe concretions when attached to the capfular ligaments. The opening into the capfular liga- ment for the removal of thefe loofe bo- dies, may be made in the following man- ner : If in the joint of the knee or ankle, the patient fhould be laid upon a table or on a bed ; but if any of the joints of the arm are to be opened, he may be allowedSed. III. Indolent "^tumors* 239 to fit y only, in whatever pofture he may be, the limb fhoulcl be fecured in the firm- eft manner by afliftants, in that pofture which admits of the body to be taken out being felt in the moft diftindl man- ner. On this being done, the furgeon fiiould endeavour to fix it with his left hand towards the upper part of the joint, after an affiftant has been defired to draw the fkin as much as pofiible upwards from the part where the incifion is intended to be made. The furgeon, with a fcalpel in his right hand, is now to make an incifion through the teguments and capfular li- gament, diredly upon the fubftance itfelf, of fuch a fize as will admit of its being eafily taken out; which will be eafieft done by the end of a blunt probe being paired beneath it. If it is found to be connefted by fmall filaments, either to the capfular ligament or cartilages of the joint, they fliould be cautioufly divided, either with a probe-pointed biftoury or fciffars, after drawing the fubftance itfelf as far out as it can be got, with fmall for- ceps.ij\.6 Of Chronic or Chap. Ili ceps, or with a fharp hook when of a tex- ture that admits of a hook being puflied into it. When there are more concre- tions than one, they fhould all be taken out at the fame opening when this can be done: But when they lie on oppofite fides of the joint, two openings will be necef- fary ; only in this cafe it will be better to allow the firft incifion to heal before attempting the fecond, fo as to avoid as much as poffible the rilk of exciting in- flammation. After the concretions are removed, the ikin fliould be immediately drawn over the wound in the capfular ligament; and the lips of the opening in the ikin being laid together, they fliould be fecured in this fituation by pieces of adhefive pla- fter, fo as to prevent the air from find- ing accefs to the cavity of the joint. Till the wound is completely healed, the patient Ihould not only be confined to bed, but the limb fhould be kept as much as poffible in one pofture ; and a Arid: an- tiphlogiftic regimen fliould be obferved^ I ButSed. III. Indolent "Tumors. 241 But for the farther management of fuch cafes, and of the fymptoms with which they are apt to be attended, we miift refer to Chap. HI. Sedion VIII. when treating of Wounds in the Ligaments. I have mentioned, that the incifion in- to the capfular ligament, lliould be made at the upper part of the joint. The in- tention of this is to prevent the fynovia, after the (kin is drawn over the opening in the ligament, from finding fuch ready accefs as it otherwife would do to lodge in the cellular membrane immediately beneath the (kin; a precaution that is eafily obferved, and from which fome ad- vantage may be derived. § 7. Of Anafarca or Oedema. The terms Anafarca and Oedema are applied to that variety of dropfical fwel- ling where the water is colleded, not in any diftind cavity, but in the cellular fub- ftance. The part is generally cold, and VoL^ I. of242 Chap. IL Of Chronic or of a pale colour; and being pollefled of little or no elafticity, it retains the mark of the finger when prelTed upon. Swellings of this kind are for the moft part conneded with fome general affedion of the fyftem ^ but in fome cafes they oc- cur in particular parts, from caufes which affed thefe parts only. Thus, legs or arms which have been much weakened by con- tufions or fprains are apt to become oede- snatous. Tumors preffing upon any of the larger lymphatics are apt to induce them. And they fometimes occur from the lymphatics of a limb being cut, ei- ther by accident or in chirurgical ope- rations. In the treatment of thefe fwellings, the circumftance of their being general or local requires particular attention. When induced by tumors prefling upon the lym- phatics, the removal of thefe tumors alone will accomplifli a cure: And when they oc- cur as the effed of weaknefs from fprains or contufions, the befl: method of cure is to fupport the weakened parts either with a laced 2.Sed. III. Indolent Tumors, 243 laced flocking or a flannel roller, to prevent their yielding to diflention, till in courfe of time, and by the effeds of cold bathing and moderate fridions, they recover their natural tone. But in thofe anafarcous fwellings of the feet and legs which take place as a fymptom of general dropfy, we mull; not venture upon removing or preventing them by compreflion ; for if the ferum is prevented from falling down to the legs, it will be apt to fix upon parts of more importance. In thefe cafes, we truft to the general tendency in the fyflem being removed by medicines, for a complete cure: But when the fwelling is confider^ able, we have it in our power to procure temporary relief, by making fmall punc- tures through the Ikin into the cellular membrane, in the mofl prominent part of it. The relief which this procures is com- monly confiderable, and it ought to be advifed more early in the difeafe than is commonly done; for befides the prefent eafe which it affords, it prevents that lofs 0^2 of244 Of Chronic or Chap. Ih of tone which the cellular fubftance fuf- fers when anafarcous fwellings are per- mitted to go to fuch a height as they of- ten do. Inftead of pundure^, incifions are ufii- ally employed ; but fmall punctures made with the point of a lancet anfwer better : They give a fufficient vent to the water, at the fame time that they are not fo apt to inilame and mortify. But as we (hall have occafion to fpeak of this when treat- ing of the Anafarcous Hydrocele in Chap. X. Se6Uon II. we ihall now refer to that part of our fiibje£l. Where the fweiling is induced by any of the lymphatic vedels of a limb being cut, as fometimes halppens in extirpating indurated glands from the arm-pit, fmall pun6iiires made in the under part of the limb aiFord immediate relief^ while little advantage is derived from blitters or any other remedy.- §8.Indolent ‘Tumors. Sed. 111. 24-5 § 8. 0/ the Spina Bifida. The term Spina Bifida is applied to thofe foft fwellings which fometitnes appear in the courfe of the fpine in new-born children, moft frequently at the inferior part of it, between the two laft vertebrae of the loins. A fludua- tion is diftindly perceived in them : And the fluid which they contain can in foine meafure be prefied in at an opening which takes place between the fpinous procefles of the two vertebrae on which they are feated. In feme cafes this open- ing is found on diOedtion to proceed from a natural deficiency of bone ; in others, from the fpinous procefles of the vertebrae being merely feparated from each other : In all of them, the tumor is produced by ferum colleded within the natural cover- ings of the fpinal marrow. In a few cafes this difeafe is conneded with hydrocepha- lus ^ but this is not common. For the jnoft part it is a local affedion. 0.3 This246 Of Chronic or Chap. IL This Is perhaps one of the rnofl; fatal difeafes to which infancy is liable 3 for as yet no remedy has been dlfcovered for it. In fome cafes, however, children la- bouring under it have lived for two or three years 3 but in general they linger and die in the fpace of a few months. All the affidance that art has hither- to been able to afford, is to fupport the tumor by gentle prefliire with a proper bandage. In this manner it has for fome time been prevented from increafing, by which life has been protraded ^ but this is all that we have yet been able to do. It has fometimes happened, where the nature of thefe tumors has not been un- derftood, that they have been laid open with a view to difcharge the fluid con- tained in them. Experience fhows, how- ever, that every attempt of this kind fhould be avoided; for hitherto the.prac- tice has uniformly proved unfuccefsful. The patient has either died fuddenly, or in the courfe of a few hours after the opc- ptipn, IfSecS. III. Indolent I^umors. 247 If conjedure may at any time be in- dulged, and propofals for innovation mentioned, it muft furely be allowable in cafes hopelefs as the one we are now confidering. If the fwelling In the fpina bifida is produced by real difeafe fubfift- ing in the veflels of the fpinal marrow, or in thofe of its membranes, It is not pro- bable that any remedy will remove it : But if the opening between the fpinous procefles of the vertebrae with which it is always accompanied, be not the effect of the difeafe, as is commonly imagined, and if the want of fupport, which this defici- ency of bone muft create to the mem- branes of the fpinal marrow, be the caufe of ferous effufions within thefe membranes, might not fome advantage be derived from applying a ligature round the bafe of the tumor, not merely with a view to re- move it, but alfo to draw the bottom of the cyft fo clofely together, that it may ad as a proper fupport to the parts beneath ? Whether any benefit may be derived from it or not, is no doubt very uncer- 0^4 tain:of Chronic or Chap. II. 248 tain : But in a difeafe which we know will otherwife terminate fatally, we are warranted in propofing whatever can af- ford even the fmalleft chance of fafety; fo that I mean to attempt it in the firft cafe of this kind that falls under my care. After applying a ligature as clofe- ly as poilible to the bafe of the tumor, and as foon as the tumor itfelf has fallen off, I would propofe to apply a firm-duf- fed pad, firnilar to that of a rupture-trufs, to the opening between the vertebrae ; and by means of a proper bandage, to fecure it with fuch a degree of tightnefs as may ferve to fupport the parts with- in. Whether or not this method may in any inftance accomplifh a cure, is very uncertain; but it appears to be the moft probable way of prolonging life ; For wherever the tumor has been opened, death feems to have enfued more from the removal of fupport from the contain- ed parts than from any other caufe. Now, no method of treatment we could advifeIndolent T’umors. 249 Sea- III. advife would fo readily comprefs the parts within, and at the fame time remove the tumor. The tumor termed Spina Bifida occurs, as we have already obferved, in different parts of the fpine ; but a fwellirig of per- haps the fame nature is fometimes met with on different parts of the head. A tumor is obferved at birth; and on exa- mination it is found to be formed by a fluid lodged beneath the membranes of the brain, which have been forced out at fome unofllfied part of the fkull. In fome cafes the fwelling remains ftation- ary for a great length of time ; but for the mofl: part it becomes quickly larger, and at laft terminates in death. Hither- to the fame effedt has refulted from lay- ing this kind of tumor open, as we have mentioned in fpina bifida.^—The patient has commonly died in a few hours after the operation. § 9;250 Chap. II. of Chronic or Of Scrophulous Tumors* The point firfl: to be determined in the chirurgical treatment of fcrophulous tu- mors is, Whether or not we fhould endea- vour to forward their maturation, by means of poultices and other external ap- plications? For a confiderable time, I adopted this pradice in the freeft man- ner, and applied warm poultices and fo- mentations to every tumor of this kind, till I was at laft convinced by experience of its inefficacy. Nay, I now think, that it does harm: For fcrophulous tumors be- ing formed of matter not convertible into pus, poultices and other warm applications have little effed in bringing them for- ward y and when long ufed, they weaken and relax the parts fo much, that the fores which enfue are more difficult of cure than when poultices are not employed. In all fcrophulous fores, the parts are apt to remain long foft and fpongy, by which they are prevented from healing. The effedIndolent ’humors. 251 Sea. III. efFed of thefe emollient applications, is to increafe this tendency to foftnefs to a de- gree which often pr. ves prejudicial. As I know of no application which in the real fcrophulous tumor ever proves ufeful, either in retarding Its progrefs or in bringing it forward, I now advife even every covering to be laid afide, unlefs the patient wilhes to prevent the fwelling from being feen; In which cafe he Is defired to cover it In the manner that Is mod: agree- able to himfelf. But as I do not obferve that expofure to the air does harm, and as in fome cafes I have thought that this ex- pofui^e of the tumor renders the fubfequent fores more eafily cured, I would prefer this mode of treatment whenever it can be adopted. Even the external applica- tion of hemlock, which in the form of poultices is often advifed in fcrophulous tumors as a difcutlent, fhould be laid afide. In fcrophulous fores, I have obferved fome advantage derived both from the internal exhibition and outward application of Jierplock: But although I have often knownof Chronic or Chap. II. 252 known it ufed in tumors of this kind, I cannot fay that any advantage ever ac- crued from it. The only remedy 1 have ever known to ad: with any apparent ef- ficacy in the difcuffion of fcrophulous tu- mors, is a long continued ufe of the cold bath, and mineral waters, efpecially thofe of Moffat: But in order to produce any effed, they Ihould be entered upon early in the difeafe, while the tumors are fmall, and long perfifted in. As foon indeed as a patient is attacked with fcrophula, I would advife him to enter upon the ufe of thefe remedies, and to perfevere for fe- veral years in applying them. In what manner the drinking of mineral waters, and of fea-water, operates in preventing the formation of tumors in fcrophulous patients, will be difficult to determine : But it fe^ms to be probable, that cold ba- thing, particularly in fait water, proves, chiefly ufeful by invigorating the fyftem at large, and particularly the lymphatic fyffern, which in fcrophula appears to be remarkably weak and relaxed. OfSe(S. III. Indolent humors. 25-5 Of late a new tonic remedy has come into notice, Muriated Barytes, and it feems to a<S with advantage in the difcuf- lion of fcrophulous tumors. I am at pre- fent ufing it in upwards of twenty cafes of fcrophula, but as yet I cannot pofitive- ly fay to what degree of credit it is en- titled. It excites appetite; ftrengthens the conftitution; and in fome inftances both fcrophulous tumors and fores, which previoufly refifted all other remedies, have difappeared while patients were ufing it. This medicine was firfi recommended by the ingenious Dr Crawford of London. It is prepared by diffolving aerated bary- tes in the muriatic acid; evaporating the folution, and diflblving the cryflals in water. Of the faturated folution fix or feven drops are given at firfi: to an adult, repeated three times a-day, and the dofe gradually increafed to thirty or forty drops, till it excites fickuefs or naufea, by adding two drops or fo every fecond or third day to each. The next point of importance in the treatment of fcrophulous tumors, is, Whe- ther254 0/ Chronic or Chap. II. ther they lliould be opened, or allowed to burft of themfelves ? This fhould, in a great meafure, be determined by their fi- tuation. When feated upon any of the large joints, or on the cavities of the tho- rax or abdomen, the matter ihould be dif- charged as foon as it is difcovered, by a free opening with a lancet or fcalpel; or in large colledions, where it would prove hurtful to expofe the cavity of an exten- live abfcefs to the air, it may be done with more fafety with a trocar, or with a feton. But where fcrophulous tumors are fo li- tuated that no harm can arife from the matter being allowed to remain, it is bet- ter that they fhould break of themfelves : For even when managed in the moft ju- dicious manner, the fores which enfue prove often tedious and difficult of cure, while an unfeemly fear takes place, whe- ther the tumor has been opened or not j and the patient and his friends, from ig- norance of the nature of the difeafe, as well as from ether motives, are apt to blame any opening that is made, as the eaufe255 Sed. III. Indolent T^umors. caufe either of a tedious cure, or of dif- agreeable marks. As an additional rea- fon for this pradlice, I believe it will be found, that fores enfuing from fcrophu- lous tumors will for the moft part heal more kindly when allowed to burft than when opened in any way whatever. I have only to obferve farther, that tu- mors of a fcrophulous nature are occafion- ally met with, which from inadvertency are fometimes miftaken for thofe of a real fchirrous kind. I alfo believe that mif- takes of this kind have tended toraife the reputation of medicines, particularly of cicuta, and that they have been the caufe of tumors being extirpated, which ought not to have been touched. When fcrophulous tumors are deeply feated, they have com- monly a degree of firmnefs which they do not poflefs in the more external parts; and when in a fufpicious iituation, as in the glandular part of a woman’s bread, they are apt to be miftaken on a flight exami- nation for fweliings of the fchirrous kind. Thefe miftakes, however, may always with256 of Chronic or Chap. if. with ordinary attention be avoided. E- ven the firmed: kind of ferophulous tumors are foft and compreflible when compared with fchirrus. They are of an equal, fmooth furface ; they are feldom in their early fiages attended with pain 3 and for the moft part fimilar affections appear in other parts of the body; whereas the real fchirrous tumor is always fomewhat un- equal or knotty, and although it does not for a confiderable time become uniformly painful, a flinging difagreeable pain is commonly felt in it from time to time, even from its firfl appearance; anid it is not neceffarily conneded with fymptoms of fcrophula. § ic. On White Swellings of the JointSi Few difeafes prove either of worfe con- fequences to patients, or are lefs under- flood by practitioners, than white dwel- lings of the joints: Infomuch that, when completely formed, the difeafe may in al- moft ISea. III. Indolent Tumors. 257 moft every Inftance be confidered as in- curable. White fwelling may be defined a pain- ful enlargement of a joint, not attend- ed with external inflammation : but ^ 3- there are evidently two varieties of the difeafe, which it is of much im- portance to diflinguifli: The one connea- ed with rheumatifm, and the other with fcrophula. I fhall firft defcribe the fymp- toms and appearances of each, and after- wards the method of treatment which hi- therto has proved mofl fiiccefsful. The rheumatic white fwelling begins with acute pain over the whole difeafed joint and contiguous parts 3 and the pain is always increafed by preflure or motion. As a relaxed pofture gives relief, the limb is kept conftantly bent, by which the flexor tendons become fo ftiff and immove- able, that from this caufe alone the mo- tion of the limb is often irretrievably loft. If the difeafe is not foon carried off, the fwelling, which at firft is always in- confiderable, begins gradually to aug- VoL. I. R ment,258 Of Chronic or Chap. II. ment, and goes on till it fometimes in- creafes to twice the natural fize of the part. The cuticular veins become turgid and varicofe; the limb below the fwelling de- cays confiderably in its mufcular fubftance, while it frequently acquires an equal or greater bulk by becoming oedematous: The pain turns more intolerable, efpecially when the patient is warm in bed, or is o- therwife heated; and abfceffes form in dif- ferent parts of the fwelling, and run in va- rious diredlions and at diifer'ent depths. In all thefe abfcefles, the fludluation of a fluid is generally evident; but befides this they are fpringy or elaftic; yielding to preflure, at the fame time that they do not, like oedematous fwellings, retain the mark, but inftantly rife again as foon as the preflure is removed. Thefe different collediqns, either upon breaking of themfelves, or on being laid open, difcharge confiderable quantities >of a purulent like matter. This, however, foon degenerates into a thin, ill-digefled fanies ^ 3259 Indolent Tumors. Sea. III. fanies; and has never, at leafl: in propor- tion to the quantity difcharged, any in- fluence in reducing the fize of the fwel- ling, which ilili remains nearly as large as before. If the orifices from whence this matter flows are not kept open, they foon heal up ^ and new colleaions forming in diffe- rent parts, again break out and heal as be- fore : So that, in courfe of time, the whole furrounding teguments are found cover- ed with cicatrices th^t remain after thefe ulcers. Long before the difeafe has arrived at this {late, the patient’s health has fuffered confiderably: firft, from the violence of the pain, which is often fo great, as to deffroy entirely both fleep and appetite; and then, from the abforption of matter which takes place in fome degree from the time of its firfl formation; but which does not indeed appear fo evidently, till the abfcefles in which it is contained are either laid open by incifion, or burff of themfelves. When this takes place, the R 2 pulfe260 of Chronic or Chap. IL pulfe becomes quick, accompanied with nodurnal fweats and a coliquitive diar- rhoea, by which the patient is at lafl: car- ried ofF, if the member is not foon ampu- tated. Thefe are the ufual fymptoms of the rheumatic white fwelling; but before pro- ceeding farther, I think it right to de- fcribe the appearances which the parts ex- hibit on difledion, and which I am en- abled to do, from many opportunities of being acquainted with them having fallen within my obfervation. When the limb is amputated early, the only preternatural appearance that we meet with on laying the parts open, is a morbid thicknefs of the furrounding liga- ments, accompanied with a contraded ftate of the flexor mufcles of the limb, .but without any difeafe of the joint itfelfl The bones and cartilages remain found, and the fynovia in a natural condition, both in quantity and confiftence. This thickening of the ligaments is in general in proportion to the duration of theSed:. III. Indolent I^imors. 261 the complaint. This, however, Is not al- ways the cafe ^ for I have met with fome recent inftances, In which the ligaments were more difeafed, than In others where the difeafe had continued longer. In this cafe Indeed the previous fymptoms had been always violent. In the more advanced ftages of"the dif- eafe, when abfcelTes have formed In diffe- rent parts; when the pain has been long violent, and the fwelling confiderable, on laying the parts open, the thickening of the ligaments Is ftlll more remarkable, and Is,generally attended with an effulion into the furrounding cellular fubftance, of a thick glairy matter, which appears to be the caufe of that elaftlclty peculiar to fuch fwellings, formerly taken notice of in the defcriptlon. The different abfceffes or collodions of matter are found to run in various direc- tions through this glairy albuminous con- geftion, without, however, feeming to mix with it. In fome few inftances, again, together with colledions of pus, we meet R 3 with262 of Chronic or Chap. II, with a number of fmall hydatides; and in the farther progrefs of the difeafe, all thefe together form fuch a confufed mafs of different matters and fubftances, that it is alrnoft impoflible, by dilledHon, to pro- cure a diflind: view of them. Even all thefe appearances I have met with, without any affedion of the bones of the joint; which, together with the fur- rounding cartilages, upon cutting through the capfular ligaments, have remained perfecdly found. When, however, by a long continuance of the difeafe, thefe ligaments are ero- ded by the matter refting upon them, both the cartilages and bones are foon brought to fuffer; the latter becoming carious, as foon as the former, by the acrimony of the matter, have been abraded. The tendons of the flexor mufcles do not, upon diffediion, exhibit any morbid appearances, either wkh refped; to hard- nefs or enlargement, but the mufcles from whence they proceed are always hard and contrad:ed. WeSed. III. Indolent Tumors. 263 We fliall now, as was propofed, give a de- fcriptlon of the fcrophulous white fwelling. In this variety of the difeafe, the pain is generally more acute than in the others and, inftead of being diffufed, it is more confined to a particular fpot, moll fre- quently to the middle of the joint. In fome inftances 1 have known the patients fay, even in advanced ftages of the dif- eafe, that they could cover the whole pained part with a cr wn-piece, or lefs. The fwelling is always at firfl inconfi- derable ; infomuch that, in fome cafes, it requires attention to difcover the differ- ence between the difeafed joint and op- pofite found one. We always find, how- ever, on meafurement, that it exceeds the other from half an inch to an inch in cir- cumference. In this, as in the rheumatic white fwel- ling, the leaft degree of motion always excites pain; the joint is therefore always kept in a bent pofition, by which the flexor mufcles and tendons become ftiff and contracted. R4 On,264 Of Chronic or Chap. IL On the fwelling continuing to advance, the pain becomes more violent, and the fwelling more confiderable, accompanied with an evident enlargement of the ends of the bones forming the joint. In procefs of time, the whole circum- ference of the tumor becomes elaftic ^ va- rlcofe veins appear over its furface; and colledllons of matter occur In differentparts of it: Thefe, upon burfting, or on being laid open, dlfcharge large quantities of thin ill-digefted matter 5 and if‘'a probe Is introduced, and palled to the bottom of the fores, the bones are found carious, and pieces of them are afterwards difcharged at the openings. On the farther continuance of the dlf- eafe, the conllitutlon becomes injured; and the patient is at laft carried off by- diarrhoea and profufe night-fweats, fymp- toms which commonly indicate extreme degrees of weaknefs. When joints alFecSed in this manner are dilfedled, either after death, or after ^mput^tlon of the member in the firft fta- ^ gesSe6l. III. Indolent l^umors. 265 ges of the difeafe, the foft parts feem not to be much injured, but in all, even the llight- eft that I have feen, the whole ends of the bones, or their epiphyfes, are enlarged. In fome this enlargement of the bones is con- fined to one fide of the joint, but in o- thers it appears equally in both : In fome, this occurs without any other mark of difeafe, but in general the foft fpongy parts of thefe bones are diflblved into a thin fetid matter, in fome cafes even with- out the cartilages which furround them being affeded : This I have in different inftances ieen, although the cartilages for the moft part are alfo found dilTolved at laft. The fame thickening of the liga- ments, and effufion of vifcid glairy mat- ter is met with here that occurs in the o- ther variety of the difeafe. The moft frequent caufe of white fuel- ling is a previous difpofition to rheuma- tifm or fcrophula 3 for although often in- duced by external violence, particularly by fprains and bruifes, the difeafe feldom proves266 Chap. II. Of Chronic or proves obfHnate where the rheumatic or fcrophulous diathefis does not evidently prevail. Hence white fwellings of the rheuma- tic kind are mod frequent at that period of life, and in thofe conftitutions in which rheumatifm occurs in the mod obvious form of the difeafe : We daily meet with it in the young and plethoric, and not often in patients advanced in years, and of oppofite temperaments : We alfo find, that it is frequently induced by cold, which may be confidered as the mod common caufe of rheumatifm, and it at- tacks chiefly thofe parts which we know to be the mod frequent feat of rheumati'c affedions : Rheumatifm for the mod part attacks the large joints only, and it fixes chiefly on the ligaments: Now, we meet with ten indances of this variety of white fwelling in the knee for one in any other joint, and we find on dilledion, that in the fird dages of the difeafe the ligaments on- ly are affeded, as in mod indances is alfo the cafe in rheumatifm : The effufion in- to the cellular fubiiance of that glairy matterSed. III. Indolent humors. 267 matter mentioned in the defcription is probably occa,(ioned by an exfudation from the veflels ot thofe ligaments that have been at firft inflamed; for we know that ligamentous parts never furnilh a fluid proper for the formation of pus : In the courfe of the difeafe, indeed, abfcefles containing purulent matter frequently form, but never till the inflammation has fpread to the furrounding parts, which more readily aflFord a fluid fir for this purpofe. In like manner, although the other va- riety of white fwelling commonly begins in the bones, fcarcely a doubt can arife of its being of a fcrophulous nature : It appears Indeed to be the real fpina ven- tofa of authors^, which there is much rea- fon to think is a dileafe of the fame nature in the bones, that fcrophula, In its ufual form, is in the foft parts : The appear- ances of the two difeafes are exceedingly fimilar: They both begin with confider- able enlargement or fwelling of the parts ^hich they attack, and this in both gene- rally '^Vide § 16. of this Sedion,268 Of Chronic or Chap. II. rally ends in ulceration, and they both often occur in the fame perfon at the fame time ; This variety of white fuel- ling is moft frequent in early life, a pe- riod in which other fymptoms of fcro- phula are alfo moft frequent 5 and If o- ther fymptoms of fcrophula do not fub- ftft at the time, we commonly find that they have prevailed at fome former pe- riod, or that the patient is defcended from fcrophulous parents, and therefore that the feeds of the difeafe are probably lurking In his conftitution. In the management of white fwelling, it is a point of importance, as I have al- ready obferved, to dlftlnguifti with ac- curacy between the two varieties of the difeafe; for in the one, the rheuma- tic, when not of long duration, we may frequently accomplifli a cure ; while, in the other, no material advantage is to be looked for from any remedy with which we are as yet acquainted: By not difcriminating between the two varieties pf white fwelling, remedies are often em- ployed,Sedl, III. Indolent T^umors. 269 ployed, which, however beneficial they might prove in the one difeafe, in the other can be of no avail, and may even do harm 3 and the fame want of difcri- mination is apt to make us defpair in e- very inftance, from finding, that in a great proportion of cafes no advantage is ob- tained from any meafures we can employ. In the rheumatic white fwelling, we de- rive confiderable advantage from due at- tention to an antiphlogiflic courfe. The firfl remedy which, with this view, fhould be employed, is blood-letting; but inftead of general evacuations from the arm or elfewhere, it proves always more effedual to take blood from the part af- feded. Cupping and fcarifying proves par- ticularly ufefuL The inftrument fhould be applied to each fide of the difeafed joint; on each fide of the rotula, for in- flance, when the knee is the part affeded : Eight or ten ounces of blood fhould be difcharged, and this fhould be repeated at proper intervals, once, twice, or often- er, according to the violence of the fymp- toms,270 Vf Chronic or Chap. II. toms, and ftrength of the patient at the time. In the ordinary way of difcharging on- ly an ounce or two of blood by this opera- tion, it has, in general, little or no influ- ence ; but in the quantities which I have mentioned, and which, by thofe accullom- ed to the practice, are commonly eafily obtained, it feldom fails of giving re- lief. It muft be obferved, that cupping proves here more beneficial than the applica- tion of leeches; which is not only a more tedious method of procuring the fame quantity of blood, but the fwelling which they occafion is frequently troublefome; and what is often of more importance, it frequently gives an interruption, for a time, to the ufe of other remedies. In fome inftances, however, when the fwell- ing of the joint is confiderable, it proves difficult, or even impradlicable, to pro- cure a fuffi^ient q antity of blood by cup- ping: In fuch cafes, we are under the ne- celiity of applyix.g leeches, which feldom failSea. IIL Indolent humors. 2Jl fail of obtaining as much blood as is re- quired. Upon the anterior part of the joint, where the cupping-glalfes or leeches have not been placed, a fmall blifter fhould be diredly applied; and the part fliould be kept open with iffiie-ointment, till the wounds from whence the blood was dif« charged are fo far healed, that a blifter may likewife be laid on one fide of the joint; and as foon as this is nearly healed, the o- ther fide fhould be alfo bliftered. By thus alternately applying them, firft to one fide, and then to the other, almoft a conftant ftimulus is excited on the fur- face ; which, in deep-feated inflammation, feems in many inftances to have even a more powerful influence than all ,the dif- charge occafioned by blifters. Gentle laxatives, given at proper inter- vals, prove alfo ferviceable; arid the pa- tient fhould, in every refpecft, be kept up- on a ftrict antiphlogiftic regimen: No animal food fhould be allowed, nor fhouldof Chronic or Chap. II. 273 fhould he be .permitted to take drink ftronger than gruel or whey. In the firfl: ftages of the difeafe^ this mode of treatment feldom fails to prove ufeful * Local blood-letting, when carried • to a fufficlent length, very commonly re- lieves the fymptoms induced by inflam- mation, and the blifters often remove them entirely : Thefe remedies, however, are not tp be trufted in the more advan- ced ftages of white fwellirig, nor ought they ever to be long perfifted in when they do not foori procure relief. In this ftate^ of the difeafe we depend upon other remedies. Mercury proves here particularly ufe- ful, not given fo as to ialivate, but mere- ly to affedl the mouth gently, and to keep it fomewhat fore for a few weeks. In fuch circumftances the beft form of uftng mercury is by external fricftlon; and the imdlion fhould be of fuch a ftrength as to admit of being ufed in the quantity of two drams three times a-day ^ for friction, in order to prove ufeful, muft be 2Sedl. III. Indolent ’ftimors. 273 be frequently repeated and continued for the Ipace of an hour at each applica- tion. Gentle mercurials may alfo be given internally, but, as all the advantages to be derived from them, are obtained from undion, together with any benefit that may enfiie from the fridion ufed in ap- plying it, the latter fhould in genera! be preferred. By Le Dran, and other French writers, the pouring of warm water on fweliings in this fituation is much recommended ^ and I have found in the courfe of much experience in this branch of bufinefs, that more advantage is derived from it than from any other remedy ; particularly from the* application of warm fleam : This re- medy, however, in order to prove ufeful requires to be applied to the parts par- ticularly afleded, and to be frequently re- newed. When warm water proves ufefui here, it may not only ad: from the degree of VoL. I, S heat274 Q/' Chronic or Chap. II. heat which it contains, but in propor- tion to the height from which it falls: Hence, in fome cafes, I have defired it to be poured from the height of fifteen or fixteen feet, and in different" inftances with advantage. It is eafily done by pouring the water through a leather or tin tube. The application of fleam and the fall of warm water, proves particularly ufe- ful in the removal of that contraded flate of the flexor mufcles, which very univerr fally takes place in white fwellings of the joints. The fliffnefs of joints affeded in this manner, is often in fuch a degree as to give caufe to think that it can only he produced by the ends of the bones forming the joint having run into one another, or by the fynovial fluid of the joint becoming thick, and totally unfit for lubricating the parts to which it is applied: I believe, however, that thefe occurrences are both exceedingly rare: Of all the difeafed joints I have difleded, and the number 3Sea. III. 275 Indolent Tumors^ is confiderable, I have only met with two inftances of the different bones of a joint adhering to each other, and not one in- ftance of the fynovia being infpiflated : Neither have I met with any anatomifl: who ever obferved it: I therefore con- clude, that the ftiffnefs of joints which fucceeds to white fwelling proceeds in al~ moif every inftance from the caufe 1 have mentioned, a morbid contradion of the flexor mufcles of the difeafed limb. 1 have already obferved, that in the re- moval of this contraded ftate of the mut cles,the application of warm fleam, and the fall of warm water from a height, proves particularly ufeful: We alfo derive much advantage from the ufe of emollients : By long perfeverance in rubbing contrac- tions of this kind with greafy emollients, I have in many inflances proved fuccefs- ful where the patient, after being lame for years, had defpaired of ever getting bet- ter. Emollients, however, in order to prove ufeful, muft be applied for a great length of time. They muft be rubbed S 2 forChap. II, of Chronic or 276 forthe-fpace of an hour three times a- clay over all the difeafed parts. The frIcfHon fhould not be confined, as is com- monly done, to the rigid tendons, but fhould be extended over the whole cor- refponding mufcles from one extremity to the other, and more efpecially over the flefliy parts of the mufcles, where the prin- cipal caufe of fuch complaints is probably feated ; thefe parts being chiefly, if not altogether, poflefled of the concradile^ and confequently of the refifting, powers. The afteclion we are now confidering. Is fo obvioufly one of thofe requiring the ufe of emollients, that almoft every old woman has fome particular form or other of recommending them; one of which I cannot avoid mentioning, as I have fre- quently known it ufed, and, in fome in- ftances, with very evident advantages, vi%^ the web or omentum of a new-killed Iheep, or of any other animal, applied^ over all the difeafed parts diredly on be- ing cut out of the animal. InSe(5l. III. Indolent "humors. 277 In two of the cafes to which I allude, bne was In the knee, and the other In the hand ; and the motion of the joints, after having been totally loft, was almofl per- fedlly reflored. The application fliould be frequently renewed, once a-day at leaft, or oftener when it can be done: for on being more than four or five hours ap- plied, it becomes difagreeable ; after this indeed it commonly turns ftiff, and can- not therefore be of much utility. The fame kind of remedy^ ufed in fo me what a different manner, 1 find recommended by Lieutaud, a celebrated French pradli- tioner I have entered more particularly into the confideration of this fubjed, from ha- ving often found, that, with due atten- tion, the ufe of many joints might be re- S 3 covered, * Mr Lieutaud fa^s, when fpeaking of fudi affec- tions, “ Obvolvitur etiam pars affedla pelle calida ver- vecis, vituli, alteriufve pecudis, receiis madati, vel immittitur in imum ventrem bovis, vitali calore baud defraudata?.” Synopfis Univerfae Praxeos Medieae, voL I, p. 4G0.27B of Chronic or Chap. IL covered, which, from a min^aken opinion of their caufes, have generally from the firf: been confidered as incurable: And I miift here alfo refer to fome farther ob- fervations which I ft all find necelTary to make upon the fame fubjed, in Chap- ter XLIIL when Ipeaking of diftorted limbs. Hitherto I have fuppofed the difeafe not to be fo far advanced as to have occafioil- ed the formation of matter; for, when come this length, no material advantages can be expeded from any of the reme- dies we have recommended: but, even in this ftate of white fwelling, if the pa- tient’s health is not greatly impaired, amputation of the member fliould by no means be advifed, as is ufually done. For, by opening the different abfcefies foon af- ter their formation, the matter may be prevented from affediing, or eflentially in- juring, the capfular ligaments of the joints; the deftrudlion of which would no doubt render it neceflary immediately to re- move the limb. AllSe6t. ill. Indolent "tumors. 279 . All colieitions of this kind fliould be difcharged by pafling a fetdn through them. This never proves hurtful^ and by preventing the accefs of air, as I have elfewhere endeavoured to fhow, abfceffes opened in this manner heal more readily, than they ufually do when laid open with large incifions*. By opening the different abfcefles as quickly as matter is found to be form- ed in them, and fupporting the patient with a light nourifhing diet, while all the other circumftances of his fituation meet with due attention, we often fiicceed in favliig limbs which otherwife it would be neceflary to remove. At the fame time, it mufl: be acknowledged, that iri- ftances often occur, in which none of our remedies proved fuccefsful, and in which we have, no other method of faving life. In fuch circumftances, we have no room to deliberate, and amputation of the diff eafed limb ought no doubt to take place. In Chapter XLV. I fhall find it necef- fary to confider this fubjecS nlore particu- S 4 larly^Chap. It Of Chronic or 28o larly, but at prefent I may obferve, with refpe6i to the moft proper period of ampmatiog limbs in white fwelling, that^ even in point of fuccefs from the operation, it ought never to be advifed till the difeafe is far advanced. For though it might, a priori, be imagined, that the more early in the difeafe, ampu- tation of the member is performed, the more fijccefsfui it fhould prove ^ and ai« though this, indeed, has been made ufe of as a common argument for amputating early in every cafe of white fwelling^ yet, however plaufibie the obfervation may appear, it will not, from experience, be found to hold good. For, in this, as well as in other difeafes, I have con- flantly found, that amputation has more frequently fiicceeded, that Is, a greater proportion of patients have recovered who have previoiiHy been confiderably reducqd^ than of fuch as have ftill remained in ^ full habit of body. In the former, when the conftltiition has not been too much broken, and we have it alwaysSed, III. Indolent humors. 281 always In our power to guard agalnft Its be- ing fo, the feveral fymptoms of hedic fe- ver, which prevloufly took place, are com- monly removed in a few days after the limb is taken off: No high degree of in- flammation is ever produced ; the patient daily improves in health ; and a complete cure, if he has not been too much redu- ced, is generally foon obtained. In the latter again, the very reverfe of this takes place: The patient, from being in high health at the time of the operation, is generally thrown into a fmart inflamma- tory fever; which is, no doubt, often re- moved, but which frequently either car- ries him off immediately, or produces fuch effeds as he never thoroughly reco- vers from. So that in no cafe whatever is it proper to acivife amputation till every probable means for faving the limb has been tried in vain. All the means we have hitherto recom^ mended, relate particularly to the rheu- matic fpecies of white fwelling 3 and when employedChap. IL Of Chronic or 282 employed in time, and duly perfifted in, they frequently prove iifefiil: But when the difeafe is fo far advanced as to have deftroyed the capfular ligaments of the joint, and perhaps even the cartilages and bones themfelves, amputation of the mem- ber is then no doubt our only refource. In the more fata! fpecies of white fuel- ling, namely, the fcrophulous, as I know no certain remedy for fcrophula, even in its milder form in the foft parts of the body, I cannot here pretend to offer any thing fatisfadory upon the fubjed. In the fmall joints, when the difeafed parts of the bone begin to cart off, a cure may be fometimes promoted by aflifling the efforts of nature ; but in all the large joints, particularly in the knee and ancle, it is not probable that any other refource than amputation will ever afford relief. In this variety of the difeafe, indeed, ma- ny are of opinion, that amputation fliould never be advifed ; for the fwelling being conneded with fcrophula in the confli- tution, the difeafe they conclude will ap- pearSed. III. Indolent Tumors. 2S3 pear in fome other part: This In fome inftances will no doubt happen, but I know from experience, that in a great pro- portion of cafes it will not; and, were the . rlik of this even much greater thanf it is, ftlll I would advife it, in preference to the conftant torment with which patients in this fituatlon are univerfally dlftreired. When, however, amputation of the member is not to take place, we endea- vour by other means to alleviate as much as poffible the painful feelings of the pa- ^ tient: With this view, cicuta and hyocya- liius are fometimes given, both feparateiy and combined; but in great degrees of pain we depend upon opiates alone. § II. Of Bronchocele. Every tumor of an indolent nature occupying the fore-part of the neck, is in common pradlee termed a Bronchocele. In the Englifli language we have no pre- cifeChajD. ilo Of Chronic or cife denomination for it. In French this difeafe is termed Goitre. Swellings in this fituation would with more propriety be termed Tracheacele : But with a view to prevent coiifufion, we think it better to retain that appellation under which they have commonly been defcribed. Authors mention different difeafes un- der this denomination i Some contend^ that the term Bronchocele ihould be con- £ned to one variety of tumor; and o- thers, that it may be applied to fwellings of very different kinds : Difputes of this nature, however, anfwer no good pur- pofe; and as pradtical obfervations are the chief objeds of this work, I think it better to mention the varieties of the dif- eafe, which I have either feen, or which have been accurately defcribed by authors, with the treatment fuited to each, than to enter the lifts of controverfy upon this pare of the fubjed. I.-Sed. III. Indolent T^umors. 28j 1, The fore-part of the neck, like eve- ry part of the body fupplied with large arteries, is liable to fwellings of the aneu- rifmal kind. Aneurifms do not frequently occur in this fituation, but in fome in- fiances they are met with. This variety of the difeafe may be di- ftingulfhed by all the ordinary fymptoms of aneurlfm: By appearing fuddenly af- ter fome violent exertion^ particularly in coughing or laughing; being foft and com- preffible from the firfh; by the tumor be- ing at firfl feated diredly on the courfe of one of the carotid arteries ; by the pulfe in the advanced flages of the difeafe being aifeded, and remarkably unequal, and a ftrong pulfation being difcovered through the whole extent of the tumor. 2. Encyfted tumors, particularly thofe of the melicerous kind, are frequently met with on the courfe of the trachea.—They are charaderifed by the fame fymptoms in this fituation by which they are mark- ed in other parts of the body: They are foft and coinpreflible 3 the fluduation of a286 Of Chronic or Chap. II. a fluid is evident upon prelTure; although always, fmall at firft, they frequently be- come fo extenfive, as to reach from one ear to another; and the /kin ufually re- tains its natural appearance to the laft. The feat of this variety of the difeafe is evidently in the cellular membrane. 3. Inftances have occurred of tumors forming in this fituation, by the lining membrane of the trachea being forced out between two of the cartilages in violent fits of fneezing, coughing, and laughing. In this cafe the fwelling is at firfl: fmall; and although foft and compreflible, no fluduation is perceived in it. 4. The lymphatic glands of the neck have in fome cafes of fcrophula become fo fwelled, as to produce tumors of confider- able magnitude over the whole courfe of the trachea. They are diftinguiflied by the fymptoms which ufually accompany fcrophulous fweliings. ♦ 5. The thyroid gland has in fome in- ftances been known to fwell to a great bulk, fo as to induce tumors of an enor- mousSed. III. Indolent T^umors. 287 mous fize, extending from each fide of the trachea to the angle of the correfpond- ing jaw. In this variety of the difeafe, the fwelling is at firfl: foft ^ but no fludua- tion is perceived in it ^ the fkin retains its natural appearance; and no pain takes place In it: But as the tumor advances in fize, it becomes unequally hard; being firm or elaftic in fome parts, and perfed- ly foft in others: The fkin acquires a cop- per colour, and the veins of the neck be- come varicofe ; and in this flate of the dif- eafe the face becomes flufhed, and the pa- tient complains of frequent head-ach, as well as of flinging pains through body of .the tumor. This is mentioned by authors as that variety of the difeafe which occurs fo fre- quently among the inhabitants of the Alps and other mountainous countries, and which in general is fuppofed to originate from the ufe of fnow-water. 6. Whatever may be the nature of thofe varieties of bronchocele which occur in other kingdoms, I cannot pretend to fay, butChap. IL 288 Of Chronic or but I have reafon to think, that in this country the thyroid gland is not fo fre- quently the feat of the difeafe as is com- monly imagined. At lead: iir all the in- ftances I have met with of difcovering the feat of the difeafe by difledion after death, the thyroid gland was not affeded. In fome this gland, inftead of being in- creafed, feemed evidently dimlnilhed by the comprellion produced by the tumor; and the fwelling itfelf was chiefly formed of a condenfed cellular fubftance, with effufions in different parts of it of a vif. cld brown matter. In one cafe the tu- mor was chiefly fixed on one fide of the neck; but in others it occupied both fides, and reached from one ear to the other, and from the flernum to the chin. In fome, the fwelling had fiibfifted for a great number of years; and in one irjflance the patient died at laft of another difeafe. At firfl; they had no other appearance than might be expetfled from a natural im creafe in the pa^ t 1 ing contiguous lo the trachea; they were foft and compreflible 5 I butSed. III. Indolent I^umors, 289 but no fluduation was perceived In them, and the fkin retained its natural colour: But as they increafed in fize, they like- wife became firmer ^ for although at lafl; a foftnefs, and even a fluduation, was dif- covered in fome parts of them, yet the principal part of the tumor continued hard, while others had a peculiar fpringi- nefs or elafticity, fimilar to that of a tin canifler: The veins on the furface of the tumors became turgid; and the face of a livid colour, evidently from the blood be- ing impeded in its courfe from the head. All of thefe patients complained of much giddinefs: The breathing in all of them was much obftruded; and the patient, who died of the difeafe, feemed to fuffer chiefly from this circumflance. With fuch varieties of bronchocele, no one mode of treatment it Is obvious can be applicable. Hence the abfurdity of fpecifics for this difeafe, fuch as calcined fponge and egg-fhells, propofed and ftrongly re- commended by many: For although this and other remedies might prove ufeful in VoL. I. T one2^0 Of Chronic or Chap. II. one variety of tumor, it would be abfurd to (uppofe that they can be fo as by many has been aflerted in all. - I. In the aneurifmal bronchocele, the treatment fuited to aneurifm in general mu ft be obferved. To fecure either of the carotid arteries with a ligature, muft in all circumftances be a hazardous opera- tion : But here there is no alternative; of whatever kind the aneurifm may be, death will certainly enfue, if not prevented by this operation. This chance, therefore, ought always to be given; as in other cafes of aneurifm the artery fliould be tied both above and below the affedled part. I know from experiment, that one of the carotids may be tied in other animals, and that death will not enfue: This gives caufe to fuppofe that it may likewife be done in the human body. 2. Where the difeafe is found to be formed by encyfted tumors upon the tra- chea, what we have faid upon the treat- ment of thefe tumors in general will prove applicable. 3Seel. III. Indolent "Tumors. 291 applicable While fmall, the cyfts with their contents may be removed in the manner we have mentioned : And even in the mofl: enlarged ftate of them, we need not defpair of being able to afford effec- tual relief. In thofe of the fleatomatous kind, confifling entirely of fat, however large they may be, we may with fafety attempt to remove them: For in almoft every inflance, the connedlion of tumors of this defeription with the contiguous parts is fo flight, that they are removed with eafe. The veffels on the furface of the tumor may be enlarged ; but thefe are chiefly veins, and may be eafily avoided. In tumors formed altogether of fat, I have never feen any of the arteries of fuch a lize as when cut to give any difturbance ; they are always fmall, and eahly fecu- red by preflure when they lie beyond the reach of ligatures. 3. When, again, the contents of a bron- chocele are fluid, they may be difeharged either by an incifion with a fcalpel, or by T 2 palling * Vide § 2. of this fe<Sion,292 of Chronic or Chap. pafling a feton or cord through the cyft and when the contained matter is of a pultaceous confiftence, forming what is termed an Atheroma, it fhould be difchar- ged by a large opening in the moft de- pending part of the tumor. 4. Where the tumor is formed by a her- nia or protrufion of the lining membrane of the trachea, gentle prelTure with a rol- ler is the only remedy to be depended on; and all fueh exertions fhould be avoided as might have any influence in producing it; particularly violent laughter, fneezing, coughing, and crying. Where the difeafe is fcrophulous, we mufl: depend chiefly on thofe remedies which prove moft ufeful in other fcrophulous affedtions: And with a view to remove the compreflion produced upon the trachea, as well as upon the veins returning from the head, the con- tents of the tumors fhould be difcharged as foon as they appear to be fufEciently fluid. 5. Where the, difeafe originates from tumeiaction of the thyroid gland, freguent fridionsSc(S. III. Indolent Tumors. 293 fridions prove ufeful, particularly when employed early, before the fwellino; has become large; and faponaceous and mer- curial plafters have in fome cafes appear- ed to prove ferviceable. Praditioners, however, are feldom confulted in that ftage of the difeafe in which remedies of this kind may be ufefully applied: For as the fwelling does not give uneafinefs at firft, it is feldom mentioned by the pa- tient till it has fubbfted for fome time. In an enlarged ftate of this gland, I do pot fuppofe that any remedy will ever be founcL fufficiently powerful to difcufs it, fo that the only points to be deteni.ined, are, whether or not we ihould attempt co remove thefe tumors by an operation ? and whether it fliould be done with cauitic or the fcalpel ? . We know that the thyroid gland is very plentifully fupplied with blood, and that the arteries which belong to it are ufually much enlarged in this difeafe. This, to- gether with the contiguity of the thyroid gland to the carotid arteries, which in T ^ this294 Q/* Chronic or Chap. II, this enlarged ftate of that gland are even apt to be comprefled by it, renders the extirpation of it in an advanced pe- riod of the difeafe extremely hazardous. The arteries here are of fuch magnitude as to pour out a great deal of blood in a fhort fpace of time; while they lie at fuch a depth in this enlarged ftate of the parts, that they cannot be eafily laid hold of with ligatures, nor can much compreftion be applied to them from their fituation with refped to the trachea. I therefore ' conclude, when tumors of this defcription have acquired any confiderable bulk, that it would be improper to run the hazard of removing them with the knife, and that the patient ftiould rather truft to the treatment ufually employed in fuch cafes for palliating the fymptoms as they oc- cur And although we are informed, that * Mr Gooch relates a cafe, where in an attempt to re- move a bronchocele by excihon, fuch profufe hemor- rhagy took place, that the operator, although very intre- pid, was obliged to delifl before the operation was half finidiedc295 Sed. III. Indolent "Tumors. that in this fituatlon the potential, and even the adaal cauteries have been em- ployed with advantage, yet the pradicc has not become fo general as to make it probable that it has ever been fuccefsful; nor do I think that it fhould ever be ad- vifed in any ftage of this difeafe. But although the reafons I have men- tioned may be fufficient for preventing the removal of thefe tumors in any way when much enlarged ^ yet while the tu- mor continues fmall; when fridions and other remedies fail; and when the difeafe is continuing to advance; I think any pradidoner would be warranted in advi- T 4 fing finiflied. No means that were employed could put a total Hop to the blood *, and the patient died in lefs than a vveek. Another cafe had very nearly terminated fatally; and the patient’s life was only preferved by having a fuc- cellion of perfons to keep a conftant preffure upon the bleeding veffels, day and night for near a week, with their fingers on proper comprefies, after the operator Jiad been repeatedly difappointed in the ufe of the needle and Xig^tMYQ,^Vide Gooch’s Medical and Chirurgical Obfervations, p. 136,296 Of Chronic or Chapi II, fing it to be removed by excifion: For in this early period of the difeafe, the diffi- culty of fecuring the arteries with liga- tures is much lefs than it afterwards be- comes ; at leaft the rifk occurring from this mud be inconfiderable, when compa- red with that which muft probably en- fue from the tumor being allowed to re- main. In the fixth and lad variety of the dif- eafe which I have mentioned, fridions with mercurial oiptment have in its early ftages appeared to prove ferviceable. And in one cafe the progrefs of the tumor was evidently retarded by repeated bli- fters ; but the patient going to a diftance, they were negleded, and at lad it ar- rived at a very enormous lize. In this date I faw him at the diftauce of feve- ral years, but I did not learn in what manner the cafe terminated. I have rea- fon to think, however, from the appear- ance of the dwelling, both at its com- mencement and in its more advanced ftages, that it proceeded from an effiifion into ISed. HI. Indolent l*umors. 297 into the cellular fubftance of the neck, attended with that condenfed ftate of this fubftance which was difcovered by difledion in fome of the cafes mentioned above. But however ferviceable blifters, as well as other remedies, might prove in the early ftages of the difeafe, no ad- vantage can be expeded from them when the tumor has acquired any great bulk; In this fituation palliatives ohly ftiould be employed; for the bafts of the fwel- liiig ufually runs fo deep, that it could not be removed but with the utmoft ha- zard ; and it is not probable that any advantage would be derived from laying it open; for, a conftderable part of it being ftrm and folid, the ftze of the tu- mor would not be much di mini (bed by the difcharge which might be procured, while the fore that would enftic might de- generate into cancer, § 12.298 Chap. II, Of Chronic or § 12. Of N^vi MaternL By Naevi Materni, are meant thofe marks which we frequently find in dif- ferent parts of the body at birth; and which are fuppofed to originate from im- prefllons made on the mind of the mo- ther during pregnancy. They are of va- rious forms, being frequently found to refemble ftrawberries and cherries, and in other inftances grapes, figs, pears, &c. Their colour is various ; but for the mod part they are of a deep red, refembling the colour of claret or red port. Many of thefe marks are perfedlly flat, and never rife above the level of the Ikin 3 and not being painful, they never in this flate become the objec^ls of furgery. But occafionally we meet with them from the firft in the form of fmall protuberances, which in fome increafe fo quickly as to arrive at a confiderable fize in the courfe of a few months. I once faw a tumor of this kind in a child, of a year old, of theSed. III. Indolent T^umors. 299 iize of a goofe’s egg, which at birth was not larger than a pea. No fluduation is difcovered in thefe tumors ], on the contrary, they feel to be firm and fiefliy. In fome cafes they are pendulous, and hang by flender attach- ments to the contiguous parts; but for the moft part they are fixed by broad ex- tenfive bafes. Various remedies have been recom- mended for the removal of thefe excref- cences; and in ancient times different charms were propofed for them. The my fiery proceeding from this is perhaps one reafon of the general averfion which ftill prevails againft any attempt being made to remove them by chirurgical ope- rations : But it has not appeared in the courfe of my obfervation, that more dan- ger attends the removal of this kind of fwelling than the extirpation of any other tumor of the farcomatous kind. They are fupplied indeed more plentifully than o- ther tumors with blood ; for in many in- ftances they appear to be entirely formed bygoo Of dhronic or Chap. IL by a congeries of fmdl blood-veflels; but the arteries which go to them are in ge- neral eaiily fecured with ligatures. It is proper, however, to remark, that the ope- ration fhould never be long delayed y for as the fize of the veflels depends upon that of the tumor, they fometimcs become fo lai'ge ais to throw out a good deal of blood before they can be fecured 3 fo that the operation fhould always be propofed ds fobii as it is obferved that the tumor, inftead bf remaining ftationary, proceeds to in rbafe. a The operation is of a very fimple na- ture. The tumor, with all the difcolour- ed fkin, is to be dilfetSed olF with a fcal- peT^ ^nd the arteries being fecured, the odges of the remaining fKiu fhould be d‘ra;wTi together^ arid kept in this litua- tion either with adhefive plafters or fu- tures : Or, when they cannot be drawn completely together, they may at leaft be made to cover a conliderable part of th; o e ; by which the cure will be much Ihortened, and the cicatrice lefTened. In thisSed. III. Indolent "Tumors. 301 this eafe, that part of the fore whieh is left uncovered mull be treated like a wound from any other caufe. It is fcarcely neceffary to mention, that where the tumor is pendulous, and conneded to the parts beneath by a nar- row neck only, it may be removed by tying a ligature round it of a degree of tightnefs fufficient for putting a *ftop to the circulation through the whole of it* § 13. (y Warts. Warts are indolent, fmall, hard, co- lourlefs excrefcences, which appear on different parts of the body, but chiefly on the fingers and hands. They take their rife from the cutis and cuticle. They occur at every period of life, but more frequent- ly in infancy than in old age. When from their lize or fituation warts do not prove troublefome, they Ihould not be touched ^ for generally in courfe of time they either fall off or wafte gra- dually302 Of Chronic or Chap. II. dually away. But fometimes they are fo large and fo fimated that we are under the neceffity of employing means for re- moving them. When warts are pendulous, and have narrow necks, the eafieft method of ta- king them away is with ligatures : For this purpofe a hair is fometimes ufed, but a fine thread is preferable. But when their bafes are broad, we remove them either with the fcalpel or efcharotic ap- plications. Few patients, however, will fubmit to the fcalpel ^ and as we feldom fail with efcharotics, they are generally employed. The lunar cauflic, or lapis infernalis, are the ftrongeft applications of this kind ; but warts commonly become very painful after being two or three times rubbed with them. The fame objedion occurs to a folution of quickfilver in aquafortis, otherwife it proves a very powerful ef- charotic. Mercury difiblved in an equal quantity, or even in double its weight, of ftrong fpirit of nitre, would remove warts ofSe(S. III. Indolent T^umors. 303 of every kind ; but as the folution Is apt to fpread, it fliould be ufed with caution. Pulvis fablnae being daily applied to warts, will for the moft part remove them in the courfe of two or three weeks; but the beft application I have tried is crude fal ammoniac : It ads flowly, but the pain which it excites is inconliderable, and ex- cepting in the very hardeft kind of wart, it feldom fails in removing them. They fhould be well rubbed two or three times daily with a piece of the fait previoully molftened in water. Liquified fait of tar- tar fometimes anfwers the purpofe ; and I have known fpirit of hartihorn prove fuc- cefsful. Warts frequently appear upon the pe- nis as a fymptom in venereal afiedions, and as they are nearly of the fame nature with thofe we have been conlidering, the fame method of treatment will apply to them. In general, the tendency in the fyftem to produce them does not conti- nue long; and if the parts are kept clean, they at laft often begin to decay, and go entirelyChap. II,' Of Chronic or 304 entirely ofF whether any application is made to them or not. But as patients are always anxious to get free of them, praditioners are fometimes induced to make trial of remedies too early, for till this tendency to their formation is re- moved, warts rife almofl: as quickly as they are rubbed off. Nor has mercury any influence in preventing this : I have known mercury advifed for the removal of warts ; but never with any advantage. When we have reafon to fuppofe, there- fore, that every other fymptom of the dif- eafe is eradicated, the continuance of warts fhould be no Inducement to the ex- hibition of more mercury, When venereal warts are tender on the furface, and produce matter, as is fome- times the cafe, wafliing them morning and evening in lime-water, or in a weak folu- tion of faccharum faturni, will commonly remove this 3 and at laft they will difap- pear in the manner I have mentioned. Bnt when this delay will not be Agreed to, one or other of the efcharotics men- tionedSeft. III. Indolent "Tumors. 305 tionecl above muft be employed; or if the patient confents to their being remo- ved with the fcalpel, the parts from whence they are cut may be touched with lunar cauftic, in order to prevent them, with as much certainty as poffible, from returning. It is proper to remark, that in the treatment of warts of every kind, we fhould be cautious in avoiding every ap- plication which we have once obferved to excite much inflammation ^ for although under a flight degree of inflammation, warts very commonly decay and drop off^ they are apt to fpread and excite troublelbme fores when much inflamed by the ufe of irritating applications. For the fame rea- fon, when a wart is to be removed with the fcalpel, we (hould rather encroach a little upon the found (kin, than run any rilk of injuring the wart itfelf, or of lea- ving any part of it. By want of atten- tion to this, I have known the moft foi;- midable fymptoms induced by what at firfl: appeared to be fuch a trifling extreC- VoL. I. U ctuce,3o6 Of Chronic or Chap. 11^ cence, as not to deferve notice. In one cafe, indeed, fuch a painful obftinate fore enfued on the leg', from the removal of a fmall wart, that amputation of the limb became neceflary, in order to fave the life of the patient. § 14. 0/' Fkpy Excrefeenees. Almost every part of the body is oc- cafionally liable to the formation of flefliy excrefeenees. They differ from warts in being fofter, and in being apt to acquire a confiderable bulk. They are feldom painful. They are of a more deep red colour than the fkin in health, and for the mpft part they have ,a firmnefs of confiftence refembling that of the lips. When firft laid open, they exhibit nearly the fame appearances with a piece of muf- cular fubhance newly divided; but on farther examination, no fibres can be dif- covered in them. They feem to confift chiefly of cellular fubftance^ very plen- tifully ISed. 111. Indolent humors. 307 tifully fupred with blood-veflels infinitely ramified. In the treatment of thefe tumors, no external application is found to anfwer any good purpofe. Efcharotics have fome- times been employed for removing them ^ but they feldom prove effedual, and they are apt to irritate and excite inflamma- tion. Whenever it is determined, there- fore, to remove a tumor of this kind, it £hould either be done with a ligature, or with the fcalpel. When the neck is narrow, the method by ligature fhould be preferred; but when the bafe is broad, this is inadmiffible. When the fcalpel is employed, care fhould be taken that no part of the tumor is left y and the edges of the divided fkin fhould be drawn fo to- gether, as to cover as much of the re- maining fore as can with propriety be done. When any part of it does not heal by the firfl intention, it mufl be treated like wounds produced in any other man- ner. U 2 ' § 15.Of Chronic or Chap. II. 3^8 § 15. 0/* Corns, Corns are fmall hard tubercles, which form on different parts of the body, par- ticlarly on the toes and foies of the feet. In fome cafes they appear to be of a horny inorganic nature; but in others, it is e- vident that they are fupplied both with blood-veflels and nerves, from their being painful, and difcharging blood on being cut. For the moff part they are feated in the Ikin ; but in fome inftances they pafs to fuch a depth as to reach the pe- riofteum ; and in this cafe they prove al- ways very diftrefsful, particularly when feated on any of the joints, or on parts thinly covered with flefli. The beft preventative of corns, is the wearing of wide flioes, fo as to obviate prefTure on the joints of the toes and o- ther parts of the feet where they are moff apt to occur 3 and unlefs this meets with attention, it is impoflible in any cafe to remove them. Various remedies are recom- mendedIII. Indolent Tumors. 309 mended for the cure or removal of corns. One of the moft Ample and inoffenfive of thefe is to pare off all the inorganic part of them, after bathing in warm wa- ter, and immediately thereafter applying over them flips of foft leather fpread with gum plafter. If the foaking in water and paring the corns is repeated from time to time, and the application of this plafter continued, the corns will be kept eafy, and the hard knots will often fepa- rate and fall out; when, if preftiire is a- voided, the vacancy produced by their remoyal will fill up with cellular fiib- ftance, and no return of the difeafe will be experienced. Corns may alfo be removed by dividing the cuticle which conneds them to the furrounding parts with a fmall fharp-point- ed fcalpel, and then difleding them from the parts beneath with the fame inftru- ment and the afliftance of fmall forceps. When done with caution, this operation gives no pain, no harm ever arifes from* it, and it removes the difeafe in the fpeedieft U 3 manner:310 Of Chronic or Chap. II. manner: Much care, however, is ne- ceflary in order to avoid the cutis vera, for in wounding the fkin, we not only excite a good deal of pain, but are apt to lay the foundation of tedious and di- ftrefsful ulcers : Neither is it neceffary to go to fuch a depth, as corns are always produced from the cuticle, and do not penetrate deeper than the furface of the Ikin. § 16, Of a Simple Exojlojis^ Venereal Nodes^ and Spina Ventofa^ An Exodofis is an indolent hard tu- mor originating from a bone. In fome cafes it is altogether a local affedion; be- ing produced by a fuperabundancy of cal- lus in cafes of fradured bones; or by bones being deeply wounded, or their fub- ftance eroded by ulcers. In others, it ap- pears as the fymptom of fome general af- fedion of the fyllem, particularly of the lues venerea and fcrophula. In the firft ofSe<3:. III. Indolent Humors., 311 of thefe difeafes, the tumor is termed a Venereal Node. When it appears as a fymptom of fcrophula, we ufually term it Spina Ventofa. Exoftofis, when local, and proceeding from effufion of ofleous matter in frac- tured or wounded bones, is feldom attend- ed with pain ; and after arriving at a certain fize, the tumor commonly re- mains ftationary. But when it origi- nates from an internal caufe, it is com- monly painful from the firft; probably from the diftention of the periofteum^ which being a firm membrane, and clofe- ly attached to the bone beneath, does not readily yield to the increafe of the tumor. And in this cafe the fwelling continues to advance, either till it burfts into a fore, or till the difeafe in the conftitiition by which it was produced is eradicated. In venereal nodes, the periofteum is often found inflamed and thickened ^ and infome cafes a fmall quantity of thin acrid ferum is effufed between this membrane and the bones. Hence, in thefe, the fwel- U 4 lingOf Chronic or Chap. IL 312 ling in the bone appears to be larger than it really is; for on being laid open, it is often found to be inconfiderable when compared with the previous fize of the tumor. This has made fome fufpedb that the fwelling which we term a Node in lues venerea, is not originally an af- fedion of the bone, but a thickening of the periofteum, and that the bone only fuffers from its connedion with this membrane. There is much reafon, how- ever, to imagine, that the reverie of this is the cafe, and that the bone is the part primarily affeded. For it is worthy of remark, that it is in the advanced fta- ges of fyphilis only, that the bones are apt to be affeded; and even then, that it is the hardefx parts of them, fuch as the fore-part of the tibia and bones of the cranium, which are mod apt to fuffer. In fcrophula, we frequently find the whole fubftance of a bone become fwelled, particularly the extremities of the large bones forming the joints of the knee, ankle, elbow, and wrift. Various conjec- turesSed. III. Indolent T'umors* 313 tures are met with in authors of the ori- gin of the term Spina Ventofa given to this fwelling; but whatever may have been the firft caufe of it, or whether properly applied or not, we think it right to retain it, in order to prevent that confufion which enfues from different names being given to the fame difeafe. In fpina ventofa, a pain is firft dif- covered in the affeded bone, and it is I ufuaily fo deeply feated, that the patient is led to think from his feelings, that it proceeds from the very centre of the bone. ^ This fometimes takes place for feveral days before any fwelling is per- ceived : but for the moft part a flight de- gree of fulnefs is obferved from the firft. When this takes place along with other fymptoms of fcrophula, and efpecially when it fixes on any of the large joints, tliere will be caufe to confider it as a fymptoin of that difeafe: But it often proves to be the firft fymptom of fcro- phula, efpecially in childhood : In which i:afeboth the parents and furgeon are apt to fufpedOf Chronic or Chap. II. 3H Vide § 9. of this Sedion. fufped that It proceeds from a contufion or fprain ; nor does the delufion ceafe with the former, til! the difeafe becomes > evi- dent by fixing on other parts of the body. When fpina ventoia occurs in the mid- dle of bones, as foinetimes happens in the bones of the hands and feet, the difeafe advances quickly ; and on the foft parts burftlng above them, a thin, ill-condi- tioned matter is difcharged, and the bones are difcovered to be carious on the intro- dudlon of a probe. But when the diC- eafe fixes on any of the large joints, al- though it feldom fails to terminate in fores at laft, yet it commonly proceeds to an ulcerated (late in a more gradual manner; nor does any remedy with which we are acquainted prevent its progrefs. In this lituation it lays the foundation of what is ufually termed a White Swelling; a difeafe we have already confidered at full le ngth When thefe fwellings burfl: and termi- nate in fores, the foft fpongy parts of the bonesSe6l. III. Indolent Ttumors* 315 bones are found to be difiblved; and on the matter which they produce being dif- charged, the remaining cavities have the appearance of being formed by the inte- rior' part of the bones having been fcoop- ed out, there being nothing left but a thin ofTeous covering, formed of the hard exter- nal lamella of the bone. In this date of the difeafe, the appearances which the bone exhibits bear much refemblance to fero- phulous fores in the fofter parts of the body : And as the fpina ventofa is almoft always in fome of its ftages accompanied with -Other fymptoms of fcrophula, 1 am clearly of opinion, that we (hould confider it entirely as a fcrophulous affedion, this being the fame in the bones what fcro- phula in its more ufual form is in the lym- phatic glands. In the treatment of an exoftofis, the caufe by which the tumor has been indu- ced requires particular attention. Where perfedly local, and formed merely by an exuberance of callus, although fome de- formity may enfue from it, it is feldom produdiveji6 Of Chronic or Chap. IL produdive of fo much pain or inconve- nience as to induce the patient to fpeak of it. But when tumors, even of this local kind, become fo large as to prove painful, they neceflarily excite the attention both of the patient and praditioner. Being of a nature that will not yield to medicines, we truft entirely, in thofe cafes where it is neceflary to remove them, to a chirur- gical operation. The patient being placed upon a table, and properly fecured by affiftants, if there is any rilk of (Contiguous large arteries be- ing cut, they ought in the firft place to be fecured with a tourniquet; An incifion Ihould now be made through the tegu- ments covering the tumor; and in order to obtain freedom for the remaining fteps of the operation, it (hould not only be carried along the whole courfe of the fwelling, but an inch or even more paft each end of it. The cut fliould now be continued down to the bone, at the fame time’ that the operator Ihould avoid as much as polGble doing any injury to the contiguousSed. III. Indolent "humors. 317 contiguous mufcles, tendons, veins, arte- ries, and nerves. With due attention to this part of the operation, much diftrefs may be prevented, which might probably occur were it to be done in a more hur- ried manner. On the bone being laid bare, we are next to determine on the beft method of removing that part of it which forms the tumor: And this will depend upon the lize of it. When only a fmall knob, it may be taken off with the head of a tre- pan : or when too large for this, it may be removed with a common faw; and af- ter taking away any fpicules which might create irritation, the fore may be treated like wounds produced in any other man- ner. The foft parts fliould be drawn over the bone, and the edges of the fkin being laid together and fecured with adhefive plafters, a cure may poflibly be obtained by the firfl: intention. In fome cafes, in- deed, this may be prevented by fmall ex- foliations taking place from the fite of the tumor. I know, however, from expe- rience.318 Chap. IL of Chronic or rience, that it will fometimes fucceed, and therefore I would always advife it to be attempted; for even where fmall exfolia- tions take place, the pieces of bone will be forced to the furface, and may be af- terwards taken out long after the cure of the foft parts is completed. An exoftofis, however, is fometimes found to furround a bone entirely. In this cafe the treatment now advifed will not apply. In this fituation, that portion of the bone mufl: be taken out on which the exodofis is fixed, when the bone is of fuch a length and fo fituated as to admit of it: But as this can fcarcely be done in the fmall bones of the hands and feet, when any of thefe are affe6led, it becomes necefiary to remove the difeafed bone en- tirely. In a cafe of this kind which oc- curred in one of the metatarfal bones, and where the exoftofis furrounded the whole circumference of the bone, I thought it better to take out the bone altogether, than to leave the two ends of it only. The one operation was performed with noSeA. lU. Indolent l!umors. 3I9 no great difficulty : the other would have been more painful as well as much more tedious, and it would not have proved more fuccefsful. For although the part did not fill up with bone, it became fufficiently firm to enable the patient to walk as well as he did before. In the long bones, however, of the thighs, legs, or arms, we may fafely ven- ture to remove any portion of them on which an exoflofis is fixed: and where the conflitution is healthy, we need never defpair of nature fupplying the deficien- cy ; for inftances are often met with, even of entire bones being regenerated. When a portion of bone is to be removed, after laying it freely bare by an exienfive incl- fion, a piece of pafteboard, or thin fheet- lead, fhould be pafled beneath it, in order to proted: the cont guous part from the teeth of the faw. Where a portion of the fibula or tibia is to be removed, the fplint muft be pafled between thefe bones; and when either of the bones of the fore arm are aflfeded, it muft pafs between the ra- dius320 Of Chronic or Chap. II. dius and ulna. Different forms of faws have been employed for dividing bones affefted in this manner; but the common faw ufed in amputations anfwers better perhaps than any other. When the portion of bone is removed, the fore fhould be drefled with the mildefl: applications; apiece of foft lint fpread with common wax liniment, or merely dipped in oil, fhould be inferted between the lips of the wound ; and if any thing is employed for retaining them, it fliould be the many-tailed bandage, which can be undone without moving the limb. It is a point of importance to place the limb in a fituatlon the moft favourable for the dif- charge of matter; and as the operator has it commonly in his power to make the wound more or lefs inclined to any fide of the limb, this circumftance fliould be attended to in the firfl: part of the opera- tion. When the operation has been perform- ed upon either of the bones of the leg or fore-arm, the remaining found bone will keep 3Se6l. III. Indolent T^umors. 321 keep the limb at its full length, fo that there will be no rilk of its becoming fliort- er. But ’when a portion of a fingle bone is taken out, fome attention is required to prevent the limb from becoming fhorter during the cure. For this purpofe diffe- rent machines have been invented; but I have never found any affiftance of this kind neceflary : For if. the patient is in- formed of the great importance of keep- ing the limb in a proper pofture, he will give it all the attention that is requiiite: And befides, much inconvenience, pain^ and inflammation, are apt to eniue from any inftrument employed for this piirpofe, when applied with a degree of tightneis neceflary for keeping the limb in a fiate of extenfion. During the cure of the fore, the chief object is to prevent matter from lodging and palling between the contiguous found parts. If this is prevented, and the lips of the wound kept open by the eafy dref- fings I have mentioned, till it fills up with granulations from the bottom, nature will VoL. I. X accomplifti322 Of Chronic or Chap. II. accompll/h the reft. Thofe foft granula- tions which at firfl: occupied all the va- cancy between the ends of the divided bones, will foon acquire the confiftence and ftrength of bone; and in the courfe of a ftiort time, if the general ftate of health continues good, the limb will be- come equally ufeful as it was before. Hitherto we have fuppofed the difeafe to be feated in the extremities. But tu- mors of this kind are alfo found in other parts of the body: on different parts of the fkull; on the under-jaw ; on the ribs and clavicles; and I once faw a large exo- ftofis on the upper part of the fcapula. But wherever they are fituated, the treats ment is the fame. While they give no uneafinefs, nothing fhould be done; for they will fometimes continue fmall and ftationary for life : But when they increafe and prove troublefome, the fooner they are removed the better; for the earlier the operation is performed, the more ealily will it be done. a InSect. III. Indolent "Tumors. 323 In that variety of exoftofis termed a Node, proceeding from lues venerea, the firfl: point to be determined is the ftate of the fyftem. The patient (hould be imme- diately put upon fuch a courfe of mercu- ry as can be depended upon for the remo- val of any infedlion he may labour under ^ and if the tumor in the bone is recent, and not far advanced, any pain which it has induced may be removed by mercury alone. With a view, however, to make the medicine as effedtual as poffible, it ihould be thrown in as quickly, and in as great quantities, as the patient can bear : for as the fyftem is completely infeded with the virus before nodes appear, it re- quires, for the moft part, a very conlider- able quantity of the medicine to check their progrefs. At the fame time that mercury is gi- ven inwardly, it is a common pradice to rub the part itfelf with mercurial oint- ment, or to keep it covered with mercu- rial plafter. I have not obferved, how- ever, that any advantage is derived frora X 2 this;3H Of Chronic or Chap. IL this; and I think it is apt to do harm. In tumors of this kind there is reafon to fup- pofe that the periofteum becomes infla- med from the firft. In different inflances, the inflammation has appeared to be ag- gravated both by the application of pla- fters, and by the fridion ufed with mer- curial ointment. Till we know v/hether the internal exhibition of mercury is to prove effedual or not, fome mild fedative application, fuch as faturnine folutions, or the unguentum nutritum, which is a pre- paration of lead, fhould only be employed. Thefe keep the parts eafy; and by tend- ing to remove inflammation, they may even have fome influence in removing the tumor. But if Ave find, after there is full evi- dence of the mercury having entered the fyftem, that the local affedion of the bone ftill continues to advance, that the tumor becomes larger and the pain more fevere, other remedies fhould be advifed. In this fituation. I have fometimes found the pain relieved immediately by the applica- tionSecft. III. Indolent T^umors. 325 tion of leeches over the tumor; and the pain being moderate, we have it thereby in our power to dplay every other remedy till a more complete trial is given to mer- cury. In fome cafes, where leeches have failed, blifters applied diredtly upon the parts affedled have proved fuccefsful. Nei- ther blifters, however, nor leeches can have any influence on the original difeafe: they will not kflen the tumor of the bone; but by leflening the tenfion of the periofteum, they fometimes prove more ufeful than perhaps any other remedy we could,employ. When thefe means, however, are too long delayed; when the tumor advances with more rapidity than ufual; or when acrid matter is perhaps confined beneath the periofteum; neither leeches nor bli- fters aftbrd relief. In fuch cafes, an inci- fion made along the coiirfe of the tumor to the depth of the bone, will often give immediate eafe. The matter evacuated from thefe tumors is frequently a thin X 3 brown326 of Chronic or Chap. IL brown fanles, at other times, a vifcid trahf- parent mucus. In fome cafes the incifion heals kindly by common treatment, even when the tu- mor of the bone is by no means inconfi- derable. Healthy granulations will form, and a cure of the fore will be accomplifhed, even before the patient has taken as much mercury a.s may be judged necelTary for the cure of the difeafe. In fuch cafes, the tumefadlion of the bone is not to be re- garded : It may probably, indeed, con- tinue during the life of the patient ^ but no inconveniency will afterwards enfue from it. So that unlefs it is fo fituated as to produce much deformity, it fliould ne- ver be touched. But, in other inftances, the fore, inftead^ of healing eafily, remains obftinate, not- withflanding all the remedies we can em- ploy. In fuch ckxumftances, this obfti- nacy of the fore is for the moft part fup- pofed to arife from the venereal virus not being deftroyed, and a farther continu-^ ance of mercury is therefore advifed. The mercuriakSedt. III. Indolent "tumors. 327 X4 a mercurial courfe fliould no doubt be car- ried fo far as there is any chance of its proving ufeful. But beyond this, it will commonly prove hurtful, and rather tend to protradl the cure of the fore. This, however, is a point upon which no precife diredlions can be given, and muft be de- termined by the judgment of the pradi- tioner in attendance. When the obftinacy of fores in this fi- tuation depends upon other difeafes of the fyftem, the removal of thefe will forward ^ the cure. But when there is a tendency in the difeafed bone to exfoliate, the com- pletion of this procefs will alone prove ef- fedual. In fuch circumftances, the treat- ment beft fitted to promote exfoliation ought to be purfiied: But as we fhall elfe- where have occafion to confider this fiib- jed more fully, it is unneceflary now to enter upon it After all the difeafed parts of the bone are removed, the fore will for the mofl: part heal eafily. But in fome cafes, fuch * Vide Chap. IV. Sea. VIL328 Of Chronic or Chap. licr a thickening of the periofteuin and con- tiguous parts has been produced by the long continuance of the difeafe, that the cure ftill proceeds flowly. In fuch cir- cumftances, mild emollient applications do harm, and nothing in general proves fo ufeful as ointments ftrongly inpregna- ted with red precipitate or verdigris. In fome cafes, even thefe do not ad: fpeedily; when touching the furface of the fore, once in two or three days, with lunar cau- ftic or lapis infernalis, will make the Houghs throw off; and for the moft part their place will be fupplied with healthy granulations; after which, the cure com- monly proceeds without interruption. In defcribing this variety of exoftofis, we have repeatedly mentioned the pain which attends it; a fymptom which al- ways takes place; at lead I never met with an inftance of the contrary. Vene- real nodes, particularly thofe on the head, are not indeed always accompanied with much pain, but merely with a flight um eafinefs. This variety, however, of node doesI Sed. III. Indolent Humors. 329^ does not originate from the bone, but pro- ceeds merely from an affedion of the pe- riofteum. In this cafe the tumor com- monly fubfides entirely, either by the ef- fedls of mercury alone or the applica- tion of a blifter : But in the other, if the bone is alFedted In any confiderable de- gree, the tumor never fubfides, if a large portion of the bone does not exfoliate. Even after every other fymptom of the difeafe is removed, thefe tumors in the bones continue equally fixed and large as they were at firft. We judge that a node proceeds from the bone itfelf; by the pain, as we have juft obferved, being acute; by the tumor being confiderably harder than when the periofteum only is affeded^ by its advancing more flowly than the other, and continuing fixed and permanent, notwitbftanding all the appli- cations we make to remove it. We come now to fpeak of the treatment of fpina ventofa, or that variety of exofto- fis which we fuppofe to originate from fcrophula 3 and I am forry to obferve, that330 Of Chronic or Chap. II„ I have nothing fatisfadory to ofFer upon it- Fomentations, ointments, plafters, and a variety of other remedies, have been re- commended ; but I know of none that any advantage has ever been derived from. Tumors of this kind which appear formi- dable at firft, will fometimes indeed conti- nue ftationary, either from the fcrophulous difpofition in the fyftem being checked by cold bathing, or fome other fimilar reme- dy^ or from fome change taking place in the conftitution, with the nature of which we are perhaps altogether unacquainted. But this is a rare occurrence : For in ge- neral, notwithftanding all the remedies we employ, a fpina ventofa, from its firft ap- pearance, proceeds in a gradual manner to become worfe. When the difeafe appears at the fame time in different parts of the body, all we can with propriety attempt, is to fupport the conftitution with a proper diet. To advife bark and cold bathing as the beft flrengthening remedies 3 and when the pain is fevere, to endeavour to render it moderateSed. III. Indolent Tumors, 331 moderate by adequate dofes of opIum.r But when confined to one part, as of- ten happens in the knee and other large joints in cafes of white fwelling, it be- comes frequently advifable to remove the difeafed part by an operation. In affec- tions of the joints, it has been the common pradice in this fituation to amputate the difeafed limbs entirely. But an attempt has lately been made by Mr Park, an ingenious furgeon of Liverpool, to fave limbs that are thus difeafed, by remo- ving the heads of the affeded bones on- ly, and afterwards healing the fore at which they were taken out. In treating of the operation of amputation, 1 lhall enter more fully into the confideration of this • for it is highly deferving of no- tice : At prefent I fliall only remark, that there is caufe to fear that it will not prove fo generally ufeful, as at firfl: view might be expeded. But where thefe fwellings occur on the middle of bones, the practice may be purfued which I have already ad- vifed in thofe cafes of exofiofis proceed- ingChap. IL 332 Of Chronicy &c. ing from external violence : The fwelled portion of bone may be cut out when feat- ed on any of the long bones of the ex- tremities 3 and the whole bone may be removed when any of the Ihort bones of the hands or feet are affedled. C H A P.Se<S. I. Of Wounds in general. 333 CHAPTER III. Of Wounds. SECTION I. Of Wounds in geueral. VARIOUS definitions have been gi- ven of a wound ; but few if any of them appear to be exad Boerhaave defines a wound to be, a recent, bloody folution of continuity, in any foft part, by the motion, prelRire, or refi fiance of fome hard or ftiarp body. By Sauvages, it Is faid to be a mechanical divifion of any flefiiy part, attended with a feparation of the parts iiiewly divided, together with a difcharge334 0/ Wounds in general. Chap. IIL dlfcharge of blood and a tendency to in- flame and fuppurate. And Ludwig defines a wound to be a morbid divifion of parts which in a flate of health ought to be u- nited. Thefe are the definitions of this term which have been moft generally adopt- ed ; but it is evident that none of them are corre6l. A part may be deeply cut, even large blood-veflels may be divided, without any difcharge of blood taking place, as fometimes happens in lacerated wounds, and in thofe attended with much contufion : And where the fmaller vefiels only are divided, the difcharge of blood very commonly ceafes in the courfe of a few hours from the time that the wound was inflidted. The definition recited above from Mr Sauvages is too extenfive : It compre- hends a period or ftage of wound which does not always exift, viz. a tendency to fuppurate. We know that wounds fre- quently terminate in gangrene, and even in death; without any previous fuppuration j whileSedl. I- Of Wounds in general. 335 while in other inll rnces they heal by the firfl: intention, and their edges adhere to each other without any appearance o£ pus. Neither is Dr Ludwig’s definition of a wound corred: : Parts which ought to be united, may be divided without being wounded. Thus a blood-velfel, nerve, tendon, or mufcle, may be completely ruptured either by a violent fprain or a contufion; but unlefs the correfponding Ikin and other teguments are divided, we do not fay that fuch parts are wound- ed. Nor are thefe affedions confined to the fmaller mufcles and tendons 3 for in- fiances often occur of the difierent parts even of the largefl: mufcles being thus vio- lently feparated from each other. Every recent folution of continuity in the fofter parts of the body, when attend- ed with a correfponding divifion of the te- guments, may be denominated a wound. From this definition of wounds, it is 'evident that they will exhibit much va- nety in their nature and appearances, This33^ Q/* bounds in general. Chap. IIL 1 This will arife from difFerent caufes, but more particularly from the nature of the injured parts; from the manner in which they have been produced , and from their extent. Thus wounds in mufcular parts are dif- ferent, both in their nature and appearan- ces, from fuch as affedl membranous or tendinous parts only. Wounds made with a lharp cutting inflrument are materially different from fuch as are attended with contufion or laceration : And pundtured wounds exhibit very different appearances, and for the moft part are productive of very different effedls, from fuch as are more free and extenfive. In the fubfe- quent parts of this fedlion thefe varieties in wounds will be conlidered. In the mean tiitie, we fiiall give a defcription of the phenomena which ufually take place in the moft frequent form of this affedlion, what may be termed a Simple Incifed Wound y by which both the theory and practice which we mean to inculcate will be, rendered more intelligible. OnSe6l. I. Of Wounds in generaL 337 On the inftniment beinp^ withdrawn with which an incifed wound has been made, the firft appearance we take notice of is a reparation to a certain extent of the divided parts; which is always in a greater or lefier degree, according to the depth and length of the wound, and ac- cording as the fibres of the injured part are divided more or lefs tranfverfely. Thus a wound even of confiderable length, if it runs in the fame diredion with the fibres of a mufcle, will be attended with little retra^dioti of the fkin, while a large vacuity will take place in a wound perhaps of lefs extent where a ftrongmuf- cular part is cut diredly acrofs. Nay, in this laft cafe, the reparation of the divi- ded parts is in fome cafes fo confiderable, as to give caufe to fufped that a portion of them has been removed ; while in the other it is often fo trifling, that even an extenfive wound will have the appearance of a flraight line only ; a circumftance by which praditioners have been often led to confider as of no great importance, wounds VoL. I. Y which338 Of Wounds in generaL Chap. 111^ which in their confequences have proved to be formidable ; and by which the pro- priety of examining every wound with at- tention is ftrongly pointed out. The next appearance which ufually takes place in wounds, is a difcharge of blood to a greater or leller extent, in pro- portion to the lize of the cut, and to the number and fize of the veflels that are divided ; at leaft this is the cafe in wounds made with a lliarp cutting edge. Where the parts have been much bruifed or la- cerated, we have already remarked, that even large blood-veflels may be divided without any hemorrhagy enfuing. For the moft part, the difcharge of blood proves fo alarming that means are employed to flop it; but when this is ei- ther negledled or not conhdered as necef- fary, if the arteries that have been cut are not large, the irritation produced by the wound itfelf, as well as- by the free accefs of the external air, excites in the divided extremities of thefe veflels fuch a degree of contradion, that in this way aloneSedl. I. Of Wounds in general. 339 alone the hemorrhagy Is foon checked. The difcharge of red blood becomes gra- dually lefs : It then ceafes entirely, and is fucceeded by an oozing of a ferous fluid, which in the courfe of a few hours likewife flops, when the whole furface of the fore Is found either fomewhat dry or even parched; or it is covered over with a cake of coagulated blood. In this way nature feems to operate In putting a flop to hemorrhagies produced by wounds. Another idea is commonly entertained indeed of this falutary pro- cefs: It is fuppofed that fmall coagula of blood plug up the orifices of the vef- fels, and that in this manner they are pre- ferved of the fame fize as before they were divided. This, however, Is by no means the cafe, as is clearly proved on difleding the flumps of patients dying after amputa- tions. Inflead of the mouths of the di- vided arteries being plugged up with blood, they are found perfedlly empty and contraded for a confiderable fpace Y 2 from340 Of Wounds in general. Chap. III. from their extremities; nay, in moft in- ftances, they become firm folld cords, fo as never afterwards to be capable of re- ceiving- a fupply of blood. Nor is this procefs of nature difficult to explain. It is arterial hemorrhagies we are now con- liderlng ^ for wounded veins, if they be not comprelled between . the injured part and the heart, feldom dlfcharge fo much blood as to prove alarming. Now, as ar- teries are pollefled of a ftrong contradilc power, they will readily exert this power on the irritating caufes which accompany wounds, being applied to them. In: this manner the blood is prevented from flow- ing in its iifual channel; but nature does not fail to provide a different route for it: It is foon forced through the' contigu- ous anaftomoling arteries, which at lafl: become fo much enlarged, as to allow it to pafs with freedom ; while, in the mean time, that contradfion of the divided arte- ries, produced at firfl, as we have obferved, by irritation, terminates at lafl: in a firm adhefion of their fides, in confequence of thatSedl. I. Of Wounds in general. 341 that inflammation with ^which every wound is in fome degree accompanied. The pain attending a wound made with a clean cutting inftrument, is in general inconfiderable at firft, unlefs a nerve or a tendon has been partially divided; ip. which cafe it, proves commonly fevere. But in every wound the parts become painful in the courfe of a few hours from the time of the injury being inflided. They become red, tenfe, and even confi- derably fwelled : And where the wound is extenfive, an increafed degree of heat takes-place, together with third:, quick- nefs of pulfe, and other fymptoms of fe- ver. In fome inftances thefe fymptoms con- tinue to increafe, and to prove more afrd more fevere, till at laft they terminate in mortification ; but for the mod: part they are carried off in a more favourable man- ner. The furface of the wound, which for fome time remained perfedly dry, is gradually: rendered mold: and foft by a thin ferum oozing into it ^ which being Y 3 allowed342 Of Wounds m general. Chap. III. allowed to colled, is at laft, by the heat of the affeded parts, and in fome cafes by the application of artificial heat, convert- ed Into purulent matter: while In general, the preceding fymptoms of pain, tenfion, and fever, abate more or lefs quickly ac- cording as this formation of matter is more or lefs plentiful. From the time that ferum begins firft to ooze into the ca- vity of a wound, the tenfion and pain be- gin to abate, and for the mofl: part thefe fymptoms difappear on a free fuppuration taking place, by which the mofl natural balfam is produced that can be applied to wounds. From this hiftory of the progrefs of wounds, it is evident that all the fymp- toms we have enumerated, are fuch as ori- ginate from inflammation. They are ex- adly fuch, indeed, as accompany a com- mon phlegmon. The pain, rednefs, and tenfion, which always to a certain degree take place in wounds, are the leading fymptoms of phlegmon; and the ferous effufion into the cavities of wounds, with theSe6l. I. Of Wounds in general. 343 the fuppuratlon which enfues, are circum- fiances exactly fimilar to thofe which oc- cur in all cafes of abfcefs. A wound may therefore be confidered as an exciting caufe of inflammation ^ and fome advan- tage, I think, may be derived in pradtico, from viewing it chiefly in this light. This, however, will more clearly appear, when we come to fpeak of the method of cure y when it will be rendered obvious, that in the treatment of wounds, thofe means prove uniformly mofl effedlual which are mofl powerful in preventing violent inflammation. The defcription I have given of wounds relates to the mofl Ample and ieaft ha- zardous kinds of them y in which • the In- jury has been done, as was already re- marked, with a (harp cutting inflrument, and where the parts have been laid freely open. In fuch circumftances, when no organ of much importance to life has been divided, and when the cut is feated in a flefliy mufcular part, if nature be not impeded in her operation, the whole fur- y 4 face344 0/ Wounds in general, Chap» III. face of the fore becomes covered with granulations almoft immediately on a free fuppuration taking place; and thefe con- tinuing to advance, a cure is at laft ac- compliflied, in the manner to be de- fcribed in a fubfequent part of this ivork This happy termination of a wound, however, may be prevented by various caufes. It requires, indeed, the concur- rence of many circumftances. Thefe we lliall afterwards have occafion to treat of in a particular manner. i\t prefent I (hall enumerate thofe only which arife from the nature of the wound. In a free incifed wound, the inflamma- tion which takes place is not in general more than is necelfary for the production of that degree of fuppuration which we have Ihown to be requifite ; and in wounds of this defcription, the matter gets freely off, being commonly difcharged almoft as foon as it is formed, points of the utmoft moment ^ Vide Chap, IV, SeOion II. \ 2,Se6l. I. Of Wounds in generaL 345 moment in the management of wounds. It is known indeed to every praditioner, that the cure of wounds cannot be accom- pliflied when the inflammation either runs too high, or wh^n a free outlet is not gi- ven to the difcharge : Every circumftance ptherefore in the nature of a wound, which tends either to excite an undue de- gree of inflammation, or to produce a lodgment of matter, mufl; be confidered as unfavourable : And hence . pundured wounds, and thofe that are attended with contufion or laceration, are particularly hazardous. Pundured wounds prove often more dangerous than wounds of greater out- ward extent, from large blood-veflels and other deep* feated parts being hurt ^ and they are commonly more painful, being frequently attended with a partial divi- lion of contiguous nerves or tendons 3 a circumftance produdive of more violent pain than ufiially enfues from a free di- vifion of them. But the gfeateft rifk in a pundured wound arifes from the lodgement34^ Of Wounds in general. Chap, HI. lodgement of matter; a circumftance which takes place more readily in this than in any other variety of wound; and to obviate which, the niceft attention on the part of praftitioner^ is often requi- fite. In contufed and lacerated wounds, if the violence with which they have been inflided has not been confiderable, the parts will frequently recover their tone; the attending inflammation will not run high; and a free fuppuration being in- duced, a cure will at laft be accompliflied in a manner fimilar to what we have de- fcribed in cafes of Ample incifed wounds. But it often happens that the contiguous parts are fo much injured as to give no caufe to expedl fuch a fa:vourable event. When violently contufed, the texture of the parts aflTedted is fometimes fo com- pletely deilroyed, that the circulation is flopped, and mortification enfues ; and where this proceeds to any confiderable extent, the danger attending it is always great. Again, in wounds attended with muchSe(S. I. Of Wounds in generaL 347 much laceration, mortification Is apt to occur from a different caufe. The pain and iH'itation attending them proceeds fometimes to fuch a height, as to induce a great degree of inflammation; which, notwithhanding the means ufually em- ployed to prevent it, very frequently ter- minates in the manner we have mention- ed. Indeed, fo far as my obfervation goes, inflammation induced by this caufe is more apt to terminate in gangrene than any other Inflammatory affecflion proceed- ing from external violence. In forming a prognofis of wounds, the circumftances we have juft been confider- ing merit our particular attention : But there are others which fhould likewife be kept In view; and thefe more efpecially are, the age and habit of body of the pa- tient ; the texture of the wounded part; the part of the body in which the injury is Inflidted; and the rifk of parts of much importance to life being ultimately brought to fuffer, although not immediate- ly injured. Thus,348 of Wounds in general. Chap. III. Thus, it is obvious, that in healthy con- ftitutions, wounds will, caeteris paribus, be lefs hazardous than in people of difeafed habits of body ; for we commonly obferve, where the fyftem is tainted with any dif- eafe, that even the flighteft wounds are apt to bepome troublefome, and to de- generate into fores which do not heal till the difeafe of the fyftem is removed : We alfo obferve, that the healing of fores depends in fome meafure upon the age of the patient ^ and that the cure is for the moft part more quickly accomplilhed in youth and in middle age, than in very ad- vanced periods of life. There are many exceptions, however, to this; for whenever the natural firm- nefs and elafticity of the mufcular fibres are not much impaired, we do not find that old age proves unfavourable to wounds. When the conftitution is fuch, that any wounds which take place, are found to excite a due degree of inflamma- tion, old age ought by no means to be confideredSedl. I. Of Wounds in general. 349 coniidered as a difadvantage. On the contrary, in fuch circumftances, it proves always faJutary, by tending to render the fymptoms more moderate than they are apt to befiri:Tnore early periods of life. This is particularly the cafe in exteniive wounds of every kind: And we obferve it in a remarkable manner in chirurgical operations'^ efpecially in lithotomy, and in the amputation of any of the extremi- ties ; which have commonly^ in the courfe of my .'experience' proved . more fuccefs- ful in healthy old people than at any other period af jlife^ and evidently from the caufe lTiave endeavoured to point out. Withlrefpect to the texture of a wound- ed part, it is well known that wounds heal not only more quickly but more kindly in fome parts than in others. Thus wounds of the cellular • fubflance heal more eafily than fjch as pafs through any of the mufcles; while thofe that are con- fined to the flefhy part^ of mufcles prove much lefs formidable than wounds of ten- dinous or ligamentous parts ^ for, befides occafionaig35^ Of Wounds in general* Chap. IIL occafioning lefs pain and inflammation, they do not fo readily produce any per- manent inconvenience. The deepefl: cuts may be infli61‘ed on the belly of a large mufcle, with little or no ri(k of any in- convenience being experienced from them; but the contiguous joints are apt to re- main ftiff and unmanageable, when the tendons which pafs over them are much injured. When wounds penetrate to a ftill great- er depth, fo as to do any material injury to bones, they prove always more tedious and uncertain than when foft parts only are divided; for in fuch cafes wounds fel- dom heal till fome portion of the bone ex- foliates; a procefs which very commonly requires a confiderable length of time to accomplilh Wounds in glandular parts are more to be dreaded than the mildnefs of the fymp- toms which appear at firft would lead us to imagine. When fmall glands only are divided, they often heal readily; but when the Vide Chap, III, Sea. VILSed. I. Of Wounds in general. 351 the larger glands are injured, the fyftem is not only apt to fuiFer from the fecretion for which they are intended being Impe- ded, but the fores which enflie very com- monly become fungous, and are cicatrifed with difficulty. When any of the larger lymphatic vef- fels are wounded, the cure often proves tedious from a conftant difcharge of a thin limpid fluid, by which the formation of a cicatrix is prevented: And when at lafl: a cure is obtained, very troublefome fwellings are apt to occur in the under part of the limb, from the obftrudion gi- ven to the lymph in its paflTage to the heart by the newly formed cicatrix. Of this every practitioner of experience mufl: have feen fome inflances. I have met with many ; particularly after the extir- pation of fchirrous glands when deeply feated in the arm-pit. In fuch cafes the large lymphatics of the arm are very fre- quently cut, and very obftinate oedema- tous fwellings of the whole member are apt to enfue. When.352 Of Wounds in general. Chap. III. When a large nerve is completely di- vided, the pain attending it will be incon- fiderable; but the parts beneath will be deprived both of their feniibility and power of motion, unlefs they are fiipplied* with fome other, branches. But when a nerve is only pun6lured, the pain which takes place is commonly fevere; And this is apt to be followed with a high degree of inflammation; fmart fever \ fubfultus tendinum; convulfions; and even death. Thefe violent appearances^ however, do not often occur in northern climates; but they are frequent in warrn countries, where they are apt to terminate in a fymp- tom which often proves fatal, the locked jaw. In wounds of the larger blood-veflels, our firft objeeft is to difeover, whether the hemorrhagy which enfues, proceeds from arteries or veins; for in general no material inconvenience is experien- ced from wounds even oi the largeft veins, while much danger is to be dreaded from wounds of the larger arteries. If the 3Sed. I. Of Wounds in generat. 353 the artery is fo fituated that a ligature cannot be put round it, the lofs of blood will probably foon prove fatal: And even where the difcharge of blood can be flop- ped with eafe, if the limb has no other artery to fupply it, a mortification is to be dreaded. It often happens, indeed, even that large arteries are fecured with liga- tures without any detriment to the parts beneath: But in this cafe there are other arteries or ahaftomofing branches of fuch a fi'ze as to give pafTage to a fufficient quantity of blood. The fite of a wound is alfo an objecfl of importance. Thus wounds in the ex- tremities, when confined to parts lying above any of the hard bones, are not to be confidered as fo hazardous as thofe which pafs into any of the joints : And in other parts of the body, wounds which penetrate any qf the larger cavities, prov^ always more dangerous than thofe which do not run to fuch a depth. This will proceed from different caufes. The danger will be increafed by the VoL. L Z chance354 Q/^ Wounds in generaL Chap. HTv chance of fome organ of importance be- ing directly injured : By air, and in fome cafes by extraneous bodies, finding accefs to cavities which nature never meant to be expofed : And ladly, by the lodgement of matter; a circumflance always with much difficulty avoided* in wounds which penetrate to fuch a depth. We have like wife to confider, that al- though no organ of importance may be diredly wounded in fuch a manner as to produce immediate death, yet that much danger may arife from a variety of cir- cumftances ^ and that wounds may even- tually prove mortal which at firft were not attended with any obvious rilk. Thus wounds in the lungs, and other vifcera, prove fometimes fatal, from con- tinuing to difcharge fuch quantities of blood for a confiderable time as at laft deftroy the patient y although at firfl the diicharge might not appear to be of much importance. The ftomach, and different parts of the alimentary canal may be in- jured in fuch a manner as to terminate in 5-355 I. Of Wounds iri general. in death without exhibiting any immedi- ate appearance of danger. The external coat of the aorta has been removed by the point of a fmall fword ^ and the wound has been nearly healed when the patient died fuddenly from a rupture of the ar- tery : And wounds of the gall-bladder^ or of its excretory dud:; of the recepta- culum chyli; of the thoracic dud, and fome other vifcera; may for feveral days afford no fufpicion of danger, and yet ter- minate fatally at laft. Wounds fometimes prove fa:tal from Inflammation fpreading to contiguous vif- cera, which were not at firfl injured ; and wounds, which have at firfl appeared to be of little or no importance, have at laft terminated in the worft manner, mere- ly by mifmanagement, either in the ap- plication of dreflings or bandages, or in the condud of the patient with refped to food, drink, and exercife ; for it is well known, that much mifchief has been done by improper dreflings, and efpecially by too tight bandages \ and we likewife Z 2 know,356 of Wounds in general. Chap. III. know, that mifcondu6l with refpecS to food is daily the caufe of wounds going wrong, which otherwife would probably have done well. It thus appears, that a variety of cir- cumftances fall to be confidered, to enable us to judge of the probable termination of wounds. In doing this with accuracy, pradtitioners of experience have frequent opportunities of fhowing their fuperio- rity. This fubjedl ought therefore to be confidered as highly important by all who wiih to diftinguifli themfelves. A minute knowledge of anatomy, a cool temper, and a ftcady hand, will enable any practi- tioner, even with no great experience, to perform many of our mofl: important ope- rations fufficiently well: And according- ly in different hofpitals, we daily meet with good operators; but we do not often find furgeons poffeffed of that knowledge in the prognofis of chirurgical difeafes which might be expeded ^ that attention being feldom bellowed which is neceffary to attain it* SEC-357 Sea. II. of fimple, &c. * Vide Chap. VI. SECTION II. Of the Cure of Simple Incifed Wounds. % INf the management of wounds, the firfl objed requiring our attention is the hemorrhagy ; more efpecially when it is profufe. The fafety of the patient re- quires it : The alarm which it gives, not only to byftanders, but to the praditioner himfelf, renders it neceflary. Nor can the real date of a wound be difcovered with accuracy till the difcharge of blood be checked. Hemorrhagies are mod immediately dopped by predlire applied to that part of the divided artery which is next to the heart: This predure is made by the tour- niquet, when the wound is in any of the extremities * ; and by the hands of adid- ants, in wounds of the trunk of the body or of the head. Z 3 InChap. IIL 358 Offtmple f Vide Chap. VI. In this manner, if the preflure is pro- perly applied, almofl: any hemorrhagy may be flopped till the wounded veffels can be fecured with ligatures ^ which we fhall hereafter Ihow to be the fafeft, as it is the eafieft method of preventing pa- tients with fuch injuries from fuffer- ing Much indeed has been faid, even of late years, of the inconveniencies which ligatures are fuppofed to induce : But this has proceeded either from the interefted views of fome individuals who may have wifhed to eftablifh the re- putation of different ftyptics ^ or from the groundlefs fears of young pradlitioners. Where the contiguous nerves, or even where much of the furrounding mufcular parts, are included in ligatures, fevere pain, and other troublefome fymptoms, will no doubt be induced ; but this is not the fault of the remedy, but of the me- thod of ufing it. Indeed this is fo obvi- oufly the cafe, that reafoning in the far- ther fuppqrt of it does not feem to be necelfary |Sed. II. Incifed Wounds. 359 neceflary ; for every praditioner of ex- perience will admit, that a proper appli- cation of ligatures is feldom if ever pro- ductive of any material inconvenience, and that we can depend on it with more certainty than on any other remedy for putting a flop to hemorrhagies from wounded arteries. In the preceding editions of this work, when treating of the method of applying ligatures to arteries, I gave it clearly as my opinion, that it may be heft done by the tenaculum, an inftrument reprefeiit- ^d in Plate V. fig I. And after much ad- ditional experience of its utility, I now think it right to fay, that I am more and more convinced of its being much fuperior to the needle; which cannot be ufed with- out a portion of the contiguous foft parts being included in the ligature; a circum- fiance which in every inflance we fhould endeavour to avoid. Many imagine that the tenaculum may be ufed with lafety in fecuring arteries of a middling fize, while they are afraid of cutting thofe of a fmall Z 4 fizeOf fmple 360 Chap. III. fze afi^nder, l^fome the contiguous cel- lular fu ftance be r ot included along with tl^em: Andlint^ ing the large trunks of arteries, ihcy iufp dt that the ligatures wo Id be apt to be forced off by the ftrcng pul ations of thel'e veffels, if they we e not lupported by being firmly fixed in the contiguous parts. I have not, however, had a fingle inflance of obfer- ving that either of thefe objedtions to this pradfice is well founded. For a number of years paft, I have laid afide the needle, for the purpofe of applying ligatures to arteries, almofl entirely; and,in thecourfe of that time, I have employed the tenacu- lum indifcriminately in hemorhagies frotn arteries of all fizes. Wounded arteries are feldom fo fitua- ated as to prevent the hemorrhage frorn being flopped in ^the manner we have mentioned : For when they lie at the bot- tom of deep wounds, with narrow con- tra died mouths, the wound may common- ly be enlarged fo as to admit of their be- ing tied with ligatures; a,nd for the moft partSe<S. II. Incifed Wounds. 361 part it piay be done with fafety. Where the enlargement of ^ wound is not clearly neceflary, no perfon of experi- ence would advife it 3 but did pradice is always fafe and proper in heinorrha- gies proceeding from arteries lying fo deep that ligatures cannot otherwife be applied to them. As this pradice, how- ever has been very inadvertently con- demned by fome praditioners in every in dance, from their fuppofing it to be rarely if evqr necedary, a timidity has been thereby introduced, which, in va- rious inftances, has been the caufe of mifchief: Patients have been tormented with the application of tight bandages, and with the trial of different ftyptics, which feldom if ever fucceed, when the hemorrhagy might have been flopped in the moft effedual manner by a fmall en- largement of tke wound : Nay, many limbs have been amputated from the fame caufe, which might eafily have been faved ^ particularly in cafes of compound frac- fure, where a hemorrhagy, proceeding fromof fimple 362 Chap. IIL from a deep-feated artery which cannot be eafily tied, is too frequently confider- ed as a fufhcient reafon for removing the limb. From particular circumftances, in a few cafes of compound fradture, it may happen that hemorrhagies cannot be flopped without laying the injured parts fo extenfively open, as might induce more hazard than amputation itfelf. This, however, is a very rare occurrence ^ and it will feldom take place where the cafe has been properly treated from the be^ ginning. When the injured artery runs in the fubflance of a bone, no ligature, it is evident, can be applied to it; and there- fore, in fuch a cafe, enlarging the wound could not be attended with much advan- tage. But arteries in this fituation are never fo large as to lead us to be much afraid of any hemorrhagies that may proceed from them ; nor does it often happen that they continue to bleed long after they have been completely divided. An artery thus fituated, being merely wounded^Se6l. II. Incifed Wounds. 363 wounded may difcharge a great deal of blood; but I have met with different in- llances of the hemorrhagy flopping almofl immediately on the veffel being cut acrofs. Authors indeed have faid, that the utmoft danger has been induced by arteries furrounded with bone being wounded; nay, that death itfelf has hap- pened from this caufe, owing to the im- poflibility of including them in ligatures. I am convinced, however, that it is a partial divifion only of fuch arteries that will ever produce hemorrhagies of any importance ; for they are always fmall, and they never adhere fo firmly to the furrounding bone, as to be prevented from contrading on being freely divided. Where the difcharge of blood proceeds from large veflels, the means we have mentioned are the mod effedual for put- ting a flop to it. But when it occurs from an infinite number of fmall arteries over the whole furface of a wound, o- ther remedies mufl be employed. We mull here refer, however, to a fubfequent chapterof Jlmple Chap. III. 364 Vide Chap. VL chapter of this work, where this fubje6t will fall more properly to be fully confi- dered The hemorrhagy ibeing flopped, the next objed requiring our attention is the removal of any extraneous body that may have been admitted: And where fuch fub- itances are not deeply feated, this is al- ways done both with molt eafe and fafety with the fingers alone; for when forceps ^nd other inflruments are employed, we can fcarcely fail to injure the contiguous parts. The examination of wounds, with a view to difcover extraneous bodies, ought to be made with much delicacy ^ for hand- ling the parts roughly gives unnecellary pain, and is befides apt to induce a degree of inflammation, which often proves ha- zardous. But although it is always proper to ac- complifh the removal of extraneous bo- dies with as little pain to the patient as poflible; yet wherever we have any cer- taintyIncifed Wounds. 3^5 Sed. II. tainty of bodies of this kind being lodged, we ought by all means to proceed with firmnefs, in the firft place, in difcoveririg their fituation, and afterwards in remo- ving them, excepting in a few particular cafes where this cannot be done without much rilk of injuring parts of real import- ance to life. In fuch cafes the judgment of the praditioner muft decide between the danger that may probably enfue from the extraneous body being allowed to re- main, and that which might arife from his proceeding to remove it immediate- Iv. j Modern authors in general ftridly for- bid much affiduity in the removal of bo- dies of this kind : For they very properly obferve, that in former times much mil- chief was done by exploring wounds with more exailnefs than was lequifite; by which unneceilary pain was induced, and cures thus rendered more tedious than they otherwife would have been. But366 Chap. lii^ 4 Of fimple But in this matter the moderns feem to % have gone from one extreme to another : I For although much handling of fores, and f a free ufe of probes, forceps, and other I inftruments, is feldom neceflary, it is e- qually true, that by allowing extraneous } bodies, which might have been removed | at firft, to remain in wounds, much future | pain and inflammation have been occa- fioned. i In fupport of the pradice we are told^ | that various cafes are on record of extra- neous bodies continuing to lodge in dif- ferent parts of the body without any in- convenience y that this will commonly happen when the fubftance is not of a fti- mulating nature; and when it is of fuch a form or texture as to induce pain, that it will foon excite fuch a plentiful fuppura- tion as will quickly throw it out in a much more eafy manner than If it had been removed at firft. In anfwer to this, I fhall obferve, that where extraneous bo* dies in wounds cannot be removed with- out giving the patient a great deal of pain j and9cd. II. Incifed Wounds. 367 and efpeclally where there is any rifk in doing fo of large contiguous blood-veflels being wounded; we ought by no means to make the attempt. In fuch cafes we ought certainly to truft to the fubfequent fuppu- ration for throwing them out: But they ought always to be taken out immediate- ly, when it can be done with tolerable eafe, or without injuring any parts of im- portance. In this way a more expeditious cure is obtained, and we accomplHh our purpofe in an eafier manner, than could be done in any future ftage of the fore. For in a recent wound, while no inflam- mation 'or tenfion takes place, the conti- guous parts eafily ftretch and yield to the extradlion of any fubftance that may be lodged in them, if it be not of an angular form, and if the operation, inflead of be- ing performed quickly, be done with flow- nefs and caution : Whereas, when the con- tiguous parts become ftiff and painful, which they always do in the courfe of a fliort time, any fubftance lodged in them is removed with much pain and difficul- ty :3^8 Of fimple Chap. III. ty : For even after a free fuppuration has taken place, although the parts will be confiderably relaxed, yet ftill they will be more ftlff and tenfe than they were at firfl; and the opening through which the fub- flance is to be extracted will likewift be diminllhed. Another very material advantage is gained by the Immediate removal of ex- traneous bodies from wounds. While a fore is recent, patients, for the moft part, will allow every thing to be done which the pradlitioner in attendance may think neceffary; while they frequently refufe, in future ftages of the fore, to fubmit to any thing befides the ufual dreffings. It may be remarked in this place, that of the extraneous bodies that are apt to be lodged in wounds, fome are more harm- lefs than others. A prudent praditioner will therefore be more or lefs anxious in attempting to remove them. Thus we all know, that a lead-ball may be lodged very deeply for a great length of time, with- out being produdivb either of pain or in- convenience ^ 3Incifed Wounds. Sedt. II. 369 convenience; while a fplinter of wood, glafs, or iron, or even a bit of cloth, will often create a great degree of uneafinefs. When, therefore, it is known that a lead- ball is the only fubftance that is lodged, if it cannot be eafily removed, we have at leaf! the fatisfadion of being afliired that it will not probably do much harm. .We will therefore allow it to remain, either till it is loofened by a plentiful fuppura- tion, or till fome future period, when it may perhaps be difcovered in a different fituation, fo as to be taken out with fafetv at a counter-opening: While, on the o- ther hand, when fuch fubftances are lod- ged in wounds as will probably excite much irritation and pain, it will be much for the intereft of the patient, and will be the means of preventing much perplexity and trouble to the furgeon, to have them removed as foon as poffible after the inju- ry is inflided. We have obferved above, that in remo- ving extraneous bodies from wounds, it Ihould be done with the fingers alone, VoL. I. A a rather370 Of fimple Chap, IlL rather than with forceps. Some few ex- ceptions may occur to this, which we (hall afterwards have occafion to mention. But fubftances are fometimes lodged in wounds that cannot be eafily taken out either with the fingers or forceps. This is particularly the cafe with fand, duft, and fmall pieces of glafs. Thefe are beft removed by bathing the parts in warm water, or by pouring warm water upon them; fqueezing the water gently from a fponge, or injecting it flowly with a fyringe. In performing even this very fimple operation of wafhing a wound, as well as in extradling foreign fubftances with the forceps, or in any other way, it is proper to obferve, that much advantage may be derived from placing the patient in fuch a pofture as tends moft effedtually to re- lax the injured parts, fo as to obtain as wide a feparation as poflible of the lips of the wound. I have leen different inftan- ces, where, from want of attention to this circumftance, patients have fuffered much unneceflary Iled. II. Incifed Wounds. 372 unnecefTary pain; where, after various trials, the praditloner has been obliged to defift without accomplifhing his oh- jed; and where another praditioner has proved at once fuccefsful, merely by put- ting the wounded parts in a relaxed pofi- tion. After paying due attention to thefe cir- cumftances refpeding extraneous bodies lodged in wounds, our next objed is the condud of the cure. In incifed wounds, a feparation occurs of the parts that have been divided; and as every wound proves a caufe of irrita- tion, the feparation which takes place at iirfl: continues for fome time to increafe, merely by the contradile power of the in- jured mufcles. In the ufual way of co- vering wounds with lint, or with pledgits of ointments, and where the parts have not been previoufly drawn together and re- tained in their -fituation, an effufion of a ferous fluid foon takes place into the ca- vity of the fore, from the fmall velTels that have been cut. This is afterwards A a 2 convertedOf fimple 372 Chap. III. converted into purulent matter: In a Ihort fpace of time the parts are found to be co- vered with an infinite number of fmall Iprouts or granulations; and thefe having advanced to a certain extent, a dry pellicle of fcarf-lkin, termed a Cicatrix, forms over the whole extent/of the wound, and thus the cure is completed. In this manner the healing of wounds is effeded, when nature is not allifted by art, or when her operations are only pro- moted by proper coverings, and protec- tion merely given to fuch parts as are in- jured. But although, in fome cafes, this is our only refource ^ and although even in this way praditloners have it always in their power to forward the cure of fores ^ yet it is liable to many very Im- portant objedlons, which may be obvia- ted by a different treatment. When a wound is healed in this man- ner, if the divided parts have feparated to, any confiderable extent, the fuppuration which enfues will be plentiful ^ by which, if the conftitution is weak, the patient is aptSed. II. Incifed Wounds. 373 apt to be materially injured. In exten- five fores, this method of cure is always tedious; when deep mufcular parts are in- jured, the motion of the contiguous joints is apt to be affedled 5 and the cicatrix of a large wound, when cured in this man- ner, is always ftiff, unfeemly, and difa- greeable > nor is it pofTefled of that ftrength and firmnefs which the parts beneath require for their protedlion. Patients, however, are feldom under the difagreeable neceflity of fubmitting to thefe inconveniencies : For in general, wounds-may be cured in a more eafy as I well as in a more agreeable manner: We know from experience, that two inflamed furfaces of an animal body, when kept in contad, will foon adhere together. This was probably at firfl: pointed out by acci- dent ; but praditioners now derive much advantage from the knowledge of it, not merely in the management of wounds, but in a variety of important operations: By drawing fuch parts as have been di- vided into contad with each other; and A a 3 takingChap. Ill, Of Jimple 374 taking care to have them all as complete- ly covered as poffible with the cutis vera, very extenfive wounds are, in this man- ner, often quickly cured ; the power of moving and of ufing limbs with freedom is often preferved which otherwife would be loft; the fear or mark which remains is feldom of any importance ^ and the wounded parts have the advantage of be- ing fufficiently protedled. It has long been known that parts re- cently divided will unite together, if kept in contadi: for a fufficient length of time. The caufe, however, of this phenomenon has not hitherto been clear- ly explained : The prevailing idea is, that it proceeds from a diredt inofculation ^ or jundion of the different parts that have been divided; and that thofe parts only will adhere together which were formerly united. Thus it is imagined in the healing of wounds in this man- ner, that a divided artery on one fide of a cut muft be made to adhere diredly with its fellow on the oppofite fide; that veins.Incifed Wounds* 375 Sea. II. veins muft unite with veins; mufcalar fibres with fibres of a fimllar nature, &c. But although It is neceflary in pradice to keep this idea fo far in view, as to place parts that are to be healed as exadly op> pofite to each other as poflible ; yet this proceeds more from a requilite atten- tion to fymmetry and neatnefs after the cure is performed, than from any other caule : For it is certain, that no fuch exadnefs is required for the mere ad- hefion of the divided parts, and whoever doubts of the fad may with little diffi- culty, prove it experimentally. A mem- brane may be made to adhere to a bone ^ and the divided end of an artery or a ve^n^will unite with almoft any fubftance with which it is kept in contad. It is indeed true, that blood circulates through the cicatrix of a wound ; a fad which few will doubt, and which proba- bly gave rife to the opinion we are now confide ring. But we have reafon to be- lieve that this circulation does not take A a 4 placeChap. IIL 376 Of fimpk place immediately on the formation of a cicatrix. It feems rather to be an after procefs of nature, and is evidently ac- complilhed by an infinite number of fmall yafcular fprouts or newly created blood-vefiels, which proceed from the larger arteries and veins on each fide of the wound, and inofculate with each o- ther, fo as to form a fufficient circula- tion in the parts through which they pafs. At leaft I have found, in different inftances, on examining the cicatrix of a large wound, that it was always very vafcular ; and I conclude that it happens from a new formation of finall blood- yeflels, as the divided extremity of eve- ry blood-veflel, whether artery or vein, when of fuch a fize as to be eafily diftin- gullhed, is alw’ays fhut, and even oblite- rated for a certain fpace frorn the point where the injury happened, in the fame manner as in arteries that are tied with ligatures in cafes of amputation and o- ther capital operations. And if this hap- pens in veflels of a large fize, there is rea- fonSeft. II. Incifed Wounds. 377 fon to fuppofe that it does fo in thofe that are fmaller. In confirmation of this opinion, we may obferve, that a circulation of blood betwixt adhering furfaces, takes place where inofculation of the kind in que- ftion can never occur, from no previous divifion of blood-veffels having been made. Thus, when the (kin of two con- tiguous fingers or toes becomes raw or tender, without any blood-vefiels being injured, it is difficult to prevent them from adhering ^ and when they do ad- here, - a free circulation is afterwards found to take place between them. Other inftances might be adduced; but I notice this one, as it is not unfrequent, and as it is perfectly applicable to the prefent que- ftion. I therefore conclude, that wounds cu- red in this way, ^re healed in the fame manner as adhefion is produced between inflamed furfaces, namely, by exfudation of the glutinous part of the blood from fhe extremities of the divided veffels ; which378 Chap. IIL Of fimple which in the firfl place retains the parts together, and afterwards ferves to fup* port the new formation of fmall blood- veflels, which nature puts forth as a far^ ther and more certain means of reten- tion, I have entered into this phyfiological difcuflion, imagining that it tends to efta- blifli a material point in praftice. It has commonly been fuppofed, that the fpace of twelve, fourteen, or fifteen days, is neceflary for the complete adhefion of divided parts : A fuppofition which pro- ceeds upon the idea that this adhefion is formed folely by the inofculation of blood-veffels. But if agglutination alone is neceflary, in the firfl inflance, to ac- compllfh this adhefion, it is evident that it may be effeded fooner. According- ly, I have uniformly found divided parts adhering firmly about the fifth day c Nay 1 have known the bandages acciden- tally removed from wounds on the fe^ cond and third days, without any fepa^ ration of the parts newly united being the379 Incifed Wounds. Sed. II. the confequence; From^ this it appears, that a (horter application of the ufual means of retention will anfwer than is commonly pradifed. Surgeons term this treatment of fores, Healing by the Firfl: Intention ; and as it is in every refped the moll delirable method of cure, it Ihould always be followed when pradi- cable. ' In fome varieties of wounds, different reafons occur to prevent us from cu- ring them in this manner. Thefe we {hall afterwards have occafion to men- tion.- But in the limple incifed wound, where the injury has been inflided with a clean-cutting inftrument, without pro- ducing pundure, laceration, or contulion, the only objedion that can occur to it, is our not being able to draw the divided parts Into contad, and to retain them in that fituation till they adhere together. This, however, will feldom happen, un- lefs a lofs of fubftance takes place to a confiderable degree. Where a large por- tion of Ikin, witl^ the mufcles beneath, hasOf fimple 3So Chap. m. has been entirely cut out, It may in fome cafes be impoffible to bring the retrac- ed edges of the wound together ; but we may always make them approach fo as to diminifli the fize of the fore, and may thus have it in our power in every in- ftance to forward the cure. In deep tranfverfe wounds, even where no fub- ftance is loft, the retraCion is often fo great, as to render this pradice fomewhat difficult: But by placing the injured part in that fituation which tends moft effec- tually to relax the divided mufcles, we may effed our purpofe almofl; in every inftance. It is Indeed furprifing to fee how completely divided parts will he made to approach, which, while the muf- cles were upon the flretch, were fepara- ted to a confiderable diftance from each other. We fhould never therefore defpair too foon; for even in the worft cafes we feldom fail, by due perfeverance in this mode of treatment, to obtain fome very effential advantage. WhenSedl. II. Incifed Wounds. 381 When it is found that the divided parts may be drawn together, we have next to fix upon the befl: and eafieft method of retaining them in this fituation du- ring the cure. Various means are pro- pofed for this; namely bandages of dif- ferent kinds, adhefi^e plafters, and fu- tures. The fides of longitudinal wounds, in a- ny of the extremities, and of fome wounds of the head, may be retained by the uni- ting bandage. But this feldom anfwers in the trunk of the body ^ nor can it ever prove ufeful in wounds, either in the legs or arms, that run tranfverfely : And even where there is reafon to think that it will anfwer fufficiently well for retaining the fides of the wound in contact, we ought never to trufl; to it entirely ^ for we can- not depend upon a bandage alone for pre- ferving the /kin fmooth and equal 3 a clr- cumftance of much importance in the cure. The eafieft method of retaining the fkin exactly in its fituation, is by means of382 offimple Chap. Ilf^ of adhefive plafters applied in ^the man- ner reprefented in Plate I, In fome cafes plafters alone prove fiilEcient; but when much retradion is expeded, the u- niting bandage ftiould be applied over them whenever the diredionof the wound renders it admiflible. Many praditionefs, in all cafes of wounds, prefer adhefive plafters to the ufe of futures; but it is in particular in- ftances only that this preference is proper. Adhefive plafters may be ufed with ad- vantage in fuperficial wounds that do not penetrate much deeper than the cellular membrane ; and where there is a lofs of fubftance, to fuch an extent as to prevent the fides of a wound from being drawn clofe together, they may be employed for the purpofe of retaining the re- traded parts as near as poflible ta each other. But in all wounds that penetrate to any confiderable depth, and when their edges can be drawn into con- tad, the twifted future is by much the beft for retaining them. For a defcrip- tronSed. II. Incifed Wounds. 3S5 tion of this and other futures, we mufi refer to Chapter V, The common inter- rupted future is indeed more frequently employed than the other; but it does not fupport the parts with fuch certainty; the ligatures are more apt to tear or cut out the parts which they furround; and they frequently leave difagreeable marks. It is a common opinion, we may re- mark, that adhefive plafters and futures are admiffible only in the recent ftate of wounds. But however defirable it may be, for various reafons, to have the ap- plication of either of them made as early as polRble; yet when negleded at firft, they may be employed with advantage du- ring any ftage of the fore : For we are wrong in fappofing, as is commonly done, that wounded parts will not ad- here when in a ftate of purulency. I have repeatedly treated in this manner, fores of two, three, and four weeks du- ration, and very commonly with advan- tage : Infomuch, that I believe the prac- ticeChap. III. Of fimple D tice will generally fucceed in every ftage of a fore when the retraded edges call be brought together. Whether we employ adhelive plafters or futures, we fliould be very attentive in fupporting the parts, as far as it can be done, by the pofture of the patient; for if this is negleded, futures of every kind will yield fo as not to anfwer the purpofe: And along with this, when plafters are ufed, a farther advantage, as we have al- ready obferved, may be derived from a proper application of the uniting ban- dage; but for the reafons given in the chapter on Sutures, a point that will alfo be farther taken notice of, when treating of the Hare-lip in Chap. XXXIII. neither this nor any other bandage can with pro- priety be employed along with the twill- ed future. When a wound is treated in this man- ner, as foon as the retraded edges are drawn together and properly fupported by plafters or futures, no other dreftings are neceflary, excepting a thin covering ofIncifed Wounds, 38jT Se<a. II. of foft lint to proteft the parts beneath ' from cold; and with a view to prevent as much as poflible any accefs to aii% the lint fhould be fpread either with fome undlu- ous fubftance, or with mucilage of Gum Arabic, or any other inoffenfive gum. This being done, the patient Ihould be defired to preferve the injured parts in the moft favourable pofture ^ and care fhould be taken to enjoin a well-regulated diet. If he is low and emaciated, he may with propriety have a fmall allowance of ani- mal food^ but when plethoric, or liable to inflanamatory affedions, and the wound extenfive, a ftrid antiphlogiftic courfe is requifite : For although inflammation to a certain extent may be neceflary for the cure of wounds-; yet a prudent practi- tioner will always guard againfl: excefs of inflammation, as productive of much mifchief. In open Wounds, the moil eflTedual ap- plication for removing extreme degrees erf* inflammation, is warm emollient cata- plafms; but as they tend to induce the Vou I. B b formationch^p. rrr. Of fimple 386 formation of matter, and as this is dired-^ ly oppofite to oiir views in .the mode of cure we are now confidering, it is evi- dent in fuch circumfiances that they are inapplicable. But although warm emol- lients cannot with propriety be employ- ed ; yet much advantage may be derived from a proper ufe of any cold emollient oil or unguent. When the attending fymptoms of pain and inflammation are moderate, the dreflings fhould never be removed till the cure is completed; but whenever the pain becomes fevere, as it would probably, if neglected, terminate in fome high degree of inflammatipn, by which our intention might be frufirated, the dreflings (hould be immediately taken away, fo as to admit of the pained parts being gently rubbed or even bathed with an emollient. By this being repeated from time to time, I have feen different inftances of very difirefsful degrees of pain being alleviated, and of the conti- guous parts being fo much relaxed, as to admit of the cure by adhefion going on without Ista. II. 387 Incifed Wounds. wathoiit interruptiofi. In fome eafts, hov/ever, we are under the ndceffity of employing other means/and of the'fe the mpfl: ejEFedual are opiates, and blood-let- ting, particularly local blood-letting with leeches; which often proves efFedual in removing .pain' and inflammation,-, when every other application has been tried, in vain* - ■ ' ■ : - In general, r a continuation bf. thefe means will anfwer the purpofe: But it fometimes" happens, notwithftandihgall our endeavours-^ that the pain and inflam-, mation increafe, and the tenfion hf the wounded parts becoming more confider- able, the/plafters and ligatures with which they have: .been kept to.gether mufc be ta- ken away^ otherwife they will /do mif- chief. ;:-Ln fuch cifcumflances the &a- O tures fcould be removed at once;: and for the moft part this will give the patient immediate irelief: /Che* pain and tendon will foQn:.difappear>; and a cure rnufl be accomplilhed in the ordinary way; as it / ^ . B b. 2 : .V nnghtChap. III. 388 Of fimple mig:ht prove hazardous to attempt the fame method of treatment again. I think it right, however, to remark, that, in general, the cure goes on without any interruption of this kind; and where this is the cafe, our views are completed as foon. as a firm adhefion has taken place between the edges of the wound. 1 have already remarked, that' this procefs is commonly accompliflied in a fhorter time than is ufually imagined. In fuperficial wounds, the ligatures, or other means of retenlion, may be removed fooner; but even in deep extenfive wounds, if the habit of body is found, they may with fafety be taken away on the fifth or fixth day. By this time every advantage that can be derived from them will be gained> while much inconvenience, and fome mif- chief, might arife from their being allow- ed to remain longer. I have already mentioned many of the advantages-which refult from this me- thod of curing wounds. They are in- deed fo important, that we fliould feldom befitateSe(3:. II. Incifed Wounds. 389 hefitate to put it in praftice: For even when it fails, we know that any trouble- fome fymptom which it may induce, will be removed by due attention to the means above mentioned; while much time will be gained when it fucceeds. Two objeflions are commonly made to it, which we fliali fhortly coniider. It is faid, that the li- gatures with which it is often necelTary in wounds to fecure the arteries, will acS as extraneous bodies, and prevent the fides of the wound from uniting. And it is likewife obferved, that in the courfe of the cure matter is apt to form, from the lodging of which, troublefome finufes are produced. Neither of thefe objedlions, however, are well founded; at leaft, I have never met with a lingle inftance of their being fo. It feldom happens that more than one or two arteries in any wound require to^ be tied: But I know from experience, that wounds may be cu- red by drawing their edges together, even where a confiderable number of arteries have been fecured with ligatures: For B b 3 theChap. Ill, 390 0/ ftmple the threads occupy very little fpace, and when applied with the tenaculum, which ought always to be done, they are eafily removed without any difturbance being given to the reft of the wound. And a- gain, with refpedt to finufes being apt to form from this method of treatment, if the edges of a wound are only drawn to- gether above, a cavity will thus be form- ed beneath, where matter will no doubt be apt to lodge 3 but this fliould not be attributed to the method of cure, but to the mode of putting it in pradlice: For in every wound treated in this manner, the whole of the fides or edges fhould be drawn together from the furface to the bottom, by which the formation of finu- fes is ejftedually prevented. We have now to fpeak of thofe wounds which do not admit of this mode of treat- ment. When the edges of a cut cannot be drawn together, after the hemorrhagy is ftopped and extraneous bodies remo- ved». we find by experience, that the moft effedual aliiftance we; can afford, is to promoteSed. II. Incifed Wounds. 39^ B b 4 which promote as much as poffible the forma- tion of matter : For the fad is undoubt- ed, that in every wound of this kind, a free fuppuration proves the mo ft effedual relief to every fymptom; at the fame time that it appears to be fo materially con- neded with the cure, that the healing procefs never begins till the fore is cover- ed with good pus; a circumftance by no means difficult to account for. The cure of fores healed in this manner, is fo far effeded by nature alone, that although fome advantage may be derived from art, yet our chief objed ought to be the re- moval of fuch impediments as might tend to obftrud the operations of nature, and to proted the injured parts till the cica- trix becomes fufficiently firm. Now, as we know that granulations do not readily form in fores as long as they remain pain- ful ; and as nothing with which we are acquainted proves fo mild an application to wounds as pus, we may conclude, that ■it proves chiefly ufeful by preferving the injured parts in that eaiy, pleafant ftate,392 Of Jtmple Chap. III. which feems to be indirpenfably neceflary for the cure. It (hould therefore be our firlt objed, in the treatment of fores of this defcriptlon, to forward the for- mation of pus as quickly as poffible; and the mod effedual method of doing it is, by treating every wound in the fame man- ne r as we do a common phlegmon; that is, by a free ufe of warm emollient poul- tices and fomentations. In the firft place, the parts fhould be immediately covered as completely as pof- iible, fo that they may be proteded effec- tually from the admiffion of air. When the pain is exceilive, poultices may be di- redly applied, as being the fureft means of relieving it * But, when the pain is mode- rate, it is better to delay the ufe of emolli- ents for a day or two ; for as pus cannot be produced till a ferous effulion has taken place, and as we know that fome de- gree of inflammation is required for ef- feding this, when the pain and tenfion in wounds are inconliderable, an imme- diate application of poultices is apt to do harm,Sedt. II. Incijed Wounds. 393 harm, either by preventing altogether, or by retarding and rendering too languid that inflammatory afFedlion which ap- pears to be necelTary for the cure. But in every inflance of woimds of confix derable extent, remedies of this kind prove always ufeful after the fir ft two or three days have elapled r For by this time a fufflcient degree of inflammation has commonly taken place for effedting the wiflied-for efflifion ; and we have elfe- 'where had various opjX)rtunities of fhow- ing, that in no other way can this be fb readily converted into purulent matter as by a free application of heat ^; fo that whenever this remedy is advifed, it fliould be ufed to the fame extent as in cafes of phlegmon. It is proper, however, to remark, that this remedy fliould be ufed with caution. For although heat, whether conveyed by means of poultices or fomentations, is perhaps the moft ufeful application in the ilage of wound we are now confi- dering; * See Chap. LOf fimple 394 Chap. IIL dering ^ yet when long continued, it IS very apt to do mifchief, as we have daily opportunities of obferving, where it is employed by thofe who do not con- lider upon what principles it a61s in the cure. When the purpofe we have men- tioned is gained, namely, a free and kind- ly fuppuratlon, as it is for this only that poultices are ufed, they fhould then be laid afide: For when continued longer, they ah no (I condantly do harm, by relaxing the parts to which they are applied too nmch ; by which they are apt to become pale/foft, and fpongy, inftead of being of a healthy red colour, and of a firm tex- ture. Nay, they are at laft often produc- tive of the very contrary effedt for which they are employed : For although much infiainmation proves hurtful in the cure of Wounds, yet in fome degree it is ah ways neceffary. Now, by continuing the ufe of warm emollients too long, this fa- lutary degree of inflammation is fo en- tirely carried off, that the matter becomes thin and in too great quantity. And thus troublefomeSea. II. Incifed Wounds. 395 troublefome vitiated fores are produced, which a different management would pro- bably have prevented. The period at which the ufe of poultices and other warm applications fliould be laid afide, muff be determined in every cafe by the judgment of the praditioner. This ge- neral rule, however, may be fafely adopted, that they may at all times be perfifted in as long as much pain and inflammation continue 3 but thefe fyrnptoms becoming moderate, the difcharge being good, and the furface of the wound covered with gra- nulations of a healthy appearance, they Ihould now be laid afide. In this flare of a fore, all the advantages are gained which poultices can produce 5 and when long continued, fome of the inconveni- encies 1 have mentionecf are very apt to enfue. In the enfuing chapter, I fhall have occa- fion to enter upon a more particular detail of the belt dreffings for wounds. It will not.Of fimple ^ Chap. III. 39^ not, therefore, be neceflary, at prefent, to fpeak minutely upon this part of our fiib- jed. I have already had occafion to remark, that a certain degree of inflammation is re- quired for the cure of every fore ^ but as this very rarely proves deficient, and as we have more to dread froni this fymptom proceeding too far, efpecially in the firft jfiages of large wounds, the mildeft dref- fings only fhould be employed. During the progrefs of the cure, much advantage indeed may fometimes be derived from the application of dreflings of an irrita- ting, or even of an efcharotic nature. This, however, Is only the cafe when a wound has advanced to the liate of an ulcer. While yet recent, the mildeft ap- plication is always the teft. In this coun- try, foft dry lint is commonly employed, while fome praditioners advife pieces of foft fponge; and it muft be admitted, that they anfwer much better than any of the irritating balfams which till of late were very univ^rfally ufed, and which in moft partsIncifed Wounds. Sed. II. 397 parts of Europe are flill continued: For it was in Britain that mild dreffings to wounds were firfl: introduced 3 and it is in this country only where even yet they have been generally received. But al- though dry lint is a mild application when compared with many others, it always creates pain and irritation on being firfl applied, befides being apt to adhere to the edges of wounds, fo as to be with dif- ficulty removed. With a view to prevent thefe inconvenieHcies, the lint fliould be thinly fpread with any mild ointment; fuch. as Goulard’s cerate, or common wax ointment. By this means it gives no pain in the application, while It is re- moved with eafe, at the fame time that it ferves more eflfedually than dry mate- rials to prevent the air from finding ac- cefs to the fore. As dry lint, however, has long been generally employed in this country, any innovation will not be rea- dily admitted; but what I have advifed, being the refult of a good deal of expe- rience,398 Of fimple Chap. III. rience, I can with confidence recommend it. A piece of foft lint, fpread with any ointment of this kind, being laid over the wound, a bolfler of fine tow fhould be applied above it for the purpofe of keeping the parts warm, as well as for abforbing any matter that may be dif- charged; and this being covered with a comprefs of old foft linen, the whole fhould be retained by a bandage of fine flannel or cotton, which is preferable to linen, in fo far as it is commonly more a- greeable to the feelings of the patient, and as it yields to any accidental fwelling or tumefadion of the neighbouring parts: Whereas linen, poflefilng little or no e- lafticity, is very apt to do mifchief, by re^naining ft iff and immoveable, not- withftanding any fwelling that may fue. Praditioners are not agreed upon the time at which the firft dreffings of fores fhould be removed ^ and nothing decifive can be faid upon it, as in fome meaiure it, Sec!. II. Incifed Wounds, 399 k mufl: be direded by the circumftan- ees of every cafe. This general rule, however, may be properly adopted, that a fore fliould always be drefled when plentifully covered with matter. This will generally be the cafe about the fourth or fifth day ; but as the forma- tion of pus depends upon different circum- ftances, particularly upon the health of the patient, and on the degree of heat iii which the parts are kept, fome latitude muff be allowed in it. A free ufe of poul- tices, after the fecond day, puts it in our power to remove the dreffings much foon- er than we otherw ife could do: For they not only promote the formation of mat- ter, but foften all the coverings that have been ufed, fo as to admit of their being eafily taken away. When the cure of a wound goes on without interruption, the fecond, as well as the fubfequent dreffings, fhould be precifely the fame as the firft : For our objecff being ftill the fame, no variation, it is evident, can be neceiTary. As no- thing400 Of fimple Chap. III. proves more hurtful to fores thatr expofure to the air, one great objeft in the application of dreffings, is to prevent any inconvenience which might arife from this. And the fame reafon renders it ne- cefTary to change the dreflings as feldom as is confiftent with cleanlinefs; and to be as expeditious as poflible in renewing them. In general, however, no harm will occur from the daily dreffing of wounds. They fliould not, but In very particular circumftances, be drefled more frequent- ly ; nor can it often be proper to drefs them feldomer than this: For when' matter is allowed to lodge long, the heat in which patients with large wounds are ufually kept, is apt to render it pu- trid and offenlive. But as I (hall elfe- where have occafion to fpeak fully upon this fubjedl, it is not at prefent neceflary to confider it more particularly* : I fliall juft obferve farther, with refped: to the continuance of mild dreflings to wounds, that * Vide Chapter IV. 3Sedt. II. Incifed Wounds. 401 that it ought to bo regulated by the pro- grefs of -the cure. As long as the cure continues to advance, mild dreffings fliould be continued; but when the fore affumes any vitiated or morbid appear- ance, fome variety in the dreffings becomes neceffary ; and the nature of any change to be thus adopted muft be regulated by the iituation of the fore at the time. We muft refer, however, for a more minute confideration of this part of our fubjedl to the different fedions of the enfuing chapter. I have hitherto been fuppofing that none of the fymptoms are violent 3 in which cafe the cure will, for the moft part, go eafily on, under the mode of manage- ment I have mentioned. But in fome cafes the healing of the fore is not only much interrupted, but much hazard is induced by the unufual height to which fome of the fymptoms proceed ; and thefe particularly are, pain, inflammation, and convulflve affedions of the mufcles. I {hall therefore offer a few obfervations VoL. I. C e upon402 Of fimple Chap. upon the means of obviating thefe fymp- toms, when they proceed to fuch a height as to prove hazardous. A wound cannot be inflicted without inducing pain : For even the flighteft in- jury mnfl: neceffarily affed fome of the fmaller branches of nerves; by which pain, to a certain degree, will be indu- ced. It commonly happens, however, that the pain which at firfl: takes place in wounds is not fo fevere as to require any particular management : And in general, it fubfides entirely upon the removal of any extraneous bodies which have been introduced^ by proteding the injured parts with proper coverings; and by a plentiful formation of matter. But in a few cafes the pain continues fevere after every ufual method of removing it has been attempt- ed. Opiates in large dofes are In fuch circumftances more to be depended on than any other remedy ; and they do not often fail of giving relief. But it fre- quently happens that their effed is only temporary^. ISect. II. Licifed Wounds. 403 temporary, the pain being apt to recur af- ter the ftrength of the opiate is exhauited. In this event we are to fearch with much care for the caufe of the pain. It may proceed from fome particles of ex- traneous matter whi^ b have not been dif- covered ; from inflammation of the wounded parts ; or from fome portion of a nerve or tendon being partially wounded without being divided ^ or from irrita- tion over the whole furface of the fore. We fliould therefore, in the firft place, examine the Wound with attention, fo as to be as certain as poflible that no extra- neous matter has round accefs ; for when pain proceeds from any foreign body lodged in a wound, the removal of this will, for the mod part, procure relief; while no other remedy will have any effedl as long as it is allowed to remam. When not readily dlfcovered, or wiirn the particles of any extraneous matter that may be lodged in a wound are fo fmall that they cannot be removed with the fingers, we have al- ready advifed the injedting of warm.wa- C c 2 terOf fimple Chap, lit 404 ter, by which they will often be wafhed out when every other trial has failed. But when this does not fucceed, it fome- tiines anfwers to immerfe the wound for a confiderable time, perhaps for an hour, morning and evening, in warm water, or in w'arm milk ; by which particles of mat- ter are fometimes difiblved and carried out, which would otherwife have conti- nued to give much uneafinefs. If no trial, however, that may be made for this purpofe, ihould prove fuc- cefsful, we mufl; look for fome other caufe of the pain ; and it will often be found to originate from inflammation. When the external parts of a wound are infla- med, this caufe of pain is at once ren- dered obvious ; for even the flighteft de- gree of inflammation is very readily dif- covered. But it fometimes happens that the periofteum, and other deep-feated ‘ parts, are aflTeded in this manner, with- out any external marks of it appearing. This, however, is only the cal'e for fome fhort period atter the inflammation has commenced:Setft. II. Incifed Wounds. 405 commenced : For even when it firfl at- tacks parts that are deeply feated, it com- monly (preads in the coiirfe of a day or two, fo as to be difcovered outwardly ; and when this does not happen, we may in general be directed to the caufe, by the heat of the patient’s body ; by the ftate of his pulfe ; and by the degree of third, which in cafes of this kind is al- ways increafed. When thefe fymptoms of fever run high, it is fometimes neceffary to take away confiderable quantities of blood by one or more general blood-lettings. But for the mod part this meafure is not necef- fary, and our views are obtaint d with more cextainty by local blood-letting near the edges of the wound by means of leeches. In fuch circumdances, indeed, no remedy proves fo fuccefsful as the difcharge of blood in this manner. I have long been in the practice of ufing it in wounds accom- panied with much indammation, and very commonly with much advantage. In ca- fes of pain proceeding from this caufe, C c 3 I4o6 Of fmple Chap.IIL I have known the application of a few leeches to the edges of a wound pro- cure immediate relief, even where large dofes of opiates, as well as other reme- dies, had previoufly been tried in vain* And that it is not the quantity of blood, but the manner of difcharging it, which proves fuccefsful, is evident from this, that the pain is often relieved immedi- ately on a few drops being taken with leeches, which did not yield in any de- gree to the lofs of a confiderable quan- tity by venefedion. In ufing leeches for this purpofe, they fliould be applied as near as poflible to the edges of the wound ^ nay, when they will fix within the wound itfelf, the pradice proves ftill more fuc- cefsful : But unlefs the inflammation is deeply feated, this meafure is feldom ne- cefiary. It fometimes happens, however, as we have obferved above, that in deep wounds no inflammation of any import- ance appears externally, while the perio- fleam and oti:tr deep-feated parts are mu :h inflamed and painful. In this fituation, nothingSeil. IL hicifed Wounds. 407 •nothing affords fo much relief as fcarifi- cations made in the inflamed parts, either with the Ihoulder of a lancet or the point of a fcalpel. Nor need we helitate to ad- vife them under the dread of their being apt to produce exfoliations of the bone be- neath. Inftead of this, they tend more certainly than any other remedy to pre - vent them ^ for exfoliations feldom hap- pen from the periolteum being merely di- vided; of which we have daily inftances, in wounds penetrating to this depth, which are rarely attended with this eff’ed, unlefs the bone itfelf is at the fame time injured. In different cafes I have fcarified the pe- riofteum and other parts deeply feated •in wounds, and always with advantage. It removes pain and tenfion in the mofl: effectual manner, and thus tends more effectually than any other remedy to re- lieve the moft diftrefsful fymptoms which wounds ever excite. After as much blood is difcharged as may be judged proper, whether by leech- es or fcarifications, no application will C c 4 prove4o8 Of fimple Chap. Ill, prove fo ufejfiil as warm emollient poul- tices and fomentations frequently re- newed : For in fuch circumftances no- thing affords fuch effedlual relief as a plen- tiful fuppuration being induced. We conftantly obferve, that as long as a wound remains dry on the furface, the parts are tenfe, much inflamed, and very painful; and that they become lax and eafy as foon as they are properly covered with purulent matter. For the moft part, the means we have mentioned will be attended with the der fired effedl ; and efpecially if the opera- tor is not too timid in making the fcari- ficatlons; For I muft again obferve, that this may be done with much more fafe- ty and freedom than is commonly ima- gined ; and when membranes in any fi- tuation are much inflamed, nothing with which we are acquainted will fo certain- ly prevent the acceflion of gangrene as deep and free fcarifications. Even this remedy, however, will not always fiac- ceed: For in fome cafes the inflamma- tion,Se£l. II.^ Incifed Wounds. 409 tion, inftead of abating, becomes more and more violent, till at laft it terminates in mortification. When wounds are attended with violent pain, proceeding from inflammation, the caufe, as I have obferved above, is for the mod: part readily perceived. But fe- vere pain is fometimes induced by other caufes : For although much pain feldom fails to induce an inflamed ftate of a wound at laft, it often fubflfts for a con- Jiderable time before this takes place.' In fuch cafes, and efpecially where we have no caufe to fufped that the pain arifles from the lodgment of matter, it ^will of- ten be found to proceed from the partial divifion of a nerve or tendon: For we know, that in various inftances the moft excruciating pain is induced in this man- ner. In fome cafes, the pain produced by this is relieved by putting the injured parts into a ftate of relaxation 3 but, for the moft part, the only remedy up- on which we can depend is a complete divilion4m Of Jtmple Chap. IIL divifion of the wounded nerve or tendon: And as this is a means of cure which may at all times be pradifed without rilk, it fhould never be delayed when the pain is found to proceed from this caufe ; and efpecially when, from its violence, there is reafon to fufpedl that it may induce convulfions and other alarming fymp- toms. As a free ufe of the fcalpel, how- ever, is neceflary, patients in general do not eafily fubmit to this remedy ; nor do we commonly find that praditioners ad* vife it. But 1 can fay from many infian- ces of its beneficial effeds, that we ought more frequently to pradife it: For it fel- dom fails to give relief, even in fevere de- grees of pain; and I never heard of its proving hurtful. It ought always, however, to be advifed as foon as any other means that may be employed have failed: For when violent pain has fub- fified fo long as to induce any material affedion of the convulfive kind, even this remedy will not always remove it. On the parts being freely divided, they Ihould beSetft. II. Incifed Wounds. 411 be placed in a relaxed pofture; and an emollient poultice being laid over them, if the pradice proves fuccefsful, the pa- tient will foon find himfelf relieved, and the wound may afterwards be treated in the ufual way. But when the operation does not prove fuccefsful, as will be the cafe, when ftom timidity, or any other caufe,it has been longdelayed, there will be much caufe to fufpect that the patient will at laft die convulfed, notwithftanding the ufe of opiates, and every other remedy we can employ. In fome wounds again, the pain, inftead of being deeply, feated, which it always is when it proceeds from an injury done to a particular nerve or tendon, is found to originate from a peculiar degree of irrita- bility of the nerves on the furface of the fore. The pain, in fuch inftances, is not fevere; but it often proceeds to fuch a height as to excite much unealinefs, by which the patient is apt to be deprived of reft, and the matter difcharged from the ^^fore rendered ft;iarp and acrid. ForChap. IIL 412 Of ftmplc For th^ remora! of this, emollient poul- tices, and other warm applications, are commonly employed^ but feldom with any advantage. They often appear in- deed to increafe the irritability. Large dofes of opium afford the moll certain re- lief; and a folution of opium in water, or a weak fatiirnine folution, are the bell external remedies. When of a proper ftrength, they commonly prove fuccefs- ful. While fpeaking of the caufe and remo- val of pain, it was neceffary to mention inflammation, with the means bed adapt- ed for the cure. We have now to attend to the nature and treatment of fome con- vuliive affedlions which injuries of this kind foinetimes induce. Subfultus tendinum, and other fpafmo- die affedions, are frequent confequences of wounds: They are more particularly apt to enfue from the amputation of limbs, when they often* prove the caufe of much uneafinefs and pain; for the flarting which they are apt to produce in theSed. II. Incifed Wounds. 415 the afFeded limb, excites a violence of ac- tion which mufcular parts newly divided are hot well fitted to fupport. And when thefe are fevere, and return frequently, they prevent the dreflings from being kept properly applied, at the fame time that they, are often the caufe of hemor- rhagies from arteries which have even been tied with ligatures. We ought, therefore, in every inffance, to treat this fet of fymptoms with attention. Indeed the rifk of their producing heinorrhagies is fo confiderable, and the fenfations which they excite fo diftrefsful, that a prudent praditioner will at all times judge them to be ^of importance. As thefe convulfive twitchings are evi- dently the effed of irritation produced by the wound, it is obvious that thofe means are mod likely to prove effedual in remo- ving them which are mod powerful in procuring eafe. Hence much advantage is derived from placing the patient’s bo- dy, and efpecially the affeded limb, in the eaded pofture: Indeed more benefit isOf Jtmple Chap. IIL 4H is derived from this than we are often a- ware of. I have known the fevereft fpafins almofl: inftantly removed, by chan- ging the pofture of a ftump. But when this does not anfwer, opiates will feldom fail. It is worthy of obfervation, in ufing opium for this purpofe, that it anfwers better to give it in fmall dofes frequently repeated, than in large dofes at once. The latter often excite ficknefs, and even vomitings and after their effecSs are over, the fpafms are apt to become more fevere than they were at firfl:; which feldom happens with opiates in fmall dofes, altho’ frequently repeated. Thefe, however, are not the mod alarm- ing fy mptoms of the convuhive kind which occur /rom \^ounds. Tetanus and lock- ed-jaw fometimes proceed from them, particularly in warm climates. Occafion- ally, indeed, thefe fymptoms originate from other caufes, the nature of which we cannot always difcover; but when not obvioufly induced by deep or extenfive wounds,.Sed. II. Incifed Wounds. 415 wounds, they may often be traced, by a more minute Inveftigation, to fome flight injury done to the furface of the body. Even the flightefl: fcratch, not penetrating to a greater depth than the Ikin, has been known to induce them. As we know that fevere degrees of pain often excite involuntary contradions of flich mufcles as have been injured, we would naturally exped that deep and ex- tenfive wounds would be frequently at- tended with this effed. But we do not fo readily fee how the rnofl violent affec- tions of this kind Ihould be mofl apt to occur from fuch wounds as are fo flight as fcarcely to be noticed, and which never of themfelves produced much uneafinefs: This, however, certainly happens^ Nor do injuries of greater importance induce thefe fymptoms fo readily while they are recent and painful: For they fel- dom occur in large wounds till the cure is far advanced \ and in fome inftances, particularly after the amputation of limbs, they are never more apt to appear than when0/fiinple Chap. III. 4i6 when the cicatrix is nearly completed. At lead: this has been the cafe in every inftance of locked-jaw that I have met with in this country v ^nd we are told from very certain authority, that the fame obfervatlon has been made in warm cli- mates The caufe of this may be difficult to ex- plain ; but our knowledge of the fad leads to fome advantage In pradice. We have hitherto been made to fuppofe, that the locked-jaw, and other convulfive fymp- toins which fometimes fucceed to wounds, are mod apt to occur from the violence of pain induced at, or fooh after the time of wounds being inflided; and therefore praditioners have guarded with mod af- fiduity againd tliem while the pain has continued fevere. But when It Is known that thefe fymptoms feldom or never oc- cur at this period, and that they frequent- ly appear in more advanced dages of wounds, thofe means of prevention which are * * Vide Obfervations on the Difeafes incident to Sea- men, bj Gilbert Blane, M.D. &c. IIncifed Wounds. 417 Sea. II. are found to prove moft effeaual, will more readily ad with advantage If ap- plied at this time. Praditioners, therefore, in warm cli- mates, fliould be particularly attentive to this in the advanced ftages of wounds ^ and the moft effedual remedy we can em- ploy on the firft appearance of a locked- jaw, is immerfing the patient, fo as to cover the whole body, in a warm bath. The heat of the bath fliould be regulated by the feelings of the patient ; and he fliould continue In It as long as he is able to bear it. Water is commonly ufed for this purpofe; but where milk can be pro- cured, it fliould be preferred : For as the warm bath proves here chiefly ufeful by its relaxing powers, we have reafon to fuppofe that the oily particles contained in milk render it particularly proper; and the idea appears to be well founded by the beneficial effeds which in diffe- rent inftances have refulted from the ufe of it. VoL. I. Dd ItChap. IIL 4i8 Of fimple It may often happen, however, that milk cannot be procured in quantities fufEcIent for this purpofe. In fuch fitua- tions, fat broths, or water combined with ^ oil in any other form, may be ufed inftead of it. When one application of a bath proves fuccefsful, the ufe of it need not be continued; but for the mod part feve- ral repetitions of it are neceflary. Nor are we to imagine that warm bathing is a certain remedy. It has frequently in- deed proved highly ufeful, and many cures have been accomplilhed by it; but we muft likewife confefs that it has often failed, and that patients are daily carried off in warm climates by the locked-jaw, and other convulfive fymptoms, notwith- Handing the moft ample application of the warm bath, and of every other reme- dy that has hitherto been employed. The failure of warm bathing has indu- ced fome praditioners to make trial of the cold bath; and in fome convulfive alFedions it has certainly proved ufeful; particularly in cafes of univetfal tetanus: Bui;Sed. II. Incifed Wounds. 419 But as yet it has not been fo frequently employed as to enable us to judge with precilion, whether it will often prove ufe- ful or not in the locked-jaw, which we are to confider as the moil obilinate as well as the moil dangerous fymptom of this kind. At the fame time that wc perfiil in the ufe of warm bathing, other remedies ought not to be negleded^ and of thefe opium is the moil certain. It proves ufeful both as an external application and as an inter- nal medicine. By rubbing the contraded mufcles with laudanum, or keeping them covered with extrad of opium, or with opium merely foftened with fpirits or wa- ter, the fpafm has in fome initances been leilened : But the moil eifedual relief ob- tained from this remedy is by giving it inwardly; not in large quantities as we have remarked above, but in finall dofes, frequently repeated. The dofes Ihould be fuch, however, as may effedually allay the pain and uneafinefs produced by the difeafe^ but more than this is unnecellary. D d 2 When iK . '420 Of fimple Chap. Ill, When exhibited in large quantities, it feems to do mifchief, by inducing that very date of the fyftem it was meant to prevent, namely a great degree of irrita- bility : For as foon as the operation of a large dofe of opium is over, we common- ly find in all fpafmodic affedlions, that the difeafe returns with double violence. But this may be eafily prevented, by gi- ving fuch dofes as the patient can eafily bear, and repeating them at (hott inter- vals, in fuch a manner that the effeds of one may not be over before another is given, ^ther and muik have fometimes been conjoined with opium; but no ad- ^ vantage of importance has been derived from them. We have mentioned opium as an exter- nal application; but the remedies of this kind from which we would expect mod advantage are emollients, freely applied over all the contraded parts. The na- ture of the difeafe feems drongly to point them out; and experience has, in fome in- dances, diown that they may prove ufe- fulIncifed Wounds. 421 Sedl. II. ful. Emollients of every kind may be employed for this purpofe^ but animal fats of the fofter kinds feem to be the beft: For they certainly prove more powerful- ly relaxing in all cafes of contraded mufcles than the vegetable oils ^ at lead, in the courfe of my experience, they have commonly proved to be fo. I have elfe- where obferved, that a very pure oil of this kind is obtained by boiling recent bones in water; and the fat of all kinds of fowls anfwers well. Mercurials have been frequently given in locked-jaw, but when mercury has ever proved ufeful, it has been in fuch cafes only where it was rubbed upon the contracted parts in the form of an ointment, and where it would probably act with advan- tage as an emollient. When a locked-jaw is produced by a wound in any of the extremities, if the difeaft does not yield to the remedies we have mentioned, it has been propofed to amputate the member ^ and in various cafes this hath been practiled. 1 am forry, D d 3 however,Chap. III. 422 of fimpk however, to obferve, that we have fcarce- ly an inftance of the operation proving effedual: For in this difeafe, as in almoft every fpafmodic affedlion, the effedl is apt to remain after the caufe is removed. We have therefore no encouragement, from paft experience, to put this remedy in pradice. Inftead of proving ufeful, it has in feveral inllances rendered the difeafe evidently worfe. The remedies therefore which we have to depend upon, are thofe we have mentioned above, namely, the warm bath, opiates, and a very free ap- plication of emollients. While we are depending on thefe for effeding a cure, the patient’s ftrength fhould be fupported by mild nourifliment given by the mouth, when this can be done; and by glyfters of ftrong broths, when the jaws are fo firmly contraded as to prevent food from being received by the mouth: And we may, by removing a tooth or two, even in cafes of this kind, convey food to the flomach 3 fo that wherever the fymptoms .of locked jaw are obfervedSed. II. Inci/ed Wounds. 423 obferved to be approaching, one or two of the teeth Ihould be taken out, as they cannot be removed but with much more difficulty after the jaws are firmly clinch- ed. Having thus confidered the various cir- cumftances relating to wounds in their moft ufiial form, with the means of cure adapted to each of them, we fliall now proceed to mention more particularly fome varieties in tbofe affedions which point out a different mode of treatment ^ and thefe are, pundures, laceration, and contufion.424 Of TunSlured Wounds. Chap. III. SECTION III. Of PunEiured Wounds. Wound is faid to be pundlured when It is made with a fmall point- ed Inftrument; and when the external aperture, inftead of being wide and ex- teniive in proportion to the depth, is finall and contradled. A wound made by a thrufl with a fmall fword, is of this Pundured wounds prove, in general, more hazardous than incifed wounds of much greater extent ^ from deep-feated nerves and other parts of importance be- ing mor^ apt to be partially hurt ^ from extraneous bodies being often carried to a depth from whence they cannot be ea- fily removed; from the difeharge which they afford being more apt to lodge y and from the lides of the punftured parts ' being in many inftances with difficulty kind. madeSe6l. IIL Of PunBured Wounds. 425 made to adhere. Thefe are points of the. utmofl: moment, not only from their be- ing often produdive of much diftrefs to patients, but from the embarraffinent which they give to praditloners, who are more apt to fail In their treatment of this variety of wound than of any o- ther which falls within their manage- ment. It is obvious, that much of the ri/k which occurs in thefe wounds, proceeds from their being fo contraded, that free accefs cannot be got to their full depth : And it Is equally evident that this can be obviated only by laying them open, in- deed, this is the idea which, in the treat- ment of pundured wounds, we fhould alwa*ys keep in view,-that of converting them, as far as with fafety can be done, into incifed wounds with wide extenfive openings. This, however, is a queftion about which pradkloners are not agreed : Some advife the openings of pundured 'wounds to be enlarged either with tents or with the fcalpel ^ while others allege that426 of Punctured Wounds. Chap. IIL | that this is feldom requifite: And they , | have alfo differed with refped to the | time at which the dilatation fhould be I made; for while fome advife it to be | delayed for a few days only, others do | not attempt it till every other means have , | failed. | In the treatment of pundfured wounds | our views ought to be the fame as In cafe» I of linus. Indeed, this kind of wound | is exadly a finus In a recent ftate ; and | by confiderlng it as fiich, the means of | cure that will moft likely prove fuccefs- f ful, are at once pointed out. In every ^ finus, our intention Is to procure a re- ' ‘ union of the parts which have been di- J vided; but we know from experience ' that this cannot be effedled till a certain degree of inflammation is indnced upon ;;; them. For this purpofe,^ the introdudion of a cord or feton along the courfe of a f; finus has frequently proved fuccefsful; and fome have, with the fime views, em- ployed irritating injedions. When by thefe means the internal furfaee of the ’ finus 2Sedl. III. Of PunSlured Wounds. 427 finus is fufEcIently inflamed, the cure is to be completed, by compreflion applied in fuch a manner as to keep the parts in- tended to be united in clofe contad, till a fufiicient degree of adhefion is produ- ced. Now, in the application of this treatment to pundured wounds, it is ob- vious, that the previous fteps which we have mentioned for exciting inflamma- tion, would at firft be feldom neceffary ^ for one certain effed of every wound is to induce inflammation over all the parts which have been injured : So that a priori we fliould be led to conclude, that com- prefllon alone would in all fuch cafes prove fuccefsful: For we know that it feldom fails in other cafes of finus where a due degree of inflammation is :indu- ced. But we are deterred, in pundured wounds, from the immediate ufe of this remedy ; at leaft where they penetrate to any confiderable depth, from our un- certainty with refped to extraneous bo- dies being lodged in them or not, and from the inflammation in this variety428 of Piinclured Wounds. Chap. III. of wound being apt to run too high. In fuperficial wounds, indeed, where we are certain of being able to extra6l any ex- traneous matter, and where the inflamma- tion is for the molt part moderate, com- ptefliori may be employed immediately; and when properly applied, it will not often fail. But for the reafons juft men- tioned, it can feldom be employed with fafety in wounds of much im- portance. The pradice I have long adopted in pundured wounds is this : When they run in fuch a diredion as to prevent a feton from being carried along their whole courfe, I lay them open immedi- ately from one extremity to the other, or as far as it can be done with fafety, ei- ther with a probe-pointed biftoury, or with a fcalpel and diredor: And this being done, the parts are drelTed in the manner I have advifed above, in cafes of Ample incifed wounds. But when it appears that a feton can with propriety be ufed, emollient poultices are flrft ap- pliedSefl. III. Of PmiBtired Wounds. 429 plied and continued till a free fuppura- tion is induced, and till there is no caufe to fear that the fymptoms of in- flammation are to proceed too far. A cord is then introduced nearly equal to the flze of the opening; and being al- lowed to remain till there is reafon to imagine that any extraneous matter lod- ged in the wound is difcharged, it is then gradually leflcned, by taking away a thread or two every three or four days; and when reduced to a third of its origi- nal thicknefs, it is taken out entirely; when the remainder of the cure is for the mott part'eafily effeded, by the applica- tion of moderate prelihre along the courfc of the wound. • When a pundured wound is laid open at both ends, a cord may be eafily intro- duced by means of a blunt probe, with an eye at the end of it. But when the inftrument has not palled through the integuments on the oppofite lide to which it entered, a counter opening mull be made, either by cutting with a fcalpel on the 343^ Of PunBured Wounds. Chap. III. the round end of a blunt probe, or by palling a lancet-pointed needle, covered with a canula, along the linus, and pulh- ing it out at the oppolite fide with the feton attached to it. In either of thefe ways the cure of fuch wounds may often be accomplilh- ed. But wherever the pradice is admif- fible, I am clearly of opinion, that laying them open immediately after the acci- dent is preferable .to the other : For in this manner all extraneous bodies are at once brought into view 3 hemorrha- gies are eafily reftrained; and the pain which fometimes occurs from a partial divifion of nerves and tendons Is diredly obviated. Nor is the inflammation, which often fucceeds to pundured wounds, apt to run fo high, when they are treated in this manner, as it ufually does when any other method of cure is adopted: So that much dill refs would be prevented, and a good deal of time faved, if this method of cure was more generally pradifed. To thofe not much accuftomed to this kind of bufinefs,.Sed. III. Of PunBiired Wounds, 431 bufinefs, the enlarging of a fmall pundure, fo as to form an extenfive wound, ap- pears to be unnecelTary and cruel: But whoever has feen ii^uch of this branch of pradice, will know, that the greatef!: diftrefs often arifes from the fmalleft pundures^ that furgeons are often baf- fled, and much difappointed in their treatment of them; and he will foon find, that nothing fo effedually obviates this as the pradice I have advlfed, of laying the pundures freely open as foon as poflible after they are inflided. Indeed the fooner it Is done the better. No advantage can accrue from delay; and a patient always fubmits to the ope- ration mofl: readily at firft, while at the fame time it is produdive of lefs pain than when the parts are fwelled and in- flamed, which they commonly are in the courfe of a few days from the time of fuch injuries being inflided. In every wound therefore of this defcriptlon, particular- ly in thofe received in duels with fmall fwords, and in battles v/ith the points of bayonets^43^ Of PunSiured Wounds. Chap. lit. bayonets, the enlargement fliould take place even before the parties are carried from the field; by which many inconve- niencies which ufually attend thefe inju- ries would be prevented. Some cafes, however, occur, in which this practice cannot with propriety be adopted; particularly where pundures run deep a- mong the large mufcles, or contiguous to large blood-veflels and nerves. As more danger would accrue from wounding thefe than could probably be compenfated by any advantage gained by dilating the wounds, it is better in fuch circumftances to reft fatisfied with laying the parts o- pen as far as it can be done with fafety; to trufl; to the fuppuration which will en- fue for bringing off any extraneous mat- ter that may be lodged in the wound 3 and to a proper application of preilure for completing the cure. Or the practice we have mentioned above, of introducing a feton, may be attempted 3 fcH* a cord may be palTed with fafety where it might be verySfedl. III. Of PunBured Wounds. 433 very improper and iinfafe to make a deep incifion. But it is proper to obferve, that there are fome cafes in which even a feton can- hot be introduced ; For a pundure fome- times runs in fuch a direction, as not to admit of a counter-opening. We muft here truft to a proper application of prefiiire, not merely for preventing any lodgement of matter, but for producing adhefion of the divided parts 3 and when this fails, injections of a moderate degree of afiringency may be ufed with advan- tage : But as remedies of this kind tend to counterad the very intention for which fetons are employed, they fliould never be advifed till it appears that the latter will not fucceed. Setons, as we have already obferved, prove ufeful, by exciting inflammation along the courfe of a finus. Now, one ufual effect of aftrin- gent applications is, to diminifh or even to remove inflammation. They fhould ne- ver therefore be employed till all the or- dinary means of cure have failed, when VoL* I. E e they434 0/ PunBured Wounds. Chap. III. they may be ufed with a view to check the flow of matter when in too great quantities, and to induce fome degree of callofity over the fides of the fore. It is here proper to remark, that prac- titioners have differed much iff opinion with reped: to the ufe of aftringent in- jedions in wounds; for while fome are in the daily habit of employing them, others have faid that they are always pernicious, and ought never to be ufed. In the early ftages of wounds they can never be neceffary ; and as they may do harm by wafhing away the matter too freely, they fliould never be ufed as long as a cure is expeded, either by the for- mation of new granulations, or by adhe- fion: But whenever we have reafon * to conclude that this cannot properly hap- pen, we may with propriety recommend them. Various forms of injedion are mentioned by authors; but none of them are fo harmlefs, and at the fame time an- fwer with fuch certainty, as weak fa- turnlne folutions. Lime-water is ufed with the fame views; and water ftrongly im- pregnatedSed:. III. Of PunEiured Wounds. 435 pregnated with alum, or mixed with aiii equal quantity of claret or port-wine, is often employed with hiccefs. In the treatment of pundured wounds where fetons cannot be employed, it is fometimes difficult to prevent the exter- nal aperture from doling long before any tendency to heal appears in the bot- tom of the fore; and, if not prevented, much mifchief is apt to enfue by mat- ter colleding beneath, and burfting out from time to time. With a view to pre- vent this difagreeable occurrence, tents are employed of prepared fponge, gen- tian root, and other articles, that fwell by the moifture of the fores, and thus ferve very effedually to keep them open. But while they anfwer this purpofe, they are very apt to do mifchief. When the opening of a fore is plugged, up with a tent, the matter can never be difcharged but at the renewal of the dreflings; by which means it will neceffarily colled in fuch quantities as to give rife to abforp- tion, as well as to the formation of finufes, by the matter fpreading between E e 2 the43^ 0/ Wounds, Chap. II^, the layers of the contiguous mufcles. Tents, therefore, which are of folid ma- terials, ought never to be of fuch mag- nitude as to fill the openings of fores. They will not readily do harm when of fuch a diameter as to admit of the matter being dilcharged while they are inferted. But when employed of fuch a fize as to fill the openings entirely, they ought always to be hollow^ by which the a- perrures into the fores will be prevent- ed from contracting, while the matter will be difcharged as quickly as it is formed. For this purpofe practitioners fhould be provided with tubes of diffe- rent forms and fizes, fo as to be able to fuit any aperture they meet with. Sil- ver tubes are commonly employed; but thofe of lead anfwer better. Being foft- ter than the others, they do not create fo much uneafinefs, and they are more readily made to take any particular fliape, fo as to anfwer for finufes of a flraight or crooked direction. Wc437 Se£t. III. Of PunBured Wounds. We mufl: obferve, however, that tents and tubes of every kind fhoiild be ufed with caution; and it is more particularly neceflary that this fhould be held forth to beginners, for there is no point inpradice in which they are more apt to err. As they are early made fenfible of the dan- ger to be expected from matter colled- ing in fores, they very univerfally fly to the afliftance of tents wherevtr a pundure or finus is dlfcovered. But it is right they fhould know that tents are feldom neceflary : For when once a vent is given to matter, the opening will in general be preferved merely by the con- tinuance of the difcharge. In a few in- ftances, indeed, it is otherwife ^ and in all fuch cafes the leaden tubes fliould be preferred. We come now to fpeak of thofe wounds which are attended with lace- ration and contufion 3 and as both of thefe circurnftances require nearly the fame me- thod of treatment, it will not be neceflary to fpeak of them in feparate fedions. Ee 3 SECfTOf Lacerated Chap. III. 438 SECTION IV. Of Lacerated and Contufed Wounds^ Wound Is faid to be lacerated, when the parts, Inftead of being divided with a fliarp-cutting inflrument, are for^ cibly torn afunder^ and when, inftead of a fmooth equal furface, the edges are ragged and unequal: And we conclude, that contufion takes place when a wound has been made with a blunt or obtufe body. Contufed and lacerated wounds are in many circumftances elTeiitlally different from limple incifed wounds 3 but in no- thing more than in this, that while they are commonly more hazardous, they fel- dom at firft exhibit fuch alarming ap- pearances. Thus a Ample cut, which comnaonlySedt. IV. and Contufed Wounds* 439 commonly heals with eafe, is often attend- ed with a much greater retradion of the divided parts, and with more profufe he- morrhagy, than a contufed or lacerated wound. It is a frequent effed indeed of contufion and laceration to prevent the effufion of blood, by which inatten- tive obfervers, in forming opinions of thefe wounds, are very apt to be deceived: For as hemorrhagy is the moft alarming fymptom with which wounds are attend- ed, when it does not occur to any alarm- ing extent, they are apt to conclude that nothing dangerous can enfue. Pradition- ers of experience, however, will not be deceived by this : For it has long been known, that injuries of this kind prove always more dangerous than other wounds; and that the more violent the contufion or laceration has been, the lefs blood is always poured out, infomuch that there are inllances even of limbs being torn off without any hemorrhagy enfuing. The pain of lacerated ana contufed v/ounds is not always in proportion to E e 4 the440 Of Lacerated Chap. Ill, the extent of the injury. Thus, in lefler contufions, the pain is often fevere, while it is apt to be inconfiderable where the nerves of any part have been completely deftroyed. The immediate effed, both of laceration and contufion, is fwelling or tumefadlion in the retracted edges of the wound. This feems to be the confequence of effufion in- to the furrounding cellular fubftance. When the violence has not been fevere, this effufion commonly terniinates in fup- puration; the contufed parts feparate from thofe beneath in the form of floughs; and a cure of the remaining fore is obtained by the means we pointed out when fpeak- ing of fimple incifed wounds. But when the parts are fo much injured as to have their texture much deftroyed, and efpe- cially when any of the larger arteries have been obliterated, there is always caufe to fufpedt that mortification may enfue. In found confiitutions, and where the wound is not extenfive, even this will not often prove fatal: For in fuch cir- cumftancesSedl. IV. and Contufed Wounds. 441 cumftaaces the mortified parts common- ly foon fall off, and a cure is accompliflied in the ufual manner. But in wounds attended with contufion or laceration to any confiderable extent, if the habit of body is not perfedly good, the gan- grene which enfues is always to be con- fidered as hazardous: For the difeafe does not necefiarily flop with, the parts which have been injured 3 but is apt to proceed to thofe which were not immediately hurt by the accident. And again, even where mortification does not fucceed immediately, when parts have been either much lacerated or con- tufed, fuch a violent degree of inflamma- tion often occurs as terminates in morti- fication, notwithftanding all our endea- vours to prevent it ; and in whatever way the difeafe is induced, this proves always dangerous; for befides the rifk of parts immediately necellary for life being de- flroyed by it, the abforption of putrid matter from a gangrenous fiirface pn^ves often fuddenly fatal, even when the lize of /442 Of Lacerated Chap. IIL of the fore is fo inconfiderable as to give no caufe to fufpedl danger. It is therefore obvious, that in the treatment of contufed and lacerated wounds, our principal objedt is to guard againft the acceffion of gangrene. But it is likewife clear, that this is not al- ways to be done by the fame means : For we may readily fuppofe, that much advantage may be derived from blood- letting, and other evacuations, where the injured parts are much inflamed, while no benefit would otherwife probably re- fult from them. This, however, is a point of importance, and merits particu- lar attention. In lacerated or contufed wounds, where the parts are much injured, it is the com- mon practice to give large quantities of bark almofl: immediately, and to apply warm dreflings and other antifeptics to prevent the acceffion of gangrene. It is evident, however, that the indifcriminate application of this pradlice mufl: frequent- ly do mifchief; For however beneficial it maySeft. IV. and Contufed Wounds. 443 may be In particular cafes, where gan- grene has already taken place, it Is cer- tain that It will rather do harm where fymptoms of inflammation ftill continue violent; and unlefs mortification aftually exifts, it is not clear that in any inftance it ever proves ufeful ; for although we have various proofs of the efficacy of bark in putting a flop to the progrefs of gangrene, I have never been fenfible of any advantage being derived from it, when ufed as a preventative. Gangrene may arife In thefe wounds from two caufes : From the ftoppage of the circulation by the total deftrudion of large blood-veflels; and from violent inflammation. Gangrene proceeding from inflamma- tion is here moft to be dreaded; for that which arifes from the deftrudion of blood- velTels is by no means frequent. The in- flammation therefore which takes place in lacerated wounds, demands always our plofeft attention. As444 0/ Lacerated Chap. IIL As the hemorrhagy, fubfequent to con- tufion or laceration, is feldom alarming, and as blood ^difcharged from the injured veflels, tends more effedually than any other remedy to prevent inflammation; fuch quantities fliould be taken away in this manner as the nature of the wound may indicate, and the flrength of the pa- tient may admit. After this, if the di- vided arteries continue to throw out blood, they mu ft be fecured with liga- tures ; for till the difcharge of blood is flopped, the patient will not confider him- felf as fafe ; nor can the wound be exa- mined with accuracy. The parts are now to be cleared of all extraneous bodies, as far as this can be done with propriety, and are to be placed as much as poflible in their natural fituation; but no kind of future fhould be employed for their re- tention. If the violence done to them is conliderable, and efpecially if accompa- nied with much pain, it will be liill ne- ceflary to take blood in proportion to the flrength of the patient; and the befl me- thodSeft. IV, afid Contufed Wounds. 445 as thod of doing it is by means of leeches, applied as near as pollible to the edges of the fore. Indeed no remedy I have em- ployed proves fo certainly ufeful in lace- rated or contufed wounds as the difcharge of blood in this manner; for it not only tends to prevent the inflammatory lymp- toms from running high, but very com- monly renders the pain moderate, even when it has prevloufly been fevere. It ought never therefore to be omitted; but the praditioner fliould take care that it be proportioned to the violence or urgency of the' fymptoms: For the difcharge of a fmall quantity of blood will in fome cafes of contufion or laceration prove fully fuf- ficient; while in others, it is neceflary to repeat the operation once and again. i\s foon as a fufBcient quantity of blood is difcharged, the parts aflfeded, after be- ing drefled with pledgits of any emollient ointment, fhould be completely covered with a warm emollient poultice; and this, together with warm fomentations, fliould ^e renewed three or four times a-day, fo446 Of Lacerated Chap. III. as to promote, with as much certainty as poffible, the formation of pus. To induce fuppuration in lacerated wounds, is indeed an objed: of the firfl: importance: It ge- nerally relieves all the fymptoms; and till fuch time as it takes place, we have often reafon to dread the event. We commonly find, when fores of this defcription become covered with good pus, that the pain and tenfion abate; and fuch of die parts as have been much lacerated and contufed, and which hitherto have been floughy or perhaps black with mor- tification, begin now to feparate from thofe beneath: And this being accomplifhed, they may in general be cured in the fame manner with wounds of any other kind.. Nay, when brought to this healing ft ate, we may often attempt with fafety to for- ward the cure by drawing the edges of the retraded fkin into contad, either by means of the uniting bandage, or with ad- hefive plafters; for although this would be improper in the commencement of fuch wounds, while there is any rillv of the ten- fionSed. IV. and Contufed Wounds. 447 lion and inflammation proceeding too far, it may with much propriety be advifed when there is no longer re,afon to be afraid of thefe fymptoms. When practitioners are immediately call- ed, and have employed the means we have mentioned in due time, they will very com- monly prove fuccefsful: But it frequently happens, whether from the violence of the injury, the tendency in fome conftitutions not only to inflammation but to gangrene, or from the proper remedies not being timeoufly applied, that all the fymptoms become daily worfe, and, notwithftanding repeated blood-lettings both general and local, all thofe parts which were at firfl; inflamed become black and mortify. In this lituation we do not trufl; to evacua- tions : On the. contrary, whatever tends to debilitate Ihould be avoided ^ and we know from experience, that in fuch cir- cumftances, no remedies prove fo ufeful as thofe which invigorate and reftore the tone of the fyftem. With 2448 Of Lacerated Chap. II With this view, the patient ihould be defired to live upon nourifhing food. He fliould be allowed as large a quantity as- he can take, of good wine, or flrong malt- liquor ^ and Peruvian bark fliould be given in as large dofes, and thefe as frequently repeated, as his ftornach will permit. In- deed bark is perhaps the only remedy on which we can place dependence 3 and as we know from experience that it may with fafety be given in great quantities, it fliould always be exhibited^without far- ther limitation than neceflarily arifes from the date of the ftornach. We may re- mark, too, that it proves in general ufeful nearly in proportion to the quantity em- ployed ; and it often happens, that large dofes are not more naufeated than thofe of not more than half the quantity. Where it is of importance to throw in a large quantity of bark in a fliorc fpace of time, as is always the cafe in gangrene, it (hould never be given in lefs than dofes of a dram, or even two drams, when the patient can bear it 3 and thefe fliould be repeated eve- iT ISfe6l. IV. and Contufed Wounds. 449 ry hour. Bark, in feme cafes, feeilis to prove more powerful when conjoined with the vitriolic acid: Elixir of vitriol may therefore be given along with it. In gan- grene arlfing from debility, opium fre- quently proves ufeful; and as it does not counteract the bark, the two remedies may with fafety be preferibed together. In the mean time-, the Itate of the fore requires particular attention. As long as any tendency prevails in the contiguous parts to inflammation, the belt applica- tions, perhaps, are warm emollient poul- tices and fomentations; for, as we have elfewhere fhown, that the feparation of mortified parts is commonly elleCled by the formation of matter between them and the adjoining found parts, we neceifa- rlly derive mofl: advantage from whatever tends to promote it *. But as no fuppu- ratipn will occur without fome degree of inflammation, when there is no reafon to imagine that this will otherwife happen, VoL. I. F f we ^ Vide Chap. I. where this fubjed^ is more fully eon- lidered.450 0/ Lacerated Chap. III. we fliould endeavour to excite it by ad- vlfing warm dreilings to the fore, and efpecially by the application of ftimu- lants to the contiguous parts. Mu- flard applied m the form of a poul- tice, as well as other rubefacients, have proved ufeful in this manner; and I have employed with advantage a ftrong folutlon of crude fal-ammoniac In vine- gar and water. It Is proper, however, to obferve, that this practice mufl: be ma- naged with caution: For a high degree of inflammation might often prove detrimen- tal, while in every inftance it would be unneceiTary; and we know from experi- ence, that a fmall degree of it Is fuffi- cient. As foon, therefore, as It is obfer- ved that the mortified parts are furround- ed with a kind of inflamed ring, the fl:I- mulating applications fliould be removed, in order to give place to warm emollients,, for the purpofes I have mentioned. Any parts that are completely mortified may with fafety be removed; Indeed the of- fenfive finell which they produce renders this 2.Sed. IV. and Contiifed Wounds. 451 this a neceflary meafure: But as I have elfewhere obferved, the common pradice of making incifions through the difeafed parts into thofe beneath which are dill found, Ihould never be adopted. No ad- vantage can be derived from it, and it may be produdive of much harm. It is recommended with the view of giving more free accefs to ointments, and other remedies ufed as dreffings, than could o- therwlfe be obtained 3 but I have not in any inftance feen it prove ufeful, and in different cafes I have been fenfible of its doing mifchief. It may very readily car- ry the putrid matter of gangrene more deeply into the contiguous found parts than it would otherwife penetrate. In fome cafes it has evidently induced more inflammation than was neceffary; and in more inftances than one I have known fcarifications prove hurtful, by exciting very troublefome hemorrhagies. By perfilling in the ufe of bark, and the other remedies juftmientioned, and efpe- cially if the ftrength of the patient is fup- F f 2 ' ported452 Of Lacerated Chap. Iir,^ ported with wine and nourifliing food, even bad cafes of gangrene will often ter- minate happily ; the mortified parts will feparate, and the remaining fore will heal kindly and eafily with common mild dref- lings : But in other inftances, notwith- ftanding all our endeavours, the difeafe will continue to fpread, and nothing will prevent its fatal termination. When gan- grene is feated in any of the extremities, it is the common pradice, when other means of cure fail, and when mortifica- tion is ftill advancing, to amputate above the difeafed parts: We have elfewhere fiiown, however, that this practice fliould not be adopted 3 and when treating of am- putation, we (hair again have occafion to confider the fubjedl more particularly. In the treatment of mortification, it is a good general rule to advife evacuations of every kind with much caution. This is particularly the cafe with refpedl to blood-letting; but in addition to what I have already obferved, I think it right to remark, that in all cafes of inflammation whereSeft. IV. and'Contufed Wounds. 453 where the approach of gangrene is dread- ed, and particularly in wounds attended with much coiJtulion or laceration, till mortification adually occurs, we (hould .proceed with freedom in an antiphlogi- ftic courfe, particularly in difeharging as much blood as the degree of inflammation may appear to render necelTary; and I infift on this point the more fully, from having often obferved much mifchief en- fue from pracSitioners being too timid in advifing it. Being afraid of finking the patient too much, they avoid the only re- medy that could probably fave him: For, in fuch circumftances, it is the violence of the inflammation of which we have mofh reafon to be afraid; and as we know of no remedy which can with fuch certainty be depended upon for removing inflam- mation as blood-letting, it ihould be pre- feribed with as much freedom as the ftrength of the patient and other circum- ftances of the cafe will permit \ by whiclx the acceflion of gangrene will often be F f 3 preventedOf Lacerated, &c. Chap. Ill, 454 prevented when all the ufual remedies would probably fail. ^ What we have hitherto faid in this and the preceding fedions^ may be confidered as common to wourids In general: We now proceed to confider thofe wo\irids, which, either from the nature of the part wounded, or from its fitiiation, demand a peculiar treatment. SECT.Seft. V- 455 Of Wounds, &c. SECTION V. Of Wounds in the Veins. IT is for the moft part difficult to re- ftrain hemorrhagies from wounded ar- terieS) on account of the force with which the blood is propelled into them by the heart, and on account of their mufcular coats, which prevent them from collapfing readily. But in the veins neither of thefe circumftances take place ^ the contradile power with which they are endowed is very inconfiderable 3 and we do not per- ceive that the circulation in them is much affeded by. the adion of the heart. For thefe reafons, wounds in the veins heal with more eafe and are attended with lefs danger than wounds of the arteries : Indeed we know, that the largeli veins are often much injured, and that no bad fymptom will enfue 3 while very trouble- F f 4 fomeChap. IIIo Of Wounds 45^ I cient fome confequences will follow from wounds even of fmall arteries. In ge- neral, therefore, we have no great reafon to be afraid of wounds in the veins: For while we have it in our power to check the hemorrhagy, we never obferve any detriment to enfue even from the obli- teration of the largeft external veins ; for the anaftomifing branches fo readily ad- mit of dilatation, that they foon become fufficient for carrying on the circulation beyond the parts affeded. We commonly find, that a longitudinal cut in a vein heals with eafe when only nightly covered with a piece of dry lint or foft old linen: When this fails, the he- morrhagy may be always flopped by the application of a piece of dry fponge or agaric to the bleeding orifice, and fecit- ring it with moderate preflure. But in tranfverfe cuts in the large veins, or when any of them are cut entirely acrofs, it may fometimes happen either that pref- furc cannot be properly applied to the wound, or that it does not prove fufli-Sea. V. in the Veins. 457 SEC- cient for flopping the difcharge : In fuch cafes efcharotics are commonly advifed, gild by fome praditioners the adual cau- tery is employed; but none of thefe can be depende4 on; and they are apt to create a good deal of unealinefs. The fame remedy therefore fliould be employ- ed here that we daily ufe in hemorrhagy from wounds in the arteries, namely, li- gatures ; which, when properly applied, neither fail in their efFeds, nor produce any material inconveniency. In the ap- plication of ligatures, we* have elfewhere ftiown, that the crooked needle fliould feldom or never be ufed, and that the te- naculum alone fliould be employed.of Wounds 458 Chap. III. SECTION VI Of Wounds in the Lymphatics. 'HE lymphatics are equally liable to JL injuries with other parts of the bo- dy : As they often lie contiguous to veins, they are fometimes/wounded in the operation of blood-letting; and not unfrequently they are cut iii opening bu- boes and other glandular colledions of matter^ When the fmaller branches only of lymphatics are opened, we may readily fuppofe that they will heal along with the reft of the wound ; but a wounded lymphatic is fometimes fo large, that it does not heal fo foon as the other parts, but continues to pour out its contents in confiderable quantity, thus giving a good deal of inconveniency, while at the fame time it weakens the patient : We fhould never^ Sed:. VI. ■ in the Lymphatic's, '459 SEC^ never hefitate therefore in putting a flop to the difeharge. Various means have been propofed for effeding this. In fome cafes it has been done by cbmpreflion alone : Aftringents have been advifed, together with the application of dry fponge, agaric, and common puff-ball^ and both the adual and potential cauteries have been nfed. But when moderate prefiure fails, our meifl effedual remedy is’to take up the injured lymphatic with a ligature, in the fanife rnahher we do wounded arteries. No objedion ban be made to this 3 and it anfwers the purpofe in the mod certain manner.^ \ i"'4^0 Of Wounds in the Chap. Ill* SECTION VIE Of Wounds in the Nerves and ^endons^ and Ruptures of the Tendons. IN a preceding part of this chapter I had occafion to fpeak of the confequen- ces which fometimes refult from the par- tial divifion of nerves and tendons, and of the means which feem to be heft adapted for removing them. When treating of blood letting, I fhall again find it ne- cetTary to enter upon the fame fnbjecS, lb that our obfervations to be jinade upon it at prefent will not be nnmerou§. It mu ft often happen, that nerves and tendons are partially divided along with other parts; but when no pain enfues from it, this accident does not particular^ ly come under the obfervation of pradli^ tioners. In fuch cafes they heal along with the other parts of the wound : But inSetS. VII. Nerves and T^endons. 461 In various inftances, either from fome lingular degree of irritability in the in» jured parts, or from a peculiarity of con- ftitution which we cannot explain, the llighteft pimdure of a nerve or of a ten- don, will induce very fevere pain, inflam- mation, convullions, and even death. Whenever we have reafon to fafpecl, from the violence of the pain, that the other fymptoms may fupervene, the moft elFedhial means fhould be immediately ufed for preventing them: For when once convullions take place, we are never certain of being able to allay them. In fome cafes, large dofcs of opiates an- fwer the purpofe: But when they do not very quickly prove fuccefsful, no time Ihould be loft in putting the only remedy in pradice, on which we can place much dependence ; and that is, the complete divifion of the injured nerve or tendon. By this we may indeed induce a certain degree of infenlibility in the parts be- neath, or they may, even be deprived of the power of voluntary motion: But any inconvenience462 Of Wounds in the Chap. IIL inconvenience which this may occafion will be trifling, when compared with the advantages which refult from the Operation : For I can from experience aflert, that it feldom fails an removing all the fymptoms, when timeoufly employed ; while in various inftances, wounds of this kind have terminated in death where it has been omitted. In this manner we may obviate the effedl: of punctures and partial wounds, either in nerves or tendons : But it is neceffary to mention the method of treat- ment to be purfued in the healing of wounds or ruptures of large tendons, when completely divided. As a complete di- vifion of any of the large tendons is al- ways attended with much retraction, it was long ago inculcated by practitioners, to draw the retraCted extremities of the ruptured tendon into contact, and to re- tain them in this lituation by futures : And this being done, and the limb placed in a favourable fituation, the reft of the fore was treated in the ufual way. ThereSea. VII. Nerves and T^endons. 463 There is no reafon to doubt of cures having been often accompliflied in this manner : Nay, where tendons have been ruerely ruptured, without any external wound, as often happens with the tendo Achillls, the retraded ends of the ten- don have been laid bare by an incifion, for the very purpofe of retaining them by futures. This, however, is a very painful operation; and as the fame in- tention may be accomplifhed in a more fimple manner, it ought to be laid afide. When it was firft propofed to unite rup- tured or wounded tendons by means of futures, it was the common opinion, that, in order to infure a reunion of the divided parts, it was abfolutely neceilary to bring them into clofe contadl; and the fame idea prevailed, not merely with refped to tendons, but with regard to bones, as well as other parts. In the treatment of fradured bones and ruptured tendons, it is no doubt a right general rule to endeavour to bring 'the divided parts as nearly into contad as-of Wounds in the Chap, ith 464 as poflible: But we now know that cutes may be accomplilhed where the retradiori of parts is fo confiderable as to render it impoffible to draw them together ; nay, that it has often been done, even where a portion of a tendon or of a bone has been completely removed. Very confiderable portions of bone have been regenerated ^ and although we are not certain that any part of a tendon has ever been renewed, yet fuch adhefions always take place between the retraded ends of the divi- ded tendon and contiguous parts, as tend in a great meafure to fupply the deficiency. Thus I have known different inftances of the tendon of the rotula being ruptured, as well as of the tendo Achillis : And al- though the ends of the retraded tendons could never be brought within an inch of each other ; yet in ail of them where proper attention was given, the cures have been fo far complete, that the ufe of the limbs has been very perfedly re- fiored. Some degree of fliffnefs has of- ten indeed remained for a confiderable time >Se£l:. VII. Nerves and T^endons. 465 time; but at laft even this fymptom has very commonly been removed. Wherever a wounded tendon is fituated, or even when a tendon is only ruptured, and no injury done to the external parts, the limb Ihould be placed in fuch a manner as will moft readily admit of the retraded ends of the tendon being brought nearly toge- ther ; and when in this fituation, the muf- cles of the whole limb in which the injury has happened, muft be tied down with a roller in fuch a way as to prevent them from being exerted in any way during the cure, at the fame time that the parts (hould be placed in fuch a pofition as will tend moft effedually to keep them eafy and re- laxed. Thus, in a wound or rupture of the tendon of the redus mufcle of the thigh, the patient’s leg ftiould be kept as much as pollible ftretched out during the cure, and the thigh ftiould be in fome degree bent, or elevated into an angle with the body, fo as to relax the mufcle itfelf as far as it can be done, while VoL. L G g mOf Wounds in the Chap. Ilf*- 466 in fimilar afFedions of the tendo Achillis, the knee fliould be kept bent, fo as to relax the mufcles of the leg > at the fame time that the footlhould he ftretched out, fo as to admit of the ends of the rup- tured tendon being brought nearly into contad. In applying a roller to fecure the mufcles and tendons in this litua- tion, it fhould be done with a firmnefs fufficient for the purpofe, at the fame time that care Ihould be taken to prevent it from impeding the circulation : With this view, fine foft flannel fliould be pre- ferred to linen or cotton : For being more elaftic, it more readily yields to any fwell- ing with which the limb may be attack- edr The late Dr Monro was the firft wha gave accurate diredions for treating a rupture of the large tendons; and he has probably done it with the more pre- cifion, from having himfelf experienced the effeds of this misfortune in the tendo Achillis. As the method which he points out, and the inftruments which he recom- mends,SeA. Vil. Nerves and "Tendons. 467 mends, afe fimple and judicious, and as they have in various inftances been found to anfwer the purpofe, a defcriptlon of them will be confidered as a proper ad- dition to this article^ The different inftruments ufed by Dr Monro, with the feveral parts of each of them, are reprefented In Plate II. Fig. 9. Is a foot-fock or flipper, A, of double quilted ticken; from the heel of whichj B, the quilted flrap, D, is of fuch a length as to reach above the calf of the leg* Fig. I. A flrong quilted calf-piece, E, with pye-holes, FF, on each fide, through which a lace, fig. 2. is to be pafied, and with a buckle, G, fo placed on its back- part, that when the lacing is on the out- fide of the leg, the buckle will be in the middle of the lower part. Two rows of pye-holes are here reprefented, one on each fide 3 either of which may be ufed according to the fize of the leg. In Dr Monro’s cafe, the foot and leg were firfl: wrapped in foft flannel fmoaked G g 2 with468 Of Wounds in the Chap. III. with fumes of benzoin, when he put on, as in fig*. 3. the foot-fock A, and calf- piece E; and bringing the flrap H thro’ the buckle G, he could by it extend the foot, and pull down the calf to'what de- gree might be judged proper, and there it was fecured with the buckle. This bandage anfwered the intention perfecSly well ; and it was worn night and day. It Ihould be drawn tighter during fleep, and relaxed when the patient is a- wake, and on his guard ^ during which the foot Ihould be placed upon a ftool, as at 13 and the calf-piece fliould be frequently fluffed, or made eafier by loofening the lace fo as to prevent the foot from fwell- ing, which is apt to happen, if this is omitted. To prevent the toes from be- coming uneafy, the foot-fock fhould be left open at the end K. During the firfl fortnight the Doctor made no motion or effort with his foot,^ but was carried in a chair, running on caflors, from one part of his houfe to an- other : x\fter this he began to move the footSe6t. VII. Nerves and Tendons* 469 foot backwards and forwards, fo gently as not to give pain. In a gradual manner the motions were increafed 5 the exten- lion of the leg and flexion of the foot were always flopped on their producing any uneafinels. On beginning to walk, the afleded leg, which was the left, was always put be- fore the right, fo that the left foot might be as well extended as poflible. To pre- vent any danger from falling, a cane was ufed in the right hand. The void between the two ends of the S divided tendon became infenfible in a few I days, except that a foftnefs was felt there more than any where elfe 3 but this part turned gradually thicker and harder, till a knot was formed in it of the fize of a middle-fized plum. At firft this tumor was equally hard with a piece of cartilage 3 but it gradually became fofter, and di- minifhed fo much, that at laft it was fcarce- ly perceptible. With a view to ftrengthen the leg and foot, cold water was poured upon them, G g 3 and470 Of Wounds in the Chap. Ill, and immediately thereafter they were well rubbed. This was firfl: employed fome weeks after the accident: But no ad- vantage being derived from it, the parts were afterwards ftrongly rubbed twice a-day with unguentum altheae, or fome other emollient 3 and this was continued till the limb could be ufed with free- dom. In about two weeks from the time of receiving the injury, the Dodor was obli- ged to go abroad, when he ufed a pair of flioes with heels two Inches high, and ap- plied the machine, which we (hall pre- fently defcribe, through the day, inftead of the former bandage ; which, however, w^^s always put on at night for a month longer. This machine, fig. 8. Is a piece of fteel, the middle (talk of which, L, is narrow but drong; the ends, MM, are thin and concave, and mud be adapted to the convexity of the foot and fore- part of the leg. Three daples, dandSedt. VII. Nerves and T^endons. 471 ftand up from the fore-part of the fteel; one in the middle of each of the broad ends, and the third in the middle of the ftalk. All the fteel, except the ftalk, fliould be covered with foft leather, and the concavities of M M ftiould be well buffed, as the fofter rupture-bandages commonly are. After putting on the fhoes and ftock- ings, one end of this machine was put upon the broad part of the foot, nearer the toes than the buckle of the fhoe, and the other end placed upon the fore part of the leg; then one ribband, or a thong of leather, fig. 5. was put round the foot, and another, fig, 6. round the leg, to pafs through the two ftaples near the ends of the machine, and there fecu- red with ftraps or buckles, but without being drawn tight. A third ftrap or ribband, fig. 7. with its middle, N, ap- plied to the hollow of the foot immedi- ately before the heel, had its ends paf- fed on each fide of the foot through a G g 4 noofe.472 Of Wounds in the Ch^p. Ill, noofe, of a fourth thong of leather, P, that came round the quarter-heel of the fhoe, to be afterwards put through the middle ftaple, where, after thefe ends, q q, were drawn as tight as was thought convenient for extending the foot, they were fecured with the buckle or with knots. See the application of this machine in figure 4. This was continued for the fpace of five months ^ but thofe who may find it inconvenient, might ufe inftead of it a thong of leather, fewed at one end to the upper and middle part of the quarter- heel of the Ihoe, and fattened at the o- ther end to a garter or ttrap put above the calf of the leg. The high-heeled fhoes were continued for a confiderable time: Two years elapfed before they were thrown afide ; by which means, and by treating the injured limb during all that period with great caution, a yery complete cure was obtained; while o- thers, who have not been fo attentive to theSed. VII, Nerves and Tendons. 473 the management of matters of this kind, have not been fo fortunate; fome of them having the tendon ruptured a fecond, or even a third time, and others remain- ing ftiff and lame for a great length of time. SECT.Of Wounds 474 Chap. III. SECTION VIII. Of Wounds in the Ligaments. By Ligaments, we underftand thofe flexible bodies which ferve to co- ver the difFerent articulations, and by which many of the bones are firmly tied to each other. The bones of the pelvis are united by ftrong ligaments ^ and we know, that feveral other bones are chiefly connected by the fame means. But as all thefe ligaments lie deep, they are not much expofed to the eflTe£ls of ex- ternal violence; and the fame caufe puts it out of our power to apply any parti- cular treatment for injuries which may accidentally be done to them. Our ob^ fervations at prefent are therefore chiefly applicable to wounds of the ligaments of joints,Sed. VIII. in the Ligaments, 475 joints, commonly termed Capfular Liga- ments. As ligaments are not fo plentiful- ly fupplied with nerves as fome other parts of the body, feveral anatomifts have been induced to believe that they are not poflefled of fenfibility; by which we might be led to conclude, that inju- ries done to them would, not probably require much attention : But although Nature, for obvious reafons, has not made the ligaments highly fenfible and al- though in a healthy ftate they will bear much fatigue, without fuffering fo much as other parts of the body ; yet the fad is undoubted, that they are rendered ex- tremely fenfible by difeafe 3 and that wounds inflided on them are frequently produdive of very alarming confequen- ces. We have often indeed known the ligaments of joints much injured, nay violently lacerated, with the heads of the bones which they furround being pufhed through them, as well as by other caufes, without any important confequenges ta- king476 Of Wounds Chap. III. king place; nay, in fome cafes, the wounds have healed as ealily as if the liga- ments had not been afFedled. Occurrences of this kind, however, are rare ^ for in a great proportion of cafes, the fymptoms which enfue from wounds of the joints are fevere and hazardous. The effeds produced by this kind of injury are often deceitful: In general nothing alarming appears at firft, nor for feveral days after the accident; and when the patient is treated with care and attention, I have known a week pafs over before any other fymptom has been ob- ferved than ufually takes place in the moft Ample wounds. But, at length, the pa- tient begins to feel an uneafy fenfation of fhiffnefs over the alFeded joint, which by degrees turns more fevere ; when the parts become fwelled, tenfe, and fomewhat in- flamed. In this fituation the pain is of- ten fo fevere, that the patient cannot al- low the joint to be touched : He com- plains of a tightnefs round the whole, as if it was firmly tied or girded; and the inflammation.5"ed:. VIII. in the Ligaments. 477 inflammation, which^at firfl; was confined to the joint itfelf, is now apt to fpread o ver the whole limb. If the wound or laceration In the cap- fular ligament is large, the fynovia is of- ten difcharged in confiderable quantities at firfl: 3 but the fwelling induced by the inflammation gradually puts a flop to this, till at lafl the wound becomes dry and floughy. In the courfe of a few days, however, extenfive fuppurations begin to form over the joint; and on thefe being laid open, large quantities of pus are dif- charged, together with fynovia. By this the tenfion and fenfation of girding are immediately removed, and the patient ob- tains relief ^ but fucceflive fuppurations commonly take place, which from time to time excite a renew^al of all the fymp- toms, and by which the patient’s health is at lafl greatly injured. When wounds of ligaments do not heal quickly, and almofl without the forma- tion of matter, this is in general the man- ner in which they terminate; at leafl it is47^ Vifounds Chap. is the cafe in the larger joints, and it is in thefe chiefly that they commonly prove alarming. From this hiftory of the rife and pro- grefs of the fymptoms, fome advantage may be derived in condading the cure. From this it is evident, that it is not merely the injury done to the ligament which we have to dread, but a fecondary train of fymptoms, which are apt to re-^ fult from it. Although none of the li- ning membranes of cavities, which are naturally (hut up from the air, feem to be endowed with much fenfibility, it feems to be a common efled of air being ad- mitted to give them a high degree of it. Of this we have frequent proofs in wounds penetrating the thorax and ab- domen ; and it is chiefly to this caufe that we are to attribute thofe confequences which refult from wounds in the capfular ligaments of joints. This points out a very important cir- cumftance in the treatment of thefe wounds, namely, the prevention, as far as is in our power, of air finding accefs^ to479 Se(S. VIII. in the Ligaments, to the cavities of capfular ligaments. In large lacerated wounds, this will, for the moft part, be impradlicable ; but In common incifed wounds, it may often be very completely effeded. It ought never to be attempted, till we are certain that all extraneous bodies that have been carried in are extraded. This being accompliflied, we may very commonly cover the wound in the capfu- lar ligament entirely, by pulling the Ikin fo far over it, that the wound in the one may not correfpond with that in the o- ther; and as the Ikin about the joints is fufiiciently lax to admit of this, it may for the moft part be eafily done. We are now to fix the fkin in fuch a manner that it may not retrad, either with futures or adhefive plafters: But in general the latter will prove fufficient, if aflifted by the application of a proper bandage ^ and they are preferable to futures, which in this fituation are apt to excite inflam- ination. After the plafters are applied, the fkin and cellular fubftance fliould be480 Chap. III. Of Wounds be fupported in their fituation by pafling a flannel roller fpirally round the joint, fo as to produce an equal degree of com- preflion over it, of a tightnefs fufflcient for gently comprefling the parts to which it is applied without interrupting the cir- culation. The patient fliould be in bed while the dreJffings are applied, fo that they may not afterwards be liable to be moved; and the limb fliould be put upon a pillow, and placed in fuch a fi- tuation as admits of the fkin and o- ther teguments being completely relaxed, which will be found to be different in different parts even of the fame joint. Thus, in wounds on the anterior part of the knee, the leg fhould be kept extend- ed during the whole progrefs of the cure % for in this fituation the fkin which co- vers the fore part of the joint is mofl effedually relaxed 3 while, for a fimi- lar reafon, in penetrating wounds enter- ing from the ham, the leg fliould be kept bent. In 3Sedl. VIII. in the Ligaments. 481 In the mean time^ in order to prevent the acceffion of inflammation, the patient fliould be put upon a low diet; his bowels fhould be kept open; a moderate perfpira- tion fliould be excited ; and be fliould lofe a quantity of blood fuited to his age and ftrength. By wounds of the joints being treated with this flridl attention, I have known many of them terminate eafily, which o- therwife, there was caufe to think, would have produced both diftrefs and danger. But when thefe means do not prove effec- tual, or when too long negleded, fo as that the application of them is no longer admiflible, and which is the cafe when inflammation has taken place, other reme- dies muft of courfe be employed. In this fituation, our chief objedl is to leflen or remove the inflammation; for if not fpeedily accomplifhed, it will in all probability fpread over the whole joint, and terminate in an extenfive formation of matter; and this being always ha- zardous, nothing fliould be omitted by VoL. I. H h whichOf Wounds 482 Chap. III. which it can probably be prevented. The moft effedlual remedy which I have ever em- ployed for this is local blood-letting ; but, in order to prove ufeful, it muft be carried to a confiderable length. In ftrong ro- buft patients, eighteen or twenty leeches fliould be applied as near to the part af- feded as they will bite, and repeated daily as long as the continuance of the in- flammation may render it neceffary. Any of the Ample ointments may be applied to the wound itfelf; but one of the beft applications to the joint is the fleams of warm vinegar, which prove often ufe- ful in preventing the formation of mat- ter. And as the pain in wounds of the joints is in general fevere, large dofes of opiates mufl be given to allay it. In a few cafes, I have known the pain much relieved by the external ap- plication of a flrong decodion of white popy heads, in the form of fomenta- tion: But for the moft part nothing proves effedual but the internal ufe of opium. ASedt. VIIL in the Ligaments. 483 A due attention to thefe means will commonly prove efFeclual, if they have not been either too long negleded or too Iparingly adminiftered. From either of thefe caufes, however^ from the injury having been particularly fevere ^ or from fome conftitutional aifedion; the inflam- mation will in fome cafes ftill proceed to increafe ; and, notwithhanding all our en- deavours, will at laft terminate in very large colledions of matter, which will be partly within the capfular ligament of the joint, partly in the fubftance of the ligament itfelf, and in part will be found to have fpread through the cellu- lar fubflance of the contiguous parts. In fuch circumllances, all that we can do is to give free vent to any matter that may form; which can only be done by ma- king an opening in the moll depending part of the colledion as foon as the exift- ence of pus is afeertained. In this man- ner, and by a proper ufe of emollient poultices and fomentations, whenever a new colledion appears to be forming, wc will4§4 Of Wounds Chap. IIL will often be able to fave limbs, which o- therwife it would be neceifary to ampu- tate : But all who have had experience in this branch of pradice will know, that when wounds in any of the larger joints terminate in fuppuration within the capfular ligaments, that the rifl^ at- tending them is great 3 and that we can never, even under the beft management, have any dependence on their termina- ting favourably. The principal reafon, as I have already obferved, of their con- tinuing obftinate, is the inflammation be- coming violent 3 which when not obvi- ated by the means advifed above, is apt to produce fuch large colledions of matter 3 and one abfcefs is fo apt to fuc- ceed to another, that the patient is at lafl: exhaufled, when we are often under the neceffity of removing the limb in order to fave his life. In fuch circumltances, indeed, there is no room to hefitate3 for when the ftreogth is much impaired by the frequent formation of "abrcelfes, if the fame^diipofition continues, and efpe- cially 3Sed'. VIIL in the Ligaments. 485 cially if any degree of hedic fever has taken place, the rifk attending any at- tempt to fave the limb will now be con- liderable, while the chance of fiicceeding will be fo fmall, that it fliould never be advifed. But although I am decidedly of opi- nion, in circumftances fuch as we are confidering, that it is the fafefl: courfe to amputate the Jimb ; yet I by no means agree with thofe who fay, that almoft every cafe of a wounded joint requires the fame remedy. By many it has been aflerted that wounds in any of the larger joints almoft univerfally terminate fo un- favourably, that, in order to fave much pain and trouble, as well as rilk to the patient, it would be the moft advifable pradice to amputate immediately after the accident, before there could be any chance of inflammation taking place. I am convinced, however, that this opinion is founded in error and my reafons for it are thefe : AlthoughChap. IIL Of Wounds 4S6 Although a complete cure is not often obtained where the capfular ligaments of large joints are extenfively wounded, yet in fome cafes It is otherwife. Of this I have met with various inftances : And al- though fuch injuries will not often be £b effedually cured as to prevent a good deal of ftiffnefs and immobility in the joints in which they are feated; yet even a com- plete anchylofis Is an inconvenience to which a patient fhould In moft cafes fub- mlt, rather than to the pain and hazard which uniformly attend the amputation of any of the extremities. As itmuft be admitted, however, that the proportion of limbs faved by this pradice is not great, when the injury done to the capfular ligaments of joints is extenfive, this argument would not deferve our at- tention, if the delay which it occafions were to be attended with any additional hazard, or if it fhould preclude amputa- tion, if at any future period of the fore it might be judged adyifable. This indeed has been alleged by praditioners : But thereSe6l. VIII. in the Ligaments. 4S7 there is much caufe to fiifpedl that they are wrong ^ for many who have been ac- cuftomed to amputate in the late ftages of thefe wounds, have had more fuccefs than ufually attends the pradice immediately after the injury is inflided. And this, in the courfe of my experience, has been fo uniformly the cafe, that fcarcely any have died who were not previoufly fo ve- ry much reduced as to render their chance of recovering very fmall indeed 3 a fitu- ation which we have it always in our power to guard againfl, by advifing the operation before matters are fo far ad- vanced. Where the capfular ligament of a joint has not only been wounded, but much la- cerated and contufed, it may, in a few cafes, be proper to advife immediate am- putation. But fuch inftances are ex- tremely rare^ in fo much, that I have fcarcely met with any, excepting where the ends of bones have been perhaps much lhattered, and even fplintered at the fame time. Where this has not been the cafe,4B8 Of VVoundSy &c. Chap. III. cafe, I have uniformly attempted to fave the limb; and as in many inflances the pradice has fucceeded,and without adding to the rifk of the patient where the trials have failed, I lhall certainly think it right to continue it. END OF VOLUME FIRST.•> ..