DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. Between the two dentate bodies, embedded in the central white matter, are some smaller portions of grey substance, the chief of which is an oval mass on each side, nearly half an inch long, lying close to the middle line in the fore part of the suj)erior vermiform process, and known as the roof-nucleus from its relation to the fourth ventricle (fig. 69). Peduncles op the cerebellum (fig. 77). These are three in number on each side, an upper passing to the cerebrum, a middle (^) to the pons, and an inferior (^) to the medulla oblongata. The superior pedmicle (processus ad cerebrum; fig. 72, I) is directed forwards, and disappears beneath the corpora quadrigemina. It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. The processes of the two sides are nnited by the valve of Vieussens (Jc). Its fibres are derived mainly from the interior of the dentate body, bnt a few are added from the white centre of the hemisphere and the worm. Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the superior peduncle enters the tegmentum of the crus cerebri, and crosses the middle line decussating with the one of the opposite side (fig. 75). The fibres are then connected with the red nucleus (p. 205), and are continued with the longitudinal teg- mental fibres to tlie optic thalamus. The valve of Vieussens, or superior medullary velum, is a thin translucent white layer which enters into the roof of the npper part of the fourth ventricle (fig. 72, k). It is narrow in front, but widens behind, where it is continued into the medullary centre of the worm (fig, 69). On each side it joins the superior peduncle. Near the lamina quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to tlie valve : and its npper surface is covered by four or five small trans- verse grey ridges, constituting the lingula (fig. 81). The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem; fig. 81, mp), commonly named the crus cerebelli, is the largest of the three processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the hemisphere, and are directed forwards to the pons, of which they form the transverse fibres (p. 202). The inferior pedu7icle (processus ad medullam; fig. 81, ip) passes downwards to the medulla oblongata, where it is known as the restiform body. Its fibres begin chiefly in the laminae of the npper surface of the hemisphere. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Dissection. One other section (fig. 72) must be made to expose the fourth ventricle. The cerebellum still resting on its under surface, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes ; and then the structure of the worm, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be observed on separating the halves of the cerebellum. Structure of the worm (fig. 69). The upper and lower vermiform processes of the cerebellnm are united in one central piece Avhich connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this connect- ing piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellnm, viz., a central white portion and investing laminae. Here the branching