159 INTEKNAL MUSCLES OF LARYNX. cleaning the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glands will appear above the fleshy fibres. The LATERAL CRico-ARYTENOiD MUSCLE (fig. 44,^) aHses from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the side, and is directed back- wards to be inserted into the fore part of the muscular Fig. 44.* process of the arytenoid car- tilage. It is concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle and the thyroid cartilage ; and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle. Action. It rotates inwards \ the arytenoid cartilage, op- posing the posterior crico- arytenoid muscle, and ap- proaching the one vocal cord to the other, so as to narrow the glottis. The THYRO - ARYTENOID MUSCLE (fig. 44) extends from the thyroid to the ar^^tenoid cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of its depth, and from the crico-thyroid mem- brane. The fibres are di- rected backwards with dif- ferent inclinations :—The ex- ternal C^) ascefld somewhat and are inserted into the outer border of the arytenoid cartilage horizontal, and form a thick bundle which is inserted into the margins of the vocal process and the lower part of the outer surface of that cartilage. A few of the deepest fibres of the muscle pass from the outer surface of the vocal process of the arytenoid car- tilage to be inserted into the true vocal cord. The outer surface of the miLScle is covered by the thyroid carti- lage ; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle and pouch of the larynx. Action. The thvro-arvtenoid draws forwards the arytenoid Lateral crico-aryte- noid mus- cle : The internal fibres (^) are and inner ^ ^ parts: some fibres from aryte- noid carti- lage to vocal cord; relations: * Internal muscles of the laiynx. 1. Crico-thyroid detached. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid. 3. Lateral crico-arytenoid. 4. Thyro-arytenoid, superficial part. 5. Depressor of the epiglottis, consisting of fibres of the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle and others given ofi" from the thyro-arytenoid. 6, Thyro- hyoid, cut. 8. Deep part of thyro-arytenoid.