158 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Kerato- cricoid. Arytenoid muscle lies on back of arytenoid cartilages: Aryteno- epiglotti- dean mus- cles cross like letter X: Dissection of internal muscles. Remove half of thyroid cartilage. Position of muscles. the depression by the side of the vertical ridge at the back of the cricoid cartilage. From this origin the fibres are directed out- wards and upwards, converging to their insertion into the mus- cular process at the outer side of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. Action. It draws the arytenoid cartilage downwards and outwards to a slight extent, separating this from the one of the opposite side ; but its principal action is to rotate the cartilage, turning outwards the vocal process, and thus dilating the glottis. Kerato-cricoid muscle (Merkel). This is a small fleshy slip which is occasionally seen at the lower border of the preceding muscle. It arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back of the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The ARYTENOID MUSCLE is single, and extends across the middle line, closing the inteival between the arytenoid cartilages behind. Its transverse fibres are attached on each side to the outer part of the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. On its hinder surface lie the arj^teno-epiglottidean muscles ; and the laryngeal mucous membrane covers it in front in the space between the cartilages. Action. It dra-\^-s together the arytenoid cartilages, rendering narrower the opening of the glottis. The ARYTENO-EPiGLOTTiDEAN MUSCLES are two Small bundles which cross obliquely from one side to the other on the back of the arytenoid muscle. Each arises from the outer and lower part of the posterior surface of one arytenoid cartilage, and passes to the upper part of the outer border of the cartilage of the opposite side, Avhere a few of the fibres are inserted, but the greater number turn round this border and end in the aryteno-ejoiglottidean fold of the mucous membrane, some reaching the margin of the epiglottis. A slip is also prolonged into the thyro-arytenoid muscle. The ending of the muscle will be seen later when the ala of the thyroid carti- lage has been removed. Action. These muscles bring together the tips of the arytenoid cartilages, and depress the epiglottis, thus assisting to close the upper aperture of the larynx in swallowing. Dissection. The remaining muscles and the vocal apparatus would be learnt better on a fresh larynx, if this can be obtained. To bring into view the deep muscles (fig. 44), it will be necessary to remove the greater part of the right ala of the thyroid cartilage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch from the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the cricoid, and the crico- thyroid muscle taken away. By dividing next the thyro-hyoid membrane attached to the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating the subjacent areolar tissue from it. By the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define inferiorly the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle ; above it, the thyro- arytenoid muscle ; and still higher, the pale fibres of the aryteno- epiglottidean and thyro-epiglottidean muscles in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. On