LIGAMENTS OF ELBOW-JOINT. 323 the centre of the head through the shaft to the lower end of the bone. In rotation in, the great tuberosity moves forwards and inwards, the head of the bone glides backwards in the glenoid cavity, and the hinder part of the capsule is rendered tense. In rotation out, the movements of the parts of the humerus are re- versed, and the front of the capsule is stretched. Fig- 105.* The movements are stopped by the tightening of the capsule, assisted by the muscles on the back and front of the joint respectively. Dissection. To make the necessary dissection of the ligaments of the elbow, the brachialis anticus must be taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint. The muscles connected with the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus digitorum, are to be removed. With a little cleaning the four ligaments—an- terior, posterior, and two lateral—will come into view. . The interosseous membrane between the bones of the forearm will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both surfaces. The Elbow-Joint (fig. 105). In this articu- lation the lower end of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as to produce a hinge-like arrangement ; and the upper end of the radius assists to form the outer part of the joint. Where the bones touch, the surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and they are united by the fol- lowing ligaments :— The externcd lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, which is attached by one end to a de- pression below the outer condyle of the humerus, and by the other to the orbicular ligament round the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backwards to the external margin of the olecranon. The internal lateral ligament is triangular in shape. It is pointed at its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner condyle of the humerus. The fibres diverge, and are inserted in this way :—The anterior, which are the strongest, are fixed to the edge of the coro- noid process ; the posterior are attached to the side of the olecranon ; and a few middle fibres join a transverse band over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with the ligament; and vessels enter the joint by the aperture beneath the transverse band. in, and out. Dissection of the elbow- joint. Bones forming the elbow-joint. External lateral ligament. Internal lateral lis'ament. * The ligaments of the elbow-joint, and of the radius and ulna (Bourgery). 1. Capsule of the elbow-joint. 2. Oblique ligament. 3. Interosseous membrane. 4. Aperture for blood-vessels. 5. Tendon of the biceps. Y 2