CUTANEOUS NERVES OF BUTTOCK. ;637 Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OE THE GLUTEAL REGION. Directions. Both this Section and tlie following one (to p. 665) Directions, {ire to be completed by the student in tlie time appointed for the body to lie in tlie prone position. Position. During the dissection of the back of the thigh the body Position of is placed with the face down ; and the pelvis is to be raised by ^"^"^•^' blocks, until the lower limits hang vertically over the end of the dissecting table. When the body is turned, the points of bone marking posteriorly the limit between the thigh and the abdomen can 1)6 better ascertained. Dissection. The integument is to be raised from the buttock by Take up the means of the following incisions :—One is to be made along the ' iliac crest, and is to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx. Another is to be begun where the first terminates, and is to be carried outwards and downwards across the thigh, ending about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out is to be thrown down. Many of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be found in the seek cuta- fat along the line of the iliac crest (fig. 205). Thus, in front, but "Z'tXx^ZlS rather below the crest, are branches of the external cutaneous, if these have not been cut in the dissection of the thigh. Crossing the crest towards the fore part is a large offset of the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back, but close to the bone, a smaller branch from the ilio-hypogastric nerve. At the outer border of the erector spinse are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccyx two or three offsets of the and by side sacral nerves are to be looked for beneath the fat. .saeium . The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small sciatic, other nor\ i-s and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower JJgj^tJi!^^ incision, where they come from underneath the gluteus maximus. below: Some turn upwards over that muscle, and others are directed down the thigh. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the nerves, and will serve as cutaneous guides to their situation. artenes. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 205). The nerves distributed in the Sources of integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are derived ^us nerves': from the last dorsal nerve, from branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, and from the posterior primary divisions of the lumbar and sacral nerves. The LAST DORSAL NERVE (^) Supplies the buttock by means of its from last lateral cutaneous branch (p. 456). This offset perforates the muscles ^"^^^'^^^' of the abdomen, and crosses the front of the iliac crest to be dis- tributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Nerves of the lumbar plexus. Parts of two nerves of the from lumbar plexus,