578 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Urethra : extent and length ; division into parts. How to open the urethra. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 189). The tube of the urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an average length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life. It is supported by the prostate, the triangular ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is divided, as before said (p. 556), into a prostatic, a membranous, and a spongy part. Dissection. To open the urethra, let the incision through the Fig. 188.* Prostatic part: dimensions and shape; diameter. On the floor is a crest: in the crest is a ponch. prostate be continued onwards to the extremity of the penis along the line of union of the urethral canal with the corpus cavernosum. The prostatic part (fig. 188) is nearer the anterior than the posterior surface of the muscular mass surrounding it. It is one inch and a quarter in length, and is the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement at the neck of the bladder is nearly a third of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the lower end rather less than at the beginning. Separating this part of the passage from the bladder is the emi- nence of the uvula vesicae. Beginning half an inch below this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining (fig. 189 d), about three-quarters of an inch in length, and larger above than below, which is prolonged towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (verumontanuin, caput gallinaginis) : it is formed of erectile substance, with a framework of elastic and muscular tissues. In the crest of the mucous meni- * Section through the bladder, prostate, and urethra, to show the vesicula prostatica and the common seminal duct. o. Bladder, b. Prostate, c. Prostatic part of urethra. d. Vesicula seminalis. e. Vas deferens. /. Common ejacalatory duct. g. Vesicula prostatica ; above this is the middle lobe of the prostate.