94 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY EEGIOX. Dissection to detach inserted back as the last molar tootli ; and its fibres are inserted partly into bmie^amr^ the front of the l)ody of the hyoid bone, but the greater number end, raphe; with those of the muscle of the opposite side, in a median raphe between that bone and the jaw. around it • ^^^^ cutaneous surface lie the anterior belly of the digastric and the submaxillary gland, the facial artery with its submental ofiset, and the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery. The fibres of the muscle are frequently deficient near the jaw, and allow the genio- hyoid to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The j)arts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be shown after the undermentioned dissection has been made. Action. The mylo-hyoid assists the digastric and genio-hyoid in depressing the lower jaw or elevating the hyoid bone ; but its principal action is to raise the floor of the mouth and press the tongue against the palate, as in the first stage of deglutition. Dissection. To bring into view the muscles beneath the mylo- niyio-hyoid hyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the substance of the tongue, the student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with the superficial part of the submaxillary gland ; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneatli the mylo-hyoid, because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Next he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo- hyoid ; and detaching that muscle from the jaw, should turn it down (as in fig. 25), but without injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. muscies^aw Afterwards the bone is to be sawn through on the right of, but the jaw, close to the muscles attached to the symphysis, the soft parts covering the jaw having been first cut. The loose side of the jaw (for the ramus of the bone has been sawn before) is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened up with a stitch ; but it should not be detached from the mucous membrane of the mouth. toi*oue '^"^^^ apex of the tongue is to be now w^ell jjuUed out of the ° ' mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the septum of the nose, while the left half of the jaw is to be drawn down forcibly with hooks. The scalpel should be then passed from below upwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the and cut purpose of dividing a strong l^and of the mucous membrane of the membrane, mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. Define means of a stitch the hyoid bone may be fastened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct, of the hypoglossal nerve and its branches, which lie on the hyo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small off'set ascending to the stylo-glossus muscle ; also of the lingual nerve nearer the jaw. Between the lingual nerve and the deep part of the submaxillary gland the dissector should seek the small sub- nerves,