DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 350 and in tlie foetus. To open right ventricle. Cavity of right ventricle. Apex. Base and its openings. Anterior and posterior wall. Interioi- of the cavity is uneven : on it there are three sets of fleshy columns. Opening from the a.uricle: position, form and size; is guarded by the tri- cuspid valve. the cavity ; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one another in early life, but become more commingled as birth aj)proaches. The placental or pure blood, entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, through the foramen ovale in the septum ; while the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, ilows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of the right ventricle, the student should pierce it with the scalpel below the opening from the auricle, and cut out below near tlie apex of the heart without injuring the ventricular septum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the anterior wall of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks or string, so that the sjDace may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 115) is triangular in form, with the base turned towards the auricle of the same side. On a cross section it would appear semilunar in shape, the septum between the ventricles l^eing convex towards the cavity. The a/pex, of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at a short distance from the tip. The hase of the ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures; one of these, to the right and below, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening (c) ; the other, on the left and much higher, is the mouth of the pulmonary artery (^). The part of the cavity leading up to the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named irtfmuUhulurji or C071US arteriosus. The anterior n:aU^ or the loose part of the ventricle, is compara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The loosterior ivall corresponds with the septum between the ventricles, and is much thicker. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is marked by pro- jecting muscular bands, the columnar, carnece; but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three clifl'erent kinds. Some form merely a prominence in the ventricle, especially on the septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the middle {trahecula' carnece). And a third set, which are fewer in number and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi painllares; these give attachment by their free ends to the little tendinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The auriculo-ventricular orifice (c) is situate in the base of the ventricle, and behind the right half of the sternum, on a level with the fourth intercostal space. It is oval in shape, and measures about four inches in circumference, being slightly larger than the corresponding aperture of the left side. Fixed around the opening is a large membranous valve, which projects into the cavity of the A^entricle. At its attached margin the valve is undivided : but its lower part is notched, so as to form