MOVEMENTS OF LOWER JAW. 87 Anotlier structure—the stylo-maxillary ligament (fig. 22, —is Stylo- described as a uniting band to tlie articulation. This is a process iiaam^en7 of the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder border of the ramus of the jaw ; it gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Articular surfaces of the hones. The condyle of the jaw has a form Surfaces of resembling that of a part of a cylinder, with, its axis directed j''^^ obliquely from without inwards and somewhat backwards. The npper articular surface is placed on the squamous part of the and tem- temporal bone, and is larger than that on the jaw. It includes the i^"^'^^ dee-p oval hollow formed b}^ the part of the glenoid fossa in front of the Glaserian fissure, and the convex surface, known as the articular eminence, which forms the anterior boundary of the hollow. Movements of the joint. The lower iaw has up and down, forward Kinds of luoveiiieiit and backward, and oblique movements. In depressing^ the jaw, as in opening the mouth, the condyle moves Jj^^^^^'^JJ^^j^ forwards till it is placed nnder the convexity of the articular iiow condyle eminence ; but the interposed concave fibro-cartilage gives security "i'^^'^^- to the joint. Even with this provision, a slight degree more of sudden motion may throw the condyle off" the j^rominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and give rise to dislocation. Dislocation. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the capsule are state of tightened; and the fibro-cartilage is drawn forwards with the °' ^ condyle b}^ the external pterygoid muscle. When the jaw is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and Shutting the fibro-cartilage glide back into the glenoid fossa ; and the posterior part of the capsule is stretched. Durino- the.horizontal movements forvoards iuidhachcards of the iaw Forward and 1 IT -1 • ^ c 1 1 1 p 1 uackward the condyle is placed successively opposite the iront and back of the movement, temporal articular, surface ; and the fibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even in dislocation. Excessive inption forwards would be prevented by the coronoid process of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch ; and the backward movement is checked by the external lateral ligament and by the meeting of the condyle with the postglenoid process of the temporal bone. The oblique movement is produced by the condyle of one side Oblique advancing on the articular eminence, while the other remains in the how ' glenoid fossa. If the right condyle advances, the chin moves to the produced, left side, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are carried obliquely to the left and forwards across the upper set. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. Dissection. The condyle of the jaw is next to be disarticulated and drawn forwards with the attached external pterygoid muscle, so maxillary as to allow the inferior maxillary nerve to be seen (fig. 23). While ^^e^^''^' cutting through the joint-capsule, the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close beneath. On turning forwards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some its trunk, fat and veins, the dissector will find the trunk of the inferior maxil-