DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. already seen ; and by removing on the lower surface the inferior lingualis and the genio-glossus, after the former muscle has been examined. The nerves of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit ; but a fresh specimen will be required to follow them satisfactorily. The TRANSVERSALis MUSCLE (fig. 41, c) fomis a horizontal layer in the substance of the tongue from base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat curved, to their insertion into the submucous tissue at the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into flattened bundles, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres of the genio-glossus. Action. By the contraction of the fibres of the two muscles the tongue is made narrower and rounder, and is increased in length. The SUPERIOR LINGUALIS (fig. 40, a) is a very thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the submucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the fraenimi epiglottidis, and from the fibrous tissue along the middle line ; from this attachment they are directed obliquely outwards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue at which they end in the submucous fibrous tissue. Action. Both muscles tend to shorten the tongue ; and they will bend the point upwards. The INFERIOR LINGUALIS (fig. 41, d) is much stronger than the preceding, and is placed on the under surface of the tongue, between the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus. The muscle arises behind from the fascia at the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle : from its attached surface fasciculi are continued upwards through the transverse fibres to the dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the styloglossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and dis- tributed with it. Action. This muscle shortens the tongue, and bends the apex downwards. The intrinsic perpendicular fibres are found near the border of the fore part of the tongue, and can be seen only in transverse sections. They pass from the submucous tissue of the dorsum downwards and somewhat outwards, decussating with the cortical and transverse fibres, to the under surface. Action. By their contraction these fibres flatten and render broader the part of the tongue in w^hich they occur. Medullary portion of the tongue. The central part of the tongue,, which is thus named, is paler in colour and softer than the cortex. It is composed mainly of the bundles of the transverse muscle cross- ing the laminae of the genio-glossus internally and the perpendicular fibres externally, together with interspersed fat. The mucous membrane of the tongue is a continuation of that lining the mouth, and is provided with a stratified scaly epithelium. It