DISSECTIO]^ OF THE THORAX. 358 Relations. Right branch. Left branch. Space at the bifurcation. Ligament of arterial dviet. Arterial duct in foetus : course of the blood. The aorta extends through chest and abdomen. the lungs. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the pericardium ; and beneath its lower end is the beginning of the aorta. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricular appendix. The right branch, is longer and somewhat larger than the left. In its course to the lung it passes outwards above the right auricle of the heart, and beneath the aorta and superior vena cava. Behind it is the right bronchus. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe. The left branch is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fissure of the lung, where it ends in two branches for the two pulmonic lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery pass out- wards, they cross the two bronchi diverging from the end of the trachea, and enclose with them a lozenge-shaped space which con- tains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. Near the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery a fibrous cord, about the size of a crow-quill, passes from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta. This is the remnant of the ductus arteriosus of the foetus, and is named the ligament of the arterial duct. In the foetus the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery are small, and the trunk is continued by the ductus arteriosus, which ojDens into the aorta beyond the origin of the last great branch (subclavian) of the arch. The impure blood then passes from the pulmonary artery mainly through the arterial duct into the aorta, below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be j)nrified. But after birth, when the function of the lungs is established, the current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary artery instead of through the arterial duct and this tube becoming gradually smaller, is occluded by the eighth or tenth day, and forms finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The Aorta is the great systemic vessel which conveys the arterial blood from the heart to the difierent parts of the body. It first ascends for a short distance, and then arches backwards to reach the spinal column, along which it is continued downwards through the chest and abdomen. In the thorax the vessel is divided into three parts—the ascending aorta, the arch of the aorta, and the descend- ino- thoracic aorta.'" The arch of the aorta has been usually described in English textboolss as extending from the left ventricle of the heart to the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra, and divided into ascending, transverse, and descending portions. But the ascending (or intrapericardial) portion differs so much in relations and development from the rest of the vessel as to justify its separa- tion as a primary division of the aorta. The designation "transverse" is very inappropriate for the arched portion of the trunk, which is directed mainly from before backwards ; and the third part of the arch as formerly defined is in no way marked off from the descending thoracic aorta, with which it is therefore here incorporated. The division now adopted has long been in use among Glerman anatomical writers.