AZYGOS VEINS. .371 a small spinal brancli to the vertebra and tlie spinal cord. (See VESSELS OF THE SPINAL CANAL.) The intercostal vein resembles closely the artery in its course and intercostal branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing ^^™* dorsal branch, and then joins an azygos vein. The SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY of the Subclavian trunk Superior (p. 71) descends over the neck of the first rib, external to the cord intercostal of the symj)athetic, and supplies a branch to the first intercostal supplies two space : continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper aortic branch. Its intercostal offsets divide into anterior and posterior branches, which are distributed like the arteries from the aorta. The AZYGOS VEINS are two in number on the left side and one on Three azygos the right, and receive branches corresponding to the offsets furnished by the descending thoracic aorta. The rifjht or large azygos (fig. 120,^) begins in the lumbar veins Large on the right side of the spine ; and its origin is described with the ri^Jht^side,^'^ vessels of the abdomen (p. 544). It enters the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta and thoracic duct, over the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebrie. Opposite the fifth rib the vein arches for- wards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava and joins as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are few and very cavaV°^ incomplete, so that the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it. Branches. In this vein are collected the intercostals of the right branches side with the exception of the first ; m.ost of the intercostals of the ^^^^^^^ left side of the thorax, through the left azygos veins ; and some small oesophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins, with the right bronchial vein. By means of the right azygos vein the inferior communicates with the sujDerior cava, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower haK of the body if the inferior cava should be obstructed. The left lower azygos vein (fig. 120,^) begins in the abdomen in Left lower the lumbar veins on the left side of the vertebral column. Enter- ing the thorax along with the aorta, or through the crus of the i^egius in diaphragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the ninth or eighth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses beneath that vessel f^^^ in o . larger and the thoracic duct to end in the right azygos. It receives the azygos: three or four lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some branches, oesophageal and mediastinal branches. The left up2oer a?:ygos vein (fig. 120,^) is formed by offsets from Left upper the spaces between the superior intercostal and the preceding. Eeceiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The superior intercostal vein is a short trunk which is formed by ^'-J.P^jjj^g^^^ the union of the veins from the second, third, and fourth spaces, ygin: On the right side it descends to join the beginning of the arch of ending of the large azygos vein ; but on the left side (fig. 119, *) it is directed "S^it, B B 2