DISSECTION OF THE NECK. of arteries, of nerves to carotid. Branches none. Internal jugular vein is close to side of artery, except below: brandies. Differences in origin of arterv, in division. Dissection. T3igastric muscle has two bellies, Near tlie clavicle the anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of the artery, but is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Arteries. An offset of the superior thyroid artery descends over the upper part of the sheath ; and the inferior thyroid crosses behind it near the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Nerves. The descending branch of the hypoglossal lies in front of the arterj^, crossing from the outer to the inner side, and is joined there by the communicating branches from the cervical plexus. The pneumo-gastric lies within the sheath, behind and between the artery and the vein. The sympathetic cord and branches i-est on the spine behind the sheath. All the nerves above mentioned have a longitudinal direction; but the inferior laryngeal or recurrent crosses obliquely inwards beneath the sheath, towards the lower end of the artery. As a rule, the common carotid artery does not furnish any collateral branch, though it is very common for the superior thyroid to spring from its upper end. At the terminal bifurcation into the two carotids the artery is slightly bulged. The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN extends upwards to the base of the skull, but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid artery is now seen. Placed on the outer side of the artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian to form the innominate trunk. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close throughout, for at the lower part of the neck there is a space between the two, in which the vagus nerve is seen crossing (on the right side only) the subclavian artery. Sometimes the vein overlaps the artery to a considerable extent. The lower part of the vein is marked by a dilatation or sinus. Near its ending it becomes contracted, and is provided with a single or double valve. In this part of its course the vein receives the superior and middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities of the carotid. The origin of the artery on the right side may be above or below the point stated. Mention has been made of the difference in the place of bifurcation, and of the fact that the common carotid may not be divided into two (p. 62). As a very rare occurrence, instead of one there may be two trunks issuing from beneath the hyoid muscles. Dissection. The dissector may next trace out completely the trunk of the external carotid (fig. 19), and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid, and define their origin and insertion. The DIGASTRIC MUSCLE (fig. 17, ^) consists of two fleshy bellies, united by an intervening tendon. The posterior, the larger of the two, arises from the digastric fossa on the inner side of the mastoid process ; while the anterior belly is fixed to the depression by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw. From these attachments