DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMExX. 466 • fascia, and skin. The taxis. How known from exter- nal : impossible if it is large. Stricture : to free from stricture; in larg( hernia. Rarer liind of internal hernia is oblique i direction with the cord. Coverings are same a in external liernia. Diagnosis not'possible in life.' fascia. Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of an internal hernia are the same as those of an external; and in kind the only differences are that the covering of transversalis fascia is not furnished by the infundibuli- form process, and the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremas- teric fascia. The j)osition of the openings in the abdominal wall, and the straightness of its course, should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind of hernia. Diagnosis. This rupture will l)e distinguished from external hernia by its straight course through the abdominal wall, and by the neck being placed close to the pubis. When an inguinal hernia has attained a large size, it is impossible to tell by an external examination whether i\ began originally in the triangular sp£ice, or at the internal abdominal ring ; for as an ex- ternal hernia increases, its weight drags inwards the internal ring into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling ac<[uires the appearance of a direct rupture. ^eat of stricture. The stricture in this form of hernia occurs most frequently outside the neck of the tumour, at the opening that has been formed in the conjoined tendon, though it may be inside from thickening of the peritoneum ; and it may occasionally be found at the external abdominal ring. Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid bare, and all fibrous bands around it are to be divided without in- jury to the peritoneum ; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot be put back into the abdomen, the sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. In dividing the stricture on a large rupture appearing to be direct, the cut should be made directly upwards in the middle of the front of the tumour, so as to avoid the epigastric vessels, the position of which cannot be ascertained. Variety of internal hernia. Another kind of internal hernia (suj^erior) occu]?s through that part of the area of the triangular space which is external to the conjoined tendon. The intestine protrudes through the wall of the abdomen close to the epigastric artery^ and descends along nearly the whole of the inguinal -canal to reach the external abdominal ring ; so that the term " direct" would not apply strictly to this form of internal hernia. Coverings. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal canal, it has the same coverings as an external hernia, viz., the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fascite, the transversalis fascia ('but not the infundibuliform fascia), and the subperitoneal fat with the peritoneum. Diagnosis. This form of internal hernia would be considered external during life from its course and its form ; and yet it must be remembered that the epigastric vessels are i)laced on the outer part of its neck, while in the liernia which it simulates they lie on