739 MEMBEANE OF TYMPANUM. towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which issues through a special aperture close to the Glaserian fissure. The roof (tegmen tympani; fig. 242, tt) is a thin plate of bone Thereof is separating the tympanic cavity from the cranium. It occasionally perfwi^ed. presents one or more apertures, where the mucous lining of the tympanum conies into contact with the dura mater. The floor separates the tympanum, from the jugular fossa Floor is (fig. 242, j/), and is more or less excavated by small cells, which are extensions of the tympanic cavity, and lined by a prolongation of its mucous membrane. An anterior wall is present only to the lower half of the space, in front is which it separates from tlie carotid canal (fig. 242, cc) ; in the E^acWa^ upper half is the tympanic orifice of the Eustachian tube. tube. The ^posterior wall is similarly deficient in the upper half, where Behind are there is a large aperture leading into a space called the antrum antrum mastoideum (fig. 242, am), from which the mastoid cells are given ofi". Below this opening, but near the inner wall, and on a level with the narrow part of the promontory, is the small conical projec- and tion of the 'pyramid (py). At the smnmit of the pyramid is a small P^^^"^"^' orifice, from which a canal leads backwards and downwards to the aqueduct of Fallopius: the canal lodges the stapedius muscle, with canal Sometimes there is a slender round bar of bone connecting the 'Stapedius, pyramid to the promontory (fig. 242). Some objects that have been referred to above, viz., the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, the mastoid cells, and the secondary tympanic membrane, require separate notice. The MEMBRANA TYMPANI (fig. 243) is a thin translucent disc Tympauif between the external auditory canal and the cavity of the tympanum. 1^1^™''^'^"^ '■ It is rather elliptical in shape, and its longest diameter, which is form and directed from above down, measures about two-fifths of an inch. '''^^' By. its circumference it is attached to a groove at the inner end of attachment; the auditory passage. In the foetus it is supported by a separate osseous ring—the tympanic bone (fig. 243,/). The membrane is position; placed very obliquely, so that it forms an angle of about 45° with both a horizontal and a sagittal plane, the outer surface looking downwards and forwards. It is concave towards the auditory canal, is rather being sloped inwards from the circumference to the centre ; and it projects into the cavity of the tympanum. The handle of the jj^aiieus malleus (one of the ossicles ; b) is attached to the inner side of the fixed to it. membrane from the centre to the upper margin. Structure. The membrane is formed of three strata,—external, it consists internal, and middle. The outer one is continuous with the integu- nemis^^' ments of the meatus auditorius; and the inner is derived from the '^^"1^^^^^^^,^,.. mucous membrane of the tympanum. The middle layer is formed layer, of fibrous tissue, and is fixed to the groove in the bone. From its centre, where it is firmly united to the extremity of the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circumference ; and near the margin, at the inner aspect, lies a band of stronger circular fibres (fig. 243, c), which bridges across the notch at the upper part of the tympanic bone. 3 B 2