559 LIGAMENTS OF THE UTEEUS. The broad ligament of the uterus (tig. 182) passes from the side of Broad liga- the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that organ. ™terus"/ By its position across the pelvis, it divides the cavity into an anterior and a posterior space : in the former the bladder is placed ; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, the small intestine, and the sigmoid flexure when it reaches the pelvis. Each ligament shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, which is corresponding with the bodies contained between its two layers, i^r^e*^ Thus, there is a posterior piece belonging to the ovary and its liga- parts, ment (l) ; an anterior, near the upper edge, which contains the round ligament (n) ; and a iniddle piece, the highest of all, enclos- ing the Fallopian tube (m). Anterior and ijosterior ligaments of the uterus. As the peritoneum Anterior and is reflected from the rectum to the uterus, and from the uterus to jj^aments the bladder, it forms two anterior and two posterior folds or liga- of uterus, ments. The anterior or vesico-uterine pair is smaller than the pos- terior or recto-uterine. The recto-uterine poach, also called recto-vaginal, corresponds with Recto- the recto-vesical in the male. On each side it is bounded by the po^c^f obliterated hypogastric artery ; and below, it reaches beyond the uterus, so as to touch the back of the vagina. The vesico-uterine jjouch is between the uterus and bladder, and is Vesico- much smaller than the foregoing. pouch? The false ligaments of the bladder are five in number, the same as pive liga- in the male, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and a suj^erior : they are all parts of one large piece of peritoneum that reaches from the bladder to the side and front of the pelvis. The j^osterior ligaments, containing the vessels of the bladder, are identical with the vesico- uterine folds, and are much smaller than in the male. The RECTUM (fig. 182, k) is not so curved in the female as in the Relations male, and is generally larger. Descending along the front of the tum^Viz^" sacrum and coccyx to the anus, the intestine is divided into three parts :— The upper portion ends over the third piece of the sacrum, and is of first, enveloped by the peritoneum : its relations are similar to those of the rectum in the male (p. 553). The middle portion reaches to the tip of the coccyx, and has the second, vagina in front, and in contact with it. The peritoneum extends on the front for a short distance. The lower portion ends in the anal canal, which inclines backwards, and third away from the vagina so as to leave between tlie two a space which ^'^^** corresponds, on the surface of the body, with the perineum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani are on the sides, and unite behind this part of the rectum, and the sphincter muscles surround the anal passage. The UTERUS (fig. 182, o) is rather pyriform in shape, and uterus: flattened from before backwards. Unless enlarged, it lies below form and the brim of the pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum ; and it ^i*'^''^^^''"' is supported by the ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards ; and the lower end communicates with the vagina.