SEPTUM LUCIDUM. 219 rostrum of tlie corpus callosuni ; its anterior boundary is formed by the genu of the latter body ; and internally it is separated from the cavity of the opposite side by the septum lucidum. The posterior cornu (o) is narrower and generally longer than the Posterior anterior, but its breadth and length vary much in different brains. ^"^^^ • It extends backwards into tlie occipital lobe, being curved outwards form; I'ound the parieto-occij)ital fissure of the internal surface of the hemisphere. Along its inner side is an elongated white eminence— inner wall; the hippocampus minor (i) ; and the floor is formed by the hinder part of the eminentia collateralis (Ic). The inferior or descending cornu leaves the hinder part of the Middle body of the ventricle op2:)osite the sj^lenium of the corpus callosum, ^^"^" and runs downwards and forwards in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, direction; describing a curve with the convexity outwards. In the roof are roof; contained the fibres passing from the hinder end of the corpus callosum downwards and outwards into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, together with the prolongation of the caudate nucleus and ta3nia semicircularis; and at the anterior extremity is a prominence called the amygdaloid tubercle. The floor is formed and floor, mainly by a loiig curved eminence—the hippocampus major (1), along the inner margin of which is a thin band prolonged from the fornix—the toenia hippocampi, while to its outer side lies the tapering fore part of the eminentia collateralis. The choroid plexus is continued downwards along tlie inner side to the lower extremity of this cornu. The SEPTUM LUCIDUM (fig. 69 ; 70, h; 74) is placed vertically Septum between the two lateral ventricles, beneath the anterior half of the corpus callosum, to which its upper border is attached. It is l^*^^'*^^"' triangular in shape, Avith the base turned downwards and forwards, attach-"*^ and fixed to the rostrum of the corpus callosum. The jDOsterior m^nts; border is oblique, and joins the fornix. Its surfaces look into the lateral ventricles, 02)posite the head of the caudate nucleus. Although so thin as to be translucent, the septum lucidum consists of two is a double laminae wdiich enclose a space—the fifth ventiicle. Each lamina containili"- is composed of white substance, with a thin layer of grey matter fifth internally; and the ependyma of the lateral ventricle covers its^^^^"^^" outer surface. Dissection. The fifth ventricle will be exposed by cutting through Dissection, the piece of the corpus callosum which remains in the middle line, and detaching the anterior half from the septum lucidum. The FIFTH VENTRICLE (veut. of the septum) is a narrow slit in the Fifth fore part of the septum lucidum, where this is deeper. Posteriorly ventricle, and above, the laminae of the septum are united to a variable extent. Like the septum, it is larger in front than behind. This cavity has not any epithelial lining. Dissection. The fornix is to be next examined. To lay l^are this Dissection, body the posterior part of the corpus collosum should be detached with care from it, and thrown backwards ; and the septum lucidum should also be removed from its upper surface. The FORNIX (fig. 70, c) is a thin white layer beneath the corpus Fornix