114 DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Sympathetic nerve iu neck has three ganglia. Other ganglia on hfth nerve. Dissection or upper ganglion; of middle; and inferior ganglion. Superior ganglion is near skull, beneath carotid. Connecting branches with spinal nerves: with cranial below skull, Sympathetic Nerve. In the neck the sympathetic nerve con- sists, on each side, of a gangliated cord, Avhich lies close to the vertebral column, and is continued into the thorax. On this portion of the nerve are three ganglia—the superior near the skull, the middle towards the lower part of the neck, and the inferior close to the first rib. From the ganglia proceed connecting branches to the spinal and most of the cranial nerves in the neck, and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck, where the sympathetic enters into connection with the three divisions of the fifth nerve. Dissection. To display the branches of the sympathetic nerve requires greater care than is necessary in tracing the white-fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their branches have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be required to bring them into view:—The jugular vein having been cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the carotid artery, and the trunks of the vagus and hypo- glossal nerves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loop between the first and second spinal nerves. The several branches of the ganglion are to be traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharynx, down along the neck, and outwards to other nerves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inferior thyroid artery ; and its branches to spinal nerves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part of the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian artery is to be cut through, internal to the scalenus, and drawn aside, without however destroying the fine nerves that pass over it. It is supposed that the clavicle has been removed. The ganglion is placed close above the neck of the first rib; its branches are large, and are easily followed outwards to the vertebral artery and the spinal nerves, and down- v>'ards to the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the three, and of a reddish-grey colour. Fusiform in shape, it is as long as' the second and third cervical vertebrte, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves ; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the pharynx, and the heart. Connecting branches unite the sympathetic with both the spinal and the cranial nerves. JFith the spinal nerves. The four highest spinal nerves have branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the offset to the fourth nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. TVith the cranial nerves.. Near the skull the lower ganglion of the vagus and the hypoglossal nerve are joined by branches of the sym-