DISSECTION OF THE THOIIAX. 368 AirtuLes in lung: mode of In-auching; structure; and ending. Vessels are two sets :— Pulmonary uitery, and veins. Bronchial arteries, and veins. Lymphatics the branch to tlie upper lobe of tlie lung before it is crossed by the arterial trunk, which therefore runs between the upper and middle divisions of the airtube. From this arrangement it would appear that the lower half of the left Ijronchus and the two lobes of the left lung are represented on the right side by the continuation of the bronchus below the artery and the middle and lower lobes of the lung ; and that the upper lobe of the right lung with its divi- sion of the airtube have no representatives on the left side. Bronchial hranches in the lung. If the primary divisions of the bronchi be followed into the lung, they will be found to give oft' secondary branches ; and these, together with tlie smaller offsets of the air-passages, divide for the most part dichotomously. The branches of the airtube within the lung are known as the bronchia or bronchial tubes, and diifer from the bronchi in being circular in section. Their structure resembles that of the bronchi ; l}ut the pieces of cartilage are irregular in shajoe and occur on all sides of the tube, and the muscular tissue completely surrounds the canal. The ultimate bronchial tubes are about half a line in diameter ; and each le'ads to a group of somewhat funnel-shaped dilatations (infundibula), which are beset with air-cells and form tlie lobules of the lung. Vessels of the lung. Two sets of vessels are furnished to the lung, viz., the pulmonary, which bring blood to the lung to be aerated, and then return it to the heart, and the smaller bronchial, which convey the blood destined for the nutrition of the lung. The imlmonary artery divides like the bronchus, and within the lung its branches run usually on the i:)osterior surface of the bronchial tubes, which they accompany to the lobules. The arterial branches do not anastomose together ; and they end in the capillary network of the air-cells. The 2^ulmonary veins are not so regular in their arrangement as the arteries. They arise from the network of the air-cells ; and the branches from adjoining lobules communicate freely together. The larger branches for the most part lie in front of the airtubes which they accompany. The pulmonary veins have no valves. The bronchial arteries are derived from the aorta, and enter the lung on the airtube, which they also follow in its ramifications. They distribute branches to the bronchial lymphatic glands, to the walls of the larger blood-vessels and bronchial tubes, and to the interlobular connective tissue. Other small oft"sets ramify on the surface of the lung beneath the pleura. On the smallest bronchial tubes minute branches anastomose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. The bronchial veins begin by twigs corresponding with the super- ficial and deep branches of the artery, and leave the root of the lung to end in the azygos veins. Many of these veins, however, open into the pulmonaiy veins, both within the lung and in the root. The lymphatics of the lung are superficial and deep ; the latter accompany both the bronchia and the branches of the pulmonary vessels. All pass to the bronchial glands at the root of the lung.