DISSECTIOK OF THE PTEEYGOID REGION. 82 Temporal vein. the eye (fig. 2, h): this anastomoses with an offset of the lachrymal artery (p. 46). The temporal vein begins on the side of the head (p. 6) and lies with its artery in front of the ear. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; it then receives branches correspond- ing to the other offsets of the artery; and it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. The lower part of the neck will now be left for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied salt or some other preservative. Section YI. PTEEYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. Contents of the region. Dissection. Masseter muscle: origin, and inser- tion ; consists of two layers; muscle nearly sub- lies on the jaw; In this region are included the muscles superficial to and beneath the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the temporo-maxillary articulation. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the; jaw, are the internal maxillary blood-vessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to tlie bone, has been partly laid bare in, the dissection of the facial nerve. To" see it more fully, the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should be cut through and turned back- wards, and the fascia cleaned off the surface of the muscle. Should there be any. tow or cotton-wool left in the mouth let if be removed. The MASSETER (fig. 7, arises by a flattened tendon from the lower border of the zygomatic arch, including a small portion of the malar process of the superior maxilla, and by fine fleshy fibres from the dee23 surface of the zygomatic process and the malar bone. It is inserted into the outer surface of the coronoid j^rocess and ramus, of the lower jaw, extending from the angle behind to the level of the second molar tooth in front. The superficial fibres are inclined downwards and backwards, and form a layer that can be readily separated from the deeper portion of the muscle, in which the fibres run nearly vertically. The lower part of the masseter is covered only by the integu- ments, with the platysma and fascia; but the upper is partly con- cealed by the parotid gland, and is crossed by Stensen's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels and branches of the facial nerve The anterior border projects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of loose fat resembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle covers the ranms of the jaw, and the masseteric branches of nerve and artery entering its deep surface. Action. It raises the lower jaw with the internal pterygoid in the mastication of the food.