DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 36 Outline of facial nerve. Dissection of nerve beyond parotid, on temple in eyelids, in the face, on lower jaw. The nervf in the parotid. and muscu- lar branches Vessels and nerves of the auricle. The arteries of the auricle are derived from the superficial temporal {ant. auricular hranclies) and the posterior auricular branches of the external carotid. The veins have a corresponding termination. The skin of the pinna is supplied on the outer surface mainly by the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, on the inner surface in the upj^er part by the small occipital, and in the lower part, together with the outer aspect of the lobule, by the great auricular nerve. The auricular branch of the vagus also reaches the back of the concha. The muscles are suj^plied by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. The FACIAL NERVE (fig. 10), or the seventh cranial nerve, is the motor nerve of the sujDerficial muscles of the head and face. Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve ; the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over the side of the lower jaw. Dissection. The facial nerve is to be displayed on the right side of the face if there is sufficient time before the body is turned ; otherwise it is to be omitted for the present (see p. 1). The trunk of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but its ramifications are mostly in front of the glandular mass. To expose the branches of the nerve beyond the parotid gland, raise the skin from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The diff'erent branches are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and are to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches to the temple have already been partly dissected above the zygomatic arch ; and their junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supraorbital nerve has been seen. Some still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and communicate with the other palpebral nerves ; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar branch of the fifth nerve. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infraorbital, nasal, and infratrochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller. One joins with the buccal nerve over the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower lip, and to the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. To follow backwards the trunk of the nerve through the gland, the integuments shotild be taken from the surface of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland should be removed piece by piece. In this proceeding its small branches of communication with the great auricular nerve, and the deep branches joining it from the auriculo-tem23oral nerve (of the fifth) are to be sought. Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the back of the • ear and to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles are to be looked for close to the base of the skull before the nerve enters the parotid.