DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 39 The inframaxillary branch lies below the jaw, and is dis- infra- tributed to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of this nerve t?uec? will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 59). Section IY. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions. The orbit should be dissected on the side on which the muscles of the face have been learnt. Position. In the examination of this cavity the head is to be position of placed in the same position as for the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull. Dissection. The cotton-wool beneath the eyelids should be taken Howtoopei away, and the bone forming the roof of the orbit may be removed in the following manner. Two cuts are to be made with the saw through the frontal bone, the inner one vertically over the internal margin of the anterior opening of the orbit, and the outer one, commencing behind the temporal crest, obliquely downwards and inwards, to the external angular process: then with a chisel these are to be con- chisel, tinned backwards along the roof of the orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. The piece of bone included between the incisions is now to be tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, which is formed by and bone the small wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the forceps, bone forceps, except a narrow ring around the optic foramen ; and any overhanging bone, which may interfere with the dissection, should be like^vise removed. During the examination of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit is now seen where it has been detached Periosteum from the bone in the dissection. This membrane forms a sac around *^r^^^' the contents of the orbit, which is continuous posteriorly with the dura mater through the sphenoidal fissure and the optic foramen, and is closed in front by the palpebral fascia passing from it to the lids (p. 32). It adheres but loosely to the bones, and is perforated be- hind by apertures for the passage of the vessels and nerves entering the orbit. On the sides, prolongations of the membrane accompany the vessels and nerves leaving the cavity. Dissection. The periosteum is next to be divided along the middle Open of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little P^iiosteuni fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat at this stage of the dissection. The frontal nerve and the supraorbital artery are ^Dlaced in the Position of centre ; the lachrymal nerve and vessels close to the oater wall; exposed.