DISS^ICTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 0U impressions for duo- denum, kidney, colon, and supra- renal body, and three small lobes, viz., quadrate. Spigelian, and caudate. Three fissures, viz., portal or transvers longitudi na], and one for vena cava. Vessels in the transverse fissure. Hepatic duct. the gall-bladder, and is marked to tlie right of this by three impres- sions ;—the one next to the gall-bladder is the duodenal impression (fig. 169, d i), and corresponds to the second part of the duodenum ; more externally is the renal impression (r i) for the right kidney ; and farther forwards is the colic impression (c i) where the liver rests on the transverse colon. On the posterior surface is the suprarenal impression {sr i) already referred to. The three following so-called lobes also are portions of the surface of the right lobe :— The quadrate lobe {q I) is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the viscus. It is impressed by the pyloric end of the stomacli and the beginning of the duodenum. The Spigelian lobe (S I) is the part between the longitudinal fissure and the inferior vena cava, and belongs mainly to the posterior surface of the liver. It forms the bottom of the hollow for the spine, from which it is separated by the diaphragm and the aorta ; and it appears on the under aspect of the organ as a slight projection behind the transverse fissure. The caudate lobe (c I) is a narrow, elongated eminence, which is directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse fissure, so as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates this projection subsides in the right lobe. Fissures. Extending nearly half way across the right part of the liver, between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, and the quadrate lobe on the other, is the transverse or portal fissure. It is situate much nearer the back than the front, and contains the portal vein, hepatic artery, and the nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the liver. At the left end it is united at a right angle with the longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure (fig. 170, f) extends from the front to the back of the liver, between the right and left lobes. In it, anterior to the transverse fissure, lies the remnant of the umbilical vein (c), which is called the round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis) ; and behind that fissure is a small fibrous cord {d), the remains of the vessel named ductus venosus in the foetus. The groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by the liver. If the cava {a) be opened, two or three large and some smaller hepatic veins will be observed entering it. Vessels of the transverse fissure. The vessels in the transverse fissure, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery and duct, have the following jDosition;—the duct is anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The hepatic duct (fig. 170, e) is formed by two branches,—one from the right, and one from the left lobe, Avhich soon blend in a common tube. After a distance of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder (/) ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile-duct {g).