355 AUEICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. Behind the aortic opening, between it and the anricnlo-ventricular Fibro-carti- apertures, is a piece of jihro-cartilage, with which the fibrous rings are united. The muscular fibres of the heart, although involuntary, striped; but they differ in their character from those voluntary muscles. The fibres of the auricles are distinct from those of the ventricles. In the luall of the auricles the fibres are mostly transverse (fig. Fibres of 117, a, b), and are best marked near the ventricles, though they form there but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular are Muscular the auricles Fig. 117. and looped. cavities. Besides this set, there are annular fibres surrounding the appendages of the auricles and the endings of the diff'erent veins ; and lastly, a few looped fibres (c, d) pass obliquely over the auricle from front to back. Dissection. The auricles hav- ing been learnt, separate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-ventricular rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by re- moving all the fat from the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pulmo- nary), and from the anterior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart, let the student note that the anterior surface- is to be recognised by the fibres turning in at the septum, with the exception of a small band at the base and another at the apex; while on the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. To shew the direction of the muscular bundles in the left ventricle, Dissection divide the superficial fibres in front longitudinally near the septum, ^^-^^^ and transversely about half an inch below the left auriculo-ventri- cular opening ; and reflect a thin layer of the fibres carefully towards the left side. In the same way a second layer is to be reflected ; then a third, and so on, each lajei that is raised being about as thick as the thin end of the scalpel. It will not be difficult to demonstrate thus six or seven layers in the wall; and as each is raised, the fleshy fibres will be seen to change their direction (fig. 118). On the right side a similar dissection may be made, and a like and of number of layers may be displayed, but greater care will be necessary * Muscular fibres of the auricles, a. Transverse fibres of the right, and b, of the left auricle, c. Looped fibres of the left, and d, of the right auricle. e. Superior cava, /. Inferior cava. (/. Right, and A, left pulmonary veins. Annular fibres surround the veins.