144 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. branches Branches in the 'palate. The nerves of the palate, though con- nected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (p. 101). are three. Below the ganglion they are divided into three —large, small, and external. Large nerve The large or anterior palatine nerve (fig. 37, ^) reaches the roof of to nose'-*^^^^ the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and courses forwards nearly to the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve. While in the canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments {inferior nasal,\) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in the roof of the mouth it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an offset to the soft palate, small; and The small or 'posterior palatine nerve (^°) lies in the smaller canal, and ends below in the soft palate, the uvula, and the tonsil, external The external palatine nerve is very small, and descends in the palatine. canal of the same name to be distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. Pharyngeal The pharyngeal branch is a minute twig which is directed through branch. pterygo-palatine canal to supply the mucous membrane of the pharynx near the Eustachian tube. Orbital Branches to the orbit. Two or three in number, these ascend branches. through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the periosteum and orbital muscle (p. 50). It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. Uniting Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, with fo^flfth!''' the spheno-palatine branches of the fifth nerve (fig. 37,'), receiving sensory fibres through them ; and through the medium of the Vidian, which is described below, it communicates with a motor nerve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve, and to facial The Vidian nerve (^) passes backwards through the Vidian canal, thetic^™^^' and sends some small filaments through the bone to the membrane Vidian^^ at the back of the roof of the nose (upper posterior nasal branches). At its exit from the canal, the nerve receives a soft reddish ofiset (large deep petrosal nerve) from the sympathetic on the outer side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum, and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large siqjerjidal petrosal nerve (fig. 38,^). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the geni- culate ganglion of the facial nerve (p. 147). compound '^^^ Vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and sym- nerve. pathetic fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the sym23athetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The student may now give his attention to the remaining nerves in the nasal cavity. Seek other Dissection. The nasal nerve is to be sought behind the nasal. bone (fig. 37) by gently detaching the lining membrane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the nerve to the septum, but probably this, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part.