AXATOMY OF THE LUNGS. 367 serous covering tlie mass of the limg may be seen to be divided is marked into small irregularly shaped pieces or lobules. On looking closely ^nd smaif at it, especially at a thin margin, minute cells will be perceived in it. colls. The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a colour pale red; but in the adult the texture becomes greyish, and presents l^l^^^ here and there dark grey spots or lines of pigment, the shade of'' which deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old people. After death, the colour of the posterior border may be Accidental bluish-black from the accumulation of blood. colour. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the Consistence, pulmonary substance appears like a sponge ; but the lung which is deprived of air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from the con- capitation taining spaces through the pulmonary structure, and produces the noise known as crepitation. If the lung contains serum or mucus, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very elastic, this elasticity causing the andeiasti- organ to contract w^hen the thorax is opened, and to expel air tliat may be blown into it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of Specific dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. Wlien the s™^''^^' pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water ; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and therefore sinks. The weight of the lung is and Aveight influenced greatly by the quantity of foreign material contained in ofthciuns. its texture ; ordinarily it ranges from sixteen to twenty-four ounces, the right lung being about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are hxrger, and together about twelve ounces heavier than in the female. Obvious structure of the luxck The substance of the lung is Lung con- composed of small polyhedral masses or lobules, which are hollow, ^Q^^lgg and and again subjiivided into minute vesicles called the air-cells. The these of air- lobules are visible as little polygonal areas upon the surface of tlie lung ; and by inflating a portion of the organ, the cellular structure may be seen. The several lobules are united together by connective tissue without fat; and each is attached to a terminal branch of the airtube, and receives offsets of the pulmonary vessels. The lung is invested by the pulmonic pleura, except at the hilum, serous where the vessels enter. The serous membrane is thin and trans- covering parent, and is closely attached to the lung-substance by means of a fine layer of subserous areolar tissue, which is continuous with the interlobular tissue. Both the pleura and the subserous tissue are and sub- very elastic, so that in the collapsed state the surface of the lung is "^^^^^"^ still smooth. Arrangement of the airtube and imhnonary artery entering the lung. Reiati(«nof It has already been seen that in the root of the lung the pulmonary ^rSms, artery lies at first in front of the bronchus ; but before entering the organ the artery crosses over, and gains the posterior surface of the airtube. On the left side the artery passes backwards above the on left side, undivided bronchus; but on the right side the bronchus gives off and on right.