710. DISSECTION OF THE LEG. the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor halliTcis ; the internal ligament is a small band passing from the internal tubercle of the astragalus to the sustentaculum tali ; and the external ligament (b) is connected to the sides of the astragalus and OS calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 230, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, -which are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 713) the articular surfaces of the bones will be seen, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial cavities. Movements. It is between the astragalus and os calcis that the important movements of the foot known as inversion and eversion chiefly take place. The motion is one of rotation about an oblique axis, which is directed from the upper and inner part of the head of the astragalus, backwards, downwards, and outwards to the lower- and outer part of the posterior extremity of the os calcis. Sup- posing the astragalus fixed between the malleoli, and the rest of the foot free to move, then in inversion the outer part of the os calcis moves forwards and downwards, and the sustentaculum tali in the opposite direction, while the anterior end of the bone is carried somewhat inwards. As a result of this, aided by corresponding movements of the anterior tarsal bones, the fore part of the foot is depressed, and the arch increased ; the toes are moved inwards ; and the outer border of the foot sinks, turning the sole in. In eversion the above movements are reversed. * View of the dorsal ligaments of the tarsus, a. Posterior, h, external, and c, interosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. cl. Astiagalo- navicular. e. External calcaneo-navicular. /. Internal, and g, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments, h. Dorsal naviculo-cuboid band, i, k, I. Dorsal external,, middle, and internal naviculo-cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal trans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones. internal, external, and interos- seous liga- Articular •surfaces; synovial cavities. Movement between as- tragalus and OS calcis: axis of motion. Inversion. Eversion