278 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Aponeurosis of the arm receives ac- cessions from tendons; disposition above, and below: forms inter- muscular septa. Directions to be ob- served. Position of limb. Dissection of muscles, of vessels, and of hollow of elbow. Position of the muscles of the arm. Biceps flexor brachii; origin from the scapula' the inner side and posterior surface of tlie arm in the upper half. The size and distribution of this nerve depend upon the develop- ment of the small internal cutaneous and the offset of the musculo- spiral. The DEEP FASCIA of the arm is a white shining membrane, which surrounds the limb, and sends processes between the muscles. Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons :—thus^ in front of the elbow an offset from the tendon of the biceps joins it; and near the axilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major send prolongations to it. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula, clavicle, and chest. Below, it is continued to the forearm, and is connected to the prominences of bone around the elbow-joint, especially to the supracondylar ridges of the humerus, so as to give rise to the intermuscular septa of the arm. Directions. As the back of the arm will not be dissected now, the skin may be replaced on it until the front has been examined. And to keep in place the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb, these should be tied together with string in their natural position to one another, and fastened to the coracoid process. Position. The limb is still to lie on the back, but the shoulder is to be raised by means of a small block ; and the scapula is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. Dissectio7i. The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the front of the arm by an incision along the centre, like that through the skin; and it is to be removed on the outer side as far as the outer supra- condylar ridge of the humerus, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle ; and to prevent the disj^lacement of the brachial artery and its companion nerves, fasten them here and there with stitches. In front of the elbow is a hollow containing the brachial vessels ; and into this the artery should be followed, to show its ending in the radial and ulnar trunks. Muscles on the Fkont of the Arm. There are only three muscles on the front of the arm. The one along the centre of the limb is the biceps ; and that along its inner side, reaching about half way down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachial is anticus lies beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the inner and outer condyles of the humerus, and to the ridge above the outer condyle. The BICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 92, ^; 93, b) forms the prominence seen on the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either end ; and the upper end consists of two tendinous pieces of dif- ferent lengths, which are attached to the scapula. The short head is the innermost, and arises from the tip of the coracoid process