DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 628 middle cutaneous: internal cutaneous. which lias anterior and posterior brandies nerve to pectineus; branches to sartorius. The deep part gives off brandies to vastus (-xternus. to crnreus and to vastus internus : and long saphenous nerve, The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and extends to the knee (p. 609). The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more small twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper two-thirds of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into anterior and posterior branches. Sometimes these branches arise separately from the anterior crural trunk. The anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee. As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then j)ierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integuments (p. 610). The ]30sterior branch remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 610). While underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator, and nearer the knee, with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve. The nerve to the fectineus (fig. 201, ^) is slender, and is directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the anterior surface of the muscle : sometimes there are two branches. Two or three branches to the sartorius arise in common with the middle cutaneous nerve. B. The deep part of the anterior crural nerve furnishes Ijranches to the several heads of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and one cutaneous nerve—the internal saphenous. The branch to the rectus enters the deep surface of the muscle ; from this branch a twig is sent to the hip-joint. The nerve to the vastus externus divides into two or more pieces as it enters the muscle. From one of these an articular filament is often continued downwards to the knee-joint. Two or three branches to the crureus pass into the anterior surface of the muscle ; and from the most internal a long twig descends to the subcrureus and the knee-joint. The nerve to the vastus internus (fig. 204, ^) is nearly as large as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often arises. To the upper end of the vastus it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued as far as the middle of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee-joint. Its articular branch (fig. 204, ^) is prolonged on or in the vastus, and on the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it is distributed over the synovial membrane of the articulation. This small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 624). The internal or long saphenous nerve (fig. 203) is the largest branch of the anterior crural. In the thigh the nerve takes the course of the deep blood-vessels, and is continued along the artery, beneath the aponeurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nerve passes from beneath the aponeurosis, and is prolonged under the sartorius muscle to the upper part of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous