118 DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. and joins veins: valves; frequent variety; branches. mentioned it issues from beneath the carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, arching outwards and downwards above or over the subclavian artery, and in front of the anterior scalenus muscle and phrenic nerve, to open into the angle of junction of the subclavian with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the veins, are present in the interior of the tube; and a pair guards the opening into the posterior part of the vein. Freq^uently the upper part of the duct is divided; and there may be separate openings into the large veins corresponding with those divi- sions. Large lymphatic vessels from the left side of the head and necky Fig. 29. and from the left upper limb, open into the upper part of the duct, and sometimes separately into the veins (^°). Spinal Examine next the brachial and cervical plexuses, using the de- nerves, scription of the right side (pp. 72 to 74). ori^S^of ^ Common caeotids. On opposite sides these vessels have differ- lef?carotids '^^^^^ ^^^^^ those between the right and left subclavian arteries ; for * the left vessel arises from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer than the right, and contained partly in the chest. The description of the artery between its origin and the top of the sternum will be included in the dissection of the thorax. In the neck Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation, the vessels on both sides so nearly resemble one another that the same description may serve for the two (p. 75). On the left side, however, the jugular * Diagram of the ending of the right lymphatic duct and the thoracic duct in the veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Right, and 3, left innominate vein. 4. Left, and 5, right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7, right subclavian vein. 8. Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic trunk joining the right lymphatic duct, as this is about to end in the subclavian vein. 10. A lymphatic trunk opening separately into the left subclavian vein.