DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 702 Posterior is vertical; its attach- ments. Their use. Both unit the bones. Eotation in checked by- anterior. Special use of anterior, and poste- rior crucial. Semilunar cartilages Common characters. impression on the hinder part of the inner surface of the external condyle of the femur. The posterior ligament (e), the thicker of the two, is almost vertical between the bones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the hindmost impression of the hollow behind the spine of Fig. 226.- the tibia, near the margin of the bone ; and above, it is inserted into a mark occupying the lower part of the outer surface of the internal condyle, and extending forwards to the centre of the intercondylar fossa. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint may now be studied after the external liga- ments have been cut through. As long as both ligaments are whole the bones cannot be sepa- rated from each other. Eotation in of the tibia is stopped by the anterior crucial. Eotation out is not checked by either liga- ment ; for the bands uncross in the execution of the movement, and will permit the tibia to be turned hind part foremost. Supposing the tibia to move as in straightening the .limb, the an- terior prevents that bone being carried too far forwards by the extensor muscle, or by external force ; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put in front of the femur. Its use is shown hj cutting it across, and leaving the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half-bent state of the joint. The posterior crucial prevents displacement backwards of the tibia by the flexors or by force ; and it is stretched in extreme flexion, in which the tibia is being drawn back over the femur. This use will be exemplified by cutting across the posterior (in another joint or in another dissection) and leaving entire the ante- rior ; when this has been done, the articular surfaces of the tibia can be carried nearly altogether behind the condyles of the femur. The two interarticular ov ser)iilunar fibro-cartilages (fig. 227) partly cover on each side the articular surface of the tibia. They are thick at the convex margin, where they are united by * Interarticular ligaments of the knee-joint, a. Internal, and b, external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; the latter rather displaced by the bending of the joint, e. Posterior crucial ligament, with d, the ascending ligamentous band of the external fibre-cartilage. /. Anterior crucial ligament, g. Patellar surface of the femur.