VESSELS OF THE FACE. 27 The inner margin of the orbicularis is free, and bounds the aper- Relations of ture of the month ; the outer edge blends with the difierent muscles 0"^^^^"^^"^' that elevate or depress the lips and the angle of the mouth. Between the orbicularis and the mucous membrane in each lip are the coronary artery and the labial glands. Action. The buccal portion of the muscle flattens the lips against and use. the teeth, turns inwards the red margin, and gives a linear form to the aperture. The superficial portion, derived from the muscles of the angle of the mouth, brings the lips together both vertically and horizontally, so as to diminish the size of the opening, and causes the free edges of the lijjs to protrude. The LEVATOR MENTi (levator labii inferioris) is a small muscle Elevator of on the side of the fr£enum of the lower lip, which is ojDposite the depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the lip has been everted and the mucous membrane removed, the muscle will be seen to arise from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its posi- tion is internal to the depressor of the lip and the attachment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the chin opposite its insertion, and use. assists in raising the lower lip. The j^rincipal Vessels op the Face (fig. 19) are the facial and Arteries of transverse facial arteries with their acconi2)anying veins. The arteries are branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The FACIAL artery (fig. 19, g), a branch of the carotid, emerges Facial from the neck, and crosses the base of the lower jaw immediately in ^^^^^^ ■ front of the masseter muscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner margin of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively course superficial in the mass of fat of the inner part of the clieek. At first it is concealed by the platysma while crossing the jaw, but and reia- this thin muscle does not prevent pulsation being recognised during ^"^"^' life ; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the artery is the facial vein, which takes nearly a straight course, and lies to its outer side. Branches. From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches plan of the are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some of which anas- tomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches :— The inferior labial branch {t) runs inwards beneath the depressor inferior anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lip and chin; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches {r and s). These are one for each lijD (superior Two and inferior), which arise together or separately from the facial, form an^ and are directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the ^^^^}- ^J} each lip :