305 TENDOXS OF LONG FLEXOR MUSCLES. Fiiuilly, the sheaths of the fingers may he opened in order to and open show the insertion of the tendons. sheaths. Fj.exor Tendons. Beneath the annular ligament the tendc^ns of Synovial sac t-lie deep and superficial fiexors are surrounded by a large and loose temions!^^ synovial niemhrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and d(;wnwards into the hand, and sends an off'set into the digital sheath of the thumb, and sometimes one into that of the little finger. Flexor sublimis. The tendons of the flexor sublimis are super- Supciiiciai ficiaito those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament ; and all four tnuimis are nearl\- on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the in the hand digital sheaths (fig. 97, e) ; and each is inserted by two processes into insertion; the margins of the nuddle phalanx, about the centre. As it enters the sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but opposite the lower half of the first phalanx slit for the it is split for the passage of the latter tendon. * Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- Dissection, brical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. Afterwards tlie synovial membrane and areolar tissue should be taken awa}-. Flexor profundus. At the lower border of the annular liga- iv ndons of ment the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into four ^' ])ieces, though in the forearm only the tendon of the index finger is distinct from the rest. From the ligament the four tendons are cross the directed through the hand to the fingers ; and in their course they give origin to the small lumbricales muscles. At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and having passed throuo;h that tendon, is inserted into their , T 1 , , \ ° insertion. the base oi the last phalanx. Between both fiexor tendons and the bones are short folds of the Short folds synovial membrane, one for each. By means of this each tendon is flexor ten- connected with the capsule of the joint, and the lower part of the phalanx immediately above the bone into which it is inserted. The LUMBRICALES (fig. 99, i) are four small muscular slips, which Lumbriciii arise from the tendons of the deep flexor near the annular liga- ""^^^ " ment; the outer two springing each from a single tendon, while the origin; inner two are connected each with two tendons. They are directed to the radial side of the fingers, to be inserted into the expanded insertion; extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx (fig. 97, c). These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons relations: and vessels that have been removed ; but they are subcutaneous for a short distance between the processes of the palmar fascia. Action. The lumbricales assist in bending the metacarpo- use. phalangeal joints ; and by their insertion into the extensor tendons tliey straighten the interphalangeal joints. Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Beneath the annular ligament j^^^^j^j^g^^^^^f^ this tendon is external to the flexor profundus ; and in the hand it of"thumb • inclines outwards between the outer head of the flexor brevis and the adductor oldiquus pollicis (fig. 99), to be inserted into the last X