DISSECTI02i OF THE ABDOMEN. 478 Position is changed by <liapliragin, and by postiire of body. Spleen : position ; relations of snrfaces, phrenic, gastric, and venal )f ends Expose kidney on left si.le. Kidney; situation relations common t( botli, ;nd special >f right, )f left. Pancreas later. The liver changes its situation with the ascent and descent ai' the diaphragm in respiration ; for in inspiration it descends, and in expiration it regains its former level. In the npright and sitting postures also, it descends lower than in the horizontal condition of tlie body ; so that when the trunk is erect, the anterior border may be felt below the edge of the ribs, but when the body is reclined, it is withdra^vn within the margin of the thorax. The SPLEEN is deeply placed behind the stomach, at the back of the hypochondrium and the adjoining part of the epigastric region. It lies very obliquely, the upper end being near the spine, while the lower end reaches about half-way round the side of the body. Its outer or posterior surface is convex and free ; it touches the diaphragm opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. The anterior surface is concave and applied to the stomach, to which it is attached by the gastro-splenic omentum (fig. 157, f/s om) ; the tail of the pancreas also touches the lower end of this surface. A third narrow surface, the internal, lies against the outer border of the left kidney in its tipper half ; and a fold of peritoneum, called the lieno-renal ligament (fig. 157, Ir), which contains the splenic vessels, passes between the two. The upj)er end of the spleen is close to the suprarenal capsule ; the lower end rests on the splenic flexure of the colon and the pleuro-colic ligament. Dissection. The kidney should be examined on the left side of the liody, so that the duodenum may not be displaced. In order to see it, the peritoneum and descending colon must be separated from the abdominal wall; and its casing of fat should be torn through with the fingers. The KIDNEY is situate at the back of the abdomen, opposite the last dorsal and upper two or three lumbar vertebrte, and occupies 2)arts of the epigastric, hypochondriac, umbilical and lumbar regions. Its position is somewhat oblique, the uj)per end being nearer to the spine than the lower ; and the surface which is called anterior looks much outwards. The viscus lies behind the peritoneum, and is surrounded with fat. It rests upon the diaphragm, the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. Its upper end supports the suprarenal body ; and at the inner border the vessels enter, and the duct (ureter) leaves the organ. Differences on the tiro sides. The right kidney is placed rather lower than the left ; it reaches as high as the last intercostal space, while its fellow rises to the upper border of the eleventh rib. The right kidney has in front of it the liver and transverse colon, with the second part of the duodenum along its inner border; and the hepatic flexure of the colon lies against its outer border below. The left kidney has the stomach and pancreas in front, and tlie spleen and descending colon along its outer side. The relations of the pancreas nia}^ be omitted for the present ; they will be found on p. 492.