DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 520 clean the vessels. Renal substance divided into (iortical and pyramidal. Pyramids : number; apex ends in papilla; Extent of cortical sulbstance: colour; consistence. Fibrous coat sends in offsets. Fig. 173.^ Blood- vessels tlie kidney from the inner to the outer border, and to remove the loose tissue from the vessels and the divisions of the excretory duct. The sinus containingthe blood-vessels now comes completely into view. The interior of the Jddney (fig. 173) is seen on a section to consist of an external granular or cortical portion, and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal masses, which converge towards the centre. The pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi; d) are from eight to eighteen in number, but generally more than twelve. The apex of each mass, which is free from cor- tical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla (c). In it are the openings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in number, some being situate in a central depression, and others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the divisions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Oc- casionally two of the masses are united in one papillary termination. The base is embedded in the cor- tical substance, and from it slender processes are continued into the cortical covering. The cut surface of the pyramid has a striated appearance, owing to the arrangement of the uriniferous tubules composing it, and the blood-vessels. If the mass is compressed in a fresh kidney, urine will exude from the tubes through the apertures in the apex. The cortical part (fig. 173, e) forms about three-fourths of the kidney ; it covers the pyramidal masses with a layer about two lines in thickness, and sends prolongations between them nearly to their apices. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is blanched ; and its consistence is so slight that the mass gives way beneath the finger. In the injected kidney red points (Malpighian bodies) are scattered through the cortex, giving it a granular appearance. The kidney has a fibrous tunic or capsule, which is connected to the glandular substance by fine processes and vessels, and is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner margin of the kidney it sinks into the sinus, where it sends processes on the enter- ing vessels, and becomes continuous with the outer coat of the excretory duct. Blood-vessels. The artery and vein distributed to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the organ they suppl}^ * Section through a piece of the kidney, showing the medullary and cortical portions, and the beginning of the ureter, a. Ureter, h. Pelvis, c. Calyx. d. Pyramids Cortical portion of the kidney.