DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 362 To open left auricle. Fig. 116*. Form of cavity of left auricle Openings: four pulmo- nary veins, and to ventricle. Valves. of the vessel acts on the contained blood they are thrown together in the centre of the vessel, and arrest the flow of the fluid into the ventricle. They are concerned in giving rise to the second sound of the heart. Dissection. To open the cavity of the left auricle, the apex of the heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made across the posterior surface of the auricle from the right to the left pulmonary veins. Another short incision should be made downwards at right angles to the first. The heart must neces- sarily be held up during the exami- nation of the cavity. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT AURICLE (fig. 116) is smaller than that of the right side, and is rather oblong in shape, with its longest diameter di- rected transversely. It is joined at each end by the two pulmonary veins of that side: and at the lower and fore part it opens into the left ven- tricle. In the front wall, at the left ex- tremity, is the opening of the appendix (m), which is longer and narrower than the corresponding part on the right side. Musculi pectinati are also present, but on this side they are usually confined to the appendix. To the right of the opening into the appendix, on the part of the wall formed by the septum, is a superficial fossa (fig. 116, o), the remains of the oval apetture through that partition ; this is bounded below by a projecting margin, concave upwards, which is the edge of the valve that closed the opening in the foetus. This impression in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis in the right cavity, because the aperture between the two in the foetus was an oblique canal through the septum. The apertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmonary veins, and the opening into the left ventricle. The mouths of each pair of pulmonary veins are close together ; those from the right lung (i) open into the extreme right of the auricle against the sep- tum, and those from the left lung (k) enter the opposite side of the cavity, near the appendix. The pulmonary veins have no valves. The aperture into the ventricle (Z) will be subsequently seen to have a large and com- plicated valve to guard it, as on the right side. * Diagram of the two cavities of tlie left side of the heart, i. Right jjulmonary veins. A-. Left pulmonary veins. I. Left auric ulo-ventricular opening, m. Auricular appendix, n. Aorta, o. Remains of the foramen ovale.