FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. 677 The siqjerjicial transverse ligament crosses tlie roots of the toes, Transverse and is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the the toe"!' foot. It is attached at the ends to the sheath of the flexor tendons of the great and little toes, and is connected with the sheaths of the others as it lies over them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels issue. The sheaths of the flexor tendons (fig. 218, g) are similar to those Sheaths of of the fingers, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strong opposite the centre of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubri- cated by a synovial membrane, and contains the tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection (fig. 217). In the sole of the foot the muscles are Dissect first numerous, and have been arranged in four layers. To prepare the J^mcles, first layer all the fascia must be taken away ; but this dissection must be made with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the central muscle towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and one or more of the sheaths in which they are contained should be opened. First Layer of Muscles. In this layer are three muscles, viz., Muscles in the first the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor hallucis, and abductor jayer. minimi digiti. The short flexor of the toes lies in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR HALLUCIS (abd. pollicis pedis; fig. 217, a), J^JjJ^^g^.'' most internal muscle of the superficial layer, takes oriqin from the '. . origin; inner side of the larger tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis, from the plantar fascia, from the lower border of the internal annular ligament, and from the internal intermuscular septum. In front, the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the insertion; metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the relations; plantar fascia ; and the other touches the tendons of the tibial muscles, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, with the accessorius miiscle. Action. This abductor acts chiefly as a flexor of the metatarso- use, as phalangeal joint of the great toe, but it will slightly abduct that abductor, toe from the others. The FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM (flexor perforatus ; fig. 217, j^^l^^J'^^'^.^j arises posteriorly by a pointed process from the fore part of the torum larger tubercle of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle divides into four slips, which become tendinous and are directed forwards over the tendons of the long flexor to enter the sheaths of the four smaller toes, where they are inserted into the middle phalanges. In the tentUms^or sheath of the toe the tendon of this muscle lies at first (in this four toes; position of the foot) on the long flexor; opposite the centre of the