NERYES AND VESSELS OF THE TONGUE. 156 invests tlie greater part of the tongue, and is reflected off at different points in the form of folds (p. 150). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-epiglottidean folds, connecting this body to the root of Folds, the tongue ; the central one of these is called the frcenum of the epiglottis. It is furnished with numerous glands, and lymphoid crypts and follicles. The crypts are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are Crypts, surrounded by lymphoid follicles in the submucous tissue, like the arrangement in the tonsil; they occupy the dorsum of the tongue between the circumvallate papillae and the epiglottis, where they form a stratum close beneath the mucous membrane. The lingual glands are racemose, similar to those of the lips and and glands cheek, and are placed beneath the mucous membrane on the dorsum ' of the tongue behind the circumvallate pajjillse. A few are found in front of the circumvallate papillae, where they project into the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on the surface ; others in the hollows around the circumvallate papillas, or into the foramen caecum and the depressions of the crypts. Opposite the circumvallate pajDillae, at the margin of the tongue, glands at is a small cluster of mucous glands. Under the tip of the tongue, ,, ' , RllCl 1)6116311*11 on each side of the fraenum, is another elongated collection of the tip. same kind of glands embedded in the muscular fibres, from which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nerves on the under surface of each Nerves half of the tongue, viz., the lingual of the fifth, the hypoglossal, and sources: the glosso-pharyngeal (fig. 25). The lingual nerve sends upwards filaments through the muscular lingual of substance to the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, and supplies the conical and fungiform papillae. Accompanying this nerve are the lingual fibres of the chorda tympani (p. 98). The hypoglossal nerve is spent in long slender ofi"sets to the mus- twelfth, cular substance of the tongue. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve divides under the hyo-glossus into two and ninth, branches. One turns to the dorsum, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen caecum, supplying also the circum- vallate papillae. The other passes to the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the mucous membrane, extending forwards to about the middle of the border. Vessels. The arteries are derived from the lingual of each side : Arteries, V6iDS 3>Ild the veins pass to the internal jugular trunk (p. 97). The lymphatics lympiiatics. of the tongue for the most part pass backwards to the upper deep cervical glands, and have connected with them two or three small lingual glands on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle ; but some descend to the submaxillary lymphatic glands.