LIGAMENTS OF METATARSAL BONES. 715 233.- the base of one metatarsal bone to the next. The plantar ligaments (fig. 231) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are short transverse fibres between the contiguous rough lateral surfaces : they may be afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another laterally ; the second metatarsal lies against the inter- nal and external cuneiforms ; and the fourth is in contact internally with the outer cuneiform. The articulating surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and their synovial cavities are ofi'sets of those serving for the articulation of the same four metatarsal witli the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, is not united to the others at its base by any intervening bands. The distal ends of the five metatarsal bones are united by the transverse metatarsal ligament ; this has been described on page 686. Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the like parts in the hand, as there is a separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer metatarsals. Articulation of the great toe. The articu- lar ends of the bones are encased by a cayside, and are provided with an up'per and a lower longitudinal hand to give strength to the joint: the lower band is placed between the insertions of the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. A simple synovial sac serves for the articulation. The articular surfaces are oval from above down, curved inwards, and constricted in the middle ; that of the metatarsal bone is exca- vated, and the other is convex. Movement. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone down and in and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform with the navicular bone; and this will contribute a little to inver- sion and eversion of the foot. The joint possesses likewise slight abductory and adductory movement. Articulation of the four outer toes. The three outer tarsal bones of the distal row correspond with four metatarsals,—the middle cunei- form being opposite the second metatarsal bone, the external cunei- form touching the third, and the cuboid carrying the outer two bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped with cartilage, and have longitudinal dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments, mth some oblique in the sole. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 233) are thin bands of fibres, which aie * Dorsal ligaments uniting the tarsus to the metatarsus, and the metatarsal bones to each other behind (Bourgery). plantar, and interos- seous liga- ments. Lateral separate from rest synovial sac. Form t)f bones. Motion ui> and down, and lateral motion. Joints of four onter toes: dorsal liga- ments :