DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 340 Thymus body in foetus : and extent. Remains adult. For the present, tlie arcli of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched. The THYMUS GLAND is an organ which is most developed in the infant, and the use of which is not understood. It is placed mainly in the upper part of the thorax ; and it may be best examined in a full-grown fcetus. At birth it is about two inches in length, and of a greyish colour. It consists of two lobes of a conical form, which touch each other. Its upper end is pointed, and extends on the trachea as high as the thyroid body ; and the lower wider part reaches as far as the fourth rib. In the thorax it rests on the aortic arch and large branches, on the left innominate vein, and on the pericardium. In the adult all that remains of the thymus is a brownish rather firm material in the interpleural space behind the upper end of the sternum ; and after middle life it has generally disappeared altogether. RELATIONS OF THE LUNGS. Number The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the cavity of and use. the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. Form Each lung is of a somewhat conical form, and takes its shape from the space in which it is lodged. It is unattached, except at the inner side where the vessels enter forming the root ; and it is and parts, covered by the bag of the pleura. It has a base and apex, two borders and two surfaces ; and one or two fissures divide it into lobes. Ease The base of the lung is hollowed in the centre and thin at the diaphragm: circumference, fitting the convexity of the diaphragm. Foliow- shape and ing the shape of that muscle, it is sloped obliquely from before level. backwards, and reaches in consequence much lower behind than in front. Its position with respect to the wall of the thorax may be indicated by a line drawn from the sixth chondro-sternal articulation to the tenth dorsal spine ; but it will be slightly lower in front on Apex is in the left, than on the right side (fig. 112). The apex is rounded, the neck. projects from one to two inches above the anterior end of the first rib, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery. Anterior Th^ anterior border is thin, and overlies in part the peri- edge IS thm: cardium. On the right side it lies along the middle of the sternum ^Sir"""" '-^^^^ cartilage (fig. 112). On the left side it and left reaches the mid-line of the chest as low as the fourth costal carti- lage ; but below that spot it presents a V-shaped notch the apex of which is opposite the outer part of the cartilage of the fifth rib. Posterior The posterior border is half as long again as the anterior, and pro- thfcV.^ jects inferiorly between the lower ribs and the diaphragm; it is thick and vertical, and is received into the hollow by the side of the spinal column.