INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. lerve is sensory; The SMALLER PART receives nearly all tlie fibres of tlie motor Anterior root of tlie nerve, and furnishes branches to three of the muscles of the jaw, viz., temporal, masseter, and external pterygoid, and the buccal branch to the cheek. The deev temporal branches (^) are three in number, and enter the supplies T'GlllDOrS,! deep surface of the temporal muscle ; the middle, which is the branches, largest and supplies the greater part of , the muscle, leaves the middle, anterior division of the trunk and ascends close to the bone, above the u|)per border of the external pterygoid ; the posterior is usually posterior, conjoined with the masseteric nerve, and enters the hinder part of the muscle ; and the anterior is given off from the buccal nerve in jj^^^^j-j^j^. front of the external pterygoid. The masseteric branch (^) takes an outward course above the Masseteric, external j^terygoid muscle, and through the sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle, in which it can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the articula- tion of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. The nerve to the external pterygoid generally arises in common Branch to with the buccal nerve, and enters the deep surface of its muscle. pterygo^id. ■ The buccal branch (^), longer and larger than the others, is mainly Buccal a sensory nerve to the cheek. It is first directed forwards between the heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and then descends beneath the coronoid process and insertion of the temporal muscle towards the angle of the mouth. After perforating the pterygoid, it gives off the anterior deep temporal nerve ; and on the surface of gives off the buccinator It divides into branches which form a plexus with temporal, the buccal branches of the facial nerve, and are hnally distributed to the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek. The LARGER PART of the inferior maxillary nerve divides into Posterior three branches—auriculo-teniporal, inferior dental, and lingual. A Inferior few of the fibres of the motor root join the dental nerve, and are "^axillary, conveyed to the mylo-hyoid and digastric muscles. The AURICDLO-TEMPORAL NERVE arises from tlie trunk near Amicuio- the base of the skull, usually by two roots which embrace the ^^"'l**^^^^ middle meningeal artery. In its course to the surface of the head, it is first directed backwards beneath the external pterygoid muscle as far as the neck of the jaw, and then upwards with the temporal beneath artery in front of the ear. Its ramifications on the head are described at page 8. In the part now dissected its branches are the and supplies p . ° branches following :— a. Branches of the meatus auditorius. Two offsets are given to the to the meatus from the nerve beneath the neck of the jaw, and enter that tube between the cartilage and bone. b. Articular branch. The branch to the joint of the jaw arises joint of near the same spot as the ]3receding, or from the branches to the meatus. c. The inferior auricular branch sup])lies the tragus and adjacent the ear, and part of the pinna. d. Parotid branches. These small filaments ramify in the gland, parotid; . e. Communicating branches with the otic ganglion. One or two to join otic