220 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN position mid callosLiiii, wliicli, projecting on each side into tlie lateral ventricle, form. forms part of the floor of that cavity. Its central part or body is triangular in shape, with the base turned backwards ; and it is con- tinuous with the rest of the brain by processes named crura in front and behind. Upper sur- '-^^^ upper surface of the body has the septum lucidum attached face and to it along the middle line in front ; and behind, its median part is united to the corpus callosum. Each border is free in tlie corre- sponding lateral A^entricle, where it rests on the optic thalamus, the velum interpositum being between the two ; and along it lies the Posterior choroid plexus. At its base it joins the corpus callosum in the •■""^1 middle, Avhile on each side it sends off a small riband-like band— the ]josterior cms or tcenia hi])i)ocam])i (fig. 71, c), along the concave anterior margin of the hippocampus major. At the anterior end it is arched part, Qyyp foramen of Monro, opposite the front of the optic thalamus, and ends likewise in two processes or crura, which wdllbe afterwards followed to the corpora albicantia and the optic thalami (p. 228). Under If the fornix Ije cut across near its front, the foramen of Monro surface ^^-^yi l)e opened, and the descending anterior pillars will be seen (figs. 71 and 74). When the posterior part is raised, it will be found to be supported on a process of the j)ia mater, named velum inter- positum. And near its base, on the under aspect, is a triangular marked surface, marked Ijy transverse lines, which are produced by the bylines fil)res of the cor])us callosum appearing in the interval between the two diverging longitudinal l)ands of the fornix : the Avliich is so defined has been called the hjrct (fig. 71, a). Fornix Tlie fomix may be described as consisting of two l)ands, right t«""baiKis '^^^^ which are united for a certain distance in the central part or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in tlie optic thalamus and passing through the corpus albicans, arches over the foramen of Monro, and after forming the body of the fornix, is continued as the taenia hipjiocampi to the hook of the uncinate convolution. Foramen of The FORAMEN OF MoNRO (fig. 69), is a short slit between the fore Monro. p.^^.^ q£ ^j^^ fornix and the optic thalamus. Through it the latera. A'entricle communicates with the third ventricle, and indirectly Avith the one of the opposite side. It is lined by a prolongation of the ependyma, which is thus continued from one ventricle to the other. The student may leave untouched for the present the velum interposituni, and proceed to examine the bodies which have been enumerated in the floor of the joosterior and descending cornua. Hippocani- The HIPPOCAMPUS MINOR or CALCAR AVIS (fig. 70, i) is a spiudle- pusinmoi, g]^j^pg(-i^ prominence on the inner side of the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. If it is cut across, it will be seen to be formed foinied by l^y the calcarine fissure pushing outwards the wall of the cavity fissure.'^ (p. 213), and beneath the white layer is the cortical grey substance passing from the unciuAte convolution to the cuneate lobule at the bottom of the fissure.