95 PAETS BENEATH THE MYLO-HYOID. maxillary ganglion -vvitli its offsets ; and he slioulcl endeavour to separate from the trunk of the lingual the small chorda tympani nerve (p. 93), and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary f^ano'lion. At the hinder border of the hyo-glossus clean the lingual vessels, vessels, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, all passing beneath that muscle ; and at the anterior border find the issuing ranine artery, which, with the companion vein and lingual nerve, is to be traced on the under surface of the tongue to the tip. Adhering to the mucous membrane of the mouth is the sublingual ami gland, and this is to be defined, together with the sublingual artery giand!^"^ which supplies it. Parts beneath the mylo-hyoid (fig. 25). The relative position of Parts be- the objects covered by the mylo-hyoid is now apparent:—Extending j^yoili from the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, the fibres of which are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo- glossus. On the hyo-glossus are placed, from below upwards, the above hyoid hypoglossal nerve, Wharton'si duct, and the lingual nerve, the latter crossing the duct ; and near the anterior border of the muscle the two nerves are imited by branches. Beneath the same muscle lie, from below upwards, the lingual artery, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Above the hyo-glossus is the mucous membrane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior constrictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the chin and the hyoid bone, close to the middle line, is jlyQ ^f^sus situate the genio-hyoid muscle ; above this is a larger fan-shaped muscle, the genio-giossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the anterior border of the. hyo-glossus. On the under surface of the tongue, near the margin, lies the lingual nerve ; and the hypoglossal nerve enters the fibres of the genio-glossus. The HYO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (fig. 24, ^) is thin and somewhat square Hyo- in shape. It arises from the lateral part of the body, and from all 8^°^^"^ • the great cornu, of the hyoid bone. The fibres ascend and enter the side of the tongue ; they will be seen afterwards to mingle with those of the palato- and stylo-glossus.* The parts lying on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus, as well as parts in those passing beneath its anterior and posterior borders, have already been enumerated ; and under the muscle there are also portions of the genio-glossus and middle constrictor. Action. This muscle depresses the tongue, drawing down the use. sides and giving a rounded form to the dorsum ; and if the tongue * A distinct muscular slip (chondro-glossus), arising from the small cornu of the hyoid bone, is sometimes regarded as a part of the hyo-glossus. For farther details respecting the anatomy of this and the other lingual muscles^ reference is made to the dissection of the tongue, Section XV.