310 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. artery of the fore finger. Deep braiu-' of ulnar nerve: muscular offsets. Transverse ligament of metacarpus. Seven inter- osseous muscles, divided into palmai- and dorsal. Palmar go to index, ring and little fingei-s. Dorsal: two to middle finger, one each to index and ring fingers. Common insertion of "both sets. Action as flexors and extensors, as abductor; and adduc- tors. it diwides into the two collateral branches of the tliunib : these are distributed like the arteries of the sujDerficial arch (p. 302;. e. The radial digital branch of the index finger (d) is directed over the first dorsal interosseous muscle (j), and beneath the adductors of the thumb, to the radial side of the fore finger. At the lower border of the adductor transversus (d), this branch is usually con- nected by an off"set with the superficial palmar arch ; and at the end of the digit it unites witli the branch furnished to the oj)posite side by the ulnar artery. The DEEP PART OF THE ULNAR NERA'E (^') accompauies the deep arterial arch as far as the muscles of the thumb, where it terminates in ofl'sets to the two adductors. Branches. Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches to the muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives offsets to all the palmar and dorsal interosseous muscles, and to the inner two lum- brical muscles (^), besides the terminal branches before mentioned. The TRANSVERSE METACARPAL LIGAMENT is formed by cross fibres uniting the palmar ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tions of the fingers, and serves to bind together the heads of the inner four metacarpal bones. To its upper border the fascia cover- ing the interosseous muscles is attached. The ligament should now be taken away to see the interosseous muscles. The INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES, SO named from their position betAveen the metacarpal bones, are seven in number. Two muscles occup}' each S2:)ace, except the first, where there is only one. They arise from the metacarpal bones, and are inserted into the first phalanges of the fingers. They are divided into palmar and dorsal ; but all are seen in the palm of tlie hand, though the former project more than the others. Tlie ixdinar 'muscles (fig. 100), three in number, are smaller than the dorsal, and have each a single origin from the side of the metacarpal bone of the finger to which it belongs. The first is placed on the ulnar side of the index finger, the second and third on the riidial side of the ring and little fingers respectively. The dorsal muscles (fig. 101), one in each space, «?-is-e by two heads from the lateral surfaces of the metacarpal bones between which they lie. The first (abductor indicis) is inserted on the radial side of the index finger, the second on the radial, and the third on the ulnar side of the middle finger, and the fourth on the ulnar side of the ring finger. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination (fig. 97, b) :— The fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the first or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join the extensor- tendon on the dorsum of the bone. Action. They bend the metacarpo-phalangeal joints by their attachment to the first phalanx, and extend the two interphalangeal joints through their union with the extensor tendon. The interosseous muscles also sej^arate and approximate the straightened fingers, the palmar set adducting the index, ring and little fins^ers towards the middle digit : while the dorsal abduct their