31 APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. above, but is separated from it by a narrow cleft below. Inferiorly, the lateral cartilage is contiguous to tlie cartilage of the aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. The cartilage of the a'perture (lower lat. cart. ; fig. 8) forms a ring The lower around the opening of the nose except behind. It has not any aJStJIre attachment directly to bone ; but it is united above to the lateral jiq^ inserted cartilage by fibrous tissue, and below with the dense teguments form- "i^^o i^f»ne. ing the ala of the nose and the margin of the nostril. The part of the cartilage (^) which bounds the opening externally One part is narrow and pointed behind, where it forms two or three vertical ^"^^i'^*^» folds, and sometimes becomes divided into as many small pieces— cartilagines quadratce; but it swells out in front where it touches its accessory fellow, and forms the apex of the nose. cartilages; The inner part (^) is shorter and narrower. It projects backwards another in- in the columna nasi below the level of the anterior end of the septal "^'^^'^ cartilage, being attached to this and to its fellow of the opposite side by fibrous tissue, and reaches nearly to the superior maxillary bone. The Appendages of the Eye include the eyebrow, the eyelid, and the lachrymal apparatus. Some of these can be examined now " on the opposite side of the face. The apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been completed. The eyebrow (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above the eye Eyebrow, which is placed over the orbital arch of the frontal bone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the subjacent orbicularis palpebrarum and corrugator supercilii muscles. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids (palpebrse) are two moveable semilunar folds in front Eyelids, of the eye, which can be ajDproached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the larger and more moveable, and descends below ^PP^^f the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named the palpebral fissure. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free border of each lid is somewhat thickened, and presents Shape of a narrow surface which meets the opposite lid when the aperture is closed, and is bounded towards the eyeball by a sharp smooth edge ; but at the inner end, for about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it is somewhat thinner and more rounded. At the spot where the two parts join is a small white eminence (fig. 14, ^), Papilla, the papilla lachrymalis ; and in this is tlie lacJirymale, or the Punctum. opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near ^ g^y^^^"'^ the posterior edge with a row of small 023enings of the Meibomian glands ; but both the cilia and the glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of the punctum lachrymale. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of curved hairs, which Eyelashes, are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre