COMMON AND EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERIES. 535 net learnt in this stage : the former will be seen after the lumbar 23lexus (p. 543), and the latter in the pelvis (p. 567). The COMMON ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 177, g) is directed downwards Common and outwards from the bifurcation of the aorta, and divides into ^^^^^ artery: two large trunks opposite the fibro-cartilage between the last lumbar extent and vertebra and the sacrum ;—one of these (external iliac) supplies tlie ^^^^^a*'*^"' lower limb, and the other (internal iliac) enters the pelvis. Placed relations; obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length. It is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and sometimes by the ureter. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does usually no not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio- lumbar, or a renal artery. On opposite sides the vessels have some differences. The riqht arterii has the vena cava to its outer side above, and Differences . between near its termination touches the psoas muscle. The companion vein right {p) is at first beneath, but becomes external to the artery at the upper part; and beneath the right artery also is the left common iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the superior hsemorrhoidal ^"^^gj^* vessels ; and its companion vein is situate to its inner side. It lies close to the psoas muscle throughout. The length of the common iliac artery ranges from less than half an inch to Variations four inches and a half ; but in the majority of instances it varies between one lengtli. inch and a half and three inches (R. Quain). The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 177, A) is the first part of the External vessel leading to the lower limb, and is contained in the cavity of lowerlunrb the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of the common extent and iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it becomes <iirection; femoral. And its direction would be indicated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to a point midway between the symj)hysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. The vessel lies above the brim of the pelvis in its course to relations Poupart's ligament, and is covered closely by the peritoneum and rroundl' ^ the subperitoneal fat. The right artery is crossed by the lower end of the ileum, and the left by the sigmoid flexure. To its outer side is the psoas, except at its termination under Poupart's ligament, where it lies over the muscle. A chain of lymphatic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. Close to its origin the artery is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; ^Jg^^gj^g^^^''^' and near Poupart's ligament the vas deferens bends clown along its inner side ; while the spermatic vessels, and the genital branch of '^^'itii nerve, the genito-crural nerve lie on it for a short distance. The external iliac vein (r) is behind the artery above, but and veins. , gradually comes forwards and gains its inner side over the pubis. The circumflex iliac vein crosses it nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament. Branches. Two considerable branches, epigastric and circumflex Two named iliac, arise about a quarter of an inch from the end of the artery, '■ and are distributed to the wall of the abdomen (p. 459).