LONG OCCiriTO-AXIAL LIGAMENT. ■117 The posterior atlanto-axial ligament is also tliin, and adherent to and betweon the dura mater. It closes the interval between the neural arches of ax\s! '^"'^ the atlas and axis, and is pierced on each side by the second cervical nerve. The ligaments inside the spinal canal are much, stronger, and internal assist in retaining the skull in place during the rotatory and nodding bffw'-rn ^ movements of the head. Between the occipital bone and tlie second 1'"i>p«. A'ertebra are four ligaments—a long occipito-axial with a central and two lateral odontoid ; and the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the body of the atlas by a transverse l)and. Dissection (fig. 51). Supposing the neural arches of the cervical Dissection of vertebrae to be removed except in the first two, the arches of these mentl^ vertebrse are to be sawn through close to the articular processes. Next, the ring of the occipital bone bounding posteriorly the foramen magnum is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should Fitr. 52.-'- detach the tube of dura niater from the interior of the spinal canal; and, by following upwards the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae, its continuation, the long occipito-axial . ligament will be exposed. The long or posterior occipnto-axial ligament (^) is a strong flat band Long which continues upwards the posterior common ligament of the vertebraj. It is broad above, where it is attaclied to the upper ligai'" surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone, reaching outwards on each side as far as the insertion of the check ligaments. Descend- ing thence through the foramen magnum, and over the odontoid process, it becomes somewhat narrower, and is inserted mainly into the back of the body of the axis, but many of the superficial fibres are prolonged into the posterior common ligament. Occasionally a bursa is found between it and the transverse ligament. Dissection (fig. 52). After the removal of the long occipito-axial Dissec ligament, by cutting through it transversely above, and reflecting verse * Internal ligaments between the occipital bone, atlas, and axis, second view. (Bourgery.) 1. Check ligament. 2. Transverse ligament, sending offsets, npwards and downwards. 3. Cut end of long occipito-axial ligament. N