199 STRUCTURE OF MEDULLA OBLONGATA. inner side of, and through the olivary body, and join the super- ficial set. Others are deep in their whole extent, and pass outwards into the restiform body, and to the nuclei of the cuneate and slender funiculi. Internally, the arciform fibres enter the i-aphe, through which they are continued to the opposite half of the bulb. There they are thought to become longitudinal, but of their farther course nothing certain is known. The rajphe (fig. 61, between li and 1) occupies the median plane Raphe, of the medulla oblongata above the decussation of the pyramids, and consists of fibres running obliquely, longitudinally, and from before backwards, which are in part continuous with the superficial and deep arciform fibres, and in part spring from the nuclei in the fioor of the fourth ventricle. Formatio reticularis. In the dorsal portion of the medulla i^eticulai oblongata, beliind the pyramid and olivary body (fig. 61, ^ and k), * the longitudinal fibres derived from the anterior and lateral columns of the cord, decussating with the deep arciform fibres, give rise to a structure that is known as the reticular formation of the bulb In the part of the reticular formation behind the olivary body (/.') inter- spersed grey matter containing nerve-cells is also present. Olivary body (^g. 61,/). On removing a thin slice from the Olivaiy olivary body, it will be seen to consist of three parts, viz., an^'^'^^' external investment of white substance, a thin grey layer—-the olivary nucleus, and a central white core. The outer white layer consists mainly of trnnsverse fibres, which belong to the superficial arciform group. The olivary nucleus or corpus clentatum a thin plaited capsule its nucleus, or bag, having a zigzag outline in section. Towards the surface and behind it is closed, but on the inner side it is open, fornung a narrow neck, which is turned towards tiie raphe, and gives I)assage to the olivary peduncle. The central white matter fills the grey capsule, and is formed by the spreading out of a tract of white fibres called the olivary and peduncle, which passes inwards through the opening in the nucleus i'®'^^^"^'*^- to the raphe. The fibres of the peduncle partly terminate in the cells of the corpus dentatum, and are partly continued through the grey layer to join the arciform fibres. Grey matter of the medulla oblongata. The larger part of the grey Grey matter matter in the bulb is a continuation of that of the cord, but there are in. addition some smaller independent masses. Prolongation of grey matter of the spinal cord. At the lower end prolonged of the medulla oblongata the central grey matter resembles that in ^'^"^ " the.spinal cord (fig. 140), but as it extends upwards it undergoes the following changes :— The anterior cornu is broken up by the passage through it of the Changes in fibres of the crossed pyramidal tract, and the detached extremity of hon"^^ the horn is continued upwards in the lateral tract for some distance as the lateral nucleus. The posterior cornu is pushed outwards by the increasing in posterior development of the slender and cuneate funiculi, audits extremity