78 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. continued to the tliorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves."^ The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (fig. 19, cl) Springs froni the bifurcation of the common carotid opj^osite the thyro-hyoid interval, and furnishes branches to the neck, and face, and the outer part of the head. From the place of origin it ascends in front of the mastoid process, and ends just below the neck of the lower jaw in the internal maxillary and temporal branches. The artery lies at first in. front of the internal carotid, but it afterwards inclines somewhat back- wards and becomes superficial to that vessel. Its position would be marked with sufficient accuracy by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. Parts super- At first the external carotid is overlaid by the sterno-mastoid, iiciaitoit, and by the common coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz., the skill, and the superficial and deep fascia; with the platysma. But above the level of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, the artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and higher still it is concealed by the parotid gland. At its beginning beneath it. the artery rests against the pharynx : but above the angle of the jaw it is placed over the styloid process and stylo-pharyngeus and in front, muscle, whicli separate it from the internal carotid. In front of the upper part of the vessel are the ramus of the jaw and the stylo- maxillary ligament. c'"t'*c" til Veins. There is not any companion vein with the external carotid, tiie artery; as with iiiost artciies ; but in the parotid gland the temporo-maxil- lary vein lies on it, and the anterior division of this trunk frequently runs with the artery beneath the digastric muscle. Near tlie begin- ning it is crossed by the facial and lingual branches joining the internal jugular vein, and nerves. Nerves are directed from behind forwards over and under the artery. At the lower border of the digastric the hypoglossal lies over the vessel, and aliove that muscle it is crossed by the two divisions of the facial nerve. Three nerves lie beneath it—begin- ning below, the small external laryngeal; a little higher, the superior laryngeal; and near the angle of the jaw, the glosso- pharyngeal. Its branches The hrcmches of the external carotid are numerous, and are are anterior, ^^^g^ggg^]^ ^^j^^ anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The anterior set comprises branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, and the face, posterior, viz., superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries. In the posterior and ascend- Set are the occipital and posterior auricular branches. And the • ascending set includes the ascending j^haryngeal, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Besides these, the external carotid gives other l^ranches to the neighbouring muscles and the parotid gland. External carotid artery; extent: course and direction. * Both the descending and the thyro-hyoid branches are composed of fibres which pass from the first and second cervical nerves into the hypoglossal trunk in the communication near the skull.