DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLAEY EEGIOX. glossus. 4. Genio-hyoid. 5. Stylo-pharyngeus. is protruded from the mouth, the fibres will draw it backwards into that cavity. The STYLO-GLOSSUS (fig. 24, ^) is a slender muscle, which arises from the styloid process near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is directed downwards and forwards to the hinder part of the lateral margin of the tongue. Here it gives some fibres to the dorsum, but the greater part of the muscle turns to the under surface, and is continued forwards to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the lingual nerve. Action. Both muscles will raise the back of the tongue against the roof of the mouth ; and if the tongue is protruded they will restore it to the canity. One muscle can direct the point of the tongue towards its own side of the mouth. The GENio-HYoiD MUSCLE (fig. 24, arises from the lower of the [f''^—^ The GENio-GLossus (genio- hyo-glossus, fig. 23,^) is a thick, fan-shaped muscle, hav- ing its apex at the jaw, and its base at the tongue. It takes origin from the upper of the mental spines behind the symphysis of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior passing backwards to their insertion into the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and the intermediate ones to the tongue from base to point. Lying close to the median plane, the inner surface of the muscle is in contact with its fellow. Its lower border corresponds to the genio-hyoid, and the upper to the frsenum linguae. On its outer side are the ranine vessels, and the hyo-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve perforates the hinder fibres. Action. By the simultaneous action of the whole muscle the Fig. 24.* mental spines on the inner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the front of the body of the hyoid bone. The lower surface of this muscle is covered by the mylo- hyoid, and the upper is in contact with the genio-glos- sus (^). The inner border touches the muscle of the op- posite side, and the two are often united. Action. The genio-hyoid either depresses the lower jaw or raises the hyoid bone, according to which end is fixed by other muscles. * Mviscles of the tongue. 1. Hyo-glossus. 2. Stylo-glcssus, 3. Genio-