ANATOMY OF THE UEETER. 521 Renal artery. Before reaclimg the kidney the renal artery divides Brandling into four or five pieces ; and these in the sinus break up into artery, smaller branches, which enter the organ between the papillae. They run in the processes of cortical sul^stance that separate the pyramids, being surrounded by sheaths from the fibrous capsule, and undergoing farther subdivision, until they reach the bases of * • the pyramids. Here the l^ranches form arches, from which the minute offsets to the secreting structures are given off. Some twigs are supj)lied to the capsule of the kidney ; and these anastomose with the subperitoneal branches of the lumbar arteries. Renal vein. The larger branches of the vein spring from arches Vein agrees like those of the artery, and take a similar course through the ^^^^ artery, cortical septa to the sinus. In the neighbourhood of the hilum all are commonly united into one trunk, which joins the inferior cava. Nerves. The ramifications of the sympathetic nerve may be traced Nerves, to the smaller branches of the artery. The absorbents are superficial and deep. Both unite at the hilum Lymphatics, of the kidney, and join the lumbar glands. The URETER is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the kidney ureter: is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and termination office; the canal measures from fourteen to sixteen inches in length. Its length; size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill. Near the size varies; kidney it is dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named pelvis ; and near the bladder it is again somewhat enlarged, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the narrowest part of the tube. Its relative anatomy must be studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. In its course from one viscus to the other, the ureter is close course beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the pelvis. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas, inclining on the right side and towards the inferior vena cava ; and about the luiddleof the muscle it is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or the external iliac artery, being beneath the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it inclines forwards below the level of the obliterated hypo- gastric artery to reach the base of the bladder (p. 555). Sometimes the ureter is divided into two for a certain distance. Occasionally Part in the kidney (fig. 173, b). Near the kidiiey the ureter is -dilated into a funnel-shaped part called the jpelvis. It begins in the Jjiated near sinus of the kidney by a set of cup-shaped tubes, named calices or the kidney; infundibula, which vary in number from seven to thirteen. Each calices, cup-shaped process embraces the rounded end of a pyramidal mass, which T . I . n -1 . . embrace and receives the urine from the apertures in that projection : some- papiiiaj. times a calyx surrounds two or more papillae. The several calices are united together to form two or three larger tubes ; and these are finally blended in the pelvis. Structure. The chief part of the wall of the ureter is composed of Three coats a muscular coat, in which there is an outer layer of circular, and an