SYNOVIAL SAC AND FAT AROUND KNEE. 701 continuous with tlie former below the patella, and is placed over a mass of fat : the inner (b) is prolonged farther than the outer by a semilunar piece of the synovial membrane. At the back and front of the articulation pouches are prolonged Pouches: beneath the tendons of muscles. Behind there are two, one on each side, between the condyle of the femur and the tendinous head of two behind the gastrocnemius. On the front, the sac projects under the extensor muscle one inch above the articular surface ; and if it communicates and one with the bursa in that situation, as is usually the case, it will reach ^'efoie. two inches above the joint-surface of the femur. When the joint is bent there is a greater length of the serous sac above the patella. Fat around the joint. Two large masses are placed above and below Articular the patella, and a smaller quantity of fat surrounds the crucial liga- ' ments. The infrapatellar mass, the largest of all, fills the interval between ^eiow the patella with its ligament and the head of the tibia, and gives P^^^^^^' origin to the ridges of the synovial membrane. From it a piece is continued round the patella ; but it is larger at the inner margin than at the outer, and overhangs the inner perpendicular facet of that bone. This infrapatellar pad adapts itself to the varying shape and extent of the angular interspace between the bones and the liga- use; mentum patellae in the movements of the joint. The suprapatellar pad is interposed between the common extensor above the tendon and the femur round the top of the synovial sac, and is larger l^^*®^^^- on the outer than the inner side. Dissection (fig. 226). The ligamentous structures within the cap- Dissect sule will be brought into view, while the limb is still in the same UgamcSts. position, by throwing down the patella and its ligament, and clear- ing away the fat behind it. In this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band which connects anteriorly the interarticular fibro-cartilages. The remains of the capsule and other ligaments, and the synovial membrane, are hext to be cleared away from the front and back of the crucial ligaments, and from the fibro-cartilages. While cleaning the posterior crucial ligament, the limb is to be placed flat on the table with the patella down; and the student is to be careful of a band in front of it from the external fibro-cartilage, or of two bands, one before and the other behind it. Ligaments ivithin the capsule. The ligamentous structures within Ligaments the capsule consist of the central crucial ligaments, and of two plates clpsuiV^^ of fibro-cartilage on the head of the tibia. The crucial ligaments (fig. 226) are two strong fibrous cords be- Two crucial tween the ends of the tibia and femur, which maintain the bones ligaments, in contact. They cross one another like the legs of the letter X, and have received their name from that circumstance. One is much anterior to the other at the tibial attachment. The anterior ligament (/) is very oblique in its direction, and is Anterior is longer than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached in front of the oblique; spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface, reaching back i^ents^^^'' to the inner point of the spine ; superiorly it is inserted into an