DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 212 and angular convolu- tions. Occipital sulci ami convolu- tions aic superior, middle, and inferior. Annectant convolu- tions. Tempore > sphenoid sulci : upiier (ir parallel, middle, and inferior. Convolu- tions are also tlirc!'. Convolu- tions of island of Reil. Sulci and convolu- tions of inner and tentorial surfaces. of the Sylvian fissure, and ends by joining the superior temporo- .sphenoidal convolution. Tlie angular convolution (Ang) arises from tlie hinder part of the foregoing, arclies over the upper end of the parallel sulcus (st), and descends behind that furrow to be continued into the middle temporo- sphenoidal convolution ; it is joined behind to the middle occipital convolution by the second annectant gyrus (behind Ang). Sulci and convolutions of the occipital lobe. The occipital lobe is divided into three convolutions, which run forwards from the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, by two small furrows—the superior and 'middle occipital sulci. The superior occipital convolution (so) is united anteriorly to the superior parietal lobule by the first annectant gyrus ; the middle (mo) to the angular C(jnvolution by the second, and to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the third annectant gyri; and the inferior (lo) to the lower temporo-sphenoidal convolution b}^ the fourth annectant gyrus. An inconstant inferior occipital sulcus, at the lower margin of the hemisphere, separates the third occipital convolution from the external occipito-temporal of the under surface. The occipital convolu- tions are very variable, and the sulci are frequently ill marked. Sulci and convolutions of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Three longitudinal sulci limit as many convolutions in this lobe. The superior temporo-siiilienoidal or parallel sulcus [st) is well marked, and runs l^elow and parallel to the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius, from near the anterior extremity of the lobe, backwards and upwards, into the inferior parietal lol)ule. The middle tempjoro-sphenoidal sulcus {mi) takes a similar course at a lower level, but it is not so constant as the superior; and the inferior (fig. 68, it), which is also very variable, is placed on the under surface of the hemisphere near the margin, sej)arating the lower temporo-sphenoidal from the external occipito-temporal convolution. The superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution (inframarginal; st) forms the lower boundary of the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure, and is continuous behind with the supramarginal convolu- tion. The middle and inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolutions (mt and it) are commonly united in some part of their extent. Tlie posterior end of the middle one is joined by the angular and third annectant gyri. The inferior forms the lower margin of the lobe, and receives the fourtli annectant gyrus. Convolutions of the central lobe (fig. 67, c). The surface of the insula is divided by an oblique furrow—the central sulcus of the insula., placed opposite the lower end of the furrow of Rolando, into an anterior triangular, and a posterior more elongated portion. The anterior part is again subdivided externally into three small gyri breves, and the posterior part into two gyri longi. Sulci and Convolutions of the Inner Surface of the Hemisphere (fig. 68). The convolutions of the inner aspect of the hemisphere^ with which are included those of the lower surface behind the fissure of Sylvius, are generally well defined ; but some bein£r so long as to reach bevond the extent of a single lobe of the