625 QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR OF KNEE. The RECTUS FEMORis (203/^) gives rise to a fleshy jDrominence Rectus has on the front of the thigh. It arises from the pelvis by two origin^t tendinous heads : one, the anterior, is attached to the anterior in- pelvis; ferior iliac spine ; and the other, posterior, is fixed to a rough mark on the outer surface of the ilium close above the acetabulum : near their origin they join to form a single tendon. The fleshy fibres insertion terminate below in another tendon, which joins the aponeuroses of mon tendon, the other muscles in the common tendon. The rectus is larger in the middle than at the ends; and its fibres The muscle ara directed from the centre to the sides, giving rise to the condi- fo^nl^aiKi tion called pennifdrm. Its upper end is covered by the tensor superficial, vaginae fenioris, iliacus, and sartorius ; but in the rest of its extent above, it is superficial. It conceals branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the crureus and vasti. The upper tendon of the rectus reaches farthest on the anterior sur- face ; while the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect of the muscle. Dissection. To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus Cut the near the lower end and raise it without injuring the branches of amun'spiay vessels and nerves beneath. The muscular mass covering the shaft ^^^^^ ^^^^v liGtids of of the femur is to be thoroughly cleaned, and its three parts defined extensor: in the following way :— The division between the vastus externus on the outer side and define the crureus in front is readily made in the situation of some de- externus; scending vessels and nerves. Then, on turning to the outer side of the thigh, al)out half-way down, the tendinous edge of the vastus externus will be perceived, with oblique fibres of the crureus appearing behind it : sink the handle of the scalpel between these until it meets the division in front. To separate the vastus internus from the crureus, the lower end separate of the rectus must be detached from the others and turned down vastus as far as possible, when a cleft will be evident in the subjacent tendon internus, above the inner part of the patella. From this interval the division jjefg^'""^ may be easily carried upwards between the tendons of the two muscles, but at the upper end some fleshy fibres generally need cutting to complete the separation. If the vastus internus is turned and expos- inwards off the crureus, a large part of the inner surface of the surface of femur will be seen to be free from muscular attachment. .bone. The VASTUS EXTERNUS has a narrow attachment to the femur Vastus in comparison with its size. It takes origin from the upper half of jf^thiuTt the femur, by a piece from half an inch to an inch thick, which is the origin; attached to the root of the neck of the femur, and the fore and outer parts of the root of the great trochanter; then along the outer side of the gluteal ridge, and the upper half of the linea aspera ; and lastly to the contiguous external intermuscular septum. Inferiorly the fibres of the muscle end in a flat tendon, which blends ends in with those of the other portions in the common tendon. tendon; The vastus externus is the largest part of the quadriceps, and produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its J'^J^^fl^f^j^i, cutaneous surface is aponeurotic above, and is partly covered by the surfaces.