359 ARCH OF THE AORTA. Ascending aorta: and relations. The ASCENDING AORTA Springs from the left ventricle of the heart behind the left half of the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage. About two inches, or a libtle more, in length, length, it is directed upwards, with a slight inclination to the right and forwards, and reaches to the inner end of the cartilage of the extent, second rib on the right side. It is contained nearly altogether in the pericardium, being surrounded by the same sheath of the serous memljrane as the pulmonary trunk, which is at first superficial to it, l)ut afterwards lies on its left side. Between the ascending aorta and the sternum are the anterior edge of the right lung, with the pleura, and some fatty tissue. Behind it are the left auricle of the heart and the right branch of the pulmonary artery. On the right side is the descending cava. Near the heart the vessel bulges oppo- site the flaps of the valve (sinuses of Valsalva ; fig. 119). There is sometimes another di- latation along the right Fig. 119.* side, which is named the (/reaf sinus of the aorta. Branches. From the lower end of the as- cending aorta arise the two coronary arteries of the heart (fig. 119, o), which have already been noticed (p. 346). The ARCH OF THE AORTA extends from, the second right costal car- tilage to the lower bor- der of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, (m the left side. The convexity of the arch is upwards, and from it the three large arteries for the supply of the upper part of the l)ody arise. The vessel recedes from the sternum, being at first inclined to the left across the front of the trachea, and then directed backwards to the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra, where it turns downwards to join the descending aorta. It thus forms a second curve with the convexity to the left side. The arch rests upon the trachea, the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the fourth dorsal vertebra. In front of it are the remains of the thymus gland, and some fat. On its left side are the left pleura and lung, and the left phrenic, superficial cardiac, and vagus forms two curves: relations. * Arch of the aorta and its great branches, a. Aortic arch. h. Innominate artery. c. Left common carotid. d. Left subclavian. e. Ligament of arterial duct. /. Vena cava superior, g. Left innominate vein. h. Right innominate vein. i. Left upper intercostal vein. k. Large azygos vein. /. Left subclavian vein. n. Thoracic duct. o. Coronary artery.