DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. c. Cardiac hraiicJics. One or two small cardiac nerves spring from the pneiimo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac l)ranches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on each side, there is a larger cardiac nerve which descends into the thorax:—the right one joins the deep nerves to the heart from the sympathetic ; and the left terminates in the superficial cardiac plexns. d. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve leaves the pneumo- gastric trunk on the right side opposite the subclavian artery, and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the neck to the larynx, ascending beneath the common carotid artery, along the groove between the trachea and the oesophagus, and crossing either in front or behind the inferior thyroid artery. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, Avhere it will be afterwards traced. The following branches arise from it:— Some cardiac branches leave the nerve as it turns round the sub- clavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. Tracheal and oesophageal branches spring from it as it ascends in the neck ; and near the larynx some filaments are furnished to the inferior constrictor muscle On the left side the recurrent nerve arises in the tliorax, opposite the arch of the aorta ; in tlie neck it lies between the trachea and oesophagus, as on the right side, and is more freipiently behind the inferior thyroid artery. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE courscs through the jugular fora- men with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any ganglion. The nerve is composed of two parts, viz., a smaller one, accessory to the vagus, and a larger, spinal part, which have a different origin and distribution. The part accessory to tlie vagus (bulbar part ; fig. 28,") arises from the medulla oblongata, and ends l)y joining the pneumo-gastric outside the skull. In the foramen of exit it lies close to the vagus, and is connected to the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Below the foramen it passes over the lower ganglion of the vagus, and blends with the trunk beyond that ganglion. It gives distinct offsets to join the pharyngeal and upper laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric ; and other fibres are continued into the cardiac and inferior laryngeal branches. The spv/ial part (fig. 28,^"), which takes its origin from the spinal cord, is much larger, and is connected with the smaller piece while passing through the jugular foramen. Beyond the foramen the nerve (fig. 27, ^) takes a backward course through the sterno-mastoid, and across the side of the neck to end in the trapezius : at first it is concealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vessel. The connections of the nerve beyond the sterno- mastoid have been already examined (p. 57). The nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. The HYroGLOSSAL NERVE, issuiiig from the cranium by the