DISSECTIOJ^ OF THE NECK. 66 Part near clavicle. Extent of the space. Trunks of vessels and nerves, and tlieir relative position. Branches of vessels. Variations in the size of the space. also in the depth, both natural and artificial. Departure from the ordinary state of the artery, and its branches. 30 as to divide it iiito two, a lower or clavicular, and an upper or occipital part. The clavicular 'part is the smaller, and contains the subclavian artery. It is triangular in form, with its base directed forwards, and is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid (^), above by the omo-hyoid (^), and below by the clavicle. This space measures commonly about two inches from before backwards, and about one inch from above down at its base. Crossing the area of this space, rather above the level of the clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery ('), which issues from beneath the anterior scalenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. In the ordinary condition of the vessel the com- panion subclavian vein is seldom seen, owing to its being placed lower down behind the clavicle. Above the artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus (^), which accompany the vessel, and become closely applied to it beneath the clavicle. Behind the artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle (°). And below the vessel is the first rib. Along the lower boimdary of the space, and rather beneath the clavicle, lie the suprascapular vessels ; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the transverse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein (^), which descends over (seldom under) the omo-hyoid, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this region the vein receives the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. The length of the clavicular part of the space depends mainly upon the extent of the attachment of the trapezius and sterno- mastoid muscles to the clavicle: in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of that bone, leaving but a small interval between them ; and occasionally they meet, so as to cover the subclavian artery altogether. The space also varies in height according to the position of the omo-hyoid, for this muscle some- times lies close to, or even arises from the clavicle, while on the other hand, it may be distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies naturally; and in a short thick neck with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth may be altered much more by change in the position of the clavicle, as the shoulder is carried forwards or backwards* And lastly, the artery may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards the arm and shoulder, as the collar-bone can be raised above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle. The position of the subclavian artery itself is also subject to variation, for the vessel may be one inch and a half above the clavicle, or at any point intermediate between this and the bone. In the typical condition there is not any branch arising from the trunk in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular artery (fig. 15) is frequently given ofl" beyond the scalenus, and sometimes there is more than one branch.