217 LATERAL VENTRICLE. hcen completely removed. The longitudinal stiioe are prolonged (lownwai'd.s in Iront, and form the peduncles of the corpus callosum (p. 206). Dissectio7i. In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosmu, Dissection, and to hring- into view the parts in relation M'ith its under surface, a cut is to he made through it on the right side about half an inch from tlie raphe ; and this is to he extended forwards and hack wards, as far as the limits of tlie underlying ventricle. While cutting til rough the corpus callosum, the student may observe that a thin membraniform structure (e])endyma) lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the centre, in is thickened consequence of a greater number of fibres being collected from the «^'^ch cmi; cerebrum ; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected sudaee. with its under surface along the nuddle is the septum lucidum or partition betwecu the \'entricles (fig. 70, h) at the fore part, and the fornix (r) Ijc^hind. This is the chief c(;mmissural body of the halves of the cerebrum, and its fibres pass laterally into the medullary centre of the hemi- sphere, in which they radiate to the convolutions. Dissection. The left lateral ventricle is to be now opened in the Dissection. 8ame way as the light; and to prej^are for the examination of the cavity on the right side, as much of the corpus callosum as forms the roof of the s]»ace is to be remoA ed. A part of the ventricle •extends down in the tenqxn'o-sphenoidal lobe towards the base of the brain ; and to open it, a cut is to l)e carried outwards and down- wards, through the substance of the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. (See tig. 70.) Ventricles oe the Brain. Five ventricles are described in the lirain ((.n- brain; l)ut four of them are subdivisions of one large central cavity, ventricles: and these are lined throughout by a thin membrane named the ■('pendyma, which is covered by epithelium, for the most part ciliated. They are the two lateral ventricles, one in each cerebral hendsj)here, the third ventricle close-to the base of the brain, and the fourth ventricle between the cerebellum and the back of the pons and medulla oblongata. The fifth ventricle is a small space between fifth is the layers of the septun.i lucidum, and has not any lining of ^.'Itendyma. The LATERAL VENTRICLE (fio*. 70) is a uarrow siiace which extends Lateral ventricle nearly the whole length of the hemisphere, and sends a process ilownwards into the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The cavities of the two sides approach one another in front, where they are only separated by the thin septum lucidum ; and below the hinder part of that partition, each communicates with the third ventricle by an aperture known as the foramen of Monro. At the back there is a wider interval between them. The roof of the space is formed in its whole extent by the fibres of the corpus callosum jjassing outwards to the convolutions ; in the floor are numerous objects which will be enumerated in connection with the several parts of the ventricle. The ventricle consists of a central part or body, and three Subdivision, processes or cornua, anterior, posterior, and middle or inferior.