THE WRIST-JOINT. S27 The 2^osterior ligament (fig. 110,^) is membranous, like the posterior anterior, and its fibres are directed downwards and inwards from ^ig^^^nt.s. the radius to the same three carpal bones on the posterior aspect. Dissection. To see the form of the articular surfaces, the joint Dissection may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus. Articular surfaces. The end of the radius, and the (fig. 108, c) imiting it with 107.* fibro-cartilage Surface of radius: opposed surfaces. the ulna form a shallow socket for the reception of the carpal bones ; and the sur- face of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, and an internal square impression. The three carpal bones of the first row constitute a convex eminence, which is received into the hollow before men- tioned in this way ; — the scaphoid bone is opposite the external mark of the radius; the semilunar bone touches the square impression and the greater part of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; while the small articular surface of the pyramidal bone is in contact with the apex of the fibro-cartilage and the adjoining part of the capsule. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple Synovial joints. This joint communicates occasionally with the lower radio- ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage between the two. Movements. The principal movements taking place in the radio- Kinds of carpal articulation are flexion and extension. Lateral motion occurs niotion: naturally only to a very limited extent. Flexion and extension. In flexion the hand is moved forwards, flexion; while the carpus glides on the radius from before back, and projects behind, stretching the posterior ligament. In extension the hand extension, is carried backwards, and the row of carpal bones moves in the opposite direction, viz., from behind forwards, so as to cause the anterior ligament to be tightened. The backward movement is not so free as the forward. Lower radio-ulnar articulation. In this articulation the J/'^^^.^^*^" head of the ulna is received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius ; aiui ulna joined by * Front view of the articulations of the wrist, and carpal and metacarpal bones (Bourgery). 1. Anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. 2. Capsule of the joint of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. 3. Pisiform bone, with its ligamentous bands. 4. Transverse bands uniting the bases of the metacarpal bones.