OBVIOUS STEUCTUEE OF SPLEEN. 511 Fig. 168.* The serous or imritoneal coat encases the spleen, covering the surface except at the hiluni and the ridge behind. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous coat. The fibrous coat (tunica propria) gives strength to the spleen, and forms a complete case for it. At the hilum this investment passes into the interior with the vessels, to which it furnishes sheaths ; and if an attempt is made to detach this coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with its deep surface. Its colour is whitish ; and it is made up of areolar and elastic tissues. Dissection. The spongy or trabecular structure will l)est appear by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh bullock's spleen under water, so as to remove the inner grnmousdooking material. The trabecular tissue (hg. 168) forms a network through the whole interior of the spleen, similar to that of a sponge, which is joined to the external casing, and forms sheaths around the vessels. Its processes or threads are white, flattened or cylindrical, and consist of fibrous and elastic tissues, with a few muscular fibres. The interstices communicate freely together, and contain the pulp of the spleen. The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass, which is lodged in the areola) of the tra- becular structure, and consists in great part of blood. In a fresh section small whitish spots (about g^yth of an inch in diameter) may be seen scattered amongst the dark pulp : these are the MalpigJiian corpuscles of the S23leen—lym])hoid nodules attached to the small branches of the artery. Blood-vessels. The larger branches of the splenic artery are surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabecuhx- ; Imt the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which are said to open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. There are few or no anastomoses between the arterial branches in the organ. The splenic vein is supposed t(j begin in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. The small branches resulting from the imion of these radicles anastomose freely together, and unite into trunks larger than the accompanying arteries, which issue by the hilum of the spleen. Lymphatics and nerves. The lymphatics are superficial and deep, and leaving the organ at the hilum, traverse small glands lying along the sj^lenic vessels on their way to the cooliac glands. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and surround the artery and its branches. * Trabecular structure of tlie spleen of the ox. Serous coat nearly comi)lete. Fibrous coat sends iu- Avards pro- cesses, structure. Interior of spleen, (lispositio of fibrous tissue to form ;ni areolar structure. Pulp of spleen. >Iali)I;;liian bodies. .Splenit; artery : ending; no anasto- moses. Vein begins by open spaces; branches anastomose. Lymphatics. Nerves.