724 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. and before ending in front; outer and inner sur- faces ; thickness circular sinus ; composed of fibrous tissue; vessels and nerves. Cornea: extent and form thickness; surfaces; condition after death. It consists of laminar fibrous tissue, with conjunctiva in front, and an elastic membrane behind; no vessels; many nerves. the nerve. Small apertures for the passage of vessels and nervei< are situate around the optic nerve ; and there are others for vessels at the front and the centre of the ball. Anteriorly the sclerotic is continuous with the transparent cornea. On the outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are attached : on the inner aspect it is of a dark colour,' with flocculi of fine areolar tissue (membrana fusca) uniting it to the next coat, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner and whiter about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye." Towards the junction with the cornea it is again somewhat thickened. In its substance, near the union with the cornea, is a small flattened venous space, the canal ofSchlemm (sinus circularis iridis ; fig. 234, r). Structure. The sclerotic consists of bundles of white fibrous tissue,, which interlace with one another, but run for the most part longi- tudinally and transversely. Its vessels are very scanty. Minute filaments of the ciliary nerves have been described, entering the deep surface of the membrane. Cornea (fig. 234, d). This firm transparent membrane forms- about one-sixth of the eye-ball, and measures about half an inch across. Its shaj)e is circular, though when viewed from the front it appears larger in the transverse direction, in consequence of the- opaque sclerotic structure encroaching farther on it above and below than on the sides. It is convex in front and concave behind ; and its thickness is nearly uniform (from ^V^^^ to^^ inch), except near the cir- cumference, where it is somewhat thicker at the junction with the sclerotic. The anterior surface of the cornea is slightly less exten- sive than the posterior, owing to its being overlapped by the sclerotic. Supported by the aqueous humour, it is tense and nearly spherical during life ; but its radius of curvature varies in difi^erent individuals,, and in the same person at different ages, being shorter in the youn< After death it becomes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous- humour ; or if the eye is immersed in water, it is rendered opaque- by infiltration of the tissue by that fluid. Structure. The substance of the cornea is composed of a special kind of connective tissue, arranged in irregular layers. Over the- front the conjunctiva (w^hich is here reduced to its epithelium) is: continued ; and covering the back of the cornea proper is a very thin elastic stratum known as the membrane of Descemet. The latter may be peeled ofi", after a cut has been made through it, in shreds which curl up with the attached surface innermost. At the circumference of the cornea the membrane of Descemet breaks up into processes {j^illars of the iris or ligamentum pectinatum iridis) which are partly reflected onto the front of the iris, and partly joii^ the sclerotic and choroid coats. In the healthy condition the blood-vessels do not permeate the cornea, but cease in capillary loops at the circumference. Numerous fine branches of the ciliary nerves ramify in its substance.