330 DISSECTION OF UPPEE LIME. .•i,nd some meta- carpals. Kinds of motion : flexion extension. Combined movements of radio- carpal and trans^'erse carpal joints : flexion and extension : abdnction: adduction and circum- duction. Metacarpal bones joined at bases, with synovial joints, and at heads. Carpal and metacarpal joints. That of the thumb. wrist-joint ; but the offsets in the opposite direction are three, and may be continued to all, or only to some of the articulations between the four inner metacarpal with their carpal bones. Movements. Owing to the irregular shape of the articular surfaces, only forward and backward movements are permitted in the trans- verse carpal joint. Flexion. As the hand is brought forwards, the os magnum and unciform move backwards in the socket formed by the first row, while the trapezium and trapezoid advance over the scaphoid, and the posterior ligament is tightened. Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. The trapezium and trapezoid glide backwards over the scaphoid, and the OS magnum and unciform project on the palmar aspect, the move- ment being checked by the anterior ligament of the joint and the strong flexor tendons. The axes upon which the movements of flexion and extension of the radio-carpal and transverse carpal joints take place are not strictly transverse, but oblique in opposite directions, that of the proximal articulation having its inner end directed forwards, while that of the distal articulation is inclined from ^Aithout inwards and backwards. In order therefore to move the hand directly forwards or backwards, both joints are called into play simultaneousl}''. By a combination of flexion in the one joint with extension in the other, lateral movements {abduction and adduction) of the hand are produced. Thus, abduction results from flexion of the radio- carpal and extension of the transverse carpal articulation, and ad- duction, which is the freer movement, from extension of the radio-carpal and flexion of the transverse carpal joint. In circum- duction the hand passes successively through the several states of angular movement, describing a cone with the apex at the wrist^ and the excursion is greater in the direction of flexion and adduction than in the opposite directions. Union of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the four fingers are connected at their bases by the following liga- ments :—A dorscd (fig. 110) and pcdmar (fig. 107) fasciculus of fibres- passes transversely from each bone to the next ; and the bands in the palm are the strongest. Besides these, there is a short interosse- ous ligament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones. Where the metacarpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage; and between the articular surfaces there are prolongations of the synovial cavity serving for their articulation with the carpus. At their distal ends the same four metacarpal bones are connected by the transverse lirjament, which was seen in the dissection of the hand (p. 310). Union of the jMetacarpal and Carpal Bones. The meta- carpal bones of the fingers are articulated with the carpal bones after one plan ; but the bone of the thumb has a separate joint. The metacarpcd hone of the thumb articulates with the trapezium ; and the ends of the bones are encased in a capsular ligament (fig. 107, ^), which is lined by a simple synovicd membrane.