DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Position. The examination of the muscles on the opposite sur- face of the scapula may be next undertaken. For this purpose the limb is to be turned over ; and a block, which is deep enough to make the shoulder prominent, is to be placed between the scapula and the arm. Dissection. The skin is to be removed from the prominence of the shoulder, down to the middle of the outer side of the arm. After its removal some small cutaneous nerves are to be found in the fat: -—the upper of these descend over the acromion ; and a larger branch comes to the surface about half-way down the posterior border of tlie deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. Branches of nerves, stqwaacromial, descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical plexus (p. 58). A cutaneous branch of the circumflex nerve (tig. 89,^^ turns forwards with a small companion artery from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integuments covering the lower two-thirds of the muscle. Dissection. The fat and fascia are now to l)e taken from the fleshy deltoid, its fibres being made tense for the purpose. Beginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards, following the direction of the coarse muscular fasciculi. As the posterior edge is approached, the cutaneous nerve and vessels escaping from beneath it are to be dissected out. At the same time the fascia may be removed from the back of the scapula, so as to denude the muscles there. The DELTOID MUSCLE (fig. 89, f) is triangular in form, with the base at the scapula and clavicle, and the apex at the humerus. It arises from the lower border of the spine of the scapula, from the outer edge of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the front of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the rough triangular impression on the outer surface of the humerus, above the middle. The anterior border is contiguous to the pectoralis major muscle and the cephalic vein ; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus, teres, and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle from the bones of the shoulder corresponds with the insertion of the trapezius. At its insertion the tendon of the deltoid is united with that of the pectoralis major ; and a fasciculus of the bracliialis anticus is attached on each side of it. The middle or acromial portion of the deltoid is thicker than the rest, and its fibres form large bundles which run obliquely between tendinous septa prolonged from the origin and insertion of the muscle. The anterior or clavicular and posterior or spinous portions are somewhat separate from the foregoing, and their fibres converge to the anterior and ]30sterior edges respectively of the lower tendon. Action. The acromial portion of the muscle raises the arm, abducting it from the body ; the clavicular part flexes the shoulder- joint, moving the arm forwards and inwards ; and the spinous part draws the arm backwards, or extends the shoulder-joint.