mSSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Pituitary body : situation; two lobes. Dissection. Grey lamina, <Jor})Us callosuni ends below in two bands, and extends into hemi- sphere. Vallecula Sylvii. Anterior perforated space. Olfactoiy lobe lies in olfactory sulcus. Olfactory bulb.' consists of a layer of grey matter ; and its cavity is a j^art of the third ventricle. In the ffctus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed below. The PITUITARY BODY will be very imperfectly seen when it has been dislodged from its resting place: it should therefore be examined when o]>portunity offers in the base of the skull by removing the surrounding bone. Its use is unknown. It is situate in the hollow of the sella Turcica on the sphenoid bone, and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the larger, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the round posterior lobe. In the adult this body is solid and firm in texture ; but in the ftetus it is hollow, and the posterior lobe opens into the third ventricle through the infundibulum. Dissection. To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior end of the corpus callosum, tlie hemispheres are to be gently separated from each other in front. The LAMINA CINEREA (m) is a thin concave layer of grey suIj- stance, which gradually tapers upwards from the tuber cinereum to the termination of the corpus callosum. This stratum closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is continuous laterally with the anterior perforated space. In consequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken throuoh in removing the brain. The CORPUS CALLOSUM (n), bent downwards in front, is continued horizontally backwards in the longitudinal fissure to the lamina cinerea, and ends by two white narrow bands—the 'peduncles of the corpus callosum, which are continued along the edge of the lamina cinerea on each side to the anterior perforated spot. The anterior bend of the corpus callosum is known as the genu (fig. 69), and to the prolonged central part the name rostrum is given. Laterally this part of the corpus callosum reaches into the frontal lobe, and forms part of the floor of the lateral ventricle. Vallecula Sylvii and anterior perforated space. The vallecula Sylvii is a depression between the optic commissure and the fore part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the hemisphere, which lodges the upper end of the internal carotid artery. Externally it leads into the Sylvian fissure, and in front it is bounded hj the diverging roots of the olfactory tract. The floor of the fossa is formed by a layer of grey matter which is perforated by the central branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, thus giving rise to the anterior perforated space. The grey substance is con- tinuous above with the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum. The olfactory lobe consists of an elongated nerve-like part which is named the olfactory tract, and a terminal expansion in front—the olfactory bulb. It lies in a groove (olfactory sulcus ; fig. 67, ol) on the surface of tlie inner orbital convolution of the frontal lobe of the hemisphere. The olfactory bulb (fig. 64, o) is an oval mass, of a greyish colour, and nearly half an inch in length, which rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. From its under surface the olfactory nerves arise.