INFEIIIOE, OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 49-. The upper and lower recti elevate and dej)ress the fore part of upper and the ball around a transverse axis ; but as the muscles are directed obliquely outwards, the upper muscle turns the pupil up and in, and the lower muscle turns it down and in. By the simultaneous action of two adjacent recti, the ball will and two be moved to a point intermediate to that to whicli it would be ^"^^J^^^"^- directed by either muscle singly. JJissedion. By opening the optic foramen, the attachment of Dissect tile recti muscles will be more fully laid bare. To dissect out the obfique. inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural jjosition ; then by separating the lower eyelid from the margin of the orbit, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the ej^eball, arching from the inner to the outer side : if the external tarsal ligament be divided, it may be followed upwards to its insertion into the ball. The INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 13, H) is placed near the Lower anterior margin of the orbit, and differs from the other muscles in muscle: being directed across, instead of parallel to the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior maxillary bone immediately outside the origin; opening of the nasal duct. From this spot the muscle passes out- course; Avards between the inferior rectus and the bone, then between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the sclerotic coat insertion; between the outer and upper recti. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the relations, posterior receives its branch of the third nerve. The insertion of tlie tendon is near that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather closer to the optic nerve. Action of the oblique muscles. The superior oblique acting alone ^^j^^^^^^ would draw the back of the eyeball upwards and inwards, and muscles: therefore cause the front of the eye to be directed downwards and outwards. The inferior oblique would similarly turn the eye up- wards and outwards. In consequence of their transverse direction, these muscles would also tend to rotate the eyeball around its antero-posterior axis, the superior oblique depressing, and the inferior oblique elevating the inner end of the horizontal meridian of the eye, but movements of this nature take place only to a very limited extent during life. The oblique muscles are believed to act mainly in controlling the g^pe^ioi' tendency of the superior and inferior recti to rotate the eyeball and and inferior turn it inwards. Thus, to move the eye directly upwards, the superior rectus and the inferior oblique are used, while the inferior rectus and superior oblique co-operate in directing the eye down- wards. Dissection. To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the remain- Seek tensor ing portion of the palpebral fascia is to be separated from the margin of the orbit; but the lids must be left attached at the inner side by means of the internal tarsal ligament. On clearing away a little areolar tissue in the neighbourhood of the inner commissure, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. The TENSOR TARSI MUSCLE arises from the crest of the Ir.chrymal Jf^^^e^^ E " s e.