PARTS ENDANGERED IN LITHOTOMY. 437 and possibly the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, will be cut in this first stage of the operation. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is in reaching introduced into the front of the wound, the hinder part of the triangular ligament and constrictor urethra?, and the fore part of the levator ani will be divided ; and when the knife is placed within the groove of the start', the membranous part of the urethra will be cut with the muscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it ^"^'^^Jj^j^^g* incises in its progress the membranous portion of the urethra, part along staff, of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut, the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards, in the direction of a line from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Parts to be avoided. In the first incision in the ischio-rectal fossa, Parts to be the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the rectum, intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it ; and if the gut is not held out of the way with the forefinger of the left hand. The pudic pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be ^^^^^ wounded near the anterior part of the hollow, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament ; but, posteriorly, they are .securely lodged inside the projection of the ischial tuberosity. While making the deeper incisions to reach the staff', the artery artery of of the bulb lies immediately in front of the knife, and will be ^' wounded if the incisions are made too far forwards ; but the vessel must almost necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should recto- , . . , , . PI • vesical not be mcised- to a greater extent than is necessary tor the extraction fascia, of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perineum from the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened. Too large an incision through the prostate may wound also an and acces- unusual accessory pudic artery on the side of that body. artery^*^^^ Directions. When the dissection of the perineum is completed, Directions, tlie flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after a preservative has been aj)plied, and the limbs are to be put down for the examination of the abdomen. Section II. PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. The perineum in the female differs from that in the male more Per nemn in the external form than the internal anatomy. On the surface it hasTpecTial has special parts distinguishing it, viz., the aperture of the vagina parts.