541 LUMBAR PLEXUS. 178.= lumbar plexus, having previously given off branches for the supply of the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles. The fifth nerve (fig. 184) receives a communicating branch from the fourth, and is to be followed into the pelvis to its junction with the sacral j)lexus. After the two are united, the name lumbo- sacral cord is applied to the common trunk. The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 178) is formed by the intercommunication of the first four lumbar nerves. Contained in the substance of the psoas, near the posterior surface it consists of loops between the several nerves, and increases in size from above down- wards, like the indivi- dual nerves. Superiorly it is sometimes united by a small branch with the last dorsal nerve ; and inferiorly it joins the sacral plexus through the large lumbo-sacral cord. The branches of the plexus are six in number, and supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the muscular covering of the spermatic cord, the fore and inner parts of the thigh, and the inner side of the leg. ' The first two branches ^ "~ (ilio-hypogastric and ilio- inguinal) end as cutaneous nerves of the hip, the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, and the thigh. a. The ilio-hyjjogastric branch (fig. 178,/) is derived from the first nerve, and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the upper end. It is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and enters the wall of the abdomen hy piercing the and supply muscles : fifth to the sacral plexus. Plexus how formed : connections with nerves. Six branches, viz.:— Two cutaneous branches. Ilio-hypo- gastric : course in abdomen. * Dissection of the Iiimbar plexus and its branches. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) a. External iliac artery, cut across. 6. Thoracic duct. c. Azygos veins. Nerves: The figures 1 to 5 mark the trunks of the five lumbar nerves. d. Splanchnic nerves, e. Last dorsal. /. Ilio-hypogastric. ff. Ilio-inguinal. h. Grenito-crural. i. External cutaneous, k. Anterior crui-al. /. Accessory to obturator. 7i. Obturator, o. GangHated cord of the sympathetic.