353 LEFT VENTEICLE OF HEART. in ftt'tus. How to In the adult tlie blood enters this cavity from tlie lungs by the current of pulmonary veins, and flows into the left ventricle by the large oj^ening between the two. In the foetus only a very small quantity of blood passes through the lungs ; and the left auricle receives its l)ure blood at once from the right auricle through the aj^erture in the septum (foramen ovale). Dissection. The left ventricle may be opened by an incision along both the anterior and the posterior surfaces, near the septum; these ventricle, are to be joined at the apex, but are not to be extended upwards so as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the cavity will be visible. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE (fig. 116) is longer and more Jl'g^^JjgjJ'^^* conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle ; and is oval, or almost circular, on a transverse section. The ai^ex of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The base Apex, is turned towards the auricle ; and. in it are the openings into the Base with aorta {n) and the left auricle (/). openings. The wall of this ventricle is thicker than that of the right, and A\'aii. the anterior boundary is formed for the most part by the septum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- inner sur- secpience of the projection of the columnar carne£e ; but near the fle^hy''^'' aorta the surface is smoother. There are three sets. of fleshy coinmns, columns in this as in the right ventricle ; and the mnsciili papil- and some lares, which give attachment to the tendinous cords of the vah^e, ^^^J' ^^rgc- are strongly marked : these are arranged in two large bundles, which spring from the right and left sides of the cavit}". The left auriculo-ventricular opening is ]3laced beneath tlie orifice Left auri- of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous band intervening pu|ai'?ap^^^ l)etween the two. It is rather smaller than the corresponding ture: aperture of the right side, being about three inches and a half in form and circumference, and is longest in tlie transverse direction. The centre ' of the opening corresponds to the junction of the fourth costal position, cartilage of the" left side with the sternum. It is furnished with a membranous valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- Mitral cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords ; it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring round the aperture, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its segments lie one before the other, with their segments; edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior. Tlie mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and ofiice. structure; Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two primary segments. The chorda3 tendinese ascend to be attached to the valve attaoiiment in the notches between the tongues ; and they end on the segments " ^' in tlie same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both portions of the valve.