DISSECTIO:^ OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 84 wards to the infratemporal crest on the great whig of the sphenoid bone. From this extensive origin the fibres converge to a tendon, which appears on the outer surface of the muscle, and is inserted into the borders and inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the front of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending downwards nearly to the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve: the last nerve occasionally perforates some of the fibres of the muscle. Action. All the fil)res contracting, the muscle will raise the mandible and press it forcibly against the upper jaw. The hinder fibres acting alone can retract the lower jaw after it has been moved forwards by the external pterygoid. Dissection. For the display of the pterygoid muscles (fig. 20), it will be necessary to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw. But the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be first detached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scalj)el, and the deej) temporal vessels and nerves are to be sought in its fibres, saw through A piece of the ramus is next to be taken away by sawing across the jaw; the bone below the condyle, and again close above the dental foramen ; and to protect the dental vessels and nerve in contact with its inner surface while doing this, the handle of the scalpel may be inserted between them and the bone, and carried downwards to their entrance into the foramen, take it away After the loose piece of bone has been removed, and the sub- ■ jacent parts freed from fat, the pterj^goid muscles will appear,— the external (^) being directed backwards and outwards to the condyle, while the internal (^), which is parallel in direction to the masseter, descends to the angle of the jaw. In removing the abundant fatty tissue, the student must be careful not to take away the thin internal lateral ligament, which lies on the internal pterygoid muscle beneath the ramus, position of Position of vessels. Running forwards over the external pterygoid muscle is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets upwards and downwards : sometimes the artery is placed beneath the muscle. The veins, which form a large plexus between the muscles, may be taken away. Nerves. Position of nerves. Most of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are seen in this dissection. Thus, the masseteric and deep temporal nerves appear between the upper border of the external pterygoid and the skull, while the buccal nerve perforates the fore part of the muscle. Issuing from beneath the lower border of the same muscle are the large inferior dental and lingual nerves, the latter being the anterior of the two ; and coming out behind the condyle of the jaw is the auriculo-temporal nerve. The small posterior dental branch of the superior maxillary nerve is also to be found, lying with the artery of the same name on the hinder part of the upper jaw. External The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 20, ^) is triangular in pterygoid: \ o j / o insertion relations; To dissect pterygoid muscles,