376 DISSECTIOJT OF THE THORAX. attach- ments ; irregulari- ties ; and use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of the rib; relations. Out-er layer extends back to tuberosity of the rib. Use. Trace nerves. Eleven intercostal nerves. Upper and lower ones differ. Last dorsal nerve. Course of upper six, and branches. Exceptions in first two. First nerve ends mostly in brachial plexus. coetals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to tlie like surface of the ril) next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. The subcostals draw together, and depress the ribs, thus acting as expiratory muscles. Intercostal muscles. The anterior part of these muscles has been described (p. 263) ; and the posterior part may be now examined from the inner side. The inner muscle begins at the sternum, and reaches back to the angles of the ribs, or somewhat farther in the upper spaces. Where the fibres cease, a thin fascia (^posterior intercostal (qmieurosis) is continued inwards over the outer muscle. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve and vessels. External muscle. When the fascia and the subcostal muscles have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen between the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres cross tliose of the inner intercostal layer. While this muscle extends backwards to the tuberosity of the rib, it is generally absent in front between the rib-cartilages (p. 263). Action. The use of the intercostal muscles in respiration is. given on p. 263. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercostal muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and artery traced outwards. The INTERCOSTAL NERVES, eleven in number, are anterior primary branches of dorsal nerves ; and they pass from the intervertebral foramina into the intercostal spaces without forming a plexus. Near the head of the rib each nerve is joined to the sympa- thetic by two communicating filaments (p. 374). The upper six are confined to the wall of the thorax ; but the lower five are prolonged into the abdominal wall, where the ribs cease in front. The anterior branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve lies below the last rib, and is seen in the dissection of the abdomen. Upper six nerves. At first the nerves lie between the pleura and the external intercostal muscle with an artery and vein ; but they soon enter between the intercostal muscles, and extend forwards to the side of the sternum (p. 265). In their course they supply branches to the muscles of the thoracic wall, viz., the subcostals, intercostals, and triangularis steriu, as well as to the levatores costarum and serrati muscles of the back, and cutaneous offsets to the surface, which are described in the dissection of the upper limb (p. 249). There are some deviations in the first and second nerves from the arrangement above specified. The first nerve (fig. 85) ascends in front of the neck of the first rib, and enters the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the chest it supplies to the first intercostal space a branch, which furnishes