GLANDS OF SMALL INTESTINE. o05 Fig. 165. included the crypts of Lieberkiilin, solitary glands, and Peyer's and Erunner's glands. The crypts of Lieherkichn are minute simple tulles, which exist throughout the small intestine. They open on. the surface of the snucous membrane by small orifices between the villi, and around the larger glands; but they are not to be recognised with tlie naked c^ye. The so-called solitary glands (fig. 166, b) are roundish white <:'minences, about the size of mustard-seed it' distended, which are scattered along Ihe small intestine, but in greatest num- ^ler in the ileum. Placed on all parts of the intestine, and even on or between the 'valvulse conniventes, they are covered by the villi of the mucous membrane, and ;ire surrounded at their circumference by ^ipertures of the crypts of Lieberkiihn. These small Ijodies are nodules of lym- phoid tissue. The agiuinated (jlands or glands of Pcytr (tig. 165) exist chiefiy in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which measure from half an inch to two inches or more in length, and about half an inch in "svidth. They are situate on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment -of the mesentery, and their direction is longitudinal in the gut: usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the lower part of the ileum they are largest and most numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower end of the jejunum they become irregular in form, and may consist only of small roundish masses. The patches are most distinct in young persons, iincl generally disappear in old age. The mucous membrane over the glands is hollowed into pits (fig. 165, 6), and is generally destitute of villi (fig. 166, a) ; but between the pits it has the same characters as in other parts. These patches are simply collections of lymphoid nodules of the same nature as the " solitary glands." The Glands of Brwuner are small compound bodies, similar to the buccal and labial glands of the mouth, which exist in the duodenum. For a distance of one or two inches near the pylorus they are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp-seed. Dissection. To demonstrate the areolar tissue between the coats <jf the intestine, a piece of the bowel turned inside out is to be inflated forcibly ; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few 4;uts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The Simple tubes. Solitary follicles: size and situation. size; situation; number; peculiari- ties ; composi- tion. Glands of Brunnei'. How to see the areolar tissue. *■ Peyer's patch, four times enlarged (Kolliker). a. Surface of mucous membrane covered with vilh. h. Pits over the follicles where villi are absent.