DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. turned upwards towards the ureter, while the smaller touches the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the pros- tate gland the vesicular approach one another, only the vasa deferentia intervening ; but higher up they diverge, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum the triangular space at the base of the bladder. The vesiculse are contained in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and is lined by in- voluntary muscular fibres. The VAS DEFERENS, Or the excretory duct of the testis (fig. 181, /), in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, and crossing the obliterated hypogastric artery, is directed downwards along the hinder part of the bladder to the base of the prostate, where it forms the common seminal or ejaculatory duct by joining witli the duct from the vesicula seminalis. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it passes internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By tlie side of tlie vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is sacculated. The URETHRA is the excretoi-}^ passage for the urine and semen (fig. 181), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. In lengtli it measures about eight inches, and it presents one or two curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed downwards and forwards through the triangular ligament of the perineum to the root of the penis, forming a large curve with the concavity to the pubis. Thence to its termination the urethra is contained in the penis ; and w^hile this body remains pendent the canal forms a second bend with the concavity downwards ; but if the penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,^—prostatic, membranous, and spongy. The prostatic part (b) is contained in the prostate gland. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture of the body it descends nearly vertically to the triangu.lar ligament. The membranous part (c), about three-quarters of an inch long, intervenes between the apex of the prostate and the lower surface of the triangular ligament. It sla]its forwards in the erect j)osture to the lower part of the triangular ligament; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under surface measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament {n). Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethrjje ; and close behind it are Cowper's glands and the rectum. The spongy part (d) is so named from its being surrounded by a cellulo-vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius at the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is covered by the ejaculator urinse muscle (fig. 144). The cAirve of the urethra is the fixed bend at the hinder part of