DISSECTION OF THE : PHARYNX. 128 pharyngeal opening; construc- tion. Fauces. Isthmus of the fauces. Upper opening of larynx. Beginning of oesophagus. Subdivision of cavity of pharynx into nasal, oral, and laryn- geal por- tions. and the sphenoid bones, and ends in front by a wide opening on the inner side of the internal pterygoid plate, on a level with the posterior extremity of the inferior spongy bone of the nose (fig. 35).. Its opening in the pharynx is oval in form, and the inner margin projects forwards, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed of a triangular piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is bent downwards on each side so as to enclose a narrow space. The inner portion is larger than the outer, and increases in breadth from behind forwards. On its outer side the tube is comjDleted by fibrous tissue. The cartilage is covered on its inner side by mucous membrane, and through the tube the mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the soft- palate is called the fauces. It is wider below than above ; and on each side lies the tonsil. The isthmus faucium (h) is the narrowed aperture of communica- tion between the mouth and the pharynx. It is bounded above by the soft palate, below by the tongue, and on the sides by the anterior pillars of the soft palate. Its size varies with the move- ments of these parts, and it can be closed by the meeting of the soft palate and the tongue. The aperture of the larynx (n) is wide in front, where it m bounded by the epiglottis, and pointed behind between the aryte- noid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before back, and are formed by folds (aryteno-epiglottidean) of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. Behind it is limited by the cornicula laryngis, and by the arytenoid muscle covered by mucous membrane. During respiration this- aperture is unobstructed, but in the act of deglutition it is closed by the approximation of the lateral folds and the lower part of the epiglottis. The opening into the oesophagiis (o) is the narrowest part of the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage and the sixth cervical vertebra. At this spot the mucous membrane in the oesophagus- becomes paler than in the pharynx ; and the point at which the pharynx ends is marked externally by a slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The cavity of the pharynx is divided into three parts, whiclt differ in their function with regard to the transmission of the food and air. The upper or nasal portion is limited below by the soft palate and its posterior pillars ; it gives passage only to air, and i& always open. The middle or oral portion extends downwards to the aperture of the larynx, and is traversed by both food and air ; it is open when breathing through the mouth, but closed when breathing solely through the nose, the aperture of the larynx then corresponding to the interval between the posterior pillars. The third part being behind the larynx is termed laryngeal, and only transmits food ; its walls are naturally in contact, except during the act of deglutition.