ADDUCTOR MAGNUS MUSCLE. 635 origin, being horizontal above but more oblique below, and are 171- their inser- serted (from above down) into the back of the femur close inside the gluteal ridge, into the linea aspera, and into the internal supra- horizontau condylar line for about an inch. The posterior fibres, from the ischial tuberosity, are vertical in direction, and end at the lower others third of the thigh in a tendon, which is inserted into the inner con- dyle of the femur, surrounding the adductor tubercle, and is con- nected by a fibrous expansion to the lower -pait of the internal supracondylar line. The muscle consists of two parts, which differ in their characters, and form The anterior, thin and fleshy, forms a septum between the other ad- v^^-^^- ductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh ; but the posterior piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface are the other two adductors and the pectineus, with the obturator nerve and the pro- Relations of funda vessels. Tlie posterior surface touches the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are and borders, the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, with the trans- verse branch of the internal circumflex vessels ; and along the inner border lie the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment to the femur the muscle is closely united with the other adductors, par- ticularly the adductor longus, and in its lowest part with the vastus internus. Near the bone it is pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Action. This muscle is a powerful adductor ; and the part arising Use on from the tuberosity is also an extensor of the hip. In standing, the ^^"^^^'^ > latter part of the muscle, acting from the femur, has an important ^'^ ^ '"°' influence in steadying the hixD-joint; and in walking, the great and in walking, other adductors co-operate with the gluteal muscles externally to support the pelvis on the fixed limb. The ojjening in the adductor for the transmission of the femoral []|e^yegfe[s^! vessels into the 25oj)liteal space is tendinous at the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at the junction of the upper three-fourths with the lowest fourth of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus internus ; and on the inside by the tendon of boundaries, the adductor magnus, with some fibres added from the tendon of the long adductor. The PSOAS and iliacus (fig. 204) arise separately in the abdo- Psoas and men (p. 537), but are united in the tliigh, the conjoined portion of 1^11^11: the muscles lying beneath Poupart's ligament. The psoas (p) is in- insertion serted by tendon into the small trochanter of the femur ; and the "^to femur; fleshy iliacus (o) mainly joins the tendon of the psoas, but a few of its fibres are fixed into a special triangular surface of bone in front of and below the trochanter. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the interval between parts the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous ^'^'^""^^' process ; and below the pelvis the mass covers the capsule of the hip-joint, a large bursa intervening. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural