34 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Texture and form of pinna. Surface marked by fossae and eminences. Margin, Lobule. Intrinsic muscles of auricle. The PINNA or auricle is an uneven piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin of the meatus auditorius externus. It is of a somewhat oval form, with the margin folded and the upper end larger than the lower. The surface next the head is generally convex; and the opposite excavated, but presenting the following elevations and depressions. In the centre is a deep hollow named concha, which is wide above but narrow below ; it conducts to the meatus auditorius. In front of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the tragus, which has some hairs on the inner surface ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection—the antitragus. The prominent rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into the concha, is called the helix ; and the depression internal to it is the groove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, forming the hinder and upper boundary of the concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper part a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix. Inferiorly the auricle ends in a soft pendulous part, the lohule. The sjjecial muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of the cartilage to another, are very thin and pale. Five small muscles Fig. 9.* arc to be recognised ; and these receive their names for the most part from the several eminences of the external ear. How to find Dissection. In seeking the small auricular muscles, let the the muscles. j^g removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary for the display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector will not find one or more of the number described below. * Muscles on the outer surface of the ear-cartilage. 1. Muscle of the tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle of the helix. 4. Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the inner surface of the ear-cartilage. 6. Transverse muscle. 7. Oblique muscle sometimes seen.