DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. The lower radio-tilnar articulation cannot be well seen till after the examination of the wrist-joint (p. 327). Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and back- wards npon the ulna. The forward motion, directing the palm of the hand backwards, is called pronation ; and the backward move- ment, by which the palm of the hand is turned to the front, is named supination. In pronation, the upper end of the bone rotates within the band of the orbicular ligament without shifting its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing nearly half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the ulna. In siqjination, the lower end of the radius turns backwards over the ulna ; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius^ being external ; and the upper end rotates from within out in its- circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round a line, internal to the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head of the bone, and downwards through the styloid process of the ulna. The upper end of the bone is kept in place by the orbicular ligament; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage ; and the shafts are united by the interosseous ligament, which is tightened in supination, and relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease ; in the one case because the radius cannot be moved unless it is entire ; and in the other because the broken ulna cannot support the revolving radius. In the natural actions of pronation and supination, especially when the elbow is bent, there is generally associated with the move- ment of the radius a slight degree of circumduction, but without appreciable rotation, of the ulna in a direction opposite to that in which the radius travels, i.e., backwards and outwards in pronation, inwards and forwards in supination. Dissection. To see the ligaments of the wrist-joint, the tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from both the front and back ; and the fibrous structures and the small vessels should be taken from the surface of the ligaments. The Wrist-Joint (radio-carpal articulation; fig. 107). The lower end of the radius, and the first row of the carpal bones, except the pisiform, enter into this joint. Four ligaments connect the bones, viz., anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is shut out from the articulation by a piece of fibro-cartilage. The external lateral ligament is a short band, which passes from the styloid process of the radius to the outer part of the scaphoid bone. The internal lateral ligament is longer and thicker than the external. It is attached by one end to the styloid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough upper part of the pyramidal bone. Some of the anterior fibres are continued to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament (fig. 107,^) springs from the radius, and is. inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform on the anterior surface. '