156 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Section XYI. DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. General coiistruclion of larviix'. Dissection Form ; and' diniei sions in male, in female, and in cliild. Relations Muscles, extrinsic and intrinsic. Direction Dissection The Lary^'X is the upper dilated part of the airtube, in which the voice is produced. It is constructed of several cartilages united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The Avhole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the laryiix by cutting through its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. The student Avill find it advantageous to learn the laryngeal cartilages before beginning the dissection of the larynx. Their description is given at p. 166. The larynx is placed in the middle of the neck, in front of the pharynx, and in the resting condition opposite the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. It is however very moveable, its con- nections permitting es]3ecially a considerable degree of elevation, which comes into play in the act of swallowing. Its form is pyramidal, the base being turned upwards and attached to the hyoid l^one, while the apex joins the trachea. In length it measures, in the male, about an inch and three-quarters ; in width, at the top nearly as much, and at the lower end one inch ; while the greatest depth from before backwards is about an inch and a lialf. In the female, the average length is an inch and a half, and the depth one inch. Before the age of puberty the larynx is relatively very small. On each side the larynx is covered by the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, the carotid vessels, and the latei'al lobes of the thyroid body. The front projects beneath the skin in the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Muscles. The steriio-thyroid and th}ro-hyoid muscles, which, together with the stylo-pharyngeus and inferior constrictor of the pharynx, move the larynx as a whole, are frequently called the extrinsic muscles of the larynx. The intrinsic muscles are six pairs and one single muscle. Of these, one paired muscle is exposed on the side of the larynx ; two pairs and a single muscle are seen at the back ; and the rest are concealed by the thyroid cartilage. Directions. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and the superficial muscles are to be first learnt, which do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissection. The larynx being extended and fastened with j)iiis, the dissector may clear away from the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage the following muscles, viz., omo-liyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and inferior constrictor.