DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. 582 blend together in front: bulb. Structure that sends in processes; fibres forii strata; a septal piece, whicli is imperfect; how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. Vessels. cms penis, to the conjoined rami of the ischium and pubis for about an inch, and blends with its fellow in the body of the penis, about an inch and a half from its posterior extremity. There is a slight swelling on the crus, called the bulb of the corpus cavernosum (Kobelt). Each cor]jus cavernosum is composed of a fibrous case containing a cavernous or trabecular structure, with blood-spaces between the trabeculse of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis. The fibrous case is a white, strong, elastic covering (fig. 190); from half a line to a line in thickness. Along Fig. 191.* the middle of the penis a septal process is sent inwards from it ; and numerous other finer threads,—the trabeculse of the sjDongy structure, are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres which are disposed in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum (fig. 190, h) is formed of longitudinal fibres with close meshes. The inner stratum (fig. 190, a) consists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform disposition; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meet- ing in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are inseparably united by communicating bundles. The septal process (fig. 191) is placed ver- tically along the body of the penis, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed cavity into two ; but as it reaches forwards it becomes less strong, and is pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, from which the name septum pectiniforme is derived. Through the intervals in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa com- municate. It is formed by the circular fibres of the fibrous case. The cavernous or trabecular structure is a network of fine threads, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its processes are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference; and the areolar spaces are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained cavity, than at the circumference or in the crura of the penis. The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Blood-vessels. The blood vessels of the penis are of large size, and serve to nourish as well as to minister to the function of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. * Pectiniform septum of the penis, a. Apertures in the partition, h. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a comb, which are formed by the circular fibres.