211 PAEIETAL CONVOLUTIONS. The middle frontal convolution (mf) rims from the ascending middle, frontal to the h)wer margin of the lobe, between the upper and lower frontal sulci. The inferior frontal convolution (if) is the smallest of all. Spring- and inferior angfroni the lower end of the ascending frontal convolution, it arches tudfnal. round the ascending and anterior branches of the Sylvian fissure, and passes into the posterior orl)ital gyrus. Orbital lobule (fig. 67). The orbital lobule is subdivided by a Y or H-shaped orbital sulcus (orb) into three convolutions, named orbital internal (lo), anterior (ao), and posterior (po) orbital, which are sulcus and the continuation respectively of the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions. On the internal orljital convolution is a longitudinal groove—olfactory sulcus (ol), for the reception of the Olfactory olfactory lobe. Sulci and convolutions of the parietal lobe. In the parietai parietal lobe there are two named sulci ; and four convolutions are '""^ distinguished. The intra'parietal sulcus (fig. 66, ip) begins close to the posterior intrapnrietai branch of the fissure of Sylvius, al^out midway between the up- turned extremity of this and the lower end of the furrow of Eolando. It first ascends, running nearly j^arallel to the lower half of the latter sulcus, and then is directed backwards to the hinder limit of the parietal lobe, where it often becomes continuous with the superior •occipital sulcus. The upper part of the intraparietal furrow is frequently interrupted by one or two cross gyri. The postcentral sulcus (jitc) continues the direction of the ascending and post- stage of the intraparietal sulcus behind the upper half of the furrow of Rolando. It generally opens into the intra]3arietal sulcus at the spot where the latter changes its direction. The ascending parietal convolution (ap) is placed op})Osite the as- Convolu- cending frontal, and like that is simj)le, and extends from the upper aseending margin of the'hemisphere to the posterior branch of the Sylvian P*^^"^^*^^' fissure. In front of it is the furrow of Rolando, round the ends of which it joins the ascending frontal convolution. Behind, it is limited by the postcentral sulcus above, and the transverse part of the intraparietal sulcus below. Parietal lobides. The larger portion of the parietal lobe behind p^Pj^^j^^^" the foregoing convolution is divided into two parietal lobules by the loimie, longitudinal part of the intraparietal sulcus. The superior parietal lobule (spl) is connected in front to the upper end of the ascending parietal convolation between the postcentral sulcus and the upper margin of the hemisphere, and behind to the upper occipital convo- lution by a small winding gyrus which is called the first annectant convolution (below po). This lobule is divided into several secondary gyri. The inferior parietal lobule is again subdivided into two convolu- tions, but the separation between them is often very indistinct, lobuie! The supramaryinal convolution (sm) is the anterior and larger of ^? suj-a"^ these ; it springs in front from the lower end of the ascending marginal parietal convolution, encircles the extremity of the posterior branch p 2