92 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID EEGlOls. and facial nerve. Inferior dental is between pterygoid then in the jaw, and supplies branch to niylo-hyoid, dental branches to grinding and cutting teeth, branch to lower lip. Dental artery lias an incisor and labial branch. Lingual nerve courses to the tongue no branch here. lilaments pass between the otic ganglion and the "beginning of the auriculo-temporal nerve (p. 149). /. Branches to the facial nerve. Two considerable branches pass forwards round the superficial temporal artery to join the upper trunk of the facial nerve. The iNFEBiOR DENTAL (") is the largest of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. In its course to the canal in the lower jaw, the dental nerve is placed behind and external to the lingual, and lies at first beneath the external pterygoid muscle ; it after- wards rests on the internal pterygoid, and near the dental foramen on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve enters the bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the foramen in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a mental branch. Only one oHset (to the mylo-hyoid muscle) leaves the dental nerve before it enters the bone. Its branches are :— a. The mylo-hijoid nerve arises near the dental foraman, and is continued along a groove on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw to the cutaneous surface of the mylo-hyoid, and to the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. 6. The dental branches arise in the bone, and supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal containing the nerve may be laid open so as to expose these minute branches. c. The incisor branch is small and continues the direction of the nerve onwards to the middle line, furnishing offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, below w^hich it lies. d. The menial or lahial hranch (fig. 10, '^) is in size the continua- tion of the dental trunk, and issues on the face beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth. It gives one offset downwards to the integument of the chin ; but the greater part of the nerve is directed upwards beneath the depressor labii inferioris, to be distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. Its branches communicate with the supramaxillary portion of the facial nerve. The inferior dental artery, after entering the lower jaw, has a similar course and distribution to the nerve. Thus it supplies off- sets to the bone, dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a mental branch. The incisor hranch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, where it ends in the bone ; it furnishes twigs to the canine and incisor teeth. The mental hranch, issuing by the mental foramen, ramifies in the structures covering the lower jaw, and anastomoses with the branches of the facial artery. The LINGUAL or gustatory nerve (^) is concealed at first, like the otheri?, by the external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined forwards with a small artery over the internal pterygoid, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of the nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region (p. 97). In its course beneath the jaw the nerve does not give off any branches, but the following conmiunicating nerve is received by it.