DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 62 Boundaries; of the side of the neck. Division into two triangles by sterno- mastoid. Hollows. Objects in middle line of neck: hyoid bone, thyroid cartilage, thyro-hyoid interval, cricoid cartilage, crico- thyroid interval, and supra- sternal depression. Dissection of the platysma. hooks. To obtain a good view of tlie region, the right arm mar be drawn tightly under the body, with the object of depressing the point of the shoulder, and putting the neck on the stretch. In some bodies, owing to a difference in the form of the neck, the best position will be obtained by placing the upper limb over, instead of under the chest. Surface-marking. The side of the neck has a somewhat irregularly quadrilateral outline, and is limited in the following way :—Below is the prominence of the clavicle ; and aboA^e is the base of ther lower jaw with the skull. In front, the boundary is the middle line of the neck between the chin and sternum ; and behind, a line* from the occiput to the acromial end of the clavicle. The part thus included is divided into two triangular spaces (anterior and posterior) by the diagonal prominence of the sterno-mastoid muscle. And in consequence of the position of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum ; while the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno-mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels ; and behind the muscle, just above the clavicle, is another hollow,, the supraclavicular fossa, which indicates the situation of the subclavian artery. Along the front of the neck the following parts can be recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the chin, in the retiring angle formed by the outline of the front of the necky the body of the hyoid bone may be felt, with its large cornu extending backwards on each side. Below this is the prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called jpomum Adami, which is more marked in the male sex ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding with the thyro-hyoid membrane. Below the thyroid is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico-thyroicl membrane. Immediately above the sternum, and bounded on each side by the prominent sterno-mastoid muscle, is a narrow depression—supra-' sternal fossa, the depth of which is much increased in emaciated persons, and in which the tube of the trachea can be recognised. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be felt by the side of the air-tube. Directions. As the time for turning the body will not allow the examination of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare now only the part behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin from the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the sterno-mastoid muscle from the tip of the mastoid process to the clavicle one inch external to its articulation with the sternum ; from the upper end of this carry a cut backwards two-thirds of the distance to tlie external occipital protuberance, and from the lower end another cut outwards along the clavicle as far as the acromion. The skin is to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia,