SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. 93 The chorda tymjjani is a brancli of tlie facial nerve, and leaves Chorda tlie tympanum by a special aperture close to the inner end of the lo/J^g^^'" Glaserian fissure. Appearing from beneath the upper attachment lingual, of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, this small nerve joins the lingual at an acute angle, about three-quarters of an inch below the skull. At the point of meeting a communication takes place with the lingual, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is l^^l^^ merely conducted along that nerve to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and its course across the tympanum, are described in Section XIV. The nerve to the internal 'pterygoid can now be seen as it passes beneath the hinder border to the inner surface of its muscle, but it pterygoid will be more fully shown in the dissection of the otic ganglion (Section XIY). Section YII. SUBMAXILLARY REGIOX. The submaxillary region is situate between the lower jaw and Parts in it. the hyoid bone. In it are contained some of the muscles of the hyoid bone and tongue, the vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. In this dissection the position of the neck is the same Position of as for the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. If any fatty tissue has been left on the submaxillary Dissection, gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, when the anterior triangular space was dissected, let it be taken away. The SUBMAXILLARY GLAND (fig. 17, ") Hes bclow the jaw in the Submaxil- Itirv rIcIiicI ' anterior part ©f the space limited by that bone and the digastric ^^j^^^j^^j^j^ ' muscle. Somewhat oval in shape, it rests on the mylo-hyoid, and sends a deep process round the posterior or free border of that ^^^^^j^j^j,, muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric ; and behind is the stylo-maxillary ligament separating it from the parotid. The gland is covered only by the integuments, platysma, and deep fascia; and the facial artery winds forwards on its deep surface. In structure the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 30) ; and its duct—duct of Wharton—issuing from the deep process, extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth (p. 99). Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection, belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without injury the submaxillary gland from beneath the bone. The MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE is triangular in shape, with the base at Mylo-hyoid the jaw and the truncated apex at the hyoid bone, and rmites along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises from arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw as far ■'^^^'