163 TRUE VOCAL CORD. fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage near the attach- ment of the epiglottis, behind to the middle portion of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. It is continuous above with scattered fibrous bundles in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. The inferior or trm vocal cord (b) is attached in front to the angle Inferior of the thyroid cartilage about half way down below the notch, and behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. Between these points, its free margin, by the vibration of which the voice is produced, is straight, sharp and smooth. The cord projects upwards and inwards into the cavity of the larynx, and forms the boundary of the vocal portion of the glottis. It is about seven lines long in the male, and two lines less in the female. The mucous membrane of the true vocal cord is very thin, and intimately united to the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament. The latter structure is the upper and liga- eclge of the lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane, and con- sists of fine elastic tissue, which shows a slight thickening close to its attachment to the thyroid cartilage. On the outer surface of the ligament is the deep part of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, some of the fibres of which are inserted into the band ; and a thin submucous layer of elastic tissue is continued outwards from it to line the ventricle of the larynx. The mucous membrane of the larynx is continued from that lining Mucous the j)harynx, and is prolonged downwards into the trachea. At the o'nar^^nx.'^ superior aperture of the larynx it forms the aryteno-epiglottidean fold on each side, between the margin of the epiglottis and the tip of the arytenoid cartilage : here it is very loose, and the submucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the membrane lines the wall of tl;ie cavity closely, sinks into the ventricle, and sends a prolongation upwards into the laryngeal pouch. On the lower thyro-arytenoid ligaments it is very thin and closely adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the superior vocal cords, Epithelium the epithelium is of the stratified squamous kind, and free from cilia. But a columnar ciliated epithelium covers the edges of the ^^^^^ superior cords and the surface below these, though it becomes flattened without cilia on the lower cords ; on the epiglottis the epithelium is ciliated in the lower half. Numerous racemose glands are connected with tlie mucous mem- Glands, brane of the larynx ; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior asjoect of the epiglottis. In the edge of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytenoid) ; and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the true vocal cords, but close to those bands is the collection of the sacculus laryngis, which moistens the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves and vessels. The termination of the laryngeal Dissection nerves may be dissected on the untouched side of the larynx. For " ^^'^v^s > this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated ii-om the cricoid cartilage, care being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies close behind the joint between the two. The trachea and larynx should be fastened down with pins ; and after the