CRUS CEREBlil. 2O5 from the pons (fig. 59, c) to the cerebral hemispliere, where they enter a layer of white fibres termed the internal capsule, which will be siil)se(xuently seen. The continuation of the pyramidal fibres of the mi-dulla oblongata (pyramidal tract) occupies the central part only of the crusta ; and the lateral parts consist of fibres which have l)een added in the pons. Those on the inner side pass to the frontal lobe of the hemisphere, while the outer ones are destined for the occipital and temporo-sphenoidal lol)e8. The substantia yiigra (fig. 60, g; fig. 65) is a layer of dark grey Substantia matter which separates the crusta from the tegmentum. In trans- verse sections it is seen to be convex towards tlie crusta, and thicker at the inner than at the outer side. The tegmentum is united internally with the like structure of the Tegmentum, opposite side below ; but above, tlie two are separated by the grey matter of the posterior perforated space. It consists of a reticular formation continuous with that of the ])ons, together with a con- Fig. 65.* nf. cfuad. bodij ac^uccluo^ cf Syluius /""^X lamina tjuadn'fjfcmina grcj matter of / - J^.^ aqueciuct-—-h^r^— cerebellum / V V ' -J ^ T S 1, - sidej'able bundle of fibres derived from the cerebellum (superior peduncle of the cerebellum), in coimection with which there is a roundish mass of grey substance named tlie nucleus of the tegmentum or red nucleus (fig. 78). Above, the tegmentum joins the under surface of the optic thalamus. The POSTERIOR PERFORATED SPACE (hg. 64, g) is situate in the Posterior depression between the crura cerebri. The bottom of this hollow is formed by a layer of grey matter, which is perforated by the central branches of the posterior cerebral arteries. This structure forms the hinder part of the floor of the third ventricle. The CORPORA ALBICANTIA (corp. mamillaria ; e) are two round Corpora white bodies, about the size of small peas, which are constructed in' ^^'^ greater part by the crura of the fornix. If, one, say the right, is cut across, it will be seen to contain gre}^ matter. The TUBER ciNEREUM (Ji) is a portion of the thin grey layer forming Tuber the floor of the third ventricle, which is continuous behind with the «mereum grey matter of the posterior perforated space, and in front, above the optic commissure, with the lamina cinerea. It is convex on the surface, and is prolonged at its fore part into the following body. The INFUNDIBULUM is a funnel-shaped tube which reaches from and in- the tuber cinereum to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. It * Transverse section of the lower part of the midbrain.