692 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. arises from tibia and fibula ; inserted into four outer toes; arrangement of tlie ten- dons on tlic toes; relations of the muscle: use on toes and ankle ; on tibia. Peroneus tertius : use witli tibialis, with peronei. Anterior tibial artery: course and extent : direction relations to parts around ; from the external tuberosity of tlie tibia, and about an inch (above) of the interosseous membrane : and from the fascia of the leg, and the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and divides into four pieces. Below the ligament these slips are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges. On the metatarsal phalanx the tendons of the long and short extensor join with prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales to form an aponeurosis ; but there is no tendon from the short ex- tensor to the expansion on the little toe. At the distal end of this phalanx the aponeurosis is divided into three parts—a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, while the lateral unite at the front of the middle, and are fixed into the ungual phalanx. In the leg the muscle is x^laced between the peronei on the one side, and the tibialis anticus and. extensor proprius hallucis on the other. It lies on the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle-joint. In the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum ; and the vessels and nerve are internal to them. Action. The muscle extends the four outer toes, acting mainly on the metatarso-phalangeal joints ; it can also bend the ankle-joint. If the tibia is inclined back, as when the foot reaches the ground in walking, it will be moved forwards by this and the other muscles on the front of the leg. The PERONEUS TERTIUS Ls situate below the extensor longus digi- torum, with which it is united. It arises from the lower fourth of the anterior surface of the fibula, from the lower end of the interosseous membrane, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis muscle ; and it {^inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe on the upper surface. This muscle has the same relations in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the annular ligament. Action. The muscle assists the tibialis anticus in bending the ankle ; but it difiers from that muscle in raising the outer border of the foot, and thus helps the other peronei in producing the move- ment of eversion. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 222, ^) extends from the bifur- cation of the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle-joint. At this spot it becomes the dorsal artery of the foot. The course of the artery is forwards through the aperture in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, along the front of that membrane, and over the tibia to the foot. A line drawn along tlie front of the leg from a point midway between the projection of the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle will mark the position of the vessel. For a short distance (about two inches) the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum ; afterwards it is placed between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius hallucis as far as the lower third, where the last muscle becomes