30 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. ObAious structure of gland. Vessels and nerves. Molar glands. External nose: its parts, and frame- work. Nasal cartilages Take away tissue from surface. The upper cartilage joins the septal. which divides here into its primary hranches. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve lies above the upper part of the glandular mass ; and offsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. In dissecting out the gland it has been seen to consist of a number of lobules separated by connective tissue sej)ta. From the lobules small ducts arise, and these join together so as to give rise to two large tubes, which are placed superficially to the branches of the facial nerve in the gland, and by their union opposite the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw form the beginning of Stensen's duct. As it crosses the masseter the main duct receives one or more small branches from the socia parotidis. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of the fifth, and facial. Its Z^/m^/ift^n'cs join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands lie on the surface of the buccina- tor, and open into the mouth near the last molar teeth by separate ducts. The Nose has the form of a three-sided pyramid, which is attached to the face by one of its surfaces, while the base is free. The lateral surfaces meet anteriorly in a rounded edge termed the dorsum, the upper part of which is known also as the bridge. The lower and posterior part of each lateral surface is convex and marked oflF by a curved groove, constituting the ala. The base presents the oval apertures of the nostrils or anterior nares, separated by a short thick j)artition, the septum narium or columna nasi The shape of the nose is maintained by a of the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones above, and of the cartilages of the nose below, in the part corresponding to the anterior nasal aperture of the skull. Cartilages of the Nose (fig, 8). These are five in number, one in the centre, the car- tilage of the septum., and two on each side, the lateral cartilage and the cartilage of the aperture. They are all hyaline cartilage, but do not show any tendency to become ossified. Only the la- teral cartilages are learnt in this stage of the dissection. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen Avhen the muscular and fibrous structures of the left side of the nose have been taken away. By turning aside the lateral cartilages the septal one will aj^pear in the middle line. The lateral cartilage (upper hit. cart. ; fig. 8, ^) is fiattened, and triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal and u^Djier maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it joins the cartilage of the septum framework consisting * Cartilages of the nose. 1. Septal cartilage. 2. Lateral cartilage. 3. Cartilage of the aperture, its outer part, and 4, its inner part. 5. Nasal bone.