225 COEPUS STRIATUM. Grey uiaftcr of the ventricle. A stratum of grey matter forms the Grey matter lower ])art of the wall of the ventricle. Portions of this layer , . , .1 1 PIT- • 1 . ventricle. appearing at the base oi the bram constitute the posterior perforated space, the tuber cinereum and the lamina cinerea. It also extends into the corpus albicans, forming the nucleus of that body. At the fore part of each optic thalamus it covers the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the soft commissure (d). The CORPUS .STRIATUM (fig. 70, e) is the large grey body which corpu!-- has been seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle. The grey matter striatum, composing it is incompletely divided into two masses—caudate and s^i'^^cture. lenticular nuclei, by a layer of white fibres, named the internal capsule; and it has received its name from the striated appearance of this layer. Dissect ion. To show the composition of the corpus striatum, the Dissection, upper ])art of that body and of the optic thalamus should be sliced off on the right side, until a view resembling that in fig. 73 is obtained. The superficial anatomy of the corj)us striatum and optic thalamus may be studied on the left side. The caudate or intraventricular nuclens (fig. 72,a) is a long p\ riform Camlate mass of reddish-grey substance which projects into the lateral shows in ventricle. Its larger extremity or Jiead (fig. 73, c7i) is turned ^^^^^^'^/^^^. forwards, and forms the floor of the anterior cornu of the ventricle. The middle tapering portion is directed backwards and outwards, along the outer side of the ojitic thalamus, beneath the Iwdy of the A'entricle, and ends in the tail (fig. 73, cn'), which bends downwards and is prolonged in the roof of the descending cornu of the cavity, nearly to its anterior extremity. Xumerous veins run over the veins on surface of the caudate nucleus, and they may be seen to join a' larger vessel (vein of the corpus striatum) which lies along the groove between the caudate nucleus and optic thalamus. The lenticular or cxtrarentricular nucleus is entirely surrounded bv Lenticular nucleus is white matter, and is placed opposite the bottom of the fissure of only seen in Sylvius and the insula of the exterior of the hemisphere. It -sections; appears lens-shaped in horizontal section (fig. 73, In), but triangular, with the base turned outwards, when cut transversely (fig. 74). Internally, it is separated from the caudate nucleus and optic surrounded thalamus by the internal capsule ; and externally and below, it is capsule*.^ bounded by a thinner white layer named the external capsule. The INTERNAL CAPSULE (figs. 73 ; 74) is a thick layer of white J^'^^^™^^ fibres, which is seen in the horizontal section to form a bend—genu (icg), opposite the groove between the optic thalamus and the head of the caudate nucleus. The part in front of the genu is named the v^^'^"^, anterior limb (ica), and the longer part behind is the posterior limh (icp) of the capsule. The internal capsule is formed in large part source of by the fibres of the crusta of the crus cerebri coursing upwards to the medullary centre of the hemisphere, but many fibres are added from the nuclei on each side. The pyramidal fibres, which have pyramidal been traced from the medulla oblongata through the pons (p. 202), and crusta (p. 205), occupy the anterior two-thirds of the posterior Q tract.