468 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and an artery. Three inguinal I'ossfe: external, internal, Situation of femora] hernia. Dissection of the parts concerned. Divide Avail, detach peritoneum and fat, and clean iliac vessels Anatomv of the sti'uctures near Poupart's ligament, is a less marked ])rominence of tlie perito- neum caused by the epigastric artery. Fossce. With tliis disposition of the cords, three hollows {inguinal fossce) are seen near Pouparf s ligament, one internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, another outside the epigastric artery, and the third between the two prominences. The external fossa corresponds by its lower and inner part to the internal abdominal ring, opposite which there is often a slight depression of the peritoneum, and is the place where an external inguinal hernia begins to protrude. The internal fossa is between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the urachus ; its outer part is opposite the external abdominal ring, and is the seat of the commoner (inferior) variety of internal hernia. The middle fossa is the smallest, and is placed behind the inguinal canal; in it the superior variety of internal hernia leaves the abdo- minal cavity. In some bodies the obliterated hypogastric artery is close to, or behind, the epigastric artery; and in that case the middle fossa will be wanting. Femoral Hernia. In this hernia the intestine leaves the abdomen below Poupart's ligament, and descends in the membranous sheath around the femoral vessels. Only so much of the structures will be described here as can be now seen ; the rest are noticed fully in the dissection of the thigh (p. 612). Dissection. The dissection for femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the body. The lower portion of the abdominal wall is to be divided from the umbilicus to the pubis, the cut being made on the left side of the urachus, and care being taken not to injure the bladder, which may project above the pubic bones. The peritoneum is to be de- tached from the inner surface of the flap, and from the iliac fossa. The layer of subperitoneal fatty tissue is to be separated in the same way, and in doing this the sj)ermatic vessels and vas deferens will come into view as the}^ meet at the internal abdominal ring to form the spermatic cord. Beneath these the external iliac vessels are to be cleaned, with some lymphatic glands lying along them, and the genito-crural nerA^'e on the artery. (In the female the round liga- ment of the uterus is seen entering the internal abdominal ring round the epigastric artery; and the ovarian vessels cross the external iliac trunks higher up.) Any loose tissue remaining is to be taken away to show the beginning of the crural sheath around the femoral vessels, and the interval (crural ring) on their inner side (fig. 154). Afterwards the transversalis and iliac fascise are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the forniation of the crural sheath. Anatomy of femoral hernia. The membranes concerned in femoral hernia are the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fatty layer, the transversalis and iliac fascise lining the interior of the abdominal cavity, with the sheath on the femoral vessels to which they gi^^e origin at Poupart's ligament.