698 dissections' of the leg. Capsule: The capsiile (fig. 223) is an aponeurotic covering on the front of the joint, which closes the wide intervals between the anterior and how formed, the lateral ligaments ; and it is derived from the fascia lata united with fibrous offsets of the extensor and flexor muscles. It covers the anterior and the external lateral ligaments, being inserted below into arrange- the heads of the tibia and fibula ; and it blends on the inner side nient. with, the internal lateral ligament. It is separated from the synovial membrane by the anterior ligament and by fat. The external Dissection. Four external ligaments, anterior and j)osterior, internal ligaments. external lateral, are situate at opposite parts of the articula- To define tion. The posterior and the internal lateral ligaments will appear on the liga- ^ to li ments Fig. 223.* Fig. 224. t how to proceed. External lateral liga- ment is small: occasional band. the removal of the areolar tissue from their surfaces ; but the anterioi- and the external lateral are covered by the aponeurosis on the front of the joint, and will not be laid bare till this has been cut through. If there is a second external lateral band present, it is not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 223,^) is round and cord-like. It is attached to the tuberosity of the outer condyle of the femur, below the tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces of the tendon of the biceps to a depression on the upper and outer part of the head of the fibula. Beneath the liga- ment are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but * External aspect of the knee-joint (Bourgery). 1. Anterior ligament. 2, External lateral ligament. 3. Interosseous membrane. 4. Lower extremity of the ilio-tibial band of tke fascia lata, forming part of the capsule. f Internal aspect of the knee-joint (Bourgery). 1. Tendon of the extensor muscle, ending below in the ligament of the patella, 2. 3. Internal lateral ligament. 4. Inner part of the capsule.