DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 500 lip the stoiiiaeii. Form, division Left end. and right. Cardiac and pyloric oponings. moderately, and the surface cleaned; but, previously, let tlie student detach the spleen, and cut through the duodenum close to the pylorus. Form and divisions. The stomacli is rather ]:)yriforni in sha})e, and in its natural condition strongly curved (tig. 155). Its size varies much in diflterent bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction to the right of the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about tAvelve inches long and four wide. There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders or curvatures to be examined. The left end is called the fundus or great cul-de-sac, and projects- upwards to the left of the end of the oesophagus. The right or loyloric end is much smaller, and tapers to the duodenum. The cardiac ojjeimig, which communicates with the oesophagus, is placed two or three inches from the most prominent j)art of the fundus, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The jnjioric orifice opens into the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (pylorus), at this spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, where a firm circular thickening may be felt. The anterior and posterior surfaces are somewhat flattened when the viscus is empty, but rounded when it is distended : the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 473). The ujDper border or small curvature is concave, except for a short distance at the pyloric end. The lower border or large curvature is- :nid largv. much longer, convex, and when the organ is distended forms at the i:)yloric end a slight ^^rojection to the right, which has been named the antrum pylori or small cul-de-sac. An arterial arch and a fold of j)eritoneuui (omentum) are connected with each border. Structure. In the wall of the stomach are four coats, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous ; and belonging to these there are vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a coveriug to the stomacJi,. and is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an interval exists cori^esponding with the attachment of the small and large omentum : in these spaces are contained the vessels, nerves^ and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous- covering. Its fibres are unstriated or involuntary, and arranged in three sets, viz., longitudinal, circular, and oblique, in the order mentioned from without inwards. The longitudinal fih-es (fig. 162, a) are derived from the oesopha- gus ; they spread over the surface, and are continued to the pylorus and the small intestine. The fibres are most marked along the borders, particularly at the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of the stomach. The circular fibres (fig. 162, h) form the middle stratum, and will be best seen by removing the longitudinal fibres near the pylorus. Thev reach from the left to the right end of the stomach ; but at Surfaces Small curvature. Four strata in stomach. The serous coat is thii and adhe- rent. The muscu- lar coat is made uii of longi- tudinal. fircular.