DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 526 afterwards join toge- ther (rete testis), and leave the gland as vasa efferontia. Rete testis (fig. 175, e). In the mediastinum the seminal tubes have no proper walls (beyond epithelium), and are situate in the anterior part, in front of the blood-vessels ; they communicate freely so as to form a network. Excretory du(;t in two parts. Epididymis cfnisisting of head, tail, and body; how fixed; foi-med of a coiled tube ; length and siice. Vasa efferentia (fig. 175,/). Fig. 175.* From twelve to twenty tubes leave the top of the rete, and issue from the upper end of the testicle as the vasa efferentia : these are larger than the tubes with which they are continuous, and end in the canal of the epididymis (part of the common excretory duct). Though straight at first, they soon become con- voluted, and form the coni vasculosi. In the natural state the coni are about half an inch in length, but when unravelled the tubes measure six inches ; and they join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. The EXCRETORY DUCT receives the vasa efferentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms tlie epididymis ; but the remainder is comparatively straight, and is named vas deferens. The EPIDIDYMIS (fig. 175, h) extends in the form of an arch along the outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, the globus major (g) ; and at the lower end of that organ it becomes more pointed or tail-like—globus minor (i), before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part of the epididymis is called the body (li). It is attached to the testis, most cLjsely at the ends, by fibrous tissue and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis, the globus major also by the vasa efferentia. The epididymis is formed of q, single tube, bent in a zigzag way, the coils of which are united into a solid mass by fibrous tissue. After the removal of the serous membrane and some fibrous tissue this part of the tube may be uncoiled ; it then measures twenty feet or more in length. The diameter of its canal is about ^V^h of an inch, though there is a slight diminution in size towards the ■* Vertical and horizontal sections of the testis, to show the arrangement of the septa and seminal tubes, a. Lobes of the testis, b. Septa between the lobes, c. Tubuli recti, d. Mediastinum testis, e. Eete testis. /. Vasa efferentia. ff. Globus major, h. Body, and i, globus minor of the epididy- mis, k. Vas deferens. I. Vas aberrans. n. Rete testis, in section, o. Finer septa, p. Epididymis, cut across, r. Mediastinum, cut across.