DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 230 origin; ending of outer or superficial part, and inner or deep part. Optic tract arises from nates, geniculate bodies, and thalamus. pons between the reticular formation and the deep transverse fibres (tig. 63, f). It is formed mainly by fibres continued upwards from the anterior and lateral columns of the same side of the spinal cord, together with others from the nuclei of the posterior columns (cuneate and slender) of the opposite side of the bulb. At the upper edge of the pons the outer part of the fillet becomes super- ficial, and curving round the tegmentum (fig. 75), passes to the quadrigeminal bodies, in which many of the fibres are lost, while others decussate in the lamina quadrigemina, above the aqueduct of Sylvius, with those of the opposite side. The inner fibres of the fillet maintain their deep position, and are continued upwards with the tegmentum to the cerebral hemisphere. The ORIGIN OF THE OPTIC TRACT can now be seen (fig. 76). At the outer side of the crus cerebri the optic tract forms a bend (genu). Fis. 76.* J»i. h. sup. hiar\ tcciuvb semi p. nj. hmch . if. ciucLoL.b. opt.conurv. opt. rtcrvt and then divides into two parts. The inner and smaller of these springs from the internal geniculate body ; while the outer is con- tinued from the external geniculate body and the optic thalamus, receiving also the bracliium of the superior quadrigeminal body. Posterior The POSTERIOR COMMISSURE (fig. 72, e) is the thin foremost part commissure. ^£ ^^iq lamina quadrigemina, which is folded back so as to present a rounded margin in front towards the third ventricle, above the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius (fig. 69). On each side it joins the optic thalamus, and to its uj)i)er part the stalk of the pineal body is attached. It consists mainly of decussating fibres con- tinuous with those of the fillet ; but some are said to be conunis- sural, uniting the tegmenta of the two sides. Pineal The PINEAL BODY (conarium; fig. 72, g) is ovoiclal in shaj)e, like gland, ^i^g ^Qj^^ ^£ ^ pine, and about a quarter of an inch in length. It lies ■■" Origin of the optic tract. The mesenceplialon is divided close above the pons.