396 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. continvia- muscles. It is continuous below with the tendon of the serratus and above.' posticus inferior, and through this with the superficial layer of the fascia lumborum ; but above, it passes beneath the upper serratus, and blends with the deep intermuscular fascia of the neck. The strongest fibres of the membrane are directed transversely. Muscles of ^ Fourth Layer of Muscles. This comprises the splenius fourth layer. j^^^g(>^Q g^j^^j ^j^g erector spinse, with its divisions and accessory muscles to the neck. Dissection. Dissection. The ujoper serratus is to be cut through, and the vertebral aponeurosis taken away ; and the -part of the splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. In turning outwards the fleshy part of the serratus, slender twigs of the intercostal nerves, which perforate the external intercostal muscle accompanied by small arteries, may be found entering its slips. Splenius has The SPLENIUS MUSCLE (fig. 131) is flat and elongated. Single two parts: origin, it is divided alcove into two parts, one passing to the head—splenius capitis, and the other to the neck—splenius colli. It arises from the upper six dorsal and the seventh cervical spines, and from the ligamentum nuchse as high as the third cervical vertebra. The fibres are directed upwards and outwards to their insertion. one to the The spleuius colli (c) is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- iieck, terior transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebrae with, but behind, the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula, tiie other to The spUnius capitis (b), much the larger, is inserted into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, and into the outer third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, relations. The muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the skull is beneath the sterno-mastoid. The complexus muscle appears above the upper border of the splenius capitis. The splenius represents the pro- longation to the upper cervical vertebrae and head of the outer portion of the erector spinae. Use of A ction. The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head capltis^^ directly back ; and one will incline and rotate the head to the same side. splenius The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical vertebrae ; but one muscle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. Divide Dissection (fig. 132). The splenius is to be detached from the and"seek ^pinous processes, and thrown outwards. In doing this, small nerves. branches from the external divisions of the posterior cervical nerves to the pieces of the muscle are to be looked for. Define otf- And while the erector spinae is being displayed in the dorsal and the^erector ^^^^^^^^ regions by the dissector of the upper limb, two prolongations spinse. from it to the cervical vertebrae and the head are to be defined by the dissector of the neck :—One, a thin narrow muscle, the cervicalis ascendens, is continued beyond the ribs from the outer piece of the