381 LIGAMENTS OF YERTEBR^. three or foiu' vertebrse, while the deepest i^ass from one hone to and mode of the next. More of the fibres are attached to the intervertebral discs than to the bones ; and few or none are fixed to the centre of the bodies. The ligament bridges over the transverse hollows on the vertebral bodies, and renders the front of the column smooth and even. On each side, over the part uncovered by the anterior common short latera ligament, the bodies of the vertebrse are united by a thin layer of short fibres (fig. 123, &). The posterior common ligament (fig. 124) is contained in the Posterior spinal canal, lying on the l^ack of the vertebral bodies, and also ugament: extends from the tixis to the sacrum. It is much thinner than the anterior, and, unlike that, is broad above and narro^v below. It is form; wider opposite the intervertebral discs than on the l)()dies, so that Fig. 124 a.* Fig. 124b. the margins are dentate. In the neck (a) it covers nearly the whole breadth of the bodies ; but in the dorsal and lumbar regions (b) it is a narrow band, which sends off a pointed process on each side to be attached to the intervertebral disc and the upper margin of the pedicle. The hinder surface of the ligament is in contact with the relations, dura mater ; and between the band and the centre of the bodies are intervals where large veins issue from the bones. The fibres are arranged as in the anterior ligament; and they are more closely united with the intervertebral substance than with the bone. Dissection. To see the intervertebral discs, the anterior and To see the ])Osterior common ligaments must be taken awaj^; and to show "ertebrai their structure, one disc should be cut through horizontally, while substance, another is to be divided vertically by sawing through the bodies of two vertebrse. The intervertebral substances or discs (fig. 125) are placed between inter- the bodies of the vertebrse, with the exception of the atlas and axis. ^Tscs^^^^ Each disc is a flattened or slightly biconvex plate (fig. 126), which form and is firmly united to the adjacent surfaces of two bodies ; and its form Two views of the posterior common ligament, c, to show the difference in shai>c, A, in the neck, and b, in the loins.