75 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. loiigus colli muscles from the trunks of tlie nerves close to tlie Brandies to intervertebral foramina. umscies.^^^^^ Some muscular and connecting branches from tlie loop between tbe Branches of first two nerves will be afterwards seen (p. 113). first nerve. External series. Muscular branches are supplied from tbe Branches to second nerve to the sterno-mastoid; from the third and fourth "muscles, nerves to the levator anguli scapulae and middle scalenus ; and from the loop between the same nerves to the trapezius. Connecting branches with the sinnal accessory nerve exist in three Branches places. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle ; next, in the posterior'^p^af triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union accessory. Avith the branches distributed to tlie trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the chief vessel for the supply Common of blood to the neck and head (fig. 17, The origin of tlie vessel "^^^^f, differs on the two sides, being at the lower part of the neck on the right side, and in the thorax on the left side. The right vessel commences opposite the sterno-clavicular articu- origin; lation at the bifurcation of the innominate artery, and ends at, or a little above, the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, on a level with the fourth cervical vertebra, by dividing into external and internal carotids. The course of the artery is along the side of the course; trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the larynx ; and its position will be marked by a line from the sterno-clavicular situation, articulation to a point midwa}^ between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the carotid artery has the follow- ing connections with the surrounding parts :—As high as the cricoid ^^^^^^^.j^^ cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common ^^^"^^'"S^' coverings of the skin, platysma, and fascijB ; and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, omo-liyoid, and sterno-thyroid. But from the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is more superficial, being covered only by the sterno-mastoid with the common investments of the neck. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli and scalenus beneath it, anticus muscles, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, and on its the oesophagus and pharynx, and the thyroid body, the last over- lapping the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Veins. The large internal jugular vein lies on the outer side of Position of the artery, being closely a^^plied to it in the upper part of its course, but separated from it below by an interval about half an inch wide : on the left side the vein is nearer to the artery below, as will be afterwards seen. One or two superior thyroid veins cross the upper end of the arterial trunk ; and opposite the thyroid body another small vein (middle thyroid) is directed backwards over the vessel.