DISSECTION OF THE NECK. anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to the lowest constrictor and the muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— a. The hyoid branch is very small, and runs inwards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the muscles attached to that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. h. A sterno-mastoid branch descends in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The superior larijngeal artery pierces the membrane between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and communicates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid artery to open into the internal jugular vein. The facial artery (g) arises above the lingual, and is directed upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery passes under the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and then beneath the submaxillary gland, under cover of which it makes a sigmoid turn. Its anatomy in the face has been referred to (p. 27). From the cervical part branches are given to the pharynx, and to the structures below the jaw, viz. :— a. The inferior or ascending palatine branch ascends to the pharynx beneath the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyn- geus muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, which it reaches by turning over the upper border of the superior constrictor muscle. Its place in the palate is frequently supplied by an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in offsets to that body. c. Glandular branches are sup23lied to the submaxillary gland from the part of the artery in contact with it, d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and courses forwards on the mylo-hyoid muscle to the anterior belly of the digastric, where it ends in offsets : some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone, one or two perforating the mylo-hyoid and anastomosing with the sublingual arterj^ The facial vein (j>. 28) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical part of its course it receives branches corresponding to the offsets of the artery ; and it frequently sends a considerable branch downwards to join the anterior jugular vein (p. 64). The occipital artery springs from the carotid ojDposite the facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and ascends to the inner side of the mastoid process. Here it turns backwards