OBVIOUS STRUCTURE OF LIVER. 517 furnislies vaginal hranches, which ramify in the sheath, giving it a red appearance in a well-injected liver, and supply twigs to the coats of the portal vein and biliary ducts, and to the areolar tissue : from the vaginal branches a few offsets (caimdar) are given to the coat of the liver. Finally, the artery ends in fine interlobular hranches, from which offsets enter the lobules. The hepatic veins (vense cavse hepaticse) begin by small intralobular veins from the centre of the lobules ; these are received into the suh- lobular branches^ which anas- tomose together, and unite into larger vessels. Finally, uniting with neighbouring branches to produce larger trunks, the hepatic veins are directed from before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The hepatic veins may be said to be without a sheath, except in the larger trunks; so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent, in consequence of their close connection with the liver structure. Hepatic duct. The biliary ducts follow the portal vein in their mode of branching, and run with the other vessels in the portal canals (fig. 171, d). They issue from the liver at the transverse fissure in a right and left trunk, which by their union form the common hepatic duct (fig. 170, g).t Structure. The moderately-sized hepatic ducts consist of a fibrous coat, lined by a mucous layer ; and penetrating the wall is a longi- tudinal row of openings, on each side, leading into sacs, and into branched tubes which sometimes communicate. Lymphatics of the liver are superficial and deep. The superficial of the upper surface in part join the lymphatics of the thorax by piercing the diaphragm, and enter the anterior mediastinal glands ; those of the under surface mainly join the deep lymphatics issuing at the portal fissure. The deep lymphatics accompany both sets of vessels in the liver ; those with the portal vein descend through some small glands in the lesser omentum and end in the coeliac glands; while those * Vessels in a portal canal, and the lobules of the liver (Kiernan). I. Lobules of the liver, p. Branch of the portal vein, with a, a, small branches which supply interlobular offsets. c. Hepatic artery. d. Hepatic duct. i, i. Openings of interlobular branches of the portal vein. f Aberfant ducts exist betvs^een the pieces of the peritoneum in the left lateral ligament of the liver, and in the bands bridging over the round ligament and vena cava ; they anastomose together, and are accompanied by brancbes of. the vessels of the liver, viz., portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. nourishes the vessels and capsule: ending in lobules. Hepatic veins with- out a sheath. right, left, and common hepatic ducts. Structure of medium- sized ducts. Lympha- tics ; superficial, and deep.