INTEKMUSCITLAR SEPTA. Two inter- muscular septa: . The triceps is superficial, except at the ujjper part where it is relations; overLappecl by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articu- lation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the inter- muscular septa ; and the lowest fibres are continuous externallv with the anconeus—^a muscle of the forearm. Action. All the pieces of the triceps comljining in their action us?, will bring the ulna into a line with the humerus, and extend the Fig. 94. * elbow-joint. As the long head j)asses the shoulder, it can de- press the raised humerus, and adduct the arm. The INTERMUSCULAR SEPTA are fibrous processes continuous with the investing aponeurosis of the arm, which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus : they separate the muscles of the front and back of the limb, and give attachment to the fleshy fibres. The internal is the stronger, and reaches as high as the cora- co-brachialis muscle, from which it receives some tendinous fibres. The brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind : the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anas- tomotic vessels pierce it. The external septum is thinner, H^n. "li an outer. and ceases at the deltoid muscle. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front are the brachialis anticus, and the muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior) arising above the condyle of the humerus : it is pierced by the muscuU)- spiral nerve and the accompanying vessels. Dissection. To follow the superior -orofunda vessels and the mus- Dissection ■*■ OI VGSSGlS culo-spiral nerve, the middle and outer heads of the triceps should and nerve. an inner and * Dissection of the dorsal scapular vessels and nerve, and of the triceps muscle. Muscles: a. Long head of triceps, b. Outer head, v/itli a bit of whalebone beneath it to mark the extent of its attachment down the humerus, c. Inner head. d. Anconeus. e. Supinator longus. p. Extensor carpi radialis longior. G. Teres major, h. Teres minor, i. Infraspinatus, cut across. j. Supraspinatus, cut through. Arteries: a. Suprascapular. h. Dorsal scapular, c. Posterior circumflex. Nerves: 1, Suprascapular. 2. Circumflex.