178 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. it downwards, tlie student should define a strong band, the trans- verse ligament, which crosses the neck of the odontoid process, and sends upwards and downwards a slip to the occipital "bone, and the axis. The upper offset from the transverse ligament may be cut and odontoid through afterwards for the purpose of seeing the odontoid ligaments, ligaments, ^^j^j^^j-^ radiate from the process, the central one being a slender l)and in the middle line, and the lateral, much stronger, passing nearly horizontally outwards. Toiix The transverse ligament of the atlas (fig. 53, ^) is a strong arched ijrocess^ band behind the odontoid process, which is attached on each side to is the a, tubercle on the inner surface of the lateral mass of the atlas, below iJamenC the fore part of the upper articular process. The ligament is rounded at each end, but flattened and wider in the middle; and at this spot also named cruciform. Socket for odontoid process. Cheek ligaments. Suspensory ligament. Articular surfaces of odontoid process, and two synovial sacs. it has a band of longitudinal fibres connected with its upper and lower margins (fig. 52,^) so as to produce a cruciform figure : the upper band is inserted into the basilar process, and the lower into the body of the axis. Towards the spinal canal it is concealed by the long occipito-axial ligament. This ligament forms, with the anterior arch of the atlas, a ring (fig. 53, -) which surrounds the neck of the odontoid process of the axis, and prevents separation of the bones. Tlie lateral odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 52, are two strong bundles of fibres, attached by one end to a flat impression on each side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a rough mark on the inner surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the long occipito-axial band: their upper fibres are sliort and nearly horizontal; the lower are longer and obli(jue. The central odontoid ligament is a small median cord, which passes from the tip of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. When the transverse and odontoid ligaments have been cut through, the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilage- covered surfaces, which correspond to as many synovial sacs. One surface is on the front of the process, and articulates with the anterior arch of the atlas ; the other is the floor of the groove * Atlas v/itli tlie transverse ligament. 1. Transverse ligament Avith its offsets cut. 2. Space occupied by the odontoid process.