642 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Ilio-inguinal arises with preceding, and accom- panies it. Genito- crural pierces psoas, and divides into genital and crural branch. Course of external cutaneous to the thij-h. Origin of anterior crural: position in the abdomen; its branches to iliacus, to femoral artery. Obturator in the abdomen; ends in the thigh; occasionally an accessory branch. transversalis iimscle. Its termination in tlie integnnients of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an iliac and a hypogastric branch has been already mentioned (p. 456). h. The ilio-inguinal branch (g) arises M'itli the preceding from the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch courses out- wards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles towards the front of the iliac crest, where it pierces the transversalis. The farther course of the nerve in the abdominal wall, and its distribution to the scrotum and the thigh, are before noticed (p. 456). c. The genito-crural nerve (h) is distributed to the cremaster muscle and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop between the first two ; issuing from the front of the psoas, it descends on the surface of the muscle, and divides into the two following pieces. Sometimes the nerve is divided in the psoas, and the pieces perforate the muscle separately. The genital branch descends on the external iliac artery, and furnishes offsets ar(^und it: it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round liganient. The crural branch issues beneath Poupart's ligament to supply the integument of the thigh (p. 609). cl. The exterrial cutaneous nerve of the thigh (i) arises from the loop between the second and third nerves, and appears about the luiddle of the outer border of the psoas. The nerve then crosses the iliacus to the interval between the anterior iliac spinous pro- cesses, and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, to be distributed on the outer aspect of the limb (p. 609). e. The anterior crural nerve (h) is the largest ofl'set of the plexus, and supplies branches mainly to the extensor muscles of the knee- joint, and to the integuments of the front of the thigh and inner side of the leg. Taking origin from the second, third and fourth nerves, this large trunk appears towards the lower part of the psoas, where it lies between that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen beneath Poupart's liganient; but before the final branching in the thigh (p. 627), the nerve sends oft' the following twigs :— Some small branches to the iliacus are furnished from the outer side of the nerve. A branch to the femoral artery^ the place of origin of which varies much, is distributed around the upper part of that vessel. /. The obturator nerve {n) is distributed chiefly to the adductor muscles of the thigh (p. 631). Arising in front of the anterior crural from the second, third, and fourth nerves in the |)l^xus (sometimes not from the second), it makes its appearance at the inner border of the psoas near the sacro-iliac articulation. Escaped from beneath the muscle, the nerve crosses the side of the pelvis below the external iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters the thigh through the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen. Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch :— The accessory obturator nerve (l) arises from the trunk of the