TEANSVERSE TARSAL ARTICULATIOX. 713 Articular surfaces. Both bones are flattened towards the outer Surfaces of part of the articulation; but at the inner side the os calcis is hollowed transversely, and the cuboid bone is convex to fit into it. Movement. In this joint the cuboid bone may move in two direc- Movement: tions, viz., obliquely down and in with inversion of the foot, and up and out with eversion. In the downward movement the internal lateral and the upper state of ligament are made tight; and in the upward, the calcaneo-cuboid I'S^^i^^^s. ligaments of the sole are stretched. Transverse tarsal articulation. This name is given to the Transverse line of articulation crossing the foot between the astragalus and os cuiation calcis behind and the navicular and cuboid bones in front : it will be noticed, however, that it is not a continuous joint, but is com- includes posed of two separate articulations, viz., the astragalo-navicular and ^^^jomts, the calcaneo-cuboid. These joints participate, as has l)een already seen, in the move- movements-; ments of inversion and eversion, the anterior bones moving over the hinder ones, downwards and inwards in inversion, and upwards and outwards in eversion. It is at this line that the foot is amputation divided in the operation known as Chopart's amputation. he?e.*^^^^^ Dissection. Saw through the astragalus in front of the attachment Dissection, of the interosseous ligament l)etween it and the os calcis, and remove the head of the bone in order to see the disposition of the inner and outer calcaneo-navicular ligaments. Then the interosseous ligament uniting the astragalus and the os calcis is to be cut through, to demonstrate its attachments, the iirttcular surfaces of the bones, and the synovial sacs (p. 704). Articular surfaces of the two hinder tarsal bones. There are two Surfaces of articular surfaces, anterior and posterior, to both the astragalus and ^^^^^"^ the OS calcis. The hinder one of the os calcis is convex from before back, and the anterior is concave ; but sometimes the latter is subdivided into -two. The surface of the astragalus will have a and astra- form exactly the reverse of that of the os calcis, viz., the hinder one saius. concave and the anterior convex ; the anterior is seated on the head of the astragalus. Dissection. The calcaneo-cuboid joint may be opened to see the •articular surfaces ; and the student is to keep in mind that all the other articulations of the foot are to be opened for the like purpose, even should directions not be given. ArticulxVTIONs op the navicular bone. The navicular bone Union of the is united in front to the three cuneiform bones, and laterally to the {Jonlf"^*^ cuboid. In the articulation icith the cuneiform hones (fig. 230) there are to the cunei- three longitudinal dorsal ligaments (i, k, I), one to each bone ; but the innermost is the strongest and widest, and extends round the inside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 232, e). The place of plantar bands is supplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The naviculo-cuneiform articulations form one continuous ioint, «y»oviai ' sac: