DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 364 terior form ;i plexus the trunk of the vagus and the recurrent branch, but they are supplied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. lower cervi- The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each branch!'^*^ vagus nerve (p. 112) may be now seen. The branch of the right nerve lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac offset of the sympathetic of the same side ; and the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, to end in the superficial cardiac plexus (p. 347). Pulmonary C- Pnlmonarij branches. There are two sets of nerves for the lung, branches: q^^q anterior and the other on the posterior aspect of the root. small The anterior branches, two or three in number, are small, and antenoi, communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on tlie pulmonar}^ artery : these nerves are best seen on the left side. large pes- The posterior branches are larger and much more numerous. Torming a plexiform arrangement {posterior lyulmonary plexus) behind the root of the lung b}^ the flattening and splitting of the trunk of the nerve, they are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into tlie lung on the divisions of the airtube. (Esophageal d. QJsophagc'il branches are furnished to the gullet, but in greatest branches abundance in tlie lower half. Below the root of the lung the lorm 3' , T p T . 1 • 1 plexus. branches of the pneunio-gastric nerves surround the cesophagus with a network {plexus gulai). Sympathetic Sympathetic nerve. In the thorax the sympathetic nerve con- consists^f ^^^^'"^ knotted cord along each side of the spinal column, which communicates with tlie spinal nerves ; and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and the lungs. a gangiiated The gaiigliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- cord, tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed (p. 374). and a cen- The CARDIAC PLEXUS lies over the lower end of the trachea, and plexus^above the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. A part of this net- work, the superficial cardiac plexus, has been already described (p. 347). The remaiidng part, or the deep cardiac ^dexus, is placed beneath tlie arch of the aorta. Dissection of Directions. The cardiac plexus has been injured by the previous the plexus: examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in which the heart and the large vessels are entire, to expose JJissection. The ascending aorta is to be cut across near the heart, partand is to be drawn over to the left side : next, the upper cava is to be divided above the entrance of the azygos vein, and its lower part is to be thrown down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lymphatic glands, the right part of the plexus will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pulmonary artery. The oftsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the and the left, left side enter, the aorta is to be cut through a second time, between the subclavian artery and the attachment of the ligament of the