DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 624 deep part. Muscular branches. Femoral vein. To expose muscles on tront of the femur. Tensor vaginso femoris arises from pelvis; ends in fascia lata: parts around: use on limb; on pelvis; on knee. Cut through the band of fascia. Great exten- .sor of knee. the lower border of the sartoriiis, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deep branch (I) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internus, and descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal artery. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus, and forms an arch at the ujDper border of the patella witli an offset of the superior external articular artery. Muscular branches. Branches for the supply of the muscles come mostly from the outer side of the femoral artery ; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and the adductor longus. The FEMORAL VEIN Corresponds closel}'' with the femoral artery in its relations and its branches. Dissection. The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the profunda, and are to be thrown downwards pre- paratory to the deeper dissection. Afterwards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural nerve. Unless this dis- section is fully carried out, tlie upper part of the vastus internus and crureus Avill not be prepared for learning. The TENSOR VAGINA FEMORIS s. FASCIAE LATiE (fig. 204, l) Occu- pies the upper third of the thigh. It takes origin from the front of the crest of the ilium at the outer aspect, from the anterior superior spine and from the edge of the notch between this and the inferior spine as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata about three inches below, and rather in front of the line of, the great trochanter of the femur. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the gluteus medius. Beneath it are the ascending offsets of the external circumflex artery ; and a branch of the^ superior gluteal nerve enters its under surface, A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Action. Supposing the limb moveable the muscle abducts the thigh, and may help in rotating inwards the femur. When the limb is fixed it will support the pelvis, and assist in balancing the latter on the femur in walking. The chief function of the tensor vaginae femoris is, however, to act with the gluteus maximus in tightening the ilio-tibial band so as to support the extended knee (p. 640). Dissection. After the tensor has been learnt, the slip of fascia extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; and when it is detached from the muscles around, the rectus may be followed vqy- wards to its origin from the jDelvis. The QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS (fig. 202) consists of four parts or heads, one long or superficial (rectus), which springs from the pelvis, and three short or deep (vastus internus, crureus, and vastus externus) which arise from the femur : all are united below in a common tendon.