DISSECTION OF THE EACK. 394 and termi- nation ; relations; Supra- scapular artery : (;ourse to slioulder ; offset. yupra- sca[tular nerve. Tran.sverse cervical artery divides into superficial cervical and posterior scapular. Acconipany ing veins. Nerve of rhomboid muscles. Third layer of muscles. Dissection. men. The fibres form a tliiii, riband-like muscle, wliicli is directed forwards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid (p. 64). This belly is partly placed beneath the trapezius, and is partly superficial in the pos- terior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery, and crosses the brachial plexus and the suprascapular nerve. Action. For the use of the muscle, see i^age 65. The SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY, a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), is directed outwards through the lower part of the neck to the upper border of the scapula. It runs behind the clavicle, and crosses the suprascapular ligament in front of the omo-hyoicl muscle, to enter the supraspinous fossa. Its termination on the dorsum of the scapula is seen in the dissection of the shoulder (p. 274). Before entering the fossa it gives off a sn.pra-acromial hranch, which perforates the trajDezius muscle, and ramifies over the acromion. The SUPRASCAPULAR XERVE is an ofi'set of the brachial plexus (p. 74), and inclines downwards beneath the omo-hyoicl muscle to the notch in the upper border of the scapula, through which it passes into the supraspinous fossa (p. 274). The TRANSVERSE CERVICAL ARTERY, also a branch of the sul)- clavian (p. 70), has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards the upper angle of the scapula, but is higher than the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into two branches— sujierficiaL cervical and posterior scapular. a. The siq^erjicial cervical branch is distributed chiefi}' to the under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes ofi'sets to the levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. b. The posterior scajmlar branch crosses under the levator anguli scax^ulse, and descends along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles. If these muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them, and to give small anastomotic twigs to l)oth surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises very fre- quently from the third part of the subclavian trunk. The suprascapular and transverse cervical veins ha^'e the same course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender offset of the brachial plexus (p. 73) courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhomboidei on their deep surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. Third Layer of Muscles. In this stratum are included the serratus posticus superior and inferior. Dissection. By reflecting the rhomboid muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing loose areolar tissue, the thin upper serratus muscle beneath them will be laid bare. The inferior serratus has been previously exposed by the reflectiois of the latissimus.