DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 458 In female round liga - ment is in place of cord. ■ Dissection, Constitu- ents of the cord. Vessel ill- female. Vas defe- rens : situation and eom'se. Artery and nerve of the coverings of the cord ; and cuta- neous. Dissection of deep arch. and of the vessels in the wall of abdomen. Deep crural arch : attach ments. spermatic fascia from the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The round ligament, or the sus]3ensory cord of the uterus, occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments of the groin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord,, except that it wants the cremaster. Dissection. The constituents of the cord will be displayed by cutting through longitudinally, and turning aside the different sur- rounding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric artery into the cremasteiic covering. Vessels and nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and veins, which convey the blood to and from the testicle, the nerves and lymphatics of the testicle, and the vas- deferens or the efferent duct. In the female a hranch from the ovarian artery enters the round ligament. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is- placed behind the other constituents of the cord ; it will be recog- nised by its resemblance in feel to a piece of whipcord, when it is- taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen through the opening in the transversalis fascia (internal ring), it lies- on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it begins its- descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the cord has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived from the epigastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The genital hranch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord l^y the internal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Cutaneous vessels and nerves are supplied to the integumentf- covering the cord from the superlicial pudic artery and the ilio- inguinal nerve. Dissection. By cutting through the spermatic cord near the pubis,, and raising it towards the internal abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, will appear: it. passes inwards to the pubis, and is to be defined with some care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epigastric and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal mammary artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary arteries will be found on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one above, and the other below, ramifying in the muscle. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced by removing the transversalis fascia from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's- ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. Deep crural arch. Below the level of Poupart's ligament is a thin band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has re- ceived the name deep crural arch from its position and resemblance to the superficial crural arch (Poupart's ligament). This fasciculus- of fibres, beginning about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged