^8. dissectio:n- of the pterygoid eegiox. branches; of chorda tympani, and arteries. Internal maxillary artery : course and relations: varies in its position. Branches are in three sets. Those be- neatii jaw. Inferior dental has a branch to niylo-hyoid muscle. Great meningeal artery ends ui slvull; but gives lary nerve. The masseteric, temporal, and buccal branclies of tlie nerve should be traced to a common origin close below the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The dental and lingual nerves should be cleaned beneath the muscle ; and the auriculo-teniporal nerve followed forwards with care from the back of the articulation to its origin from the trunk. The small chorda tymi^ani is to be found joining the back of the lingual nerve near the skull. The large meningeal artery and its offsets are to be sought beneatli the external pterygoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery lies beneath that muscle, and in that case, it and its branches are now to be cleaned. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 20, ^) is oue of the ter- minal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed forwards between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the dental nerve ; it then ascends over the lower portion of the external pterygoid, being placed between it and the temporal muscle ; and finally, it turns inwards opposite the interval between the heads of the external pterygoid to gain the spheno-maxillary fossa. The course of the artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the exter- nal pterygoid ; and when that is the case, the artery reaches the spheno-maxillary fossa by passing between the heads of the muscle, as in the figure. The branches of this artery are numerous, and are classed in three sets ; the first set arises beneath the jaw; the second between the muscles ; and the third in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two chief branches, viz., the inferior dental and the great meningeal, leave the internal maxillary artery while it is in contact with the ramus of the jaw. The inferior dental artery descends between the internal lateral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental nerve ; it supplies the teeth, and ends in the lower part of the face (p. 92). As the artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small mylo-lnjoid branch to the muscle of that name ; this is conducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of its muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. The great meningeal artery is the Largest branch of the internal maxillary, and arises opposite the preceding. It ascends beneath the external pterygoid muscle, and between the roots of the auriculo- temporal nerve to the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, through which it passes into the skull. Its course and distribution within the cranial cavity have been already seen (p. 15). Before the artery reaches the foramen, it usually furnishes the following small branches ; but one or more of them may arise directly from the internal maxillary trunk :—