120 DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Arteries : superior, inferior, and som'^- times lowest thyroid- Veins. Inferior, form a plexus on trachea. Trachea lies in neck and thorax: form. Cervical ■part is amongst muscles and vesseh CEsophagus occupies neck and thorax: length. Position in neck, and rela- tions. Muscles and vessels in anterior triangle. The arteries of the thyroid body are two on each side—^^superior and inferior thyroid. The branches of the external carotids (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect: while those from the subclavians /(inferior thyroid) pierce the deep surface of the mass. Occasionally there is a third branch (^art. thyroidea ima) which arises from the innominate artery in the thorax, and ascending in front of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The veins are large and numerous; they are superior, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two enter the internal jugular vein (p. 76). The inferior thyroid veins issue from the lower part of the thyroid body, and descend on the trachea, forming a plexus on that tube' beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles; they enter finally the innominate veins. The TRACHEA, or windpipe, is continued from the larynx to the thorax, and ends by dividing into, two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends com- monly from the lower part of the sixth cervical to the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a lialf in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front and sides of the trachea are rounded in consequence of the existence of firm cartilaginous bands in those parts of the wall; but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the wall is flat and, mem- branous. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has the following relative position to the surroimding parts. Covering it in front are the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia : beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins ; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oisophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described in Section XVII. The CESOPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences, like the trachea, oj)posite the lower part of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ends ojDposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax. Its length is about nine inches. In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax where it projects to the left side of the airtube, and touches the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus are the longi colli muscles. On each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greater, in consecpence of the projection of the oesophagus towards that side. The structure of the oesophagus will be examined in the dissection of the thorax. Directions. The dissector may learn next the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles, with the hypoglossal nerve (p. 76). Afterwards he may take the trunk , of the external carotid, with the following branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior amicular, and superficial temporal (pp. 78 to 81).