DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Occipital sinus. Lateral sinuses : difference on two sides, and tribu- taries. Subdivision of the> jugular foramen. Dissection. Cavernous sinus has nerves in outer wall; contains carotid the large brain, and some small veins from the upper surface of the cerebellum. The OCCIPITAL SINUS (fig. 3, g) is a small canal in the falx cerehelli, which reaches from the torcular Herophili to the foramen magnum, and collects the blood from the lower occipital fossjB. This sinus may be double. The LATERAL SINUSES, right and left, are the channels by which most of the blood passes from the skull. Each extends from the occipital protuberance, along the winding groove on the occipital, parietal and temporal bones, to the jugular foramen, where it ends in the internal jugular vein. The sinus of the right side is generally larger than the left, and begins at the torcular Herophili (p. 10), forming the continuation of the superior longitudinal sinus. The left lateral sinus is mainly prolonged from the ending of the straight sinus, but it is also joined by a branch from the lower end of the superior longitudinal sinus, which crosses obliquely in front of the occipital protuberance. In some cases this arrangement is reversed, so that the torcular Herophili and the larger lateral sinus are placed on the left side ; and occasionally the torcular Herophili forms a common place of meeting (confluence) of the superior longitudinal, the straight and the two lateral sinuses. The lateral sinus is joined by some cerebral and cerebellar veins, and, opi^osite the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, by the superior petrosal sinus. It communicates with the occipital veins through the mastoid foramen, and often with the deep veins of the neck through the posterior condylar foramen. The jugular foramen is divided into three compartments by fibrous bands. Through the posterior opening the lateral sinus j)asses; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus; and through the central one the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves. Dissection. To examine the cavernous sinus on the left side, cut through the dura mater l)y the side of the body of the sphenoid bone from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve ; behind the clinoid process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A 2^robe or a blow-^^ipe will be required, in order that it may be passed into the different sinuses joining the cavernous centre. B. The CAVERNOUS sinus, Avhich has been so named from the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the l)ody of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the sej^aration of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The layer of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth nerves, with the ophthalmic and superior maxillary trunks of the fifth nerve : these lie in the order given from above down. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and is