PERITONEAL FOLDS ON INTESTINE. Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon and meso-colon, the j)ancreas, the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, and the diaphragm. To the right it extends as far as the and extent, inner border of the duodenum (second part), and to the left as far as the spleen. Between the duodenum and the liver it opens into tlie general cavity or large bag by the foramen of Winslow. The foramen of TFinsloia is bounded in front by the right portion Boundaries of the small omentum, containing the hepatic vessels ; below ^'-I's of Winslow the same vessels and the first part of the duodenum; above is the caudate lobe of the liver; and behind, the inferior vena cava. The gastro-splenic omentum (fig. 157, gs om) reaches from the Gastro- back of the stomach to the front of the spleen, and is continued below oirentum. into the great omentum. Between its layers are the gastric brandies of the splenic vessels. Folds of the large ixtestine. The disposition of the Peritoneal peritoneum round the several portions of the colon has been ex- ]arg| ^ plained in giving their relations (j). 476). The following processes intestine: pass between the large intestine and the abdominal wall :— The transverse meso-colon (fig. 157, m c) extends from the lower ^^^'^^^^^^j^. border of the pancreas to the transverse colon, to the left of the spot where the latter crosses the duodenum, and contains the middle colic vessels. In the adult it is formed by a continuation of tlie omental layers, but in the fcctus it was a distinct process of peri- toneum (p. 479). The upper end of the left colon has a distinct fold—xtleuro-colic or pieuro-coiic costo-colic, fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a ' ' wide end to the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs, it passes transversely inwards to the colon, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, sigmoid which attaches the loop of the sigmoid fiexure to the brim of the "i«so-coi.m; pelvis : it contains the sigmoid vessels. The meso-rectmn contains the superior lia^morrhoidal vessels, and and meso- attaches the upper part of the rectum to the front of the sacrum. ^ ' ' In some bodies the ascending and descending colon are surrounded sometimes by peritoneum, which meets behind the gut and forms a fold—the ingor ascending or descending meso-colon, between it and the abdominal wall, ^^g^!'^ The caecum may also be provided with a similar fold {meso-ccecum) or meso- attaching it to the right iliac fossa (p. 476). Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon ; they are the appendices epiploicm, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not Peritoneal enveloped by the peritoneum after the same manner throughout, small intes- For while the jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall by one process (mesentery), the duodenum has special relations with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. The first part of the duodenum Peritoneum has peritoneal relations like those of the stomach, but its posterior num!****^^' or left surface is only covered for a short distance by the serous I I 2