ARTICULATIONS OF SACEUM. 595 pelvis the tendons blend into one, which is inserted into the great insertion; trochanter (p. 649). The muscle is in contact by one surface with the wall of the relations of pelvis and the obturator membrane; by the other surface with the pef^jjf obturator part of the pelvic fascia, and towards its lower border with cavity; the pudic vessels and nerve. Action. The muscle also rotates out the hip-joint (p. 649). GoccYGBUS MUSCLE. The position and the relations of this muscle Coccygeus may now be studied from within : it is described at p. 548. muscle. LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. The following are the articulations between the bones of tlie Outline of pelvis :—The several pieces of the sacrum and coccyx are united lations!^"^^' with one another. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at its apex to the coccyx, and laterally to the two hip-bones. And the hip-bones are connected together in front, as well as to the spinal column behind. Union of Pieces op Sacrum and Coccyx. So long as the pieces of the sacrum and coccyx remain moveable they are articulated separate^' as in the other vertebrae by an anterior and a posterior common liga- ment, with an intervertebral disc for the bodies ; and by other ligaments for the neural arch and processes (p. 380). After the sacral vertebrse have coalesced, only rudiments of the ancU'oinccl. ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised ; and when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, their ligaments disappear. Lumbo-Sacral Articulation. The base of the sacrum is Sacruin articulated with the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to lumbar'' those uniting one vertebra to another (p. 380) ; and by one special "^eitebra. ligament—the lateral lumbo-sacral. Dissection. For the best manner of bringing these different liga- Dissection, ments into view-, the dissector may consult the directions given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebraj (p. 380). The common ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an By liga- anterior and a posterior, with an intervening fil)ro-cartilaginous iu the ver- substance. Between the neural arches lie the liganienta subflava, ^ebra-, and between the spines the supra- and interspinous bands. The articular processes are united by capsular ligaments with synovial membranes. The lateral lumbosacral ligament is a variable bundle of fibres, 'ind ]>y a which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse M^ral process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral mass at the base ^^^^'l- of .the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the sacro-iliac articulation. Sacro-Coccyoeal Articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are Union of united at the centre by a fibro-cartilage, and l)y an anterior and^Q^^^,'^^'^'"^^ a posterior ligament. There are also latertil and interarticular liga- ments on each side. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. When Dissection. Q Q 2