DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. upper surface: inner surface: lower ;iud extern ill surfaces: anterior an* posterior ends; Dissection, Origin of fornix. Dissection, is marked by a shallow oblique groove, wliicli corresponds to the edge of the fornix. The part of the surface inside the groove is in contact with the velnm interpositum ; but the narrower outer part is free in the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is covered by the ependyma of that cavity : at its anterior end it forms a slight pro- minence known as the tubercle of the optic thalamus. Externally this surface is bounded by the tsenia semicircularis, which separates it from the caudate nucleus. The inner surface is for the most part free, forming the lateral wall of the third ventricle, but near the middle it is united to the one of the opposite side by the soft com- missure. Along the line of junction of the upper and internal surfaces is a narrow white streak—the ^pineal stria (/), which springs behind from the stalk of the pineal body, and ends in front by joining tlie anterior pillar of the fornix. The under surface is concealed, except at its hindmost part, by the crus cerebri, the tegmentum of which joins the thalamus ; and on the outer side it is separated from the lenticular nucleus by the posterior limb of the internal capsule (fig. 73, icp). Tlie anterior end of the optic thalamus bounds the foramen of Monro. The posterior end is much larger, and projects above the superior quadrigeminal body (tig. 72, h) and crus cerebri, being covered by the j^ia mater : internally it forms a considerable pro- minence called the imlvinar; and below and outside this is a smaller oval elevation named the external geniculate body (fig. 76). In the section that has been made on the right side (fig. 73), the optiq thalamus is seen to be composed of dark grey matter; but it appears white on the upper surface, the grey substance being here covered by a thin medullary layer. A faint white line, which Ijifurcates in front, divides the grey mass into three portions—a small anterior, and larger internal and external nuclei. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus ma}^ now be followed out. As a preparatory stej) the anterior com- missure, the front of the corpus callosum, and the commissure of the optic nerves should be cut along the middle line, so that the fore parts of the hemispheres can be separated from one another. On the left hemisphere the crus of the fornix is to be traced down- ^N ards through the grey matter of the third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and thence upwards into the optic thalamus. The ANTERIOR PILLAR OF THE FORNIX is joined below the foramen of Monro by the fibres of the taenia semicircularis and j)ineal stria, and then curves downwards and backwards in front of the 0]itic thalamus, through the grey matter of the third ventricle, to the corpus albicans (fig. 69). Here it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, furnishing a white envelope to the grey matter of that, body. Finally it ascends to the fore part of the optic thalamus, in the anterior nucleus of which its fibres end. The bodies lying behind the third ventricle, viz., the corpora quadrigemina, the jDineal body, and the posterior commissure may be next examined. Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefully removed from