DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. muscles which allows the urethra, with the vagina in the female, to pass from the jDelvis. The posterior border is adjacent to the coccy- geus muscle. The upper surface is in contact with the recto-vesical fascia; and the under surface looks to the ischio-rectal fossa, and is covered by the thin anal fascia. Action. The levatores ani acting together support and raise the floor of the pelvis, and compress the pelvic viscera. They are used in expelling the contents of the abdomen, and in forcible expiratory efforts, acting then in conjunction with the muscles of the abdominal wall. At the end of defsecation, they empty the lower part of the rectum, compressing it from behind forwards ; and the lower fibres assist in closing the anal passage. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles form a fleshy layer or pelvic diaphragm across the outlet of the pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen from the chest : this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. Dissection. The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by detaching the fibres of the levator ani and the coccygeus at their origin, and throwing both downwards. The thin membrane descends above the levator ani to the side of the bladder and the rectum, and sends downwards sheaths round the prostate and the gut. To demon- strate those sheaths, one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the attach- ment of the fascia ; and the tubes are to be separated from the viscera. The RECTO-VESICAL FASCIA Supports and partly invests the viscera of the pelvis. Covering the pelvic surface of the levator ani, it is fixed above, like that muscle, to the pubis in front, and to the obturator fascia at the side ; while behind, it is continued over the coccygeus muscle into the fascia of the pyriformis. Below, it meets the fascia of the opposite side in the centre of the pelvis, and forms a partition across the cavity, like that of the levator ani, which is per- forated by the bladder and the rectum. The partition is strengthened on each side by a thicker band (the so-called white line of the pelvic fascia) stretching from the pubis to the ischial spine (p. 547). It is concave above and convex below, and divides the cavity of the pelvis from the perineal space. This septum is attached to the viscera which pierce it, forming ligaments for them ; and from the under surface tubes are prolonged on the rectum and the prostate. The sheath on the rectum encloses the lower three inches of the intestine, and gradually becomes very thin towards the anus ; it is separated from the intestine by a layer of fat. On the prostate the sheath is thinner than on the rectum, and very closely adherent ; it is continued downwards to the apex of that body, where it passes into the upper layer of the triangular ligament of the urethra : between it and the substance of the prostate are a plexus of veins and some small arteries. In the female the fascia has much the same arrangement as in the male ; but the vagina perforates the membrane, and receives a tube from it, like the prostate.