DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 130 and palato- glossus. Aponeurosi of palate. Nine mus- cles in it. Elevator muscle arises outside I^harynx, The student should remove next the mucous membrane from the muscular filDres contained in the arches of the palate, and should follow these upwards and downwards. In order to see those in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior surface of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres may not be visible. Aponeurosis of the soft palate. Giving strength to the velum is a thin but firm aj)oneurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE are, on each side, an elevator and tensor, which descend from the skull, with the palato-glossus and jDalato-pharyngeus, which act as depressors, and a small median azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 31, A; 32, ^) is a thick roundish muscle which is partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone close in front of the carotid foramen, and from the lower border of the and is lost adjacent cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. Entering the m velum, pj^^j-yj-jj^ above the superior constrictor, the fibres of the muscle spread out in the soft palate, where they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the opposite side, relations. The belly of the muscle rests against the lower border of the Eustachian tube ; and the expanded part is embraced by two layers of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus (^). Action. It raises the soft palate from the tongue, so as to enlarge the fauces ; and by bringing the hinder part of the velum into con- tact with the posterior wail of the pharynx, it can sliut oft" the upper part of that cavity, as in vocalization, when the air is prevented from passing through the nose. 1. Azygos uvula3. 2. Tensor palati. 3, Levator palati. 4. Palato- pharyngeus—upper end. 6. External pterygoid.