MUSCLES OF SECOND LAYER. 393 the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small Second rhomboid muscles : besides these, the posterior belly of the omo- layer.^ hyoid muscle, and some vessels and nerves directed outwards towards the scapula, are now to be examined. The parts referred to have been prepared in the dissection following the reflection of the trapezius (p. 390). * The LEVATOR ANGULi SCAPULA (fig. 130, c) arises by tendinous Elevator of slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the geapuia upper four cervical vertebra?. The fibres form an elongated muscle, attach- which is inserted into the base of the scapula between the spiue and "lents; the superior angle. At its origin the levator lies beneath the sterno-mastoid, and at relations; its insertion beneath the trapezius, where it meets the serratus magnus muscle ; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles, viz., splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens. Action. The muscle raises the angle and hinder part of the ami use, scapula, and depresses the acromion ; l)ut in combination w^th the scapui^^. upper fibres of the trapezius, which prevent the rotation down of the acromion, it shrugs the shoulder. When the shoulder is fixed, the neck can l;)e hent to the side by on the nock, the levator'. * Rhomboidei muscles. The muscular laver of the rhomboidei Riiomboid ^ . ♦ ■ muscles cive is attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces, two. large and small, which are usually separated l)y a slight interval. "^^ Tlie RiiOMBOiDEUS MINOR (fig. 130, d) is a thin narrow band, Small which arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrai, and the ligamentum nucliee, and is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine. * The RHOMBOIDEUS MAJOR (fig. 130, e) is much larger than the Large preceding muscle. It arises from the spines of four or five dorsal ^" vertebra) below- the rhomboideus minor, and from the supraspinous '^"''"^' ligament ; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the insertion, lower angle. Sometimes the upper fibres are not fixed to the scapula directly, but end on a tendinous arch near the l)one. The rhomboidei are for the most part covered by the trapezius Relations, and latissinius ; l)ut a portion of the larger muscle is subcutaneous near the scapula. Action. From the direction of their fibres both rhomboidei will use, by draw the base of the scapula upwards and backwards, so as to de- ^vj|i"otheTs press the acromion. In combination with the traj^ezius they carry the scapula directly back; and acting with the serratus magnus they serve to fix the scapula. The OMO-HYOID MUSCLE cousists of two fleshy bellies, anterior Posterior and posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Only hyoiliT^'"^' the posterior half is now seen. The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind origin, the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch into a fora-