322 DISSECTION OF UPPEE, LIMB. Surface of humerus; of scapula. Kinds of movement. Flexion and are accom- panied by rotation of scapula. Condition of head of humerus. Checks to movements. Abduction. Adduction. Circum- duction. Rotation ; bursa beneath tlie subscapular muscle. The membrane is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the upper part of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Articular surfaces (fig. 104). The convex articular head of the humerus is about three times as large as the hollow of the scapula, and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone is supported on a short neck, which is joined to the shaft at an obtuse angle. The glenoid fossa of the scapula is oval in form with the larger end down, and is very shallow. Its margin is slightly more promi- nent below than above. Movements. In this joint there is the common angular motion in four directions, with the circular or circumductory ; and in addition a movement of rotation. In the swinging to and fro movement, the carrying forwards and inwards of the humerus constitutes flexion; and the moving it backwards and outwards, extension. Flexion is freer than extension ; and as the joint is bent the scapula follows the humerus, undergoing a rotation upwards, so that the whole range of movement of the arm in this direction is much greater than that taking place in the scapulo-humeral articulation. In extension the scapula is similarly rotated downwards, the lower angle approaching the vertebral column. During these movements the head of the humerus rests in the bottom of the glenoid fossa, rotating around an axis that is nearly perpendicular to the plane of that cavity ; and there is no tendency to dislocation either from the rapidity or extent of the movement. Flexion of the humerus upon the scapula is checked by the twisting of the cajosule, and by the meeting of the small tuberositj^ of the former bone with the coraco-acromial arch. Extension is limited mainly by the coraco-humeral ligament. Abduction and adduction. In abduction, the arm is moved out- wards and forwards away from the body ; and in adduction, it is brought downwards to the side. These movements, like the fore- going, are accompanied, and their range is increased by rotation of the scapula. When the limb is abducted, the head of the humerus glides downwards in the glenoid cavity, and ]Drojects beyond it against the lower part of the capsule, which is stretched ; while the great tuberosity sinks beneath the acromial arch, which sets a limit to the movement. In this condition a little more movement down of the head, either by muscles depressing it or by force elevating the farther end of the bone, will throw it out of place, giving rise to dislocation. In adduction, the head of the humerus rises in the socket, and the coraco-humeral ligament being tightened checks the movement. In circumduction^ the humerus passes in succession through the four difierent states above mentioned, and the limb describes a cone, the apex of which is at the shoulder and the base at the digits. Rotation. There are two kinds of rotatory movement, viz., in and out ; and in each the humerus revolves around an axis passing from