DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Branch to stylo-hyoid. Division into two. The upper division of tlie nerve has three sets of branches. Temporal branches to side of head, Malar branches to eyelids. Infraorbital brajiches between eye and mouth. Lower division of the nerve has also three sets of branches. Buccal to corner of mouth. Supra- maxillary between mouth and chin. The branch to the stylo-hyoid is a long slender nerve, wHcli is directed inwards, and enters its muscle about the middle. This branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off these branches, it is directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks—temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The TEMPORO-FACIAL TRUNK furnishes offsets to the side of the head and face, which extend downwards to the level of the month. As this trunk crosses over the external carotid artery, it receives one or two large branches from the auriculo-temporal portion of the inferior maxillary nerve, and then divides into three sets of terminal branches—temporal, malar, and infraorbital, which have frequent communications with one another as they pass forwards in the face. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch to enter the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii, and the frontalis muscles; they are united with offsets of the supra- orbital nerve (*'). The attrahens and attollens aurem muscles are supplied from this set; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (^''). The malar branches are directed to the outer side of the orbit, and are distributed to the orbicularis muscle. Communications take place in the eyelids with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve, and over the malar bone with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve (^). The infraorbital branches are larger than the rest, and are furnished to the muscles between the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a free com- munication—infraorbital plexus, is formed between these nerves and the infraorbital branches of the superior maxillary (^^). After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to supply the muscles, and to join the nasal (') and infratrochlear (^) branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The CERVICO-FACIAL is smaller than the upper trunk, and distri- butes nerves to the lower j)art of the face and the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo- facial division, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, while in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united with the great auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed from it are buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards towards the angle of the mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator muscle and terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the buccal branch (^^) of the inferior maxillary nerve. The supramaxillary branches course forwards over the lower jaw to the middle line, and supply the muscles of the lower lip and chin. Beneath the depressor anguli oris these branches of the facial join the offsets of the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve ('^).