612 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. teuseness^of The rigidity of the margin of the oj^ening is much influenced by varie"?^^^^ the position of the limb : for with the finger beneath the upper part of the falciform border, while the thigh is moved in dilferent directions, this band will be perceived to be most unyielding when the limb is extended and rotated out, and most relaxed when the thigh is bent and turned in the opposite direction, tensmitted Through the lower cornu of the opening the saphenous vein is through the transmitted ; and through the upper part, close to the falciform opening. edge, a femoral hernia projects. Lymphatics and one or two superficial arteries also pass through it. PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. Anatomy of femoral hernia. Dissection for femoral sheath. Defme sheath. Crural arch: attach- ments : form parts closing hollow- ben eath. To understand the anatomy of a hernial protrusion in the thigh, the dissector has to study the undermentioned parts, viz., the crural arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath with its crural canal and ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the abdomen. Dissection, (fig. 200). To examine Poupart's ligament and the membranous sheath round the femoral vessels, the piece of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards by the following incisions :—One cut is to be begun near the upper end of the falciform border, and to be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termination of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. "When the fascia marked out by those incisions has been raised and turned inwards, and the fat removed, the tube on the vessels (crural sheath) will be brought into view as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the crural sheath is to be separated carefully from Poupart's ligament in front, and from Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side. Poupart's ligament or the crural arch (fig. 200, c) is the firm band of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, which stretches from the front of the iliac crest to the pubis (p. 449). When viewed on the surface the arch is curved downwards towards the limb, so long as the fascia lata remains on the thigh. The outer half is oblique. But the inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubis, where it is inserted into the pubic spine and pectineal line of the hip-bone, forming Gimbernat's ligament. The space between the crural arch and the hip-bone is larger in the female than in the male, and is closed by parts passing from the abdomen to the thigh. The outer half of the interval is filled by the psoas and iliacus muscles, between which is the anterior crural nerve, while the external cutaneous nerve lies on the iliacus near the anterior superior iliac spine : in this part Poupart's ligament is closely bound down to the muscle by its attachment to the iliac