SUBCLAVIAN AETEKY. 69 Nerves. In front of tlie artery lies the pneunio-gastric nerve, near Position of to the internal jugular vein; and inside this, the lower cardiac branch of the same nerve trunk. Beneath the subclavian artery winds the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric ; and one or two branches of the sympathetic nerve form loops around the vessel. Second part. Beneath the scalenus the vessel is not so, deep as in Second part the first part of its course, and at this spot it rises highest above the ^"^g^^^g clavicle. It is covered by the integuments, platysraa, and deep in front,' fascia; then by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid; and lastly by the anterior scalenus. Behind and below the artery are behind, and the pleura and lung. below. Veins. Below the level of the artery, and separated from it by Position of the anterior scalenus muscle, lies the arch of the subclavian vein. ^^"^' Nerves. In front of the scalenus descends the phrenic nerve, of nerves to Above the vessel, in the interval between the scaleni, are placed the artery, large cervical nerves; and the trunk formed by the last cervical and first dorsal nerves is behind the artery. Third part. Beyond the scalenus the artery traverses the Third part clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (fig. 15), and is nearer the surface than in the rest of its course : this j)art of the is super- vessel is enclosed in a sheath of the deep cervical fascia, which it receives as it passes from between the scaleni. It is comparatively superficial while in the space before mentioned, for it is covered Parts cover- only by the integuments, the platysma, and deep fascia; but near ' its termination the vessel gets under cover of the clavicle and sub- clavius muscle, and the suprascapular vessels cross in front of it. In this part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first ^^^^ beneath, rib, which is interposed between it and the pleura; and the insertion of the scalenus medius is behind it. Feins. The subclavian vein approaches the artery, not being Position of separated by muscle, but lies commonly at a lower level. The ' external jugular vein crosses it near the scalenus muscle ; and the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, which enter the jugular, sometimes form a plexus over this part of the artery. Nerves. The large nerves of the brachial plexus are mostly above of nerves to the artery, but the lowest trunk is still behind and close to the ^^^^^y- vessel; and the small nerve to the subclavius crosses it about the middle. Superficial to the cervical fascia lie the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus. Peculiarities. The artery may spring as a separate trunk from Peculiarities the arch of the aorta, in which case it takes a deeper course than ° ^^^s^^' usual to reach the interval between the scaleni muscles. The level of the arch formed by the subclavian artery in tlie neck level and varies in different subjects (see p. 56) ; and occasionally the vessel pierces, or even passes in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. Branches. The chief branches of the subclavian artery are four Branches of in number. Three of these arise from the first part of the arterial ««bciavian: trunk :—one (vertebral) ascends to the head; another (internal from first, mammary) descends to the chest; and the remaining one (thyroid .axis) is. a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and