447 EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. Fig. 148.* Nearer the middle line are placed other muscles which have a vertical direction. In front lie the rectus and pyraniidalis, and behind is the (|uadratus lumLorum : these are encased by sheaths derived from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 148, a) is fleshy on the side, and aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by fleshy processes from the eight lower ribs, the five highest pieces alternating with similar parts of the serratus magnus, and the lowest three with slips of the latissimus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs the fibres are directed over the side of the abdomen to end in the following manner :—the lower ones descend almost vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of the iliac crest, at the outer margin ; and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards obliquely to the tendon or aponeurosis on the front of the belly. The aponeurosis occupies the front of the abdomen, internal to a line drawn from the pro- minence of the ninth rib-cartilage to a point about an inch and a half in front of the anterior supe- rior iliac spine ; and it is broader below than above. Along the middle line this expansion ends in the linea alba—the common place of imion of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued over the thorax to the pectoralis major muscle. Below, its fibres are stronger and more distinct than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis ;—some of them are fixed to the front of the pubis ; and the rest are collected into a firm band, Fonpart's ligament (b), between the pubic spine and the iliac crest. Relations. The muscle is sul^cutaneous. Its posterior border is unattached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but is overlapped commonly by the edge of the latissimus dorsi, except for a short distance below. At the outer jiart of the aponeurosis is a curved white line, the linea semilunaris., marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle (fig. 152) ; and crossing between this and the linea alba are three or four somewhat irregular lines—the linece transversce. the aponeu- roses of which en- ease three verticaL External oblique muscle : origin from ribs: position above and below. Relations. Lines on the aponeu- rosis : * A. External oblique muscle. B. Poupart's ligament. c. External abdominal ring. d. Gimbcrnat's ligament.