AIJEICLE OF THE EAR. 35 The muscle of the tragus (fig. 9, ^) is always found on the external One muscle aspect of the process from which it takes its name. The fibres are ^^^s^^- short, obliqne, and extend from the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (Fig. 9, ^) is the best marked of all. One on It arises from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres are directed upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of the antihelix. The small muscle of the helix (fig. 9,'*) is often indistinct or One on root absent. It is placed on the part of the rim of the ear that extends into the concha. The large muscle of the helix (fig. 9, ^) arises above the small Another on muscle of the same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, ^ where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. The transverse muscle of the auricle (fig. 9, ^) forms a wide layer, which is situate at the back of the ear in the depression between concha, the helix and the convexity of the concha. It arises from the con- vexity of the cartilage forming the concha, and is inserted into the back of the helix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when that tissue is removed. Dissection. The remaining skin should now be removed from Clean the the pinna, and the muscles cleaned off to expose the cartilage : in doing this the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 9. The cartilage of the pinna (fig. 9) resembles much the external Cartilage ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. The rim of the S™ternal helix subsides posteriorly about the middle of the pinna ; while '• anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The jDart of the cartilage forming the fossa of the helix ends on a level with the lowest part of the concha in a j^^Hj^^lf'^* pointed process which is separated from the antitragus by a deep notch. The antihelix is continued below into the antitragus. On the posterior -aspect of the concha is a strong vertical ridge of cartilage. Inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external and at upper auditory aperture in the temporal bone, and forms a portion of the meatus; meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and hinder j)art that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of cartilage forming the outer end of the meatus its fissures, are two fissures (of Santorini): one is directed vertically beneath the base of the tragus ; the other passes from before backwards in the floor of the meatus. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, and others pass Ligaments; from one point to another of the cartilage. The external ligaments are two bands of fibrous tissue, anterior extrinsic, and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior passes from the back of the concha to .the mastoid process. The chief special ligament crosses intrinsic, the interval between the tragus and the helix, and completes the opening of the auditory meatus. D 2