THIRD VENTRICLE. 223 ventricle is continued over tlie choroid plexus, but it loses its cilia in this situation. The right and left choroid plexuses are continuous at the anterior extremity of the velum, where they are similarly excluded from the foramina of Monro l)y the epithelial lining."^ Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to Vessels of the velum and the choroid plexus from the cerebral and cerebellar velum: arteries (p. 186, 187) : they are three on each side, and supply the arteries; surrounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus veins; receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following. Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two with veins large veins with tins name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane, they are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and through this they join the straight sinus. Dissection. Wlien tlie velum interposition has been raised and Dissection, thrown backwards, the third A^entricle will be opened (fig. 72). In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must l)e careful not to detach the pineal body (g) beliind, which is surrounded by the membrane. On the under surface of the velum are seen the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The CHOROID PLEXUSES OF THE THIRD VENTRICLE are twO short Choroid and narrow fringed bodies below the velum, which resemble the like tMni^ " structures in the lateral ventricle. ventricle. The THIRD VENTRICLE is the narrow interval between the optic Third thalami (fig. 72). Its situation is in the median plane of the ^'^^^^^'^^ cerebrum, below the level of the lateral ventricles, with which it '^^.^F^^^^^ communicates ; and it reaches to the base of tlie brain. Its boundaries and communications are the following:— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum with the choroid Roof. ]ilexuses, above which is the fornix. The floor (fig. 69) is very Floor, oblique from behind forwards, so tliat the depth of the cavity is about three-quarters of an inch in front and half as much behind : its hinder part is formed by the united tegmenta; and in front of these it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri (fig. 64), viz., posterior perforated space, corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum with the infundibulum, and the optic commissure. On the sides of the cavity are situate the pm-ts on the optic thalami and the anterior pillars of the fornix (fig. 69). In front "'"^i'^^'*' of the space are the anterior commissure and the lamina cinerea. Behind are the posterior commissure and the pineal body. Crossing ^^^^^^ behind, the centre of the ventricle, from one optic thalamus to the other, is a band of grey matter—the soft commissure. This space communicates in front with each lateral ventricle Openings through the foramen of Monro ; and behind is a passage beneath yl!„tScies. the posterior commissure into the fourth ventricle, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. In the floor, in front, there is a depression * Particles of brain-sand, Hke that in the pineal body, are sometimes pre- sent in the choroid plexus.