CAVITY OF THE NOSE. 135 a similar section of a macerated skull. It is also desirable, in order to fully comprehend the form of the cavity, that he should have the opportunity of inspecting a coronal section of the nose in the recent state. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower Dissection, jaw on the right side should be taken away, and the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, are to be detached from the opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. On the right side of the middle line saw carefully through the Cut througii frontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and with saw, the body of the sphenoid bone, without letting the saw descend into the nasal cavity. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft Cut soft parts are to be divided on the right side opposite, the cut in the roof saw bone in of the nose. Then by sawing through the hard palate and the alveolar process of the upper jaw along the same line, the piece of the skull will be separated into two parts, right and left ; the right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi, after the mucous membrane has been removed. The CAVITY OF THE NOSE is j)laced in the centre of the bones of Situation of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and between the orbits. The space is divided into two nasal fossce by Division a vertical partition. into two. Each fossa is elongated from before back, and compressed from Form and side to side. Its length is greater below than above, and measures '^""^^^'^^o"^- near the floor about three inches. Its height in the middle of the cavity is about one inch and three-quarters, becoming less in front and behind. The upper part of the fossa is narrow (fig. 33), not exceeding one-eighth of an inch in breadth, and has been named the olfactory cleft, which extends down as far as the lower border of the middle turbinate bone : below this the outer wall recedes, form- ing the respiratory passage, which has a width near the floor of about three-fifths of an inch. In front, each fossa opens onto the face, and Openings, behind into the pharynx, by orifices called nares. Other apertures in the roof and outer wall lead into air-sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz., frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. Each fossa presents for examination a roof and floor, an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The roof is strongly arched from before back, and is formed by Roof, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the lateral cartilages in front; and by the body of the sphenoid, and the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the palate bone, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it; most are in the ethmoid bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nerve and vessels ; on the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and is formed by Floor