602 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. On 11 le sur- face are pits or alveoli; their size, shape, and ap]iear- Artcries ; lymphatics and nerves. tlie siibimicoiis layer are removed from the pyloric part of tlie stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. With the aid of a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when well washed, may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or alveoli (fig. 163), which measure from Y^oth to y^th of an inch across. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the stomach ; and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irregular. In the bottom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubular glands. Blood-vessels. The arteries of the stomach are derived from the branches of the coeliac axis, and have been seen to form an arch along each curvature (p. 493). From these arches branches pass to both surfaces of the stomach, and after supplying the muscular coat, divide in the submucous layer into minute vessels which enter the substance of the mucous membrane. The veins have a corresponding arrangement, and pass to the portal system (p. 496). Lyjiiphatics. The lymphatic vessels proceeding from the stomach run with the blood-vessels, and have a few small glands connected with them along the two curvatures. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic (p. 498), and can be followed to the filn'ous coat : small ganglia have been observed on them. SMALL IXTEBTIXE. Characters The three portions into which the small intestine is divided, have the following characters :— of duo- The duodenum is about ten inches long, and is more fixed than denuiii, ^j^^ ^^^^ ^j^^ intestinal tube. It is wider than either the jejunum or the ileum, and its muscular coat is also thicker. Into it the bile and pancreatic ducts pour their contents. of jejunum The jejunum and the ileum together measure about twenty feet nc I eum. length, and are connected with the mesentery. There is not any perceptible difference between the termination of the one and the beginning of the other, but two-fifths of the length are assigned to the jejunum, and three-fifths to the ileum. Between the ends, how- ever, a marked difference may be perceived ; for the upper part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower end of the ileum, and its width is also greater. structure. STRUCTURE. In the small intestine the wall is formed by the same number of layers as in the stomach, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous. * Alveolar depressions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 32 diameters, with the minute tubes opening into them. (Sprott Boyd.)