43, THIED AND NASAL NERYES. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle relations: and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external recti, and near the tendon cf the inferior oblique. The pulley, or trochlea (fig. 12), is a fi.bro-cartilaginous ring about pulley of one-sixth of an inch wide, which is attached by fibrous tissue to the ^^^^^^^^^l®' depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margin of the pulley on the tendon ; and a synovial sheath lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial sheath and the free motion of the tendon, this prolongation may be cut away. For the use of the muscle, see the description of the inferior use oblique (p. 49). Dissection. The superior rectus muscle is next to be divided Dissection about the middle and turned backwards (fig. 12), when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the oxDlithalmic vessels will come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve ; these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away the fat between the optic nerve and the external Find len- rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find easily fine l5.!Jlgifon, nerves (ciliary) Avith small arteries lying along tlie side of the optic ° nerve ; and by tracing these ciliary nerves backwards, he will be guided to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head). The dissector should find then two branches from the nasal and and roots, third nerves to the ganglion : the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind ; while that of the third nerve, short and thick, joins the lower part. The eyeball is to be fully exposed by dissecting off" its investing Clean fascia (capsule, of Tenon), which will be seen to send processes around the several muscles inserted into the sclerotic. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, Separate third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the external rectus muscle into the orbit. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous Third nerve sinus (fig. 4) ; but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachrymal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into tlie orbit between the heads as it enters of the outer rectus, having previously divided into two parts. orbit; The upjjer division (fig. 12, '^) is the smaller, and ends in the under its upper surface of the levator palpebra3 and superior rectus muscles. ^' The loiver division supplies three other muscles, and will be lower dissected afterwards (p. 47). The NASAL BRANCH OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE (fig. 12, ^) Nasal nerve. enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, lying between the two parts of the third nerve, and is then directed obliquely inwards to reach the anterior of the two internal orbital canals. Passing through this aperture "with the anterior ethmoidal General