329 ARTICULATIONS OF CARPUS. palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between the con- tiguous rough surfaces of the several bones are interosseous ligaments, one in each interval. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted a oHdino- between the different carpal bones, in consequence of the flattened articular surfaces, and the short ligaments uniting one to another ; and this is less in the second than in the first row. One row with another (transverse carpal joint ; fig. 109). Transverse The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and ^^^^^^ J^i"*: X^osterior. and two lateral ligaments. The anterior liyament (jj) consists of strong fibres, which for the anterior, most part converge from the three bones of the first row to the os magnum. The j^ost^rior ligament is thinner and looser ; and its posterior, strongest fibres are transverse. Of the lateral ligaments the external (/.•) is tlie better marked, and and lateral extends between the trape- zium and scaj)hoid bones ; the internal (l) passes from the j^yra-iiiidal to the un- ciform bone. Dissection. After the di- vision of the lateral and posterior ligaments, the one row of bones may be sepa- rated far enough from the other to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. Articular surfaces. The three bones of the first row, viz., scaphoid (a), semi- lunar (/)), and pyramidal (c), together form tin arch with its concavity turned down- wards, while externally the scaphoid presents a convexity to the second row. The lower articular surface has a corresponding form, the os magnum and unciform making up a condyloid projec- tion which is received into the arch of the first row, and the trapezium and trapezoid forming a slight hollow for the convexity of the scaphoid bone. One synovial sac serves for the articulation of all the carpal bones, Ouesyno\'ial except the pisiform with the pyramidal. The cavity extends trans- Se^ai>ai versely between the two rows of the carpus, and is continued bones, upwards and downwards between the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes open into the cavity of the * Articulations of the carpal bones, the joint between the two rows being opened behind, a. Scaphoid bone. h. Semikmar. c. Pyramidal, d. Dorsal transverse bands between those bones, e. Trapezium. /. Trapezoid, g. Os magnum, k. Unciform, i. Dorsal transverse bands joining the bones, k. External lateral ligament of the intercarpal joint. I. Internal latei'al ligament, p. Anterior ligament. ligaments.