60 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Cervical fascia in front of sterno- inastoid. Intermus- cular sirata. angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may he cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cervical fascia in front of the sterno- mastoid is stronger than that over the posterior triangle (p. 53), and has the following arrangement. Above, it is fixed to the base of the, lower jaw, and is continued over the parotid gland to the zygoma. A thickened band passes backwards from the angle of the jaw to the sheath of the sterno-mastoid, and holds forwards the anterior border of that muscle. Above this, a deep process is sent inwards from, the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw, between the parotid and submaxillary glands, to the styloid process, giving rise to the stylo- maxillary ligament. In front, the fascia is attached to the body of the hyoid bone ; and below, to the sternum. Its lower part forms a dense white membrane, which near the manubrium becomes divided into two layers, one in front and the other behind, so as to enclose a small space containing a little fat and the transverse branch of communication between the anterior jugular veins. Layers of the membrane are prolonged between the muscles ; and that beneath the sterno-mastoid is continuous with the sheath of the cervical vessels. One of these, beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. Anterior triangular space. Dissection of anterior triangle. Trace arteries. Seek longi- tudinal and transverse nerves. This space (fig. 16) contains the carotid vessels and their branches, Avith many nerves ; and it corresponds with the hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its con- tents, take away the deep fascia of the neck and the subjacent fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. First clean the surface of the muscles below the hyoid bone, leaving imtouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into which the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), the branches of which are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath from the vessels, as these appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve on the surface of the artery. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo- gastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the sympathetic nerve. Clean the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, and beneath them look for several nerves. Thus, crossing the carotid arteries just below the digastric is the hypoglossal nerve, which gives off its descending branch in front of the artery, and further forwards a smaller offset to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Under cover of the muscles, and taking a similar direction between the