DISSECTION OF MECKEL'S GANGLION. 141 septum. The outer set (fig. 37) ramifies over tlie upper turbinate o"ter set. bone, the flat surface of the ethmoid in front of this, and the fore part of the middle turbinate bone. As the nerves leave the skull, they receive sheaths from the dura mater and pia mater, which are continued as far as their terminal ramifications, and then become lost in the surrounding tissue. The trunks break up into tufts of filaments which communicate freely together, forming a close net- work beneath the mucous membrane. The olfactory nerves consist wholly of non-meduUated fibres. The other nerves in the nose will be described in the following section. Blood-vessels. For a statement of the different vessels of the nose, Biood-ves- see p. 145. The arteries form a network in the pituitary mem- brane, and a large submucous plexus on the edge of each of the two lower spongy bones, especially on the inferior. The veins have a veins, plexiform disposition like the arteries, and this is largest on the lower spongy bone and the septum nasi. Section XIV. SPHENO-PALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA, NASAL AND FACIAL NERVES, AND FINAL BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY VESSELS. The preparation of Meckel's ganglion and its branches (fig. 37), Meckel's and of the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery, is a sangUon. difficult task, in consequence of the nerves and vessels being con- tained in osseous canals which require to be opened. The branches are first to be sought, and these are then to be followed to the ganglion and main ti-unk. Dissection. The left half of the head is to be used for the dis- Dissection play of the ganglion and its branches ; but the student will derive advantage from first attempting the dissection on the remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches to the palate, detach the soft parts in of palatine the roof of the mouth from the bone, until the nerves and vessels escaping from the posterior palatine canals are arrived at. Cut off, with the bone forceps, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level with the vessels and nerves ; and cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the front of the mouth. Take away, without injury to the naso-palatine nerve and vessels nasal (already found), the hinder portion of the loose piece of mucous '^^^'^'^^-^^' membrane detached from the septum nasi; and separate the mucous membrane from the outer wall of the nasal fossa, behind the spongy bones, as high as the spheno-palatine foramen. In reflecting for-