DISSECTION OF THE FACE. mucous membrane of the lip to inosculate with tlie corresponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed offsets are supplied to the structures of the lip. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to each side of the septum narium,—artery of the septum. The lateral nasal branch {p) arises opposite the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alseque nasi to the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic artery. The amjular branch (o) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at the inner angle of the orlnt, and joins the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The FACIAL VEIN commences at the root of the nose in a vein named angular (p. 6). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and, separating from the artery, courses beneath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Branches. At the inner side of the orbit the angular vein receives veins from the upper eyelid {superior pjalpebral) and from the side of the nose. Below the orbit the facial trunk is joined by veins from the lower eyelid {inferior palpebral), as well as by a large branch, anterior internal maxillary or deep facial vein, that comes from the plexus in the pterygoid region (p. 90) ; and thence to its termination by veins corresponding with the blanches of the artery in the face and neck. The TRANSVERSE FACIAL ARTERY (fig. 19) is a branch of the superficial temporal, and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes off'sets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in front of the ear may be next displayed. To see the gland, raise the skin from the surface towards the ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygomatic arch and the cartilage of the ear, but is continued in front over the masseter muscle ; this is to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auricular nerve will be seen ascending to the lobule of the ear; and three or four small lympliatic glands rest on the surface of the parotid. The PAROTID (fig. 17, ^*') is the largest of the salivary glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined by the surrounding parts. Thus below, where there is not any resisting structure, the parotid j^rojects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the submaxillary gland, though separated from it by