536 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. unnamed offsets. ■ Origin of branches varies : occasional branches. Veins of the abdomen, except vena portse. Anatomy of external iliac vein: position to artery; tributaries. Common iliac veins form cava: difference in length and; relations; tributaries. Vena cava inferior: extent; relations; receives branches from abdomen, except those of digestive apparatus. Some small unnamed twigs are given to the psoas muscle and the lymphatic glands. Peculiarities in hrancJies.—The epigastric and circumflex iliac branches may- wander over the lower inch and a half or two inches of the artery. The obturator artery is often derived from the external iliac, in which case it generally arises in common with the epigastric artery. In rare cases the internal circumflex artery of the thigh is given off from the epigastric or the lower part of the external iliac trunk. Iliac Veins and Vena Cava (fig. 177). The larger veins of the abdomen correspond so closely with the arteries, both in number, extent, and relations, as to render unnecessary much detail in their description. As the veins increase in size from the circumference towards the centre of the body, those most distant from the heart will be first referred to. The external iliac vein (r) is a continuation of the femoral vein beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the j)elvis (internal iliac), to form the common iliac vein. On the pubis it is internal to its companion artery, and lies between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; but as it ascends it gradually passes behind the artery. The veins opening into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliac (p. 460), and fubic branch from the obturator vein. The common iliac vein (j?) ascends by the side of its accompany- ing artery, the right almost vertically, and the left obliquely, to the front of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra (the right half), where it blends with its fellow in one trunk—the vena cava. The o^ight vein is the shorter, and lies at first behind, but after- wards outside the artery of the same name. The left is internal to and below the artery of its own side, and crosses beneath the right common iliac artery. Each vein receives the ilio-lumbar branch ; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. The INFERIOR or ascending- vena cava (m) collects and conveys to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra, lower than the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the arterial trunk, and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its relations to surrounding parts have been already noticed (p. 490), but the description may be again referred to, as the position of the branches of the aorta to it can be better seen now. Branches. The cava receives parietal branches (lumbar and dia- phragmatic) from the wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm ; and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the stomach, the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena port£e (p. 496) ; and the blood contained in those vessels reaches the cava by the hepatic veins, after it has circulated through the liver.