16 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. gives brandies to dura mater and bone. Small meningeal. One from ascending pliaryngeal. Posterior meningeal. Nerves of dura mater. Cranial nerves in the base of the skull: only partly seen. Olfactory nerves end in the nose. divides into two principal branches. Tlie larger of tliese enters the deep groove on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and ends in ramifications which extend upwards to the top of the head and forwards over the frontal bone. The posterior branch is distributed over the hinder part of the parietal and the upper part of the occipital bones. Two veins accompany this artery. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, it furnishes branches to the dura mater and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One small offset, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the surrounding bone. One or two branches pass through the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. h: The small meningeal branch is an off'set of the large one outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery comes through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). This is seldom injected, and is not often visible. The POSTERIOR MENINGEAL ARTERIES are Small twigs of the ascending pharyngeal which enter the skull by the anterior condylar and jugular foramina, and supply the dura mater in the neighbour- hood, and a branch of the vertebral artery which is distributed over the lower part of the occipital bone. The branch coming through the jugular foramen is sometimes derived from the occipital artery. Meningeal Nerves. Ofisets to the dura mater are derived from the fifth, tenth and twelfth cranial nerves, and from the sympathetic. Cranial Nerves (fig. 5). As the cranial nerves pass through their apertures in the base of the skull they are invested by processes of the memliranes of tlie brain, which are thus disposed : —-those of the dura mater and pia mater are continued into the sheath of the nerve ; while that of the arachnoid, except in the case of the second nerve, terminates as the nerve enters the dura mater. Some of the nerves in the middle fossa of the skull pierce the dura mater before they reach the foramina of exit. The nerves are arranged in twelve pairs, which are enumerated from before backwards in the order in which they perforate the dura mater. Only part of the intracranial course of each nerve will be seen at this stage, the rest will be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. The first or olfactory nerves are about twenty small filaments which arise from the olfactory bulb of the brain (fig. 36) Second nerve passes to the eye. Dissection of third and fourtli nerves: to the nose through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The second or optic nerve (fig. 5, diverging to the eyeball from its commissure, enters the orbit through the optic foramen : accompanying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissection. The third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve, lie in the outer wall of the cavernous