INFEEIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. 487 vein. colon, divides into two branches ; the right one anastomoses with the transverse artery to the ascending colon, and the left with the left colic branch ' of the inferior mesenteric artery (fig. 159, c). The intestinal twigs are united in arches before entering the gut, like those to the brandies • 11 . , form arches. small mtestme. The swperior mesenteric vein (fig. 161, h) is formed hj the union Superioi- of branches from the intestine corresponding to the offsets of the '"'^^^ntenc artery. The trunk passes beneath the pancreas on the right side of the artery, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena portse. At the lower border of the pancreas it receives the riglit gastro- epiploVc branch from the stomach (fig. 161, c). The MESENTERIC LYMPHATIC GLANDS are numerOUS between the Mesenteri(3 layers of the mesentery. An upper group lies by the side of the ° artery, and contains the largest glands ; and a lower group near the intestine, is lodged in the intervascular spaces. The chyliferous lymphatics vessels of the small intestine, and the absorbents of the part of them!*^" the Large intestine supplied by the superior mesenteric artery, pass through the mesenteric glands in their course to the thoracic duct. Along the side of the ascending and the transverse colon are a few Meso-coiic, other small lymphatic glands, meso-coHc, which receive some absor- bents of the large intestine. Dissection (fig. 159). By drawing the small intestine over to the Dissection right side, the dissector will observe the inferior mesenteric artery mesenteric on the front of the aorta, a little above the bifurcation. The peri- Jirtery, toneum should be removed from its surface, and the branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intes- tine : a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be dis- sected afterwards. On the artery and its l)]'anches the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves ramifies. The inferior mesenteric vein is to be followed upwards beneath ami vein: the pancreas to its junction with the sujDcrior mesenteric or tlic splenic vein. On the ao-rta the dissector will meet Avith a plexus of nerves, aortic plexus. which is to be left uninjured. The INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY (fig. 159, 6) Supplies branches Inferior to the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, and communica- "rteryT^'^ ting with the superior mesenteric, continues the chain of anastomoses along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and origin, arises from the aorta from one to two inches above the bifurcation. It descends, lying at first on, and then close to the left side of the aorta, and after giving oS branches to the descending colon and the and sigmoid flexure, terminates as the superior hsemorrhoidal artery to i^^'^'iches. the rectum. a. The left colic artery (c) passes out in front of the left kidney. Left colic and divides into an ascending and a descending branch for the descending; supply of the descending colon : by the ascending offset it anasto- colon, moses with the middle colic branch of the superior mesenteric. b. The sigmoid artery (d) is distributed to the sigmoid flexure, Sigmoid and divides into offsets which anastomose above with the preceding ^^"^"^^^ 1