301 PALMAE FASCIA. Tlie PALMARis BREVis (fig. 98, h) is a small flat muscle, aLoiit an inch and a half wide, the fibres of Avhich are collected into separate bundles. It arises from the jDalmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed transversely to their insertion into the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar vessels and nerve. After it has l)een examined it may be thrown inwards with the skin. Fig. 97. "" Action. It draws outwards and wrinkles the skin of the inner side of the palm. /r#. The PALMAR FASCIA or aponeurosis consists of a central and two lateral parts; but the lateral, which cover the muscles of the thmnb and little finger, are so thin as not to ref|uire a special notice. The central part is a strong, wliite layer, which is pointed at the wrist, but expanded towards the fingers, where it nearly covers the palm of the hand. Above, the fascia receiws the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is con- nected to tlie annular ligament ; and l)elow, it (!nds in four processes, which are continued downwards, one for each finger, to the sheaths of the tendons. At the point of separation of the pieces from one another some transverse fibres are placed, which arch over the lumbri- calis muscle and the digital vessels and nerve appearing at this spot. From the pieces of the fascia a few superficial longitudinal fibres are jjrolonged to the integument near the cleft of the fingers. Dissection. To follow one of the digital pro- cesses of the fascia to its termination, the super- ficial fibres being first removed, it may be divided longitudinally by inserting the knife beneath it opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. Ending of the processes. Each process of the fascia sends back- wards an ofi'set on each side of the tendons, which is fixed to the deep ligament connecting together the heads of the metacarpal bones, and to the edge of the metacarpal bone for a short distance. The superficial transverse ligament of the, fingers is a thin fibrous ])and, which stretches across the roots of the four fingers, and is contained in the fold of skin, forming tlie rudiment of a web between them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are con- tinued onwards to their terminations. Sheath of the flexor tendons (Hg. 97). Along each finger the Palmaris brevis is a cutaneous muscle: Palmar fascia : its central part ends in a piece for each finger. and in the skin. Dissection. Deep ending of the pieces of fascia. Transverse ligament of the fingers. Sheath of the tendons * The tendons and short muscles of one finger, vith the slieatli of the flexor tendons, a. Extensor tendon, with interosseous [b) and lumbrical (c) muscles joining it. d. Tendon of flexor subhmis passing into its slieath, the thicker parts of which are marked e and /.