DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 404 Dorsal arteries are siilit into inner and i)uter l>ranches and give a spinal branch. Lumbar arteries are also divided intc inner and outer branches. Occipital Deep cervi- cal vein, and plexus of back of neck. Beginning of vertebral vein. Dorsal and lumbar, and deep veins. Transver.so- spinales: arrange- ment, rior intercostal of tlie subclavian (p. *71). Passing Lack between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and tlie neck of tlie lirst rib, it ascends between the complexus and semispinalis muscles^ as high as the upper border of the latter, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from it, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral. ^' The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES (p. 370) pass back between the vertebrae and the ascending costo- transverse ligament, and divide like the nerves into inner and outer pieces. * The internal branches end in the Heshy mass of the multifidus spinse and semispinalis, and furnish small cutaneous offsets with the nerves. The external tranches cross beneath the longissimus dorsi, and supply it and the ilio-costalis. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest and extend to the surface. As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intrasjnnal artery to the spinal canal (p. 420). The POSTERIOR BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR ARTERIES divide,, like the foregoing, into internal and external pieces, as soon as tliey reach the interval between the erector and multifidus sjriinre. Each- gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. * The internal branches are small, and end in the multifidup^ spina;. ^ The external branches supply the erector sj)inne ; and offsets are continued to the integuments with the superficial nerves. Veins. The occijntal veins communicate usually with the lateral sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen, and pass beneath the complexus to enter the deep cervical vein. The dee2J cervical vein is of large size, and besides receiving the- occipital veins, communicates with the other deep veins of this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck. It jjasses for- wards with its artery between the transverse processes, and joins- the vertebral vein. The vertebral vein begins above the neural arch of the atlas by the union of an offset leaving the spinal canal with the artery and branches from the above-mentioned plexus. * The dorsal and lumbar veins agree in their branching and distri- bution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the correspond- ing trunks of the thoracic and abdominal wall. In contact with the spinous processes and laminae of the vertebrae is a deeper set of veins {dorsal spinal), which anastomose freely together, and communicate through the ligamenta subflava with the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. ^ Transverso-Spinales. Occupying the vertebral groove by the side of the spinous processes is a long muscular mass, which extends from the lower part of the sacrum to the axis. This is composed of slips which are directed obliquely from transverse or articular pro-