PLANTAR ARCH OF VESSELS. 685 Action. Firstly, it bends the metatarso-plialangeal joint, and next use. it draws down and adducts the fifth metatarsal bone. Dissection (fig. 220). In order that the deep vessels and nerves Dissect the may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor obliquus hallucis are to and^nerves! be cut through behind, and thrown towards the toes ; but the nerve supplying the latter is to be preserved. Beneath the adductor lie the plantar arch and the external plantar nerve with their branches ; and through the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves, w^ith their branches, require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTAR ARCH (fig. 220, cl) is the portion of the external Arch of the plantar artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone artery^ of the little toe to the back of the first interosseous space : inter- extent; nally the arch is completed by a communicating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot (e; p. 686). It is placed across the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones, in contact with the interossei, but relations under the flexor tendons and the adductor obliquus hallucis. ^les, "^"^ Venae comites lie on the sides of the artery, and the deep part of veins and the external plantar nerve accompanies it. ' From the front or convexity of the arch the digital branches are i)ranches :— supplied, and from the opposite side small nutritive branches arise. Three small arteries, the posterior perforating, leave the deep Posterior aspect of the vessel : they pass to the dorsum of the foot through P®'^^*^^*^"^s- the three outer metatarsal spaces, and join the dorsal interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery (p. 695). The digital branches (c) are four in numl)er, and supply both Digital sides of the three outer toes and half the next. One to the outer tiiree^toes**^ side of the little toe is single ; the others lie over the interossei in and a half; the outer three metatarsal spaces, but beneath the adductor trans- versus hallucis (fig. 219), and bifurcate in front to sup^^ly the con- tiguous sides of two toes. They give fine ofl'sets to the interossei, to muscidar some lumbricales, and the adductor transversus; and at the point '^"^^ of division they send small communicating branches—anterior perforating perforating^ to join the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the offsets; foot (p. 695). Tho, first digital runs on the outer side of the little toe, supjplying first, the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the integuments of the outer border of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and second, furnishes a branch to the outer lumbrical muscle. The third is distributed to the contiguous sides of the fourth and ti^^rd, third toes, and emits a branch to the third lumbricalis. The fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- ^^^^^^^. osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits ; it may assist in supplying the third lumbricalis. The last two are joined by superficial digital branches of the junction internal plantar at the root of the toes. plantar; On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that distribution on the toes.