234 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. Pavts to be separated from one another. Form and l)osition of cerebellum. Division into two. No groove- on the upper surface; halves joined by upper worm. Horizontal fissure. A hollow below, Avhicli is called valley, and contains lower worm. «urfEicc foliated. Between iolia are sulci. Many folia are hidden. Arrange- ment in worm. optic thalamus, so that the small brain, the corpora (|uadrigemiiia, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata may remain united together. Any remaining pia mater is to be carefully removed from the median groove on the under surface ; and the different bodies in that hollow are to be separated from one another. Lastly, the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a deep sulcus at the circumference, which is continued from the crus, between the upper and under surfaces. The CEREBELLUM or small brain (fig. 79) is oval in shape, and flattened from above down. Its longest diameter, which is directed transversely, measures about four inches. This part of the encephalon is situate in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incom- pletely divided into two hemispheres ; the division being marked by a wide median groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior border into which the falx cerebelli projects. The narrower part uniting the two hemispheres is known as the ivorm (vermis). Upper surface. On the upper aspect the cerebellum is raised in the centre, and sloped towards tlie sides. There is not any median sulcus on this surface ; and the hemispheres are united by a central constricted part—the superior vermiform process. Separating the upper from the under surface, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which extends from the crus cerebelli in front to the median notch behind. The under surface of tlie cerebellum is convex on each side, where it is received into the lower fossge of the occipital bone ; and the hemispheres are separated by a median hollow—vallecula (fig. 79), which is widest in front where it lodges the upper end of the medulla oblongata : the hinder end of the vallecula is continued into the notch at the posterior border, and receives the falx cerebelli. At the bottom of the groove is an elongated mass named the inferior vermiform process {c to e), which corresponds to the central part uniting the hemispheres above. Tlie two vermiform processes constitute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum. Lamina and Sulci. The superficial part of the cerebellum is composed of grey substance, and is marked by concentric laminae or folia, which have their free edges towards the surface, and run in a curved direction with the concavity turned forwards. The laminw are separated by sulci, which are lined by pia mater, and are (»f variable depth. Only a small number of the laminae appear on the surface, for many others are placed on the sides of the larger pro- cesses, and are concealed within the deeper sulci. The lamina), especially the smaller ones, are frec^uently interrupted by the junction of neighbouring sulci. On the upper aspect many of the laminae pass continuously from one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; but those of the under surface of the two hemispheres are connected