717 METATARSO-PHALANGEAL JOINTS. Dissection. All the superficial ligaments having been taken away, Separate the the interosseous ligaments of the tarsus and metatarsus may be seen see o interosseous by separating forcibly the cuneiform bones from one another and ligaments, from the cuboid, the latter bone from the navicular, and the bases of the metatarsals- fiom one another. The dissector will find that, in using force, the bones will sometimes tear sooner than the liga- ments. Metatarsus with phalanges. These are condyloid joints, in union of which the head of the metatarsal bone is received into the cavity "i^|atarsu.-i - and plia- of the phalanx. langes, by Each articulation has an inferior and two lateral ligaments, as in two lateral the hand ; and the joint is farther strengthened above by an ex- and inferior• pansion derived from the tendons of the extensors of the toes. A synovial distinct synovial sac exists in each joint. In the articulation of the great toe there are two sesamoid bones, which are connected with the inferior ligament. All these structures are better seen in the hand, where they are more distinct ; and their anatomy is more fully described with the dissection of that part. (See page 332.) Surfaces of bone. The metatarsal bone has a rounded head, Avhich porm of is longest from above down, and reaches farthest on the plantar bones, surface. On the end of the phalanx is a cup-shaped cavity. Movement. In this condyloid joint, as in the hand, there is angu- Kind of lar motion in four different directions, with circumduction. motion. Flexion and extension. When the joint is bent, the phalanx passes Bending under the head of the metatarsal bone ; and when it is extended, extend- the phalanx moves back beyond a straight line with the metatarsal bone. A limit to flexion is set by the meeting of the bones, by the state of ^ stretching of the upper part of the lateral ligaments, and by the ° extensor tendon; and to extension, by the tightness of the inferior, and the lower part of each lateral ligament, and by the fiexor tendons. Lateral movement. The phalanx passes from side to side across lateral the end of the metatarsal bone. Its motion is checked by the '"^^-^^'^ • lateral ligament of the side from which it moved, and by the contact with the other digits. Circumduction, or the revolving of the phalanx over the rounded circular head of the metatarsal bone, is least impeded in the great toe joint; limited, but these movements in the foot are not so free as in the hand. Articulations of the phalanges. There are two interpha- langeal joints to each toe, except the first. Ligaments similar to those in the metatarso-phalangeal joints, viz., Union of the two lateral and an inferior, are to be recognized in these articulations. i^^^^^''^^ses. The joint between the last two phalanges is least distinct; and oftentimes the small bones are immoveably united by osseous sub- stance. These ligaments receive a more particular notice with the dissection of the hand (p. 333). A simple synovial membrane exists in each phalangeal articulation. Synovial Articular surfaces. In both phalangeal joints, the nearer phalanx ^ bones.