258 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. with muscles, with vein, and nerves. Branches to the thorax and the shoulder. Upper thoracic. Acromio- thoracic : offsets are internal. external. ascending, and de- scending. Alar tho- racic. Long tho- racic. External mammary. its termination it is covered only by tlie integuments and the fascia. Beneath it are suLscapularis muscle (f) and the tendons of the latissinms and teres (g and h). To the outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle (j). The axillary vein remains on the thoracic side of the artery. Here the artery lies in the midst of the large trunks of nerves into which the brachial plexus has been resolved :—On the outer side is the median nerve, with the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance ; and on the inner side are the ulnar, and the nerve of Wrisberg. Superficial to the vessel is the internal cutaneous ; and behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of the thorax and the shoulder. The thoracic branches are four in number ; two (superficial and acromio-thoracic) arise from the artery above the pectoralis minor ; one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle ; and one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two circumflex ; they arise close together, at the border of the subscapularis muscle. The last ofi'sets are the external mammary and some muscular twigs. The superior thoracic branch is the highest and smallest ofi'set, and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side of the chest, anastomosing with the intercostal arteries. The acromio-thoracic branch (fig. 84, a) is a short trunk on the front of the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pecto- ralis minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and deltoid muscles. Its principal oft'sets are directed inwards and outwards :— a. The inner or thoracic set supply the pectoral muscles, and give a few offsets to the side of the chest, which anastomose with the intercostal and other thoracic arteries. 6. The outer or acromial set enter the deltoid, and some twigs perforate that muscle to anastomose over the acromion with a branch of the suprascapular artery (p. 394). c. A small clavicular branch ascends to the subclavius muscle. d. The humeral branch runs downwards with the cephalic vein between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, to which it is dis- tributed. The alar thoracic is very inconstant as a separate branch, its place being frequently taken by offsets of the subscapular and long thoracic arteries : it is distributed to the glands and fat of the axilla. The long thoracic branch (fig, 84, b) is directed along the border of the pectoralis minor to about the fifth intercostal space ; it supplies the pectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses, like the other branches, with the intercostal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. An external mammary artery is frequently met with, especially in the female ; its position is near the middle of the axilla with a companion vein. It supplies the glands, and ends in the wall of the thorax below the preceding.