DISSECTION OF FEONT OF FOIiEAEM. 298 it supplies Muscular offsets leave the trunk of tlie nerve near the elbow, and muscles, ^^'^ distributed to all tlie superficial muscles except tbe flexor carpi •imi^aha"/ ^^^^^^^^ ; in addition tlie nerve supplies the deep layer through the interosseous branch (p. 299), except the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. ami a branch The cutaneous 'palmar branch (^) arises in the lower fourth of the hand!^" forearm ; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and crosses. over that band to reach the palm. Radial nerve Tlie RADIAL NERVE is the Smaller of the two branches into which 0 ouaim. musculo-spiral divides at the elbow. This nerve is placed along the outer border of the limb, under cover of the supinator longus. (fig. 95), and on the outer side of the radial artery, to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the forearm, where it becomes, it ends on cutaneous at the posterior border of the supinator tendon. It finally halid.^^^^^ divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of the hand and digits (p. 289). No muscular offset is furnished by the nerve. Dissection Dissection {^g. 96). To examine the deep layer of muscles it will muSs: necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm the pronator teres, to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, and to remove its fleshy part. A thin layer of fascia, which is most distinct near the wrist, is to be taken away ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous mem- brane, and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. ^rci^ Over the ends of the forearm bones the arch of the anterior carpal arteries may be defined. Three nms- Deep Group OF MuSOLES. There are three deep muscles on the d?ep"setl^^ front of the forearm. One, covering the ulna, is the deep flexor of the fingers ; a second rests on the radius, the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadratus, which lies beneath the other two, over the lower ends of the bones. Deep flexor The FLEXOR PROFUXDUB DIGITORUM (flex. perforans ; fig. 96, c) of fingers: ^^.^^.^5 from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three- "Jiig'Ji, fourths of the length of the bone, from the inner half of the interosseous ligament for the same distance, and from the aponeurosis of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, and ends in tendons which, passing beneath the insertion; annular ligament, are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers, parts Lying over the muscle are the ulnar vessels and nerve, the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor longus pollicis and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. The portion of the muscle furnish- ing the tendon to the index finger is separated from the rest by a layer of areolar tissue. Action. The muscle bends the joints of the fingers and the wrist ; but it does not act on the last phalanx till after the second has been moved by the flexor sublimis. How fingers The fingers are usually bent in the following order :—firstly, the articulation between the metacarpal and the middle phalanges; around it use on lingers and wrist. are bent.