HYPOGLOSSAL NERYE. 77 the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon, which is siir- which are rounded by fibres of the stylo-hyoid, and is united by an aponeurotic joined by a expansion to its fellow, and to the body and part of the great cornu ' of the liyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at the position to posterior end, where it is beneath the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid vessels and tlie accompanying veins and nerves ; and is j)laced across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to the fore part of the hyoid bone. Along its lower border lie the occipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve, the former passing backwards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundary of a space between it, the The nmspie jaw, and the base of the skull, which is subdivided into two by the space^^^ stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion are contained containing the parotid gland (^°), and the vessels and nerves in connection " with it (p. 29) ; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland (^^), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses Use. that bone and opens the mouth. If the jaw is fixed, the two bellies acting will elevate the hyoid bone. The STYLO-HYOID MUSCLE is thin and slender, and lies imme- stylo-hyoid diately above the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises from "i"«cie: the posterior surface of the styloid process near the base, and is inserted into the outer part of the body of the hyoid bone. insertion; The muscle has the same relations as the posterior belly of the surrounds digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon JSonT of that muscle. Action. This muscle elevates the hyoid bone in swallowing, and ^^^e. with the posterior belly of the digastric, prevents the bone being carried forwards by the other elevators. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (twelfth cranial) apjjears in the anterior Twelfth triangle at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, where it hooks aiTterio? round the occipital artery ; it is then directed forwards to the triangle: tongue beneath the tendon of that muscle, and disappears in front uncler the mylo-hyoid. In this course the nerve passes over the two carotids ; and near the great cornu of the hyoid bone it also crosses the lingual artery. From this part arise the descending branches; branch, and a small muscular offset to the thyro-hyoid. The descending branch leaves the trunk of the hypoglossal as it turns one to iiyoid round the occipital artery, and descends on the front of, or more "^^^^^'^^^^ frequently within, the carotid sheath to below the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating branches of the is joined cervical nerves so as to form a single or double loop {ansa hypoglossi) cervical with the concavity turned upwards. The descending branch gives nerves, an offset to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; and from the loop branches proceed to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles : sometimes another offset is