414 THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBRANES. Porttericjr larger tin anterior, forms two bundles that enter theganalion Ganglia form, and size each Infid. number as the vertebrae, except in the cervical region, -where they are eight, and in the coccygeal region where there is only one. The cervical nerves from the first to the seventh pass out above the several vertebra3 ; and the eighth is below the last cervical vertebra; the succeeding nerves are placed each below its corresponding ver- tebra. Each nerve divides into two primary branches, anterior and posterior ; the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs; and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Roots of the nerves (tig. 137). Two roots (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord ; and these unite together to form a common trunk in the intervertebral foramen. The posterior root is marked by a ganglion, but the anterior root is aganglionic. The iwsterior or ganglionic roots (fig. 137 A, b) are larger than the anterior, and are formed by thicker and more numerous fibrils. Tliey are attached to the side of the cord between the posterior and lateral columns in a straight line, which they keep even to the last nerve. In their course to the trunk of the nerve the fibrils converge to an aperture in the dura mater, opposite the intervertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are collected into two bundles (fig. 137 B, b) which, lying side by side, receive a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the two points of the intervertebral ganglion. The intervertebral ganglion (fig. 137 A, c) is reddish in colour and oval in shape ; and its size is proj)ortioned to that of the root. By means of the previous dissection, the ganglion may be seen to be bifid at tlie inner end (fig. 137 b), where it is joined by the bundles of filaments of the root (b) ; or the root might be said to possess t^-o * A. Plan of the origin of a spinal nerve from the spinal cord. a. Anterior root. I). Posterior root. c. Ganglion on the posterior root, d. Anterior primary branch, e. Posterior primary branch of the nerve-trunk. B. A drawing to shew the arrangement of the nerve-roots, and the form of the ganglion in a lumbar nerve, b, b. Posterior root gathered into two bundles of threads, c. The ganglion, bifid at the inner end. a, a. Filaments of the anterior root, also gathered into two bundles.