DISSECTION OF THE HEAD, wards the membrane, vessels and nerves will be seen entering it through the foramen ; but these may be left for the j^resent, and directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has been removed behind the spongy bones, the palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and may be readily reached by breaking carefully through the latter with a chisel. Afterwards, the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves being opened, these are to be followed down to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the ganglion which is close to the body of the S23lienoid bone. To bring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the overhanging body of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body, from which the Vidian and pharyngeal nerves j)ass backwards. Besides the branches referred to, the student should seek two large nerves from the top of the ganglion to join the superior maxillary trunk, and smaller off'sets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the Vidian branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nerve, the student must'lay open the canal which contains it and its artery in the root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small pharyngeal branches of nerve and artery which are superficial to the Vidian, and lie in the pterygo- l^alatine canal. At the back of the Vidian canal, a small branch from the nerve to the plexus on the internal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, the prolongation of the Vidian nerve (large superficial petrosal) is to be followed into the skull through the dense tissue in the foramen lacerum, after cutting away the point of the petrous j^ortion of the temporal bone, and dividing the internal carotid artery; and it is to be pursued on the surface of the tem- poral bone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii : its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that nerve. The branches of the ganglion to the nose will be found entering the outer surface of the detached mucous membrane opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), dissected before in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated, and to be followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. The branches of the internal maxillary artery with the nerves are to be cleaned at the same time. The SPHENO-PALATINE or Meckel's ganglion (fig. 37, ') lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen, and is connected with the branches of the sujjerior maxillary nerve to the palate. The ganglionic mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a reddish grey colour. It is situate, for the most part, behind the branches (spheno-palatine) of the superior maxillary nerve, so as to surround only some of their fibres ; and it is j)ro- longed posteriorly into the Vidian nerve. Meckel's ganglion re-