DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. posterior and anterior branches. Last dorsal nerve. Anterior cutaneous nerves of intercostal. Ilio-hypo- gastric of lumbar plexus: iliac brancli liypogastric brancli. Uio-inguinal nerve of the plexus. Vessels Avith nerves; . both lateral and anterior cutaneous. From femoral artery three branches: external pudic, superficial epigastric, The posterior branches are small, and are directed back to the integuments over the latissimiis dorsi muscle. The anterior branches are continued forwards nearly to the edge of the rectus muscle, and increasing in size from above down, supply the integuments on the side of the belly : they furnish off- sets to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is larger than, and does not divide like the others. After jDiercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region (p. 637). The ANTERIOR CUTANEOUS NERVES of the abdomen pierce the sheath of the rectus: in the integuments they bend outwards towards the lateral cutaneous nerves. The number and the situation of these small nerves are very uncertain. The iLio-HYPOGASTRic NERVE is distributed by two pieces : one passes over the crest of the ilium (iliac branch) ; the other ramifies on the lower part of the abdomen (hypogastric branch) :— (a) The iliac branch lies close to the crest of the hip-bone near the last dorsal nerve, and enters the fat of the gluteal region (p. 638). (6) The hypogastric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle above the abdominal ring, and is distributed to the skill of the lower part of the abdomen. The iLio-iNGUiNxiL NERVE becomes cutaneous through the external abdominal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum, and upper and inner part of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous vessels run with both sets of nerves on the abdomen; with the lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries; and with the an- terior cutaneous are offsets from the internal mammary and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial l)ranches of the femoral artery, viz., pudic, epigastric, and circum- ffex iliac. The LATERAL CUTANEOUS ARTERIES have the same distribution as the nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The ANTERIOR cutaneous ARTERIES are irregular in number and in position, like the nerves. After piercing the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the nerves towards the other set of branches. Branches of the femoral artery. Three cutaneous offsets ascend from the thigh between the layers of the superficial fascia, and ramify in the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of the abdomen. The beginning of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh. The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the spermatic cord, to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the under part of the penis. The superficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligament