104 -DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. Dissection of carotid i the neck ; and cranial nerves: in the leniporai bone. hone remain to be dissected. The terminal branches of tlie carotid are examined with the brain. Dissection. For the display of the cervical part of the artery (fig. 27) there is now but little dissection required. By detaching the styloid j^i'ocess at the root, and throwing it forwards with its jnnscles, the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia conceals them ; and this is to be taken away carefull}^, so that the branches of the nerves may not be injured. Nerves on it. Tympanum obtained. Internal carotid enters tlic skull. Its course is tirst In the fascia, and directed forwards over the artery, seek the the tlie giosso-pharyngeal nerve, and its branches near the skull, and small pharyngeal branch of the vagus lower down ; still lower, superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, with its external laryngeal offset, crossing beneath the carotid. Between the ^ ein and artery, close to the sknll, will be found the vagus, hy})()giossal, and sympathetic nei'\'es: and crossing backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the vessels the loop of the first and second cervical nerves over the tians^'erse prc^cess of the atlas is to be defined ; and from it branches of communication are to be traced to the large ganglion of the s^'nipatlictic beneath the artery, and to the vagus and hypoglossal ner^'es. Ascending to tlie cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending j^haryn- geal artery will l)e met "s\ ith. To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to folhjw the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut along the side of the sknll in the following manner:—the saw being placed behiuil the mastoid ^irocess, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the wing of the sphenoid bon-,' (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrimient be directed through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone Ibrceps. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the supeiior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it ; and in a fresh part two small filaments may be recognised Avith care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the 2)osterior part of the canal ; the other from the Vidian nei ve, at the front of the canal. On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may oljtain a view of the outer part of the tympanum with its membrane and chain of bones, and the chorda tympani nerve. The internal carotid artery (fig. 27, d) springs from the bifurcation of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery may be divided into three portions—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third in the cranium.