100 DISSECTION OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Sectiox Yin. RIGHT ORBIT AND SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Directions. Learn right orbit. Open orbit from the outer side. Order of tlie dissection. Superior maxillary nerve. Directions. The student may examine next tlie right orbit, and the remaining trunk, superior maxillary, of the liftli ner\-e. Supposing the right orbit to be untouched, the student may vary the dissection by exposing it from the outer side. Dissection. For this purpose, first detach the eyelids from the outer half of the orbital margin, and with the handle of tlie scalpel separate the periosteum from the corresponding part of the wall of the cavity. Then saw vertically through the centre of the upper margin of the orbit, and continue the cut backwards with a chisel to the sphenoidal fissure. Make a further {;ut, also with a chisel, (from the inside) along the middle fossa of the base of the skull from the sphenoidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and outside the line of the foramen rotunduni and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is next to be sawn transversely in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards the malar bone is to be sawn through into the spheno- maxillary fissure. The piece of the skull, including parts of the frontal, malar, sphenoid, and temporal bones, is now loose, and can be removed with the temj^oral muscle. If the portion of the roof of the orbit which is left should interfere with the vieAV of the contents of the cavity in the later stages of the dissection, let it be taken away with the bone-forceps. The description that has been given of the contents of the left orbit (pp. 40, et seq.) may be used also for the right side. The following will serve as a guide to the steps of the dissection :— On removing the periosteum, the external rectus muscle will l)e at once seen, and its two heads should be defined, with the ner\ es entering the cavity above and between them. Along the upper border of the muscle the lachrymal nerve and. artery are to be followed to the lachrymal gland, and bej-^ond these the levator palpebrse superioris and superior rectus muscles are exjjosed, as well as the frontal and fourth nerves. When these have been studied, the external rectus, with the lachrymal vessels and nerve, are to be divided in the middle, and the parts thrown forwards and back- wards. Then take away the fat from the lenticular ganglion, the nasal, third and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic artery at the back of the orbit, and clean the inferior oblique muscle in front as it arches round the eyeball. To see fully the remaining muscles, the course of the ophthalmic aitery and nasal nerve, and the lower division of the third nerve, it will be necessary to divide the frontal nerve, the levator j)alpebr8e and superior rectus muscles, and the optic nerve. The superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, in its course