407 INTEHSPIJs^OUS AND INTERTRANSYEESE MUSCLES. Action. With its fellow the upper oblique will assist in carrying and use. Ijackwards the head. By the action of one muscle the head will he inclined backwards, and to the same side. Suboccipital triangle (fig. 133). This name is given to the Trianguiiu small spfice which is bounded below by the obliquus inferior muscle, ^ween Uif and above by the rectus posticus major on the inner side, and the muscles: obliquus superior on the outer side. It is covered by the com- plexus ; and its floor is formed by the neural arch of the atlas, with tlie posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. In it are seen a small part contents, of the vertebral artery, and the posterior branch of the suboccipital nerve. The iiOTATOREs DORSi are eleven short muscular slips in the Rotatores dorsal region beneath the multifidus spinte, from which they are "-^"^'^^ • separated by fine areolar tissue. Each arises from the upper and attach- back part of a transverse process, and is inserted into the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The tir^t springs from the transverse process of the second vertebra. The IXTER8PINALES are arranged in pairs in the intervals iuters])iua between the spinous processes. They are most develo}!ed in the ' neck and loins. In tlie cervical region the muscles are small rounded bundles in neck; attached t(» the bifurcated extremities of the spines from tlie axis downwards. * In the dorsal region interspinal muscles are only present in one m dorsal or two of the highest and lowest spaces. ivgion; * III the lumbar region they are thin flat muscles, reaching the in loins; whole length of the spine, one on eacli side of the interspinous ligament. Action. These muscles help to extend the spine. tiieii-use. The INTERTRANSVERSALES lie between the transverse processes inter- of the vertebra3 ; but only those in the loins and the bade are noM' J™isci,^s'^'^ dissected. In the nech they are double, and resemble the interspinal muscles in neck; of the cervical vertebrae (p. 172). In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles of small dorsal size, and are found only between the four or five lower vertebra?. They are represented in the middle spaces by thin fibrous bands, which constitute the so-called intertransverse ligaments (p. 385). ^' In the lumbar region there are two muscles in each space. The in loins; outer set are thin flat muscles between the transverse processes. The inner muscles are rounded bundles in a line with those of the dorsal region ; they are attached to the accessory processes above, and the mamillary processes below ; and the highest is between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrse. Action. The intertransverse muscles assist in bending the spine their use. laterally. * Dissection (fig. 134). To see the posterior divisions of the Dissection sacral nerves, it will be necessary to remove the part of the nerves.' multifidus spina? covering the sacrum. The upper three nerves arc each split into two; their external branches will be found