579 INTERIOR OF THE URETHRA. brane, near its posterior extremity, is a small hollow (g) named vesicula prostatica, sinus ^ocularis, or utricle. The vesicula iwostatica (fig. 188, g) is directed backwards in the Vesicuia prostate, j'or a quarter of an inch, passing beneath the middle and tue'prostate) between the lateral lobes. Its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity is about as large again. Along the and by its wall, on each side, is placed the common seminal duct (/), which Jj^J^^^^^J^^y terminates, on or within the margin of the mouth of the sac ; and if ducts, bristles are introduced into the common seminal duct behind the prostate, they will render the apertures evident. Small glands •open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle. The vesicula is the remains of the united lower ends of the fcetal ducts of Muller, and represents the uterus and vagina in the female. On each side of the central crest is an excavation, which is named Prostatic the 'prostatic sinus (fig. 189, /). Into this hollow the greater number in"floor.^^^° of the ducts of the prostatic glands open ; but the aj^ertures of some are seen at the back of the central eminence. The MEMBRANOUS PART OF THE URETHRA (fig. 189, g) is three- Membran. quarters of an inch in length, and intervenes between the apex of * the prostate gland and the bulb {k) of the corpus spongiosum urethrse. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the dimensions; narrowest piece of the whole tube, with the exception of the outer orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, and is supported parts by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of unstriated circular fibres (p. 435), and outside all by the constrictor urethree muscle. The SPONGY PART (fig. 189, i) reaches to the end of the penis. ^^^'^^^ It is about six inches in length, and its strength depends upon a surrounding material named corpus spongiosum urethree. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in dimensions; <liameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on-the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. On a cross section it appears star-shaped, but in the glans, as a vertical slit. Two dilatations exist in the spongy portion ;—one is two diiata- along the floor close to the triangular ligament, being contained in one iiilbuib, the bulb or bulbous part of the urethra, and is named sinus of the one in glans; hulh ; the other is an elongated hollow, situate in the glans penis, and is called fossa navicularis (?i). There are many small pouches or lacuna} (o) in the canal as far lacume, back as the membranous part, which have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these, larger than one larger the rest, lacuna magna, is found generally immediately within the ^Jst! ^ meatus, in the roof of the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Coiuper^'s glands (fig. 189, h) are two in number. Ducts of and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the co^"per*^* ' bulb ; but their openings are generally too small to be recognised. Mucous lining of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the urethra Mucous is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts opening into the canal, and joins in front the tegumentary covering of the glans p p 2