CUTAXEOUS AETEEIES. On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts relations, superficial to that membrane ; and concealed by the muscle are the deep temporal vessels and nerves which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle will be seen, and its action explained, in the dissection of the pterygoid region. Dissection. For the dissection of the vessels and nerves, let How to the face be now turned on the left side, and let an incision be on right carried along the eyebrow and the zygomatic arch to a little behind the ear, so as to allow the skin on the right half of the head to be reflected. The flap of the skin is to be raised from before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are fomid. Behind the ear the skin should be raised as on the other side, to imcover the posterior auricular vessels and nerve. Alons; the evebrow seek the branches of vessels and nerves ^^^^ nerves 3.11(i VBSSGiS which come from the orbit (fig. 2), viz., the supraorbital vessels on the and nerve about the middle, and the supratrochlear nerve and ^^r^^^<i' frontal vessels near the inner angle of the orbit; they lie at first beneath the muscular fibres of the frontalis, which must be cut through to find them. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, the superficial 1 IT ' 1 T ^ T -1 1 of the head, temporal vessels and nerve are to he traced upwards ; and above the zygomatic arch the branches of the facial which join an ofiset (J^) of the superior maxillaiy nerve are to be sought. Behind the ear the posterior auricular vessels and nerve, and behind ear, below it branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the pinna are to be found ; one or more ofisets of the last should be followed to the jimction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital vessels, at the bact and the large and small occipital nerves should be denuded; the *^ ^ former nerve lies by the side of the art<;rA', and the latter about midway between this vessel and the ear. CuTA^s'^Eors Arteeies. The arteries of the scalp (fig. 2) are Vessels of furnished by the internal and external carotid trunks, and anasto- ^® mose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supraorbital and frontal, come from the former ; while three, viz., the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular, are derived from the latter. The SUPRAOEBITAL ARTERY (l; leaves the orbit through the notch Supraorin- in the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some '"^ anery. of its Itranches are superficial to the frontalis and supply the skin ; while others lie beneath the muscle, and supply it, the pericranium, and the bone. The FEONTAX AETEEY (h^ is close to the inner angle of the orbit. Frontal and is much smaller than the preceding. It ends in branches for "^*ry. the supply of the muscles, integuments, and pericranium. The SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY (c?) is One of the terminal Superficial blanches of the external carotid. After crossiug the zygoma ^^^^ immediately in front of the ear, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branch runs forwards with a serpentine course to anterior and