275 SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES OF ARM. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position. For the dissection of the superficial vessels and nerves Position, on the front of the arm the limb should lie flat on the table, with the anterior surface uppermost. Dissection. The skin is to be raised from the fore and hinder sur- and inci- faces of the arm and elbow. To reflect it, make one incision along ^^^^ the centre of the limb as far as two inches below the bend of the elbow, and at the termination of this, a second cut half round the forearm. Then strip the skin from the limb as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a bursa may be seen. The cutaneous veins (fig. 91) may be first sought in the : they are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, as they issue from beneath the integument. One in the centre of tlie forearm is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow. Exter- nal to this is the radial vein ; and internal to it are the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the forearm. At the ell)ow these veins are united into two ; one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner side, and the other (cephalic) along the outer side of the arm. The cutaneous nerves are next to be traced out. Where they '^^'^^^ perforate the deep fascia they lie beneath the fat ; and this layer nerves must be scraped through to find them. ; On the outer side of the arm, about the middle, two external gf^^g^*^^" cutaneous branches of the musculo-s2)iral are to be sought. In the outer l^icipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, the cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be recognised. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more mi- 1 1 • -IT- Side of the numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- limb, neous nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about the. middle of the arm ; and a little external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Scrape through the fat behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower third of the arm, for the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the upper third, follow the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. Superficial fascia. The subcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- Siiperficial tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. At that spot it encloses the superficial vessels and lymphatics. Cutaneous Veins. The position and relations of the veins in Superficial .) veins.