DISSECTIO^^ OF THE LEG. 708 Internal or deltoid : attach- ments. External has three pieces; anterior. middle, and pos- terior : relations. Open the ankle-joint. Synovial Surfaces of the bones in the joint. Kinds of motion. Flexion : moving bone ; state of ligaments. wMcli are fixed into the hollow on the inner side of the external malleolus. The internal lateral or deltoid ligammt (fig. 228) is attached by its upper, smaller end to the inner malleolus, and by its base to the tarsal bones, by fibres which radiate to their insertion in this manner :—The posterior (^) are directed to the hinder part of the inner surface of the astragalus ; the middle (^) pass vertically to. the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis; and the anterior f), which are thin and oblique, join the internal calcaneo-navicular ligament and the inner side of the navicular bone. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum are in contact with this, ligament. The external lateral ligament (fig. 229) consists of three separate pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior, which are attached to the astragalus and the os calcis. The anterior piece Q) is a short flat band, which is directed from the fore part of the malleolus to the side of the astragalus in front of the lateral articular surface. The middle portion (^) descends from the tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The posterior (^) is the strongest, and is almost horizontal in direction ; it is fixed externally to the pit on the inner surface of the malleolus, and i& inserted into the external tubercle and adjoining posterior part of the external surface of the astragalus beliind the lateral articular facet. The posterior and middle fasciculi are placed beneath the peronei muscles. The middle piece is but slightly in contact above with the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint; and both it and the posterior piece touch the synovial membrane between the astragalus and the os calcis. Dissection. Dividing the ligaments of the ankle-joint, separate the astragalus from the bones of the leg, to see the osseous surfaces, entering into the joint. The synovial merabrane of the joint lines the capsule, and is. simple in its arrangement; but the cavity is continued upwards for a short distance between the tibia and fibula. Articular surfaces. On the tibia there are two articular surfaces,, one of which corresponds with the end of the shaft, and the other with the malleolus. On the fibula the surface of the malleolus which is turned to the astragalus is covered with cartilage. The astragalus has a central articular surface, wider before than behind and trochlea-shaped, which touches the end of the tibia ; and on its sides are articular impressions for contact with the malleoli, but the outer one is the larger. Movements. Only the movements of flexion and extension are per- mitted in the ankle ; in the former state the toes are raised towards the fore part of the leg ; and in the latter, they are pointed towards the ground. In flexion the astragalus moves backwards so as to project behind; and the motion is arrested by the wide part of the astragalus being wedged in between the malleoli. The posterior ligament is stretched over the projecting astragalus.