152 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Muscles ill each half: two kinds. Extrinsic number. Dissection of jialato-, stylo-, and ]iyo-glossu> of plia- ryngeo- of f hondi-o- giossus. Palato- glossus in tongue. Stylo- f^lossus pro- longed to tip of tongue; sends many libres in- wards. Muscles. Eacli half of the tongue is made up of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former or external are distinguished by having only their termination in the tongue ; and the latter, or in- ternal, by having both origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing from one part and ending at another. The extrinsic muscles (fig. 40) are the following : palato-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-glossus, hyo-glossus, chondro-glossus, and pharyn- geo-glossus. Only the lingual endings of these, except in the case of the chondro-glossus, are now to be studied. Dissection. After the tongue has been firmly fastened on its left side, the extrinsic muscles may be dis- sected on the right half. Three of these muscles, viz., palato- (d), stylo- (b), and hyo-glossus (c), come together to the side of the tongue ; and, to follow their radiating fibres inwards and for- wards, it will be necessary to remove from the dorsum, between them and tlie ti]!, a thin layer consisting of the mucous membrane with the submu- cous fibrous tissue, and the fleshy fibres of the upper lingualis. Beneath the tip a junction between the stylo- glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. The piece of the constrictor mus- cle (g) which is attached to the tongue, and the ending of the genio-glossus will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus. To lay bare the chondro-glossus (f), which is a small muscular slip attached to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small cornu of the hyoid through the mucous membrane. Then remove the mucous membrane in front of this, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be visible. The PALATO-GLOSSUS reaches the side of the tongue at the junction (jf the posterior and middle thirds. Its fibres are directed inwards, in part on the surface, and in part deeply with the trans^^erse muscle of the septum. The STYLO-GLOSSUS joins the body of the tongue below the fore- going, and is continued forwards as a gradually tapering bundle beneath the lateral margin to the tip of the organ, where it becomes united Avith the inferior lingualis, and meets the muscle of the opposite side. From its upper border fibres are directed inwards over the dorsum of the tongue to the middle line ; and other * Muscles on the dorsum of the tongue. A. Superficial lingualis. B. Stylo- glossus, c. Hyo-glossus. d. Palato-glossus. F. Chondro-glossus. g. Pha- ryngeo-glossus. h. Septum linguae. (After Zaglas.)