DISSECTIOJS: OF THE UPPER LIMB. 266 coid mem- brane conceals subclavius, and joins sheath of A'essels. Axillary sheath : strongest in front. Clean the vessels. Subclavius muscle is attached to clavicle and first rib: relations; Axillary artery: extent, The depth varies. Eelations: Above small pectoral: with muscles, vessels, band whicli receives this name from its attachment on the one side to the rib, and on the other to the coracoid process of the scapnla. Between these points it is inserted into the clavicle, enclosing the subclavius muscle, and is joined by the piece of fascia that encases the small pectoral muscle. The part of the membrane behind the subclavius is blended with the front of the axillary sheath. The sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves (e) is a funnel- shaped tube, prolonged from the fascia covering the scaleni muscles in the lower part of the neck. It is strongest near the subclavius muscle, where the costo-coracoid band joins it. The anterior part of the sheath is perforated by the cephalic vein (e), the acromio- thoracic artery (a), and the anterior thoracic nerves and ^). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, the remains of it are to be taken away ; and the subclavius muscle, and the axillary vessels and nerves with their Ijranches, are to be carefully cleaned. The SUBCLAVIUS (tig. 84, d) is a small elongated muscle, placed below the clavicle. It arises by a tendon from the first rib and its cartilage at their junction, in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres pass outwards and somewhat upwards, and are inserted into a groove on the under surface of the clavicle, which reaches between the two rough impressions for the costo- and coraco-clavi- cular ligaments. The muscle crosses the large vessels and nerves of the limb, and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula. The AXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 84) coutiuues the subclavian trunk to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to which this name is applied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (h). In the axillary space its position will be marked by a line from the centre of the clavicle to the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis. Its direction will vary with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for when the arm lies by the side of the body the vessel is arched, its convexity being upwards ; but when the limb is raised to the level of the shoulder, it is somewhat curved in the ojDposite direction. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeply placed, but it becomes sujoerficial as it approaches the arm. Its relations with the surrounding objects are numerous ; and the description of these will be methodised by dividing the artery into three parts—one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. Above the small 'pectoral uiuscle, the artery is contained in the axillary sheath of membrane (e), and is concealed by the clavi- cular portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus magnus. To the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein ((/). The cephalic vein (e) and offsets of the acromio-thoracic vessels cross over it.