DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 610 gland, ^ ture, consisting of separate lobules, eacli of which is provided "with distinct"^ a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct capsule; but it is t.apsnie. surrounded by areolar tissue, which projects into the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a greyish white colour, and are united into larger masses by areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. The duct of The duct of the pancreas (canal of Wirsung ; fig. 164, d) extends the gland: j^j^g whole length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower extent; than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the j^ancreas, where it 23i*esents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to branches; the head, it receives many branches. It finally ends by opening into the duodenum, usually in union with the common bile-duct (p. 504). Of the tributary branches, the largest is derived from the lower part of the head of the pancreas, size and The duct measures from yVth to yo^^ of an inch in diameter near strnctiiie. ^-[le duodenum. It is formed of a fibrous coat with a very smooth mucous lining. Vessels and Vessels, lyiuphafics, and nerves. The arteries and veins have been described (p. 493) ; and the lymphatics pass to the coeliac glands. The nerves are fiiniis]i('(l L)y the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. Consistence and colour. Form and position. Size and weight. Surfaces are phrenic, gastric, and renal. Borders anr extremities. Sometimes accessory spleens. Two coats and special The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or purple colour, sometimes approaching to grey. Its texture is friable, and easily broken under pressure. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed obliquely behind the great end of the stomach. Its size varies much. In the adult it measures comuKjiily about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one inch to one inch and a half in thick- ness. Its Areight lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather less in the female than the male. At the posterior or outer aspect it is convex towards the ribs. On the opposite side a longitudinal ridge separates an anterior or gastric surface from a narrow internal or renal surface, both of which are concave (p. 478). Just in front of the ridge is a groove, or more commonly a series of small depressions, where the branches of the vessels enter : this part is called the hilum of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notclied. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. Small masses of splenic substance, or accessory sjjleens (splenculi), varying in size from a bean to a moderate-sized plum, are found occasionally, near the hilum of the spleen, in the gastro-sjDlenic omentum, or in the great omentum. Structure. Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, a serous and a fibrous. It is formed by a network of fibrous or trabecular tissue, which contains in its meshes the splenic pulp. Throughout the mass the blood-vessels and the nerves ramifv. It has no duct.