DISSECTION OF THE SUPEIilOR MAXILLAKY NERVE. 102 Its branches are—to orbit; to the nose and palate; to the hinder teeth and cheek: to for( teeth: to lower eyelid; to side of nose ; and to upper lip, joinnij facial. Infraorbital artery ends in face: branches to orbit, and one to anterior teeth. Infraorbital vein. Branches.—a. The orbital or temjjoro-incdar branch (^) lias already been described (p. 50). Its two divisions liave been destroyed on the right side in opening the orbit. b. The si^heno-jpalatint branches (^) descend from the nerve in the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate ; they are connected with Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it (Section XIV.). c. The 'posterior dental branch (") leaves the nerve near the npper jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining meniljrane of the antrum ; near the teeth it joins the middle dental branch. Before enteiing the canal it furnishes one or more oflsets to the gum and the mucous mem- brane of the cheek. d. and e. The 'iitiddle and anterior dental hranche>< arise together or separately from the trunk in the floor of the orbit, and descend in special canals in the wall of the antrum to end in branches to the teeth, after forming loops of conmiunication with one another, and with the i)Osterior dental nerve. From the middle branch filaments are given to the bicuspid teeth ; and from the anterior to the canine and incisors, as well as a twig or two to the inferior meatus of the nose. /. The ixdpebral branches are usually two small twigs whicli turn upwards round the mai'gin oi the infraoihital foramen to reach the lower lid. (/. The kderal nasal branches are directed inwards, and supply the skin of the side of the nose. h. The labial branches^ tliree or the others, and descend to the lip between the orbit and the mouth, as well as the mucous membram; of the upper lip. Their ramifications are crossed by, and com- municate mth the infraorbital branches of the facial ner^'e, the whole forming the infraorbital -plexus (p. 38). The INFRAORBITAL ARTERY is a branch of the internal maxillary (p. 89). Taking the course of the nerve through the infraor1)ital canal, the vessel ai^pears on the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and it ends in branches which are distributed, like those of the nerve, between the eye and mouth. On the face its branches anastomose with off'sets of the facial and buccal arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery furnishes small twigs to the orbit, and a larger anterior dental branch which runs with the nerve of the same name to the incisor and canine teeth ; the dental branch also gives offsets to the antrum, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery. The vein accompanying the artery communicates in front with the facial vein, and terminates behind in the alveolar plexus (p. 90). four in number, are larger than supplying the skin of the face