421 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. the back, and fToni the lumhar and lateral sacral Lelow. Th'ey are distributed after the following plan :— As each artery enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral fora- Distribution men, it divides into two branches, upper and lower. From the point of division the branches are directed, one (6) upwards and the other (c) downwards, behind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebrae, and join in anastomotic loops with an offset of the intra- spinal artery above and below. From the loops offsets (d) are y,y . furnished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebra3. Anas- tomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebra3. The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal artery (e), i<"ci a cen- like that on the front of the spinal cord, Avhich lies on the bodies of ''^ ^^^^^ ' the vertebrae, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets from the loops. The intraspinal veim (fig. 142) consist of two anterior longitu- intraspinal <linal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal ; 1.^1"^'^"^"^ of veins inside the bodies of the vertebra); and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. The anterior longitudinal veim {h) are close to the bodies of the Anterior vertebra), one on each side of the posterior common ligament ; and |,r"oubo,H^s they are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the vertt-ina-. intervertebral foramina. They receive oj)posite the body of each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the interverte- bral foramina they have branches of communication {a) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, tlic loins, and the pelvis. Veins of the bodies of the vertehrce. Within the channels in the Vemsoftiie bodies of the vertebrte are large veins, which join on the front of the ^ •'■'t*-^'™- bone with veins in that situation. Towards the back of the vertebra they are united in an arch, from which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped from the bone, tlie trunks di^'crge to tlie right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. The -posterior'spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater Posterior and the arches of the vertel)rao. A large vein may be said to lie on a|?e"in cml-'** <',ach side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and tact with with the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Offsets from these vessels are directed through the intervertebral foramina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse processes.