SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF AKTEEIOll HALF. 431 The internal hrancli (^) passes under the transverse muscle, and audinternai; accompanies the other to the scrotum. The superficial perineal branches communicate with one another, and the external is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the distributed scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, which reach ami^penLs"^ as far as the under surface of the penis. Other muscular branches of tlie perineal nerve will be afterwards Muscular examined (p. 432). 'tancies. The INFERIOR PUDENDAL NERVE {^) is a branch of the small sciatic, inferior It pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial uei've^' tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perineum, to end in tlie outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Communica- ends in tions take i)lace l)etween this nerve, the inferior ha^niorrhoidal, and the outer of the two su])erticial perineal branches. Dissection. For the display of the muscles, the superficial fascia. Dissection as well as the vessels and nerves of the left side, must be taken of "he'^^'*'^ away from the anterior half of the perineal space. Afterwards a "rcthra and thin aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the surface of the muscles. Next to the middle line lies the cjaculator urina); along the outer edge of the space is the erector penis ; and behind, pass- ing obliquely Ijetvveen the other two, is the transverse muscle. On the rigilt side the student should seek the branches of the and of their perineal nerve to the muscles. "er\es. Muscles (fig. 144). Superficial to the triangular ligament, in Tiuee the anterior half of the perineal space, are three muscles, viz., the "ver'^trr- erector penis, the ejaculator urinse, and the transversus perinei. j^"^"''*'" Another muscle of the urethra is contained between the layers of the triangular ligament, and will be subsequently seen. Central 'point of the perineum. Between the urethra, and the rec- Oenirai turn is a small transverse tendinous septum, to the centre of which this name has been applied. It is placed about one inch in front of the anus, and in it the muscles acting on the rectum and urethra where are united. Its develoj)ment varies greatly in different bodies. join.^'^^ The ERECTOR PENIS (ischio-cavemosus ; fig. 144, b) is the most Erector external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end than in pen>«: the middle. It covers the crus penis : and its fibres arise from the origin; ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of the penis, and from the bone on each side of the crus. In front, the muscle is insertion; inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and the bone. Action. The muscle compresses the crus penis against the sub- use. jacent bone, and retards the escape of the blood from the corpus cavern osum by the veins : in that way it will contribute to the erection of the organ. The EJACULATOR URINiE (bulbo-CavemOSUS ; fig, 144, a) lies on Ejaculator the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides unite by a median • tendon along the middle line and in the central point of the perineum {origin). The fibres are directed outwards, curving origin at around the convexity of the urethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, ""'^'"^ ^"'^ which has the following insertion hindmost fibres end on the