593 BLADDER AND UEETHRA IN FEMALE. TJie mucous membrane forms longitudinal folds, particularly at the Mucous outer end. At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued into the mucous lining of the uterus, but at the outer end it joins ous with the peritoneum. peritoneum. The blood-vessels and nerves are furnished from those supplied to Vessels, the ovarv and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the form of the female bladder Anatomy of have been detailed in the description of the relations of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 561). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 575). Dissection, To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and re- Preparation move the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the muscular til)res. After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has been op^"^ it- learnt, they are to be slit open along the fore part. Urethra. The length and the relations of the excretory tube Urethra: . rn-i length; are given at p. 561. The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter size ; of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder : near the external aperture is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of not being surrounded by resistant it can be structures, the female urethra is much more dilatable than the J||iated corresponding passage in the male. Structure. Like the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of blood-vessels, and by mus- male.^^ cular hbre. The muscular layer extends the whole length of the urethra. Its Muscular ,, . T T . , , 9 . . - coat of cir- libres are circular, corresponding with those m the prostatic enlarge- cular nbres. ment of the other sex, and continuous above with the middle layer of the bladder. , In the perineal ligament this stratum is covered by the fibres of the deep transverse muscle (p. 440). The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the floor of the _ '. , a fold in canal, resembles the median crest in the male urethra (p. 578). the floor; Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles ; and towards the follicles and inner end are tubular mucous glands, the apertures of which are arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular tissues ^g^™^^^^^ lies close beneath the mucous membrane, as in the male. Dissection. The rectum may be prepared for examination by dis- Pi-eparation ,. . . T , , , -1 • 1 • T of ]-ectum. tending it with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering and the areolar tissue from its surface. Rectum. The structure of the rectum is similar in the two sexes ; J^^^*"™. ,^i^'' ' that of the and the student may use the description in the Section on the male, viscera of the male pelvis (p. 584).