SUPERFICIAL PARTS OF PENIS. 445 near tlie centre, and is distributed in tbe fat ]iearly as liigli as tlie umbilicus. The circumflex iliac branch lies below the level of Poupart's liga- circumflex ment, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. The companion veins to these arteries join the internal saphenous Veins, vein of the thigh. The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF THE GROIN are three 01' four in num- inguinal l)er, and lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. They are placed ^^^^^^" between the strata of the superficicil fascia ; and recei\'e lymphatics from the abdominal wall, from the gluteal region and perineum, from the upper and outer jiortion of the thigh, and from - the super- ficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass down- ducts enter wards to the saphenous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. ^^^^^^J"^^- Dissection. After the examination of the superficial fascia with Dissection its vessels and nerves, the student may prepare the cutaneous cover- of coverings , mi 1 1 01 penis ami mgs of the penis and scrotum. The skin should be divided along testicle. the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected on the left side by means of a vertical incision. Cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. The penis xegumen- is attached to the front of the pelvis by a suspensory lio;anient, and t^^^'^ cover- . . . -, mg of penis IS provided with a tegumentary covering continuous with that of the is thin, and abdomen, but devoid of fat. without fat, Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way:—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the prejmce : it is after- forms wards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous membrane of I'^'^'i*"''*' the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a small triangular fold, frcenum jJnqjiitii. andfra-num. Where the ^skin covers the glans, it is inseparably united with sebaceous that part, is very thin and sensitive, being provided with papillfe, gian^is- and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glandulm odoriferoi. In the scrotum the two layers of the superficial fascia of the groin Teguments l)ecome united in a thin membrane of a reddish colour. The pro- scrotum, longation around the testicle on one side is separate from that on the other side ; and the two pouches, coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and front of the Muscular perineum contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the corru- "asc^ja^ gation of the skin is owing. This contractile structure is named the dartoid tissue. Dissection. By removing all the fatty tissue from the root of the Dissection penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament nerves, will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nerves, with the dorsal vein of the penis, which will be partly laid Imre, are to be followed forwards to the glans. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a l^and of fibrous tissue. Suspensory