DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 308 Adductov obliqiius : origin; passes to internal sesamoid bone, and sends a slip to external: relations: Adductor transversus joins adductor obliquuK : relation^ and use. Two or three muscles to little finger. Abductoi' is beneath skin: Flexor brevis is often ab- sent : relations; Action. The muscle bends tlie metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and assists the opponens in drawing the thumb forwards and inwards over the palm. The ADDUCTOR OBLiQUUS POLLicis (c') mises from the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, the anterior ligaments of the carpus, the os magnum, and the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. Directed obliquely downwards and outwards, it is inserted into the iTlnar side of the base of the first phalanx in union with the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor transversus, a sesamoid bone being formed in the tendon over the head of the metacarpal bone. From the adductor obliquus a muscular slip usually passes outwards beneath the tendon of the long flexor to join the insertion of the outer head of the flexor brevis. The tendon of the flexor longus poUicis lies between this muscle and the outer head of the flexor brevis ; and its origin is covered by the outer tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbricales. It lies over the inner head of the flexor brevis, the first dorsal inter- osseous muscle, and the ending of the radial artery. Action. It flexes the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and draws the thumb over the palm. The ADDUCTOR TRANSVERSUS POLLICIS (d) is triangular in shape, with the apex at the thumb, and the base in the centre of the palm. Its origin is from the ridge on the lower two-thirds of the palmar aspect of the middle metacarpal bone ; and its insertion is into the inner side of the first j)halanx of the thumb, in common with the last muscle. From the conjoined insertion of the two adductors a slip is sent to the tendon of the extensor longus j^ollicis. The anterior surface is in contact with the tendons of the flexor profundus and the lumbrical muscles ; and the posterior surface lies over the interosseous muscles of the first and second spaces, with the intervening metacarpal bone. The deep palmar arch sejtarates this muscle from the adductor obliquus. Action. It draws the thumb tovv^ards the centre of the palm. Short Muscles of the Little Finger (fig. 99). In the hypothenar eminence there are the abductor and opponens muscles of the little finger, and sometimes a short flexor. The abductor minimi digiti (e) is superficial to the opponens muscle. It arises from the pisiform bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger : an offset from it reaches the extensor tendon on the back of the pha- lanx. The palmaris brevis partly conceals the muscle. Action. Firstly it draws the little finger away from the others ; but continuing to act it l^ends the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI (f) is placed at the radial border of the preceding muscle. It takes origin from the tip of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular liga- ment ; and it is inserted with the abductor into the first jjhalanx. It lies on the opponens ; and near its origin it is separated froni the abductor by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and