DEEP MUSCLES. 317 that of the j)receding extensor. Its origin, about one inch in width, origin; is from the radius and the interosseous membrane, close below the attachment of the last muscle. The tendon passes through tlie same space in the annular ligament as the extensor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, insertion With respect to surrounding parts this muscle has similar relations to the preceding. Action. It extends first the proximal phalanx, and then the and use. metacarpal bone, like its companion. The EXTENSOR LONGUS POLLicis (ext. secundi internodii poll. ; g) Extensor of arises from the middle third or more of the ulna below the anconeus, ' pnalanx: along the nlnar side of the extensor of the metacarpal bone ; and orirrin • from the interosseous membrane below, for about an inch. Its tendon, passing through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to he inserted into the insertion; base of the last phalanx. Tlie belly of the muscle is covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris relations; and the extensors of the fingers, but the tendon becomes superficial close to the wrist. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses the extensors of the wrist and the radial artery. Action. It first extends both phalanges of the tliumb, and and use. then lielps in moving backwards tlie metacarpal Ixme and tlie liand. The EXTENSOR INDICTS (indicator ; h) arises on the inner side of indicator the last mnscle from the ulna for three or four inches, usually below ^^^^^^^^^ '■ the middle, and from the lower part of the interosseous membrane. Near the wrist the tendon becomes free from muscular fibres, and origin; passing beneath the annular ligament with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied to, and blends with the external tendon of insertion; that muscle in the expansion on the first plialanx of the fore finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it is covered by the superficial layer, but it is afterwards subaponeurotic. Action. The muscle can point the fore finger even when tlie three and use. inner fingers are bent ; and it will help the common extensor of the digits in drawing back the hand. Dissection. To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be necessary Dissection to detach the anconeus from the external condyle of the humerus, ^JeviS!"'^*'^' and to cut through the supinator longus and the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, the fleshy fibres of the supinator are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. ' The SUPINATOR BREVIS (d) surrouuds the upper part of the origin of radius, except at the tuberosity and the front of the bone below it. ^^JJ'^ f^P^" It arises from the external margin of the ulna for a distance of two inches, as well as from a depression below the small sigmoid cavity ; also from the orbicular ligament of the radius and the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. The fibres pass outwards and