CHAPTEE XL DISSECTION OF THE EAE. The organ of hearing is made up of complex bodies, which are Subdivision lodged in, and attached to the surface of, the temporal bone. It is apparatus?" commonly divided into three parts, known as the external ear, the middle ear, and the internal ear. Of these, the last is the essential portion, containing the terminal expansion of the auditory nerve ; and the others are to be regarded as accessory, serving to convey to it the vibrations produced by the sonorous undulations of the air. External Ear. This includes the pinna or auricle and the Parts of auditory canal: the former has been noticed at p. 34, and the latter remains to be described. The EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL (meatus auditorius externus ; fig. Auditory 241) is the passage which leads from the pinna towards the tympanic cavity (a part of the middle ear), from which it is separated in the recent state by the tympanic membrane. Dissection. To obtain a view of this canal, a recent temporal how to ob- bone is to be taken, to which the cartilaginous pinna remains ^^^^ attached. After the removal of the soft parts, the squamous piece of the bone in front of the Glaserian fissure is to be sawn off; and the front of the meatus, except a ring at the inner end which gives support to the tliin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a bone-forceps. The canal (fig. 241) is about one inch and a quarter in length, length; and is formed ]3artly by bone, and partly by cartilage. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely, and describes a slight vertical curve direction ; with the convexity upwards. In shajje it is rather flattened from size and before backwards ; and it is narrowest in the osseous portion. The shape; outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external .ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. The cartilaginous part (a) is largest. It is about half an inch in cartiiagi- length, and is formed chiefly by the pinna of the outer ear, which is ^^^^ ^^^^ attached to the margin of the osseous meatus ; but at the upper and is deficient posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed by fibrous tissue. One or two fissures (fissures of Santorini) cross the cartilage (p. 35). The osseous part (b) is about three-quarters of an inch long in the osseous adult, and is slightly constricted about the middle. Its outer ^*'^^**' extremity is dilated, and the posterior edge projects farther than the outer end.