588 DISSECTIOJs" OF THE PELVIS. Interior lias columns and ruga?. Thi(?kness. Three coats : mucous, muscular, and fibrous also erectile tissue. AIucous membrane. Arteries. Veins are l)lexiform. Nerves. Lymphatics. the constrictor vaginse muscle, is the narrowest part ; the middle portion is the largest; and the upper end is intermediate in dimen- sions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the side, the position of the uterus in the anterior wall, instead of at the extremity of the passage, may be remarked ; and the tube may be seen to extend farther on the posterior than the anterior lip of the OS uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a longi- tudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse ridges or rugse pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina is thicker in front round the urethra than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall has a muscular coat, composed of un- striped fibres both longitudinal and circular, which is thin above, and increases in thickness below. This is lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered externally by a layer of connective tissue containing a dense network of veins. The prominence of the columns is mainly due to a collection of cavernous tissue between the mucous and muscular layers. The mucous memhrane is continued through the lower aperture to join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many'mucous glands open on the surface, especially at the upper part. Blood-vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from the vaginal and uterine branches of the internal iliac (p. 565). The veins ioim a plexus around the vagina, as well as in the genital organs, and ojDen into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves^ see page 571. The lymphatics accompany the blood-vessels to the glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE UTERUS. Uterus: The uterus or v/omb is formed chiefly of unstriated muscular fibres. Its ofiice is to receive the ovum, and to contain the developing foetus. form; This viscus in the virgin state is somewhat pear-shaped, the body being flattened (fig. 194), and the narrow end below. <iimensions; Before impregnation the uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume always exceed the measure- ments here given. upper end; The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum : the name fundus is given to the part of the organ above the attachment of the Fallopian tubes (c). the lower The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a transverse sinaii and aperture of communication between the uterus and the vagina, has an named os uteri (as tincce) : its margins or lips (labia) are smooth, opening