DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. 166 and some small carti- Thyroid cartilage IS convex m front, concave behind : formed of two alse, each havin^j upper and lower cornua. Cricoid cartilage: form surfaces: there are some yellow fibro-cartilagiiions structures, viz., the epi- glottis, a capitulum to each arytenoid cartilage, and a small ovalish piece (cuneiform) in each aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The THYROID CARTILAGE (b) is the largest of all : it forms the front of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield. The upper part of the Fig- 46. *■ cartilage is considerably wide;- than the lower, and in conse- quence of this form the larynx is somewhat funnel-shaped. The fore part is prominent in the nnddle line in front, forming the subcutaneous swelling named Ijomum Adami, and concave be- hind, where it gives attachment to the epiglottis, and to the thyro - arytenoid muscles and ligaments. The ujDper border is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two squarish halves or oIce, which are united in front. Posteriorly each ala has a thick border, which is continued upwards and downwards in a rounded pro- cess or cornu (e and r). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards : of the two, the upper (e) is the longer; but the lower one (p) is the thicker, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of the ala is smooth; the outer is marked by an obli(iue line for the attach- ment of muscles, which extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, to a projection at the middle of the lower border. The CRICOID CARTILAGE (d) is stronger though smaller than the thyroid, and surrounds the lower part of the cavity of the larynx ; it is partly concealed by the thyroid cartilage, below which it is placed. It is very unequal in depth before and behind,—the posterior j^art being nearly four times as deej) as the anterior, some- thing like a signet ring. Its contained space is about as large as the fore finger. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square portion, which is marked on its posterior surface by a median ridge, between two oval depressions occupied by the posterior crico-aryte- * Hyoid bone and laryngeal cartilages, a. Body of hyoid bone. h. Large cornu. J. Small cornu. A. Epiglottis. B. Thyroid cartilage, c.c. Arytenoid cartilages, d. Cri- coid cartilage, e. Upper cornu, and f, lower cornu of thyroid cartilage.