dissectiojn" of the THOEAX. 370 Vein of tlie lung. Pericardial branches. CEsophageal branches. Mediastinal branches. Intercostal arteries: number: coui-se to intercostal spaces; right longer. The anterior branch occupies intercostal space with vein and nerve Oftsets. Anasto- Posterior branch turns to the back. left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first intercostal artery of the right side. Bronchial veins. A vein issues from the root of each lung, and ends on the right side in the large az^^gos vein, and on the left in the superior azygos vein of its own side. 6. The j^mVftrcZm? hranclies are some irregular twigs, which are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac bag. c. The oesophageal branches are four or five in number, and ramify in the gullet, forming anastomoses with one another ; above, they communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery ; and l)elow, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. d. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the areolar tissue and the glands in the interpleural space. e. The intercostal arteries are nine on each side, and pass to the same number of lower intercostal spaces : to the upper two spaces branches are supplied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These vessels arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the bodies of the vertebroe, beneath the cord of the sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique direction ; and as the aorta lies on the left of the spine, the right vessels are the longer; the right run also beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. Many twigs are supplied to the bodies of the vertebrae. In the intercostal space, the anterior branch^ the larger of the two, continues onwards between the muscular strata to the front of the chest, where it ends by anastomosing with an intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery (p. 265). At first the artery lies in the middle of the space, beneath the pleura, and resting on the external intercostal muscle ; but near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper boundary. Accompanying the artery are the inter- costal vein and nerve,—the vein being commonly above, and the nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is, at first, higher than the artery. Branches are furnished to the intercostal muscles, and to the ribs. Near the angle of the rib a larger branch is given off, which runs forwards along the low^er border of the space, and joins in front a branch of the internal mammary ; and about the centre (from front to back) of the intercostal space a superficial twig arises, to accom- pany the lateral cutaneous nerve (p. 265). The highest artery of the aortic set of intercostals anastomoses with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery; and the last two are continued in front into the abdominal wall, where they lie between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, and anastomose with the epigastric and lumbar arteries (p. 459). The posterior branch turns backwards between the vertebra and the ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in the back (p. 404). As it passes the intervertebral foramen it furnishes