309 EADIAL ARTERY. Action. It tiexes and abducts the first plialanx of tlie little finger, and use. The OPPONENS MINIMI DiGiTi (g) resemhles the opponens i3ollicis opponens in being attached to the metacarpal bone. Its orirjin is from the attach- hook of the unciform bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament : its insertion is into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The opponens is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and relations; beneath it tlie deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Action. It raises the inner metacarpal bone, and moves it towards aii.i use. the others, so as to deepen tlie hollow of the palm. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand between the Dissection first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it will be and ^'^^ ^^^^ requisite to detach the origin of the adductor obliquus poUicis. The <leep palmar arch, and the In-anch of the ulnar nerve accompanying it, together with their ofl'sets, are to be dissected out. A fascia which covers the interosseous muscles is to be removed, interosseous after the dissector has (jbserved its connection ^vith the transverse fasci'a.^^ ^"'^ ligament nniting the heads of the metacarpal Tjones, Radial artery in the HxVND (fig. 99). The radial artery enters Radial the palm at the first interossecnis space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle ; and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finu'er, it turns across the hand fornis deep arch towards the ulnar side, forming the deep arch. The deep imlmar arch (c) extends from the upper end of the first interosseous space to the base of the metacai'pal bone of the little finger, where it joins tlie deep branch of the ulnar artery {h). Its Avinchiies convexity, which is ljut slight, is directed downwards ; and its bonesf'^*^^ situation is nearer the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interosseous muscles. It is covered by the long flexor and beneath tendons, and in part by the adductor obliquus pollicis and oj^ponens ™^iscies, minimi digiti muscles. Two veins accompany it. The hran dies of -^^^"^ the arch are the following :— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the Brandies: front of the carpus ; these supply the bones and joints, and anasto- recurrent; mose with the anterior carpal arteries. b. Three perforating arteries pierce the inner three dorsal inferos- perforating; seous muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries (/), which palmar in- ,. , , -\ 1 • j_ 1 • • • terosseons. lie over the inner three metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the sujierficial palmar arch at the clefts of the fingers. An ottset of the inner one, or a separate branch of the arch, joins the digital artery to the inner side of the little finger (p. 302). These branches supply the interosseous muscles, and the two or three inner lumbricales: they vary much in their size and arrangement. d. Digital branches of the radial. The large artery of the thumb (e) Digital runs along the first metacarpal bone to the interval between the ad- ' ductor obiiquus and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis, where the thumb;