8 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. palpebral branch. Temporal nerves : of superior maxillary; of inferior maxillary, its auricular branch: and of facial nerve. Posterior auricular nerve has occipital branch, and auri- cular. Great auri- cular nerve. Great occipi tal nerve: junctions. Small occi- pital nerve integument. Branches are given from it to tlie orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, and some palj)ebral twigs enter the upper eyelid. The SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL NERVES are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. The TEMPORAL BRANCH OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (second trunk of the fifth) is a slender twig (fig. 2,^"), which per- forates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch. When cutaneous, the nerve is distributed on the fore part of the temple, and communicates with the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next. The AURicuLO-TEMPORAL NERVE (fig. 2, d), a branch of the inferior maxillary (third trunk of the fifth), makes its appearance with the temporal artery in front of the ear. As soon as it emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two termiucil branches. The posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the integument above the ear. The anterior branch ascends vertically to supply the skin as far as the upper limit of the temporal fossa. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the fore part of the ear above the auditory meatus. The TEMPORAL BRANCHES OF THE FACIAL NERVE are directed up- wards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles : they will be described with the dissection of the facial nerve. The POSTERIOR AURICULAR NERVE (fig. 2, ^) lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoicl foramen, and ascends in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into occipital and auricular branches. The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies close to the bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structure. The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the small muscles on the posterior surface of the jDinna. The GREAT AURICULAR NERVE of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, .^) is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The GREAT OCCIPITAL (fig. 2, ^) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and lies close to the occipital artery. Spring- ing from the posterior jDrimary branch of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large offsets ; these spread over the posterior part of the head, and terminate in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nerve ; and on the back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The SMALL OCCIPITAL NERVE of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, ^) lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is continued