165 HYOID BONE. Some other twigs from the crico-thyroid branch of the superior fi"om crico- thyroid artery perforate the crico-thyroid meiiibrane, and rainify in arteiy^ the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. Lary7igeal veins. The vein accompanying the branch of the veins superior thyroid artery joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein (p. 80) ; and the vein with the artery from the inferior thvroid opens into the plexus t)f the inferior thyroid veins (p. 120). " Tlie lymphatics of the larynx pass to the deep cervical glands. Lymphatios. Section XVII. HYOID BOiXE, CAETILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be Dissection, taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the membrane joining the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed. In the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may be recognised ; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. The HYOID BONE (tig. 46) is situate between the larynx and the Hyoid bone: root of the tongue. Kesembling the letter U placed horizontally, form; and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two lateral pieces or cornua on each side. The body (g) is elongated transversely, in which direction it body; measures about - an inch, and flattened from before back. The anterior surface is convex, and marked in the centre by a tubercle, on each side of which is an impression for muscular attachment. The posterior surface is concave and smooth. To the upper border the hyo-glossal membrane, fixing the tongue, is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side—large and small. J^^^f"^"'^* The large cornu (h) continues the bone backAvards, and is joined to ° the body by an intervening piece of cartilage, or in old persons by continuous bony union. The surfaces of this cornu look rather upwards and downwards ; and the size decreases from before back- wards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cornu (j) is and small, directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament; it is seldom Avholly ossified. It is united to the body of the bone by a synovial joint, with a surrounding capsule. Cartilages of the Larynx (fig. 46). There are four large in larynx cartilages in the larynx, by which the vocal cords are supported, fouriarge viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two arytenoid. In addition