147 FACIAL NERYE IN THE BONE. to the facial through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone are very and other minute, and are not to be seen except on a fresh jDiece of the skull which has been softened in acid. The student may, therefore, omit the paragraphs marked with an asterisk, until he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. The FACIAL NERVE (fig. 38/) traverses the internal auditory meatus, Facial nerve and entering the aqueduct of Fallopius at the bottom of that hollow, is conducted through the temporal bone to the stylo-mastoid foramen winds and the face (p. 37). In its serpentine course through the bone, temporal the nerve is first directed outwards to the inner wall of the tym- bone, panum ; at that spot it bends backwards, and is marked by a is marked ganglionic swelling—geniculate ganglion, with which several small which^give^ nerves are united. From this swelling the nerve is continued at off twigs, first backwards and then downwards through the arched aqueduct, to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serve chiefly to connect it with other nerves ; but one supj^lies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. * Connecting hranches unite the facial with the auditory and Branches glosso-pharyngeal nerves, with Meckel's ganglion, and with the nerie^ lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. * Union idth the auditory nerve. In the bottom of the meatus to auditory, the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute filaments. Gon7iecting branches of the geniculate ganglion.—From the con- vexity of the swelling on the facial nerve three small branches proceed. One is the large superficial petrosal nerve (^), passing to to Meckel's the Vidian (p. 144) ; another is a filament of communication with fy"fpa^c of the small superficial petrosal nerve of the tympanic plexus (^) ; and the third is the external superficial 'petrosal nerve (■^), which unites sympa-' the ganglion wi'th the sympathetic on the middle meningeal ^^etic; artery. * The branch of the stapedius muscle arises at the back of the nerve to tympanum, and is directed forwards to its muscle. stapedius,, Chorda tympani. This long but slender branch of the facial chorda nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising to'iingual. about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it enters the tympanum below the pyramid. In the cavity (fig. 38, ^) the nerve is directed forwards across the handle of the malleus and the membrana tympani to an aperture on the inner side of the Glaserian fissure, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the skull the chorda tympani joins the lingual nerve, and continues along it to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue <p. 98). The AUDITORY NERVE wiU be learnt with the ear. Entering the Auditory internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger part, which are distributed to the membranous labyrinth. L 2