409 LEVATORES COSTAEUM MUSCLES. and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the sacrum. A few filaments are distributed over the back of the coccyx. Coccygeal xerve (1 c). Its posterior primary branch issues Coccygeal through the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appears by the side of the coccyx. It is joined in a loop with the last sacral nerve, and ends on the posterior surface of the coccyx. * Sacral arteries. Small branches of the lateral sacral arteries Hman sacral leave the spinal canal with the sacral nerves ; they supply the ''^^^eries. multifidus spina), and anastomose on the back of the sacrum with oflFsets from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. * Dissection. The posterior part of the wall of the thorax may.be Dissection examined before the body is again turned. By removing, opposite mugjies! the ribs, the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi, the small levatores costarum will Ije uncovered. The hinder part of the external inter- costal muscles will be denuded at the same time. * The LEVATORES costarum are twelve small fan-shaped muscles, Levatores which are connected with the hinder parts of tlie ribs. Each, ex- "^"^""^i™" '■ cept the first, arises from tlie tip of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra, and is inserted, the fibres spreading out, into the upper attack- border of tlie rib beneath, from the tuberosity to the angle. The muscles increase in size from above down, and their fibres have the isame direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical Tiie ihst. vertebra, and below to the outer border of the first rib. Some of Longer the fibres of the lower muscles are continued lieyond one rib to that niuscii' s. next succeeding: these longer slips have ])een named levatores longiores costarum. Action. Tliese muscles have hut little influence in elevating the Use. ribs ; and their principal use appears to be in extending and bending laterally the spine. The EXTERNAL INTERCOSTAL MUSCLE is continued backwards Outer along tlie ribs as far as the tuberosity, where it joins the elevator muscie.^*'^^ muscle. Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches Dissection, of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid l)are by this proceeding. The DORSAL NERVES sj)lit in the intervertebral foramina into Dorsal ner\ e anterior and posterior primary branches. ^'^^ * The posterior branches are directed backwards, internal to the Posterior ascending costo-transverse ligament; and their distribution has been seen in the foregoing dissection. The anterior, named intercostal, are continued between the ribs to the front of the chest: their anatomy is learnt in the dissection of ' the thorax (p. 376) and upper limb (p. 265). * The INTERCOSTAL ARTERY has an almost exact correspondence intercostal with the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution (p. 370). ^'^itcij.