DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 126 Dissection to show longitudinal muscles. Dissection. Interior of pharynx. Objects to be noted. Seven aper- tures, viz.— Posterior nares. middle fibres of tlie buccinator, behind to the superior constrictor. It is often partly concealed externally by the meeting of the fleshy fibres of the two muscles. Dissection. By dividing the middle and inferior constrictors midway between their origin and insertion, and reflecting the parts forwards and backwards, the longitudinal fibres of the pharyngeal wall will be exposed. The LONGITUDINAL or ELEVATOR MUSCLES of the j)harynx are the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus. The stijlo-]}liaryngeus has already been described, but it may now be followed to its insertion (p. 103). The pcdato-^jharyngeus is only x^artially seen, and will be described with the muscles of the soft palate. Its fibres appear behind those of the stylo-pharyngeus, and descend to the lower part of the pharynx, reaching backwards to the middle line. Dissection (fig. 31). O-pen the pharynx by an incision along the middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks : a better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX (fig; 31) is wider from side to side than from before back, and its greatest width is opposite the hyoid bone ; from that spot it diminishes both upwards and down- wards, but much more raj)idh^ in the latter direction. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures (g) of the nasal fossae, which are separated by the sej^tum nasi. Below them hangs the soft palate, partly closing the opening into the mouth ; and from its free margin a jDrominent fold of the mucous membrane, the posterior pillar of the soft palate (l), is continued downwards and backwards on each side of the pharynx. Immediately behind each nasal aperture is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube ; and from the anterior extremity of the prominence formed by the tube, a ridge descends to join the posterior pillar of the palate. Behind the opening of the Eustachian tube the mucous membrane is prolonged into a deep hollow, the lateral recess of the ijharynx (fig. 35), which corresponds to the projection of the aponeurosis of the jDliarynx seen externally (p. 125). On raising the soft palate, the opening into the mouth—isthmus faucium (h), is exposed, bounded laterally by a mucous fold which descends to the tongue and is named the anterior pillar of the soft palate ; while between the anterior and posterior pillars on each side is a hollow containing the tonsil (k). Next in order, below the mouth, comes the ajDerture of the larynx (n) with the epiglottis projecting above it. Lowest of all is the opening (o) from the pharynx into the oesoijhagus. The apertures into the joharjmx are seven in number, and have the following position and boundaries :— . The p)Osterior openings of the nasal fossm (choanse ; g) are oval in form, and measure about an inch from above down, but only half an inch across. Each is constructed in the dried skull by the sphenoid, with the vomer and palate bones above, and by the