I^iTRACAPSULAE, LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. fibres to the capsule, and are thin, sharp, and free at the concave edge ; they are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in ■giving depth to the fossae for the reception of the condyles of the femur, but are flattened below. Inserted into the tibia at their •extremities, they are coarsely fibrous at their attachment to Fig. 227." the bone, like the crucial liga- ments ; and they become car- tilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is re- flected over them. The internal fihro-cartilacje (a) is oval in form, and is less -sharply curved than the external. In front it is attached by a pointed end close to the anterior margin of the head of the tibia, in front of the anterior crucial 'ligament. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the -attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. The external fibro-cartilage (h) is nearly circular in form, and is External ■connected to the bone within the points of attachment of its fellow, "uiar'hi'^ Its anterior part is fixed in front of the spine of the tibia, close to form: the outer articular surface, and opposite the anterior crucial ligament which it touches ; and its posterior extremity is inserted behind and between the two osseous points of the spine. This fibro-cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the fore part is in the centre of the joint, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that meml)rane. The outer fibro-cartilage is provided with two accessory bands, one in front, the other l)ehind. The anterior or transverse ligament (c) is a narrow band of fibres its trans- between the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Some- '^^^^^^^ times it is very small or even absent. The posterior or ascending band {d), thicker and stronger than the posterior other, springs from the back of the outer fibro-cartilage, and is inserted into the femur, as a single band (fig. 226, d), when it is generally in front of the posterior crucial, or as two bands—one being before, and the other behind that ligament. Use. The fibro-cartilages deepen the sockets of the tibia for the Use of fibr* reception of the condyles of the femur, and fill the interval between ° ' the articular surfaces of the bones at the circumference of the joint ; they distribute the pressure of one ])one on the other over a larger surface, and cause the force of shocks to be diminished in transmis- * "View of the head of the tibia with the fibro-cartilages attached : the -crucial ligaments liave been cut through, a. Inner, and 6, outer semilunar fibro-cartilage. c. Transverse, and d, ascending or posterior baud (cut) of the external cartilage, c. Posterior, and /, anterior crucial ligament.