160 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. relations of apex, and Upper surface body Lower surface. Borders. Kinds of papillae: conical and filiform ; fungiform circumval- late. The tip of the tongue (apex) touches the incisor teeth. The base is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likewise with the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane—a central and twa lateral. The upper surface or dorsum is convex, and in the anterior two- thirds of its extent is marked by a median longitudinal groove or raphe, which terminates behind in a depression of variable depth, named the foramen caecum. From the depression a slight lateral groove is directed outwards and forwards on each side for a short distance. The part of the tongue in front of the lateral grooves is- distinguished as the body, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth : its surface is covered with papillae. The posterior third or root of the organ looks into the pharynx ; and its surface is smoother, although rendered somewhat irregular by projecting mucous glands and groups of lymphoid follicles, and by small apertures leading into recesses of tlie mucous membrane. The under surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous membrane and to the different lingual muscles connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw. In front of the muscles the mucous membrane forms a fold in the middle line, termed the froenum linguces and on each side an irregular ridge—plica fimbriata (better seen in infants), runs forwards and inwards about midway between the fraenum and the margin of the tongue towards the tip. Each border of the tongue is joined opposite the lateral groove above mentioned by the fold of mucous membrane descending from the soft palate, and known as the anterior pillar of the fauces. Behind this fold, the root of the tongue is attached on each side to the wall of the j)harynx ; but in front, the margin of the body is free. The free border is thick and rounded in its hinder part, where it is marked by vertical ridges and furrows, and becomes gradually thinner towards the tip. Papillae. On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds of papillte ; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the circumvallate. The cortical and filiform papillce are the numerous small projec- tions which cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They taper from the base towards the free extremity, where they are provided with smaller secondary papillae ; and many of them, especially towards the sides of the organ, have their epithelial covering produced into long hair-like processes, whence the name filiform is given to them. Towards their limit behind they are arranged in lines parallel to the lateral grooves, and on the sides they form vertical rows. The fungiform 2^(ipillce are less numerous but larger than the preceding set, amongst which they are scattered, especially at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are wider at the free end than at the part fixed to the tongue, and project beyond the conical papillae. Their surface is covered with small simple papillae. The circumvallate papillce are much larger than the foregoing, and are placed at the junction of the middle and posterior thirds