lip DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Internal cutaneous the anterior branch extends to knee ; the inner ends in the leg; other small twigs to the thiKh. Internal saphenous jiasses to the leg: a liranch on patella forms a plexus. Clean the fascia lata, and define saphenous opening. Fascia lata surrounds limb. Ilio-tibial band. Apertures in fascia. are continued to the knee. In the fat this nerve is united with the genito-crural and internal cutaneous nerves. Internal cutaneous. Derived from the anterior crural trunk, this nerve is divided into two branches (anterior and posterior) which perforate the fascia at separate places. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the thigh, in the line of the inner intermuscular septum (fig. 199,^), along which it is continued to the knee. This branch is distributed in the lower third of the thigh, as well as over the patella and the inner side of the knee-joint, and is united Avith the patellar branch of the internal saphenous nerve. loosterior hranch (fig. 214,^) perforates the fascia on the inner side of the knee, behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it communicates ; it furnishes offsets to the upper half of the leg, on the inner surface. Other small offsets of the nerve supply the inner side of the thigh, and appear by the side of the saphenous xem. One or two come into view near the top of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh ; and one, larger than the rest, becomes cutaneous where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 199,4), a braucli of the anterior crural, is continued to the foot, but only a small part of it is now visible. It pierces the fascia close below the knee on the inner side ; and after communicating with the inner branch of the internal cutaneous, gives forwards some offsets over the head of the tibia. Finally, it accompanies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. patellar hranch (fig. 199,^) appears on the inner side of the knee above the preceding, and is soon joined by the internal cuta- neous nerve. It ends in many branches over the patella ; these communicate with offsets from the middle and internal cutaneous nerves, and form a network (patellar ])lexus) over the joint. Dissection. Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now removed from the surface of the fascia lata, the cutaneous nerves being thrown aside to be traced afterwards to their trunks. At the upper part of the thigh the cribriform fascia is to be re- moved with great care so as to show the saphenous opening, without injury to the subjacent crural sheath ; and on the other side of the aperture a semilunar border is to be defined by dividing the fibrous bands that unite it to the front of the sheath. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It is of a bluish-white colour, and surrounds the limb with a firm sheath ; but in fat bodies it is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the subcutaneous fat. It is strongest on the outer aspect of the limb, wdiere it receives the insertion of the tensor vaginae femoris, and most of the gluteus maximus muscle. This thickened part {ilio-tibial band) is attached above to the hip-bone, and below to the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and helps to keep the knee-joint straight in standing. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the transmission of the