DISSECTION OF THE PELYIS. 694 Section VII. INTERNAL MUSCLES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Two muscles. Define the muscles and the levator ani Pyrifovmis : the pelvis insertion relations with parts around : use as an external rotator of liip-joint. Obturator internus is bent ovei ischium ; origin 111 Ihe peh'i^^ arf'hing of its tendons over the iiip-bone; Two muscles, tlie pyriformis and obturator internus, liave tlieir origin within the cavity of the jjelvis. Dissection. Take away any fascia or areohir tissue which may remain on the muscles ; and define their exit from the pelvis,—the pyriformis passing through the great, and the obturator through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. On the right side the dissector ma}^ look to the attachment of the levator ani muscle to the pubic part of the hip-bone. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen to the great trochanter of the femur. The muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises by three slips from the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between the anterior aper- tures, and from the surface of the bone external to those holes ; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the hip-bone forming the upper boundary of the large sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the trochanter (p. 644). The anterior surface is in contact with the sacral plexus, vrith the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels, and with the rectum on the left side. The opposite sm-face rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip-bone, the gluteal vessels and the supe- rior gluteal nerve being between ; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. Action. The pyriformis belongs to the group of external rotators of the hip-joint; and its use will be given with the description of the rest of the muscle in the dissection of the buttock (p. 644). The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE has its Origin in the pelvis, and insertion at the great trochanter of the femur, like the preced- ing ; but the part outside forms an acute angle with that inside the pelvis. The muscle arises \>j a broad fleshy attachment from the obtura- tor membrane, except a small part below ; from the pelvic fascia covering its surface ; slightly from the bone anterior to the thyroid hole, but from all the smooth inclined surface of the pelvis behind and above that aperture, except opposite the small sacro-sciatic foramen, where a thin layer of fat separates the fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres are directed backwards and downwards, and end in four or five tendinous pieces, which turn over the edge of the hip-bone corresponding with the small sciatic notch. Outside the