DISSECTIOX OF THE BACK. 398 Ilio- costal is : Acees- sorius: origin ; insertion. Cervicalis ascendens : origin; insertion. Longissimns dorsi: double insertion; is continued to neck Ijv transversalis colli. and to head by trachelo- niastoid. Spinalis dorsi: Relations of erector in lumbar and dorsal regions; and i}i neck, ^ The ILIO-C08TALIS or sacro-lumbalis is derived from tlie outer and superficial part of the common mass of the erector in the loins. Its fibres end in six or seven tendons, which are inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. It is continued to the upper ribs and the neck by the two following muscles :— * The ACCE8S0RIUS (musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem ; fig. 131, d) arises by a series of tendinous and fleshy slips from the anofles of the lower six ribs internal to the insertion of the ilio- o costalis; and it ends in tendons which are inserted, into the remain- incr ribs in a line with the ilio-costalis, and into tlie transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The CERVICALIS ASCEXDEXS is a muscular slip prolonging the accessorius intxj the neck : it arises from four ribs, viz., the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the sixth, fifth, and fourth cervical vertebrte. The LOXGissiMUS dorsi is the largest of the pieces resulting from the di^-ision of the erector spince, and has two sets of insertions into the vertebra3 and ribs. Internally it gives off a series of fleshy and tendinous bundles to the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrte : externally it is attached by thick fleshy slips to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebroe, and the middle layer of the fascia lumborum ; and by thin flattened processes to the ribs, except the first two or three, between the tuberosity and angle. Its muscular prolongation to the neck is united with the upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two following pieces :— The TRANSVERSALIS COLLI (fig. 132, b) arises from the transverse processes of the upper dorsal vertebrte (from four to six), and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae except the first and last. The TRACHELO-iiASTOiD MUSCLE (trausversalis capitis ; fig. 132, c) arises in common with the preceding, and receives additional slips from the articular processes of the lower three or four cer-vical vertebrae. It is inserted beneath the splenius capitis into the j^osterior margin of the mastoid process, where it is about three (j^uarters of an inch wide. ^ The SPINALIS DORSI is very narrow, and springs from the tendinous slips of the erector which arise from the lower dorsal and upper two or three lumbar spines. Its fibres are inserted into a variable number (from four to nine) of the upper dorsal spines. ^ Relations of the erector simue. The erector spinas is concealed by the muscles of the layers already examined. It lies over the semispinalis and multifidus spinse muscles, portions of the ribs and external intercostal muscles, and the levatores costarum. In the loins it is contained in an aponeurotic sheath of the fascia lum- borum (p. 392) ; and in the thoracic region a similar sheath is formed for the muscle by the vertebral aj^oneurosis with the ribs and dorsal vertebrae. The tendon of origin is united over the sacrum with the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum ; nnd from its outer border in this part some fibres of the gluteus maximus arise. The prolongations of the muscle in the neck lie between the