EXTENSOR BEEVIS DIGITORUM. 695 external of these sends a branch, to the outer side of the little toe. They supply the interosseous muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two small dorsal digital branches. At the fore part of the metatarsal space each interosseous branch and per- joins a digital artery in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior perforating twig; and from the beginning of each a small branch, posterior perforating, descends to the plantar arch. c. The -first dorsal interosseous artery arises from the main trunk first inter- OSSGOllS. as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed like the other dorsal interosseous offsets. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS have the same extent and relations ^{Jjj^'lj'jjj^. as the vessel they accompany. The}^ take their usual position along the artery, one on each side, and form loops around it by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive correspond with those of the artery ; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Dissection. To examine the extensor bre\ds digitorum on the Divide dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the extensor longus jo^tus"^ and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The hinder attachment of the muscle to the os calcis is to be defined. The EXTENSOR BREVis DIGITORUM ariscs from the anterior Extensui extremity of the os calcis at its upper and outer part, and from the tUgitoram lower band of the anterior annular ligament. Over the metatarsal bones the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four inner toes. The tendon of the great toe has a distinct attachment to the base of the meta- inner toes; tarsal phalanx ; but the rest are united to the outer side of the long extensor tendons, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal phalanx (p. 692). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the relations; tendons of the long extensor. Its inner ])elly crosses the dorsal artery of the foot. Action. Assisting the long extensor, it straightens the four inner use. toes, separating them slightly from each other. Dissection. The branches of artery and nerve which are beneath Cut through the extensor brevis will be laid bare by cutting across that muscle ^pevis *^ near its front, and turning it upwards. By dividing the lower band of the annular ligament over the and annular tendon of the extensor hallucis, and throwing outwards the external iig'^^^t.: half of it, the different sheaths of the ligament, the attachment to the OS calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum from it may be observed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are now to be follow ui> followed upwards to their origin from the external popliteal ; and nerves, a small branch to the knee-joint from the same source is to be traced through the tibialis anticus. Nerves of the Front of the Leg. Between the fibula and ^5^^^'^^^,-^*^^^^ the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve divides into the leg.