DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 590 interna], and middle. Mucons membrane. verge towards the broad ligament; some are inserted into the sub- ]3eritoneal fibrous tissue; and others are continued into the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles round the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these apertures till they meet at the middle line. At the neck of the uterus they are arranged in a transverse direction. The middle or intervening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining of the uterus is continued into the vagina at Fif?. 194.* Vessels are large. Arteries. Veins. Nerves. Lympha- tics : two sets. Round liga- ment ends in groin : one end, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the body it is thin and soft, of a reddish-white colour, smooth, and closely adherent. In the cervix it is stronger, and presents the folds before referred to. The blood-vessels of the uterus are large and tortuous, and occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they communicate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the uterine and ovarian branches (p. 566). The veins correspond with the arteries ; they are of large size, and form plexuses in the uterus (p. 566). The nerves are derived from the sympathetic (p. 571), and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus. Lymphatics. One set accompanies the uterine vessels to the glands on the iliac artery. Another set issues from the fundus, enters the broad ligament, and accompanies the ovarian artery to the glands on the aorta : the last are joined by lymphatics of the ovary and Fallopian tube. Bound ligament of the uterus (fig. 182, n). This firm cord suj^ ports the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament, and partly in the inguinal canal. It is about five inches in length, Interior of the uterus, with a posterior view of the oroad ligament and the uterine appendages, a. Body, and b, neck of the uterus, c. Cavity of the body, and d, of the neck. e. Fallopian tube, and /, its trumpet-shaped end. g. The fimbria attached to the ovary, h. Ovary, i. Ligament of the ovary. Jc. Parovarium.