DISSECTION OF THE PEEINEUM. To expose triangular ligament. Triangular ligament. To see deep muscle. Deep transverse muscle. Glands of Bartholin : shape and size; duct. Pudic vessels. Pudic nerve. Dissection. To see the triangular ligament of tlie urethra, the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from the bone on the left side, and the corresponding half of the sphincter vaginae is to be removed. The TRiANGULx^R LIGAMENT transmits the urethra, but is not so strongly marked as in the male (p. 433) ; it is interrupted to a large extent in the middle line by the aperture of the vagina. Dissection. By cutting through the superficial layer of the liga- ment in the same way as in the male (p. 434), the deep muscle, with the pudic vessels and their branches, and the dorsal nerve of the clitoris, will be arrived at. The TRANSVERSUS PERiNEi PROFUNDUS is the representative of the constrictor urethrse of the male. It arises on each side from the pubic and ischial rami ; and the fibres are directed inwards to be inserted mainly into the side of the vagina. The hindmost ones join the central f)oint of the perineum; and anteriorly some are continued across from side to side in front of the urethra. Beneath the last is a circular layer of involuntary fibres, as in the other sex. Glands of Bartholin. At the hinder part of the entrance to the vagina on each side is a yellowish glandular body, which corre- sponds to Cowper's gland in the male. It has the shape and size generally of a small bean, its greatest length, which is directed from before backwards, measuring about half an inch. It lies close to the hinder end of the bulb of the vestibule, and is covered by the fibres of the sphincter vagina). The duct is directed forwards and downwards for about three-quarters of an inch, to open on the inner aspect of the nympha of the same side, immediately below the hymen or its remains. The description of the pudic artery (p. 435) will serve for both sexes, except that the branch to the bulb is small, and is furnished to the bulb of the vestibule. The terminal branches are the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the clitoris, and are also much smaller than the corresponding vessels in the male. The PUDIC nerve has the same arrangement as in the male. From its perineal division proceed the two superficial nerves, branches to the superficial muscles, and an offset to the bulb. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris is of small size.