DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 5,72 Take out the viscera; separate rectum; clean tlie bladdei- and peni.s. Dissection. To study the form and structure of the viscera, it will be necessary to remove them from the pelvis. For this j)urpose the student should carry the scalpel round the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundary, so as to detach the crus of the penis from the bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be separated from the other organs ; ljut the bladder, the penis, and the urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue is to be removed from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland and the vesiculEe seminales are then to be cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis it is to be taken aAvay. Prostate yland : situation form; dimensions; and weight. Surfaces : base ; and apex. Three lobes, two lateral. and a cen- tral. Gland con- tains three tubes. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate Gland (fig. 186). This is a firm muscular body con- taining glands, which surrounds the neck of the bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its relations have been enumerated at p. 555. The prostate is conical in form, like a chestnut, with the base directed upwards. Its dimensions are the following : —Transversely at the base it measures about an inch and a half ; from apex to base an inch and a quarter ; and from before back about three- quarters of an inch or an inch: so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and Ijackwards Avill be the longest that can be ]jractised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this respect it varies greatly. The anterior surface of the prostate is narrow and rounded. The posterior surface, larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes. The base is thick, and at its posterior part has a median notch, which receives the common seminal ducts. The apex is pierced by the urethra. Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle and two lateral, though there is no fissure in the firm mass. The lateral lobes (fig. 186, h, c) are similar on the two sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form the chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe (d) will be brought into view by detach- ing the vesiculte seminales and the vasa deferentia from the bladder : it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, which extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contained in the substance of the prostate (fig. 188). The former is transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal.