UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. 619 tribution is to the muscles of tlie tliigli, and will he after^vards followed. Ill tlie present dissection it may be seen to lie over the and position iliacus muscle, where it gives the external circumflex artery to the 5.Jj^,*;;^[Pf'*' outer part of the thigh ; and then to turn, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb. * Vernation in origin. The origin of the profunda may approach nearer to origin of Poupart's ligament until it arrives opposite that band ; or may even go beyond, profunda and reach the external iliac artery (one example, R. Quain). And the branch may recede farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement ; but in this case the circumflex branches usually arise sejiarately from the femoral. In applying a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of so large an offset. Femoral vein (fig. 201, h). The i^^rincipal vein of the limb, Femoral while in the triangular space, has almost the same relative anatomy first inside as the artery : its position to that vessel, however, is not the same = throughout. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on the same level, and is sup23orted on the pubis between the psoas and pectineus muscles : but it soon wdnds afterwards f 11 T • 1 1 1 1 • T T • behmd it. beneath the artery, and is placed between the mam trunk and its deep branch. In this space it receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral veins, and a small branch {i) with the inferior external pudic artery. DEEP PARTS OF THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. The muscles on the front of the thigh are to be learnt next: they Muscles on are the sartorius and the extensor of the knee; and at the top of ''^ the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. Four muscles are combined in the extensor, viz., rectus, crureus, vastus externus, and vastus internus^ The external circumflex branch of the profunda artery lies amongst "Vessels, the muscles and sujDplies them with branches ; and a large nerve, Nerve, the anterior crural, furnishes ofi'sets to them. Dissection. To proceed with the deep dissection, the limb is to be J^^^^^^j'^j^^ retained in the same position as before, and the flaps of skin on the tiie front of front of the thigh are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be thigii. cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee- joint the student is to note its attachment to the edges of the patella, and its union with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the knee. In raising the inner piece of the fascia, the narrow muscle appear- Follow out ing (sartorius) should be followed to its insertion into the tibia ; and and fix it, to 2)revent its displacement, it should be fixed with stitches along * Sometimes the term common femoral is applied to the trunk above the origin of the profunda, and the names superficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal pieces into which it divides.