148 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Otic ganglion. Dissection to find it, to define ganglion and its branches. Otic gan- glion is on inner side of inferior maxillary. Otic ganglion. At tliis stage of the dissection there is little to be seen of the ganglion, hut the student should keep in mind that it is one of the things to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, immediately below the foramen o^'ale, and it adheres closely to the trunk of the nerve. Dissection (fig. 39). Putting the part in the same position as for the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and the cartilaginous portion of the tube, using much care in removing the latter. When some loose areolar tissue has been cleared away, the internal pterygoid muscle (6) comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it; and a brancli (internal pterygoid, ^) descending from that nerve to the muscle. Fig. 39.* If the nerve to the pterygoid be taken a& a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. To complete dissection, saw tically through petrous part of temporal bone the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being supported while it is divided. Taking off some membrane Avhich covers the gan giion, tlie student may follow l)ackwards a ; but he should open by entering it below Above this small brancli there is another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal), which issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle ; and other minute filaments to join the sympathetic nerve on the large meningeal artery and the chorda tympani. The OTIC GANGLiox (Arnold's ganglion; fig. 39) is a small reddish body, which is situate on the inner surface of the inferior maxillarv —4 the ver the the near small branch to the tensor tympani muscle the small tube that contains the muscle, through the carotid canal. nerve close to the skull, and surrounds the origin of the nerve to its inner surface the ganglion is the internal pterygoid muscle. By in contact with the Eustachian tube. and at a little distance ]:)ehind * The otic ganglion from the inner side. a. Tensor tympani muscle. b. Internal pterygoid muscle, c. External carotid artery with the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining lingual. 5. Nerve to internal pterygoid. 6. Nerve to tensor palati. 7. Auriculo-temporal nerve.