DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 Veins to alveolar plexus. Facial nerve. Dissecticn of nerve in the bone, and its genu; of clionia tympani: passes to the face between the nasal bone and the cartilage with the nerve. Other offsets from the facial artery supply the nose near the nostril. Veins. The veins accompanying the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery enter the alveolar plexus in the spheno- maxillary fossa (p. 90). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose the veins have a plexiform arrangement, as before said. Facial Nerve in the Temporal Bone (fig. 38). This nerve winds through the petrous part of the temporal bone ; and it is followed with difficulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal Fig. 38.* bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissection. The trunk of the nerve is to be found as it leaves the stylo-mastoid foramen, and from this point it is to be followed upwards through the temporal bone. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through vertically between the meatus auditorius ex- ternus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the lower part of the aqueduct of Fallopius from behind. The nerve will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed forwards by cutting away with the bone-forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be opened, and the chain of bones in it exposed. The nerve is to be traced onwai-ds along the inner side of the tympanum, until it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius internus. The surrounding bone is to be removed from the enlargement, so as to allow of the petrosal nerves being traced from it ; and the internal meatus is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that canal. The course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the facial) across the tympanum will be brought into sight by the removal of the central ear bone, the incus. This nerve may be also followed * Facial nerve in the temporal bone. 1. Facial nerve. 2. Large superficial petrosal. 3. Small superficial petrosal from Jacobson's nerve. 4. External superficial petrosal. 5. Chorda tympani of the facial.