RELATIONS OF INTESTINE. • liapliragui, pressing on the lieavt and left lung ; the great ourvaturt.- moves to the left antl ilownwaixls, as Avell as somewhat forwards ; and the pyloric extremity is carried to the right. The SMALL INTESTINE reaches from the stomach to the right iliac Small region, where it ends in the large intestine, it is arbitrarily i"*^^'''*^'"'^ ■ divided into three parts,—duodenum, jejunum, and ihuim. dhislons!^ The diiodciuDii c()ni})rises the first nine or ten inches (twelve duchUmuuu fingers' breadths) of tlie small intestine. ]>y raising the liver it beginning, may be traced from the pyloric end of the stomach, at first back- wards, and then downwards, until it disa})[)ears IxMieath thi' trans- vei-se colon. If the great omentum, with the attached transverse colon, be turned up over the margin of tlie lht)rax, and the mass of aiui onding small intestine be drawn to the right, tlie end of the duinhMium will be seen on the left of tlie spine. It hen' ascH'uds for a short dis- tance, and at the level of the second bnubar vertebra passes into the jejunum, IVtrming a sharp bend forwards and downwards, Avhich is named the i/('()(/('//()-/V//n;(^^ Jie.aur. The rehitions of the duodenum to be fniiy cannot, however, bi' satisfactorily seen at preseid, aud they will be examined at a later stage (p. 491). The je'iKuum and ilcKm include the remainder of tlie small intes- -lejimuui tine, two-tifths belonging to the jejunum and three-tiftlis to the ileum, but there is no natural division between them. This ]>art of the ^'i"''*'"" • intestinal tube forms many convolutions in the umbilical, hypt)- gastric, lumbar, and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it di-scends commonly, but more extensively in the female, into the t-avity of the pelvis. In front of the convolutitms is the great omentum; and ^ behind, they are fixed to the sjune by a large fold o[ peritoneum named the mesenterv, which contains tlie vessels and nerves. The !V"' ". . , . . ileiiui. tt'rmination of the ileum ascends sligiitly from the pelvis to the right iliac fossa, crossing the external iliac Ms^els and the psoas muscle, to oyen into the large intestine at a spot a little to the outer side of the sacro-iliac articulation. The LAiUiE INTESTINE or COLON is luore fixed than the jejunum l-ngv and ileum, from which it is to be distinguished by its sacculated howdis- appearance, and by its being furnished with small ]>rocesses of peri- toneum containing fat—the appendices cpiplaYac. It begins in the right iliac region in a rounded part or head (ca^cum^ and ascends to the liver through the right iliac and lumbar regions. Then crossing the abdomen below the stomach, it readies the left hypochondriac regii>ii ; and it lies in this transverse part of its i-ourse between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or altogether in the latti'r. Finally, aTui extont it descends, on the left side, through the regicais corresponding with those it occupied on the right, and forms a remarkable bend (sig- moid llexure) in the left iliac fossa ; then becoming straighter (rectum) it passes through the pelvis to end on the siu'face of the body. It is divided into six parts, viz., ciecum, ascending colon, trans- Divisions, verse colon, descending colon, sigmoid llexure, and rectuuL The ciccxm (caput crecnm coli; fig. 155, ra-) is placed in the ■ right iliac fossa, above the outer half of Poupart's ligament. When position ;