DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 408 Five sacral nerves. First three have imier and oiiter branches; readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and difficult to lind. The lower two nerves are very small, and do not divide like the others. They are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinoe. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower, by the side of the coccyx. latte give cutaneous offsets. Last two are undivided. Sacral nerves (fig. 134). Fiff. 134. The 2:)osterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in numl)er. Four issue from the spinal canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the common branching into inner and outer pieces, like the other spinal nerves ; but the last two are undivided. The first three nerves (Is, and 3 s) are covered by >pin8e. 'J. s the and divide multifidus regularly. The inner ineces Q) are distri- buted to the multifidus ; the last of this set is very fine. The outer ineces (^) are larger, and have communicating off"sets from one to another on the back of the sacrum ; the branch of the first nerve is also connected v\'itli the corresponding part of the last lumbar; and the branch of the third joins in a similar v/ay tlie sacral nerve next below. After to the surface of the great sacro- a second time, and become cuta- this looping they j^ass outwards sciatic ligament, where they join neous. (Dissection of the buttock.) * Last tivo nerves (4 s and 5 s). These nerves, which are below the multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regular branching of the others : they are connected with each other * Dissection of the posterior sacral nerves. Muscles : a. Multifidus spiiiie, and B. Erector spinse : both cut. c. Gluteus maxinius detached from its origin, and thrown down. d. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Nerves r 5 I. Last lumbar. 1 s to 5 s. The five sacral nerves issuing from the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve escaping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. In- ternal offsets of the last lumbar and first three sacral (these are represented too large). 2. External offsets of the same nerves. 3. Anterior, and 4, posterior primary branch of the coccygeal nerve. 5. The nerve derived from the anterior divisions of the last two sacral and the coccygeal nerves, piercing the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus muscle.