INGUINAL HERNIA. 461 the muscle cautiously, tlie student Avill ""oe able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis so that it may be turned inwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is often difficult in consequence of their lowest fibres being blended together, but a branch of the circumttex iliac artery serves as a guide to the intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut tlie to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched jaceivt pluts. border, -and define with care the conjoined tendon of it and the internal oblique to show the exact extent outwards. The trans- versalis fascia and the spermatic cord should also be nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval below the border of the transversalis muscle Show tiif are the epigastric vessels, which lie close to the inner side of the ve^eis!'^' internal abdominal ring, ljut beneath the transversalis fascia. A small j)iece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine or other organ Situation through the lower jDortion of the abdominal wall near Poupart's hevnii!'" ligament (answering to the inguinal region) is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is favoured by Predis- the deficiencies in the muscular strata, by the passage of the sper- ^aturaiiv matic cord through the abdominal i^arietes, and by tlic existence of fossoe on the inner surface of the wall. The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through the internal Course it abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected through the part of the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of tlie rectus muscle. These two kinds of hernia are distinguished by Two kinds: the names external and internal, from their position to the epigastric artery ; or they are called oblique and direct, from the direction they take through the abdominal wall. Thus, the hernia protruding external or through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called external ' from being outside the artery, and oblique from its slanting course ; Avhile the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is named internal from being inside the arter}-, and direct internal or from its straight course. ^ External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the cavity of External or the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal canal, makes its exit from that .passage by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy op external hernia. To understand the anatomy of Anatomy <.r this form of hernia, it will be necessary to study the passage which f.e\^ned."'' it occupies in its course through the abdominal wall (inguinal canal), the apertures by which it enters and leaves the wall (abdominal rings), and the coverings it receives in its progress. The inguinal canal (fig. 153) is the interval between the flat ^"""j"?'^^ muscles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. It extends from the internal to the external abdominal ring, and extent, lueasures about one inch and a half in length. From its beginning length and at the internal ring, it is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, direction;