DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 366 Trachea ends in bronchi Its relations in the thorax. monary artery and the pulmonary veins. And when the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will he able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the connective tissue from the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. The TRACHEA, or windpipe, reaches from the larynx to the lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins opposite the sixth cervical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung. In the neck. Its relations in the neck are described on p. 120, and its structure on p. 170. The part in the thorax remains to be studied. In the thorax the trachea is situate with the great vessels in the superior mediastinum; and its loAver end is usually inclined some- what to the right side. Here it is covered by the left innominate vein, by the arch of the aorta, with the origins of the innominate and left common carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the airtube is the CKSophagus, which projects to the left above the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the pleura, the vagus, and the innominate artery for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea ; and on the left side lie the left sub- clavian artery, and the recurrent branch of the vagus. The BRONCHI, or the branches of the airtube, are contained in the roots of the lungs, and are surrounded by vessels, glands and nerves. Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been described at p. 342. The right hronclius is about an inch in length, and is larger than the left; it also forms a more direct continuation of the trachea, from which circumstance a foreign body in the airtube is more likely to enter this bronchus. It passes obliquely outwards, on a level with the fifth dorsal vertebra, behind the upper cava and the right pulmonary artery ; and the azygos vein arches above it. The left bronchus is about two inches long, and reaches to the level of the sixth dorsal vertebra. It is directed obliquely downwards below the arch of the aorta, and crosses behind the corresponding j)ulmonary artery. It lies in front of the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. Dissection. The lungs are now to be removed from the body by cutting through the bronchi and the small vessels of the root. The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium is to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm : in removing the pericardium, the dissector shoidd be careful not to injure the things contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical characters op the lung. The surface of the lung is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the Bronchi lie in the roots of the lungs: are like the trachea in form. The right differs from the left in size and rela- tions. Remove the lungs. Take away heart and pericardium. Surface of lung is smooth ;