DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. this divided by a septum. Course of air and effused urine. Dissection of nerves and vessels on right side. Superficial vessels of pudic. Superficial pei'ineal ends in scrotum, and supplies muscles. Transvei artery. Veins with the arteries. Cutaneous nerves of scrotum. Two super- ficial peri- ii'eal; external space is enclosed over the anterior half of the perinenm. From its dee J) surface a septum extends upwards in the middle line, and divides posteriorly the subjacent space into two : but anteriorly this •partition is less perfect, or may disappear. Air blown beneath the fascia passes forwards to the scrotum ; and this direction is given to it by the deep connections of the membrane with parts around. Should urine be effused beneath the superficial fascia, the fluid Avill necessarily be directed forwards, like the air, through the scrotum to the penis and the front of the abdomen. Dissection. The superticial vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side of the perineum, by cutting through the super- ficial fascia in the same manner as on the left side. The long slender artery then visible is the superficial jierineal, which gives a transverse l^ranch near its commencement. Two superficial peri- neal nerves accompany the artery ; and the inferior pudendal nerve is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perineal and the inferior haemorrhoidal posteriorly ; and all the nerves are to be followed backwards. Arteries (fig. 144). The superficial and transverse perineal arteries beneath the fascia are branches of the pudic, and are two or three in number. The SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL ARTERY (fig. 144, />), arising at the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa, runs over or under the transverse muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia, to the back of the scrotum, where it ends in flexuous branches. In its course through the perineum the vessel supplies offsets to the muscles beneath ; and in the scrotum it anastomoses with the external pudic branches of the femoral artery. Sometimes there is a second perineal branch. The TRANSVERSE ARTERY OF THE PERINEUM (fig. 144, ft) arisCS from the preceding, and is directed transversely to the middle of the perineal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and the muscles between the urethra and the rectum. It anastomoses with the one of the opposite side. Branches of veins accompany the arteries, and open into the trunk of the jDudic vein ; those with the superficial perineal artery are plexiform at the scrotum. Nerves (fig. 144). Three nerves run forwards to the scrotum on each side, viz., the inferior pudendal of the small sciatic, and two sujDerficial perineal branches of the pudic nerve. The SUPERFICIAL perineal nerves, two in number, are named external and internal: l)oth arise in the ischio-rectal fossa from the perineal division of the pudic nerve (p. 427). The external branch {^) is continued forwards, beneath the super- ficial fascia, with the artery of the same name to the back of the scrotum. While in the fossa the nerve gives inwards an offset to the integuments in front of the anus ; and this communicates with the inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve.