195 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. reduced to a narrow strip along the bottom of the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies. The olivary body is oval in shape and abont half an inch long. Olive. Its npper end, which is more prominent than the lower, does not quite reach the pons. Internally it is separated from the anterior pyramid by a narrow groove along which the hypoglossal nerve arises ; and externally from the restiform body by a broader one, where the glosso- pharyngeal and vagus nerves issue. The fnniadns of Rolando l)e- gins in a pointed extremity at the lower end of the medulla oblongata, and enlarging upwards forms, on a level with the lower end of the olivary body, a slight prominence known as the tubercle of Rolando. Towards the front this funiculus is separated from the lateral tract by the con- tinuation upwards of the lateral groove of the cord ; but pos- teriorly the line of separation from the cuneate funiculus is <)^tell indistinct. The funiculus and tubercle of Rolando are better marked in the child, and the tubercle has then a greyish colour, whence the name tuberculum rinereum is also given to it. The fanicuhis cuneatus is the prolongation of the posterior column of the cord, and forms a swelling—tuberculum cuneatum (fig. 58, ct), opposite the lower extremity of the fourth ventricle. The restiform. body is the largest of the prominences of the medulla oblongata, and appears to be the continuation of the funiculus of I^olando and the funiculus cuneatus. It inclines outwards above, and enters the hemisphere of the cerebellum, of which it constitutes the inferior peduncle. On the back of the medulla oblongata, the inner margin of this body forms the lateral boundary of the lower jjart of the fourth ventricle. The funicidus gracilis (posterior pyramid) lies by the side of the posterior median fissure, and is the smallest of the parts of the medulla oblongata. It ends above in an enlargement termed the clava (fig. 58, cl), which bounds the lower point of the fourth ventricle. Cuneate funiculus and tubercle. Restiform body. Slender funiculus and clava. * Medulla oblongata and pons from behind, fy. Funiculus gracilis, cl. Clava. fc. Funiculus cuneatus. ct. Cuneate tubercle. E. Funiculus of Rolando, rb. Restiform body, a st,. Auditory strise. ft. Fasciculus teres. 0 2