1 CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of The eyeball is tlie organ of vision, and is lodged in the orbit, the eyeball; Supported in that hollow on a mass of fat, it is surrounded by surrounding muscles which impart movement to it; and a thin membrane sheath. (tunica vaginalis oculi or capsule of Tenon) isolates the ball, so as to allow free movement. Parts in Two lids protect the eye from external injury, and regulate the front of it. g^^ount of light admitted into the interior; and the anterior or exposed surface is covered by a mucous membrane (conjunctiva). The dissec- Directions. In the absence of specimens of the human eye, the tion to be structure may be learnt on the eye of the pig or ox. Let the student made on the eye of the procure half a dozen eyes of the ox for the purpose of dissection. One or two shallow basins will be needed ; and some wax or tallow in the bottom of one, or in a deep plate, will be useful. Detach the Dissection. To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and inuscies. outer surface of the external coat, the attachments of the different muscles are to be taken away ; and the loose mucous membrane is to be removed from the front. Form of the The ball of the eye (fig. 234) consists of two parts, which differ in appearance, viz., an opaque posterior portion, forming about five- sixths of the whole, and a smaller transparent piece (cornea) in front; these two parts are segments of different sized spheres, the anterior Position of belonging to the smaller sphere. To the back of the eye the optic optic nerve, j^gpyg attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; and around it ciliary vessels and nerves enter. Diameter. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts to nearly an inch (^ths), but the transverse measures an inch. Coniposi- The organ of vision is composed of central transparent parts, ' with enclosing' membranes or coats. The coats, placed one within coats,^^ ° another, are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent parts^^''^^^ media in the interior are likewise three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour, and the vitreous body. Dissection. Dissection. To obtain a general idea of the structures to be dis- sected, the student may destroy one eyeball by cutting through it circularly: he will then be able to recognise the arrangement of the parts mentioned above, with their strength and appearance, and will be better prepared to follow the directions that are afterwards given.