509. STRIJCTUIIE OF THE COLON. ii third of an inch in width. One of these Lands is placed along posterior, the posterior or attached margin of the bowel, the other two are on fnternai'; the anterior and inner sides respectively. On the vermiform appendix the fibres form a uniform layer, but they are continued thence into the bands on the coecum and colon, and on the rectum the anterior and internal bands become united. When the bands are divided the intestine elongates^,—the sacculi and the lidges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. The circular fibres are spread over the whole surface, but are most and circular, marked in the folds projecting into the intestine. At the end of the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the Ijand of the internal sphincter muscle. l^he fibrous or snhmucous coat resembles that of tlie small intestine. Submucous It will be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings. ^I^fanfrut The mucous coat, which may be examined on opening the intes- mucous coat tine, is smooth, and of a j^ale yellow colour ; and it is not throAvn ^s without into special folds. The surface is free from ^'illi; and by this cir- cumstance the mucous membrane of the large can be distinguished and villi, from that of the small intestine. Tiiis ditierence in the two portions of the alimentary tube is well marked on the ileo-colic valve ; for the surface looking to the ileum is studded A\ itli villi, Avhile the surface continuous with the mucous lining of the large intestine is free from those eminences. Glands. The mucous membrane is thickly beset with very small Tubular tubular glands or crypts of Lieberkilhn, like those of the smail intes- tine ; and lymphoid nodules (solitary glands) are scattered over the and whole of the large intestine, but are most abundant in the caecum ISlles!'^ and vermiform appendix. Vessels and nerves. The distril^ution of the A'essels and nerves in Vessels, the wall of the large intestine is the same as in the small. andTJiii- The absorbent vessels, after leaving the gut, join the lymphatic piiatics. glands along the side of the colon. THE PAXCRExVy. The pancreas (fig. 160, e) is a narrow flattened glanil, frt»m six Form ancE to eight inches in length, and larger at the right than the left end. ^^"fe'^'^' It is divided into head, tail, and body. divisions. The head, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity of the The head duodenum ; and the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and ^^^^^ touches the spleen. The body of the gland measures about one inch and a half in and the breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. The rela- ^^^'^" tions of the pancreas to surrounding parts are described at p. 492. Dissection. Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface. Trace out and let the excretory duct be traced from the head to the tail by ^^'^ cutting away the substance of the gland. The duct will be recog- nised by its whiteness. Structure. The pancreas resembles the iiarotid gland in struc- '"'^ * - compound