71.4 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. to the cu- boid bone; synovial sac. Union of the cuneiform bones one with another, and with the cuboid bone: synovial sac. Common synovial sac. Surfaces of bones. Motion in inversion and ever- sion ; state of the ligaments, and joints in standing. Union of the meta- tarsus by dorsal, and from their synovial cavity offsets are sent forwards between tlie cuneiform bones. Between the navicular and cuboid hones there is an oblique dorsal hand of fibres (fig. 230, li) ; a transverse i^lantar hand (fig. 232, d)^ which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament. When the bones touch, the surfaces are tipped with cartilage, and a process of the naviculo-cuneiform synovial cavity extends between them. Articulations of the cuneiform bones. These bones are united to one another by cross bands ; and the external one articulates with the cuboid after a similar manner. The three cuneiform hones are connected together by short trans- verse dorsal hands (fig. 230, n) between the upper surfaces, andwifer- osseous ligaments between the rough parts of the contiguous sides of the bones. Laterally there are articidar surfaces between the bones, with offsets of the common synovial cavity. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone, the sur- faces are covered with cartilage. A dorsal ligament (fig. 230, n) passes transversely between the two ; and a plantar ligament (fig. 232, g) takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. This joint is furnished either with a distinct synovial sac, or with a prolongation of the common synovial cavity. The synovial cavity of the articulations of the cuneiform bones ia common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the navicular and the three cuneiforms, it sends one prolongation for- wards between the inner and middle cuneiform to the joints with the second and third metatarsal bones, another between the middle and outer cuneiform bones, a third outwards to the articulation of the navicular with the cuboid bone (when present), and sometimes a fourth to the joint between the external cuneiform and the cuboid. Articular surfaces. On the navicular are three articular facets, the inner being rounded, and the other two flattened. The three cuneiforms unite in a shallow elliptical hollow, which is most excavated internally. Movement. The cuneiform bones glide up and out on the navicular in inversion of the foot, and down and in in eversion ; and the inner one moves more than the others in consequence of the shape of the articular surfaces, and the attachment to it of the tibialis anticus. When the bones pass down the dorsal ligaments are made tight: and as they rise the interosseous bands will keep them united. In standing these bones are separated somewhat from each other with diminution of the arch of the foot, and stretching of the trans- verse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. The bases of the lour outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have offsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 233) are small transverse bands from