665 SUPERFICIAL MARKII^GS OF LEG. Section IV. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Directions. Before tlie dissection of the leg is begun, the student Surface should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the promi- ^^'^^'^s- nences of bone and muscle on the surface, and with the markings which indicate the position of the larger vessels. Prominences of bone. The bones of the leg can be traced beneath in the leg the skin from the knee to the ankle-joint. At the inner and fore sllperfiSaf, part is the tibia, which is subcutaneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp edge. Above, it presents in front a prominent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted ; and on each side of this the tuberosities of the bone are superficial. The internal tuberosity is a uniform rounded promi- nence ; but the external forms a marked projection at the outer and fore part of the knee. Below, the tibia ends on the inner side of the ankle in the internal malleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the lower half of the fibula may be felt with ease, but the upper half with more difliculty in consequence of the prominence and the of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognized p^rt^ below the knee ; and the lower end forms the eminence (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle-joint. At the sides of the ankle are the prominent malleoli, the external Ankle-joint, being nearer to the heel; and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus can be felt below the tibia. Muscles and vessels of the leg. On the back of the leg is the swell ^^^^^^^^^^ of the calf: this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it leg, and descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those tendo muscles are connected with the heel. Between the tendon and the ^c^'^^*^- edge of the tibia, but nearer the former, is placed the superficial tibiai"^'^ part of the postej-ior tibial artery. In front, between the tibia and fibula are the flexor muscles of the ankle and the extensors of the toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply ; the posi- Line of tion of the vessel will be indicated by a line from a point midway tibia"^"^ between the head of the fibula and the projection of the external vessels tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the ankle-joint. Prominences of the foot. At the inner border of the foot, about an inner inch and a half in front of the internal malleolus, is the tuberosity the*foot ^ of the navicular bone pointing out the spot at which an amputation (Chopart's) is practised ; while one inch and a half further forwards is a slight depression marking the articulation between the internal cuneiform and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of the foot is the tuberosity of the fifth Outer metatarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the Dorsal centre ot the ankle-jomt to the interval between the inner two toes, artery, will lie over the position of the main artery. Position. For the dissection of the back of the leg, the limb is to Position of be placed on its front, with the foot over the side of the dissecting-