DISSECTIOJ^ OF THE BRAIN. m Vess(!ls and nerves of membranes. Dissection of arteries of lai-ge brain, and of small brain. Ai'tories of the brain. Vertebral ends in basilar, winds round medulla oblongata: blanches to dura mater; to spinal ccird, p<)stecior and ; . anterior; from tlie nervous substance, tlie intervals between the vessels being closed by connective tissue so as to form a continuous membrane. From its deej) aspect minute and very numerous vessels pass into tbe brain pei-pendicularly to the surface. Vessels and nerves. The arachnoid has no vessels, but various anatomists have described minute branches of some of the cranial nerves in the membrane. The sources of the vessels of the pia mater are given below, and its nerves, which are probably destined for the vessels, come from several cranial nerves and the sympathetic. Dissection. To follow out the arteries, let the brain remain upside down, and let the arachnoid membrane be removed from them. Having displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries on the medulla oblongata, and those of the carotid near the median fissure of the large l)rain, the student should lay bare on one side the branches to the large brain. Define first the two arteries (anterior cerebral) lying in the median fissure and joining by a short branch ; next, an artery that passes outwards in the fissure of Sylvius (middle cere- bral), and pursue it to the outer surface of the hemisphere. Look then for a much smaller vessel (choroid), which sinks into the brain on the outer side of the crus cerebri. By gently raising the cere- bellum on the same side, the last artery of the cerebrum (posterior cerebral) may be traced back to the inner ^^art of the hemisphere. Two principal arteries pass to the small brain. One on the upper surface (superior cerebellar) may be brought into view with the slender fourth nerve by its side on raising the cerebellum. The other artery (inferior cerebellar) turns backwards from the vertebral to the median groove, and may be easily followed. Arteries of the Brain (fig. 55). The brain is supplied with blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The vertebral artery ('^) is a branch of the subclavian trunk (p. 70), and enters the skull through the foramen magnum; directed upwards and forwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends Avith its fellow in a common trimk (basilar) at the lower border of the l>ons. As the vessel winds round the medulla oblongata, it lies between the roots of the suboccipital and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is afterwards internal to the latter. Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termi- nation, each artery furnishes oftsets to the dura mater, to the spinal cord, and to the cerebellum. a. The posterior meningeal branch leaves the vertebral trunk oppo- site the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the cerebellar fossa of the occipital bone. b. The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the back of the medulla oblongata : it descends along the .side of the cord, behind the nerves, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. c. The anterior spinal branch (^'^) is small like the preceding, and springs from the trimk opposite the front of the bulb. It joins.the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior asj^ect. . : ; .