288 DISSECTION OF THE FOEEARM. to remove be carried through the skin along the middle of the front of the le J, ail. forearm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist ; and at its termination a transverse one is to cross it. The skin is to be reflected carefully from the front and back of the forearm, without injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves beneath ; and it should be taken also from the back of the hand, by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along each margin to a little beyond the knuckles. The whole of the fore finger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves may be followed to the end. Seek the The superficial vessels and nerves can be now traced in the fat; vesselsTiid they have the following position, and most of them have been partly nerves in dissected :—AlonQj the inner side, witli the ulnar veins, is the con- front tinuation of the internal cutaneous nerve ; and near the wrist there is occasionally a small offset from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side, with the radial vein, is the superficial part of the musculo- cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the centre of the forearm, and inside the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis which can be rendered tense by extending the wrist, the small palmar branch of the median nerve should be sought beneath the fat. On the ulnar artery, close out- side the pisiform bone, a small j)almar branch of the ulnar nerve is to be looked for. behind, At the back of the forearm the large external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is to be traced onwards ; and offsets are to be followed to this surface from the nerves in front. 'ijack*o/tr ^^^^ j)osterior part of the hand is a plexus of superficial veins. hand. Winding back below the ulna is the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; and lying along the outer border of the hand is the radial nerve : these should be traced to the fingers. Subcuta- Cutaneous Veins. The superficial veins are named median^ neons veins: ^..^(jjal, and nlnar, from their position in the limb. i)iexus oil Dorsal plexus op the hand. This network receives the super- the hand; facial veins from both surfaces of the fingers ; and from it, on the outer and inner sides, the radial and posterior ulnar veins proceed. radial: The RADIAL VEIN begins in the outer part of the plexus above mentioned, and in some small radicles at the back of the thumb. It is continued along the forearm, at first behind and then on the outer border as far as the elbow, where it gives rise to the cephalic vein by its union with the outer branch of the median vein (fig. 91,'). In many bodies a considerable branch passes from the lower part of the radial vein to join the median vein on the front of the forearm. uhiar, The ULNAR VEINS are anterior and jDosterior, and occupy the front and back of the limb :— anterior The anterior begins near the wrist by the junction of small roots from the hand, and runs on the inner part of the forearm to the elbow, where it opens either into the median-basilic or posterior nlnar vein (fig. 91,^). •md poste- "^^^ posterior ulnar vein arises from the inner part of the dorsal rior; plexus of the hand, and is continued along the back of the forearm