CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. 134 floor, cheek, and Papillse, Cheek; extent, and struc- ture. Lips, formed by orbicularis. contain arteries. Teeth: number and arrangement in jaw. middle of the roof is a slightly raised ra],)he, which ends in front opposite the anterior palatine fossa in a small papilla ; and on each side of this, at the fore part of the hard palate, there are two or three irregular transverse ridges. In the floor of the month the membrane forms the frsenum lingnse beneath the tip of the tongue, and on each side of the fraennm it is raised into a ridge by the sub- lingual gland, at the fore part of which is a small papilla, perforated by the opening of Wharton's duct. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands. Over the whole cavity, but especially on the lips and tongue, are papillse for the purpose of touch. The CHEEK extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus of the lower jaw, and is attached above and below to the alveolar process of the jaw on the outer aspect. The chief constituent of the cheek is the fleshy buccinator muscle : on the inner surface of this is the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The LIPS surround the opening of the mouth; they are formed mainly by the orbicularis oris muscle, covered externally by integu- ment, and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering lie the labial glands ; and in the substance of each lip, internal to the muscular structure, and sepa- rated from the free edge by the marginal bundle of the orbicularis, is placed the arch of the coronary arteries. Teeth. In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, which are set in the alveolar borders in the form of an arch, and are sur- rounded by the gums. Each dental arch has its convexity turned forwards ; and, commonly, the arch in the maxilla overhangs that in the mandible when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names:—the most anterior two are incisors, and the one next behind is the canine tooth ; two, still farther back, are the bicuspids ; and the last three are molar teeth. For details as to the form and structure of the teeth reference must be made to a work on syste- matic or general anatomv. Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Directions. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be necessary to make a sagittal section through the nasal cavity. While examin- ing the boundaries of the nose, the student should be provided with