446 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. lisameiit of penis : attach- ments ; contains A^essels and nerves. Source of vessels and nerves. Dorsal artery of penis. Dorsal vein ends in prostatic plexus. Dorsal nerv of pudie. Vessels on clitoris. To expose external oblique muscle. Precautions To define abdominal ring. On the side are three flat muscles, of a triangular form, wliicli is attaclied l)y its apex to the front of the symphysis j)n^his. Widening below, it is fixed to the upper surface of the hody of the penis, and is prolonged for some distance on the organ. Perforating the ligament at its junction with the jDenis are the dorsal vessels and nerves. Dorsal Vessels and Nerves. The arteries and nerves on the dorsum of the penis are branches of the pudic trunks of "both sides (p. 436). The vein accompanying the arteries enters the pelvis below the symphysis pubis. The DORSAL ARTERY, One on each side, pierces the suspensory ligament, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends in many branches for that structure : in its course the vessel supplies the integuments and the body of the i3enis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 436). The DORSAL VEIN is a single trunk, and commences by numerous l)ranches from the glans penis and the prepuce. It runs backwards, l)etween the two arteries, through the suspensory ligament, and then through a special opening below the subpubic ligament (p. 434), to join the prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches from the erectile structure and the integuments of the penis. Each DORSAL NERVE takes the same course as the artery, and ends like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes twigs to the corpus cavernosum penis, and other offsets to the integuments of the dorsum, sides, and pre^uice of the penis. In the female these vessels and nerves are much smaller than in the male, and occupy the upper surface of the clitoris—the organ tliat represents the penis. Dissection of the muscles. The surface of the external muscle of the abdominal wall (fig. 148) is now to be freed from fascia on both sides of tiie bod}^ It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in front, because there it has a thin aponeurosis, which may be taken away too readily with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to carry the knife obliquely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeurosis before referred to is in front of a line extended upwards from the anterior end of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be careful not to injure the tendon, more particularly above, where it lies on the margin of the ribs, and is very indistinct. On the right side tlie external abdominal ring (c) may be defined, to show the spermatic cord passing through it; but on the left side a thin fascia (intercolumnar), which is connected with the margin of that opening, is to l)e preserved. Lastly, the free border of the external oblique should be made evident between the last rib and the iliac crest. Muscles of the Abdominal Wall. On the side of the abdomen are three large flat muscles, which are named from their position to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial muscle is the external oblique ; the underlying one, the internal oblique ; and the deepest, the transversalis.