DISSECTION OF THE AEM. 276 Median vein divides into two Ibranclies. Position aiK relations of the median- cephalic, and of the median-ba silic vein. Venesection is practised in this branch. Basilic veil on inner side of till- Cephalic voin on outer side. Fig. 91.^^ front of tlie elbow are to be attentively noted by the dissector, because the operation of venesection is practised in one of them. The MEDIAN. VEIN of the forearm (lig. 91, ^) divides into two branches, internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow ; and at its point of division it is joined by an offset from a deep vein. The internal branch {inedian-basilic) crosses to the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins (^) to form the basilic vein of the inner side of the arm. The external branch (median- ceplialic) is usually longer than the other, and by its junction with the radial vein (') gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. The MEDIAN-CEPHALIC VEIN is directed obliquely, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and the outer mass of muscles of the forearm ; beneath it is the trunk of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. This vein is altogether removed from the brachial artery, and is usually smaller than the median-basilic vein. If opened with a lancet it does not generally yield much blood, in consecjuence of its position in a hollow between muscles rendering compression of it very uncertain and difficult. The MEDIAN-BASILIC VEIN (^) is niore transverse in direction, and larger than the preceding ; and it crosses the brachial artery. It is firmly supported by the underlying fascia,—the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by an offset from the biceps tendon, intervening between it and the brachial vessels. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerve lie beneath it, and some twigs of the same nerve are placed over it. The median-basilic is the vein on which the operation of blood-letting is commonly performed. It is selected in consequence of its usually larger size, and more super- ficial position, and of the ease with which it may be compressed ; but from its close proximity to the brachial vessels^ the spot to be opened should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The BASILIC VEIN (^), commencing as before said, ascends near the inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, where it passes beneath the deep fascia, and is continued into the axillary vein. In this course it lies to the inner side of the brachial arter}^ The CEPHALIC VEIN (*) is derived chiefiy from the external * Cutaneous veins and nerves at the bend of the eroow. (Quain's "Arte- ries. ") 1. Median-basilic vein. 2. Median vein of the forearm bifurcating. 3 . Anterior ulnar veins. 4, Cephalic vein, formed by the radial from behind and tlie median-cephalic in front : the musculo-cutaneous nerve is beneath it, 5. Basihc vein, with the large internal cutaneous nerve by its side. 6. Brachial artery, with its companion veins (one cut). 7. Radial vein.