255 PECTORALIS MINOR. At this stage the cephalic vein is to be defined as it crosses in- Trace wards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), ""'^^^^^^ ^^"^ and the acromio-thoracic vessels, which perforate the sheath around the axillary trunks, are to be followed to the pectoral muscle. The remaining part of the pectoral is major may be cut about its Divide tiie centre^ and the jjieces thrown inwards and outwards. Any fat muscie^tlf coming into view is to be removed; and the tendon of the pectoralis its is to be followed to the humerus. Insertion of the ijedoroMs major. The tendon of the pectoralis Tendon of consists of two layers, anterior and posterior, at its attachment to pecto^-aiis*^^ the bone ;—the anterior receives the clavicular and upper sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is from two inches to two inches and a half wide, and sends upwards one expansion over the bicipital groove to the capsule of the shoulder- joint, and another downwards to the fascia of the arm. Parts covered hj the pectoralis. The great pectoral muscle covers Parts the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, JJJe nufsde the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subclavius muscle, the sheath con- taining the axillary vessels, and the branches perforating that sheath. Below the pectoralis minor it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and on the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles near the humerus. The PECTORALIS MINOR (fig. 84, b) is also triangular in shape. Small and extends from the thorax to the shoulder. It arises from the JJJ^usclT- third, fourth and fifth ribs, immediately external to their cartilages, p^igin from by tendinous slips which are Ijlended with the aponeuroses in the "^^^; intercostal spaces. The fibres converge to their insertion into the insertion anterior half of the coracoid process of the scapula, at its upper and "oraooid inner part. process; This muscle assists the pectoralis major in forming the anterior relations; wall of the axilla, and near its insertion it lies over the large vessels and the accomjDanying nerves. The ui)per border is sej^arated from the clavicle by a triangular interval. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major close to the chest; and along it the long thoracic vessels lie. The tendon of insertion is united with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps. Action. It draws the scapula forwards and downwards; and use. in laborious breathing it liecomes an inspiratory muscle, taking its fixed point at the shoulder. Dissection. Supposing the clavicle raised by pressing backwards Dissection the arm, as before directed, the tube of fascia around the vessels g^eath and will be demonstrated b}^ making a transverse cut below the costo- costo-co- coracoid membrane (rig. 84), so that the handle of the scalpel can fascia. Ije passed beneath it. Then, by dividing the membrane itself near the clavicle and raising the lower border of the subclavius, this muscle will be seen to be encased by fascia, which is attached to the bone both before and behind it. The costo-coracoid membrane or ligament (fig. 84) is a firm Costo-cora-