DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. cutting through the transverse ligaments joining tlie third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. Movement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement exists in the articulations of the leases of the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers ; but in the ring and little lingers the motion is greater, with a slight degree of opposition. Dissection. The articular surfaces of the bones in the carpo-nieta- carpal articulation may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the fore finger lias a broad, notched articular surface, which receives the prominence of the trapezoid bone, and articulates laterally with the trapezium and OS magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the os magnum. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger touches the u]iciform bone and the os magnum. And the little finger bone is ojDposed to the unciform. Synovial sacs. Usually two synovial sacs are interposed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz., a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and ofi'sets of the common carpal synovial sac (p. 330) for the others. Sometimes there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the two inner metacarpals with the unciform bone. Interosseous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between tlie bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from another ; and those uniting the adjacent carpal bones may be shown in the same way. Dissection. For the examination of the joint between the head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger, it will be requisite to clear away the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. Oiie of the joints may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the jjhalanges of the fingers. Uniox of Metacarpal Bone and First Phalanx (fig. 111). In this joint the convex head of the metacarpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, and the two are united by the following ligaments :ѥ The lateral ligament (a) is the same on both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached above to the lower part of the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and below it is inserted into the phalanx and the anteiior ligament. The anterior ligament (h) is a strong and dense band, which is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone: It is grooved for the fiexor tendon ; and to its sides the lateral liga- ments are united. On the dorsal aspect of the joint, the capsule is completed by a thin layer of connective tissue which supports the synovial mem- brane, and is closely covered by the extensor tendon. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are con-