235' LAMINA AND LOBES. by means of the special commissural bodies composing the inferior vermiform process. The deepest sulci of the hemisphere divide the laminae into groups which are known as the lobes of the cerebellum. Lobes of the upper surface. On the upper surface the Upper ir.bes hemisphere is divided into two lobes by a deep sulcus which arches outwards and forwards from the hinder end of the superior vermiform process. The anterior or quadrate lobe is the larger, and anterioi-, its laminae pass without interruption through the elevated portion of the worm known as the monticidus (fig, 69) into the corre- s])onding lobe of the opposite hemisphere. The 2^osterior lobe is posterioi', semilunar in shape, and is connected internally with the one of the opposite side by a single lamina (folium cacuminis), which is deeply placed at the bottom of the median notch. Belonging to this surface aji^j central, there is also at the front of the vermiform process a small part. Fig. 79.* c(jmprising about eight lamina?, which overlaps the sui)erior peduncles, and is known as the central lobe (figs. 69 ; 72). The lobes of the under surface of the hemisphere (fig. 79) ^re^*^ are five in number. Beginning l^ehind, there is first the 'posterior posterior. lobe (k), of a semilunar form, like that of the upjier surface, from which it is separated by tlie great horizontal fissure ; next comes tlie slender lobe (between h and i), composed of three or four parallel siendor, laminae ; and then the larger biventral lobe, triangular in sliape, and biveutrai, subdivided into two chief parts (^ and h). The other two lobes, although smaller, are more distinct ; one is the amygdaloid lobe (g), amygdaloid, Avhich lies to the inner side of the biventral lobe, and projects into the vallecula, touching the medulla oblongata ; and the other is a * Under surface of the cerebellum, the medulla oblongata being cut away in greater part. a. Pons Varolii, h. Medulla oblongata, cut through. r. to e. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of—c. Uvula, d. Pyramid. e. Tuber valvulse. Lobes of the under surface. /. Flocculus. (/. Amygdaloid, h, i. Biventral. Between i and Tc. Slender. Tc. Posterior. 3. Third nerve attached to the crus cerebri, 5. Fifth nerve.