107 ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL AETEKY. The size of the vein remains much tJie same from the sskiill to the enlarged hyoid bone, where it is suddenly increased owing to the junction of a number of tributaries corresponding to branches of the external carotid artery. Its lower dilatation and its valve have been before referred to (p. 76). The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz., the inaneheH. inferior petrosal sinus close below the skull, the pharyngeal, lingual, facial and superior thyroid veins near the hyoid bone, and the middle thyroid vein opposite the lower part of the larynx. The ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY (fig. 27, g) Is a long Asceudiug slender branch of the external carotid, which arises near the arten"^'^^'^ beginning of that vessel. It runs upwards between the internal carotid artery and the pharynx to near the base of the skull, where ends at it ends in pharyngeal and meningeal branches. Its offsets are "^''^^^" numerous, but small:— a. Prevertebral branches pass to the longus colli and recti antici branches muscles, supplying also the nerves and lymphatic glands of this t'.ijrau region. h. Pharyngeal branches supply the wall of the pharynx, the soft laryngeal, j)alate and the tonsil. The highest of these, one of the terminal branches of the artery, ramifies in the superior constrictor, the Eustachian tube, and the levator and tensor palati muscles : this branch is sometimes large and furnishes the infeiior palatine artery instead of the facial (p. 80). c. The meningeal branches enter the skull through the foramen and menin- laceruni, the jugular foramen and the anterior condylar foramen " ' (p. 16). These arteries are seldom injected. The pharyngeal veins form a plexus which empties itself into the internal jugular trunk. Dissection of the cranial nerves in the neck. By the time this stage Directions of the dissection has been arrived at, the condition of the pai-ts will small " not permit the- tracing of the very minute filaments of the cranial [j^ie'Jf^-ves^ nerves in the jugular foramen, and all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk are therefore to be omitted for the present. Alter\rards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the bone has been softened by acid and the nerves hardened in spirit, the exami- nation of the branches now passed over may be made. * In the jugular foramen. Supposing the dissection of the internal Dissection carotid to be carried out as it is described at page 104, let the jugular student cut across with care the jugular vein near the skidl. Let f<Ji'aiiicn. him then remove bit by bit with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone which bounds exter- nally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the osseous crest between that foramen and the carotid canal. Between the bone and the coat of the jugular vejn, the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve is to be found ; it is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. Trace then the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastric nerves ^^}^^^' through the aperture, by opening the fibrous sheath around them, accessory Two parts, large and small, of the sj^inal accessory nerve should pjjguj,^^), gastrie. ;