338 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. diaphragm is not equal tlirouglioiit, and some parts of the cavity will be increased more than others. For instance, the central ten- dinous piece, which is joined to the heart-case, moves but slightly ; but the lateral, bulging parts descend freely, and increase greatly the capacity of each half of the chest below by their separation from the thoracic parietes. Thorax The thoracic cavity may be diminished by the diaphragm being how. ^' pushed upwards by enlargement, either temporary or permanent, of the viscera in the abdomen ; or by the existence of fluid in the latter (;avity. THE PLEURiE. Sac of the The pleura3 are two serous meml^ranes, or closed sacs, which are pleura: reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the thorax. One occu- pies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity ; they ap- 23roach each other along the middle of the chest, f(Uining a thoracic partition or mediastiiuim. form; Each pleura is conical in shape ; its apex projects into the neck above the hrst rib (fig. 112); and its base is in contact with the dia- outer sur- pli^i^gm- TliG outer surface is rough, and is connected to the lung face; and the wall of the thorax by areolar tissue ; but the inner surface face^ is smooth and free. Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior disposition ^^^^ ^^'"^^^ ^^^^ chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal ])art—costal pleura, and of a visceral part—pulmonary pleura. Difference ill There are some diflerences in the shape and extent of the two sac of right, _ r\ i • i • i i • • ^ pJeural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and shorter than and of left Oil tlie left ; and on the latter it is narrowed by the projection of the heart to that side. The con- The continuity of the bag of the pleura may be traced horizontally h"re traced from a given point, over the lung and the wall, back to the same spot in the following manner:—Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from the sternum, it lines the wall of the chest from wall of as far as the spinal column ; here it is directed forwards to the root lung: ^ of the lung, and is then reflected over the viscus, covering its surface, and extending into the fissures between the lobes. From the front of the root the pleura may be followed over the side of the pericar- dium to the sternum. Below the root the pleura forms a thin fold, the ligamentuni latum imlmonis, w^hich unites the inner surface of the lung to the side of the pericardium, in upper If the serous sac be traced above the root of tlie lung, it describes rent. two distinct circles, one lining the chest-wall, and the other surround- ing the lung. Along The mediastinum. The median thoracic partition, or mediastinum, sacl*^form a formed by the inner portion of the parietal pleura on each side, septum. and the structures interposed between the two membranes. It extends the whole depth of the thorax, and reaches from the spine to the sternum, thus separating the right and left pleural cavities. In the centre the two layers of serous membrane are widely separated l)y the heart; but in front and behind the}^ come nearer