562 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. position and talf of the prostatic iirethra. It is situate in front of the vagina, course, describes a slight curve, with the concavity forwards, below the symphysis pubis. Its external opening (meatus urinarius) is placed within the vulva (p. 438). relations. In its course to the surface it is embedded in the tissue of the vaginal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the peri- neum, where it is surroimded by fibres of the deep transverse muscle, and a layer of circular involuntary fibres (p. 440). A plexus of veins surrounds the urethra as well as the vagina. Section IV. VESSELS AND NEEVES OF THE PELVIS. Vessels and In the pelvis are contained the internal iliac vessels and their th™lvfs branches to the viscera, the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sym- pathetic nerve. This section is to be used by the dissectors of both the male and female pelvis. Directions. The internal iliac vessels are to be dissected on the right side. The air should be j^i^eviously let out of the bladder ; and this viscus and the rectum, with the uterus and the vagina in the female, should be drawn aside from their situation in the centre of the pelvis. To dissect Dissection. The loose tissue and fat are to be removed from the ofthTpeivis, trunk of the vessels, as well as from the branches of the artery that leave the pelvis, or supply the viscera ; and the cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery is to be traced on the bladder to the umbilicus. nerves, AVith the vessels are off'sets of the hypogastric plexus of nerves, though these will probably not be seen ; but in dissecting the vessels to the bladder and rectum, branches of the sacral spinal veins. nerves will come into view. The veins may be removed in a general dissection. When the vessels are prepared the bladder may be again dis- tended, and the viscera replaced. Internal The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 183, (/) is One of the trunks iliac artery: i>esulting from the division of the common iliac artery, and furnishes branches to the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the organs of generation, and to the limb, size and In the adult the vessel is a short trunk of large capacity, whicli length; measures from an inch to an inch and a half in length. Directed termination; downwards towards the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the artery termi- nates generally in two large pieces,' from which the several offsets are furnished. From the extremit}^ a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends forwards on the bladder, relations; The artery is covered by the peritoneum, and the ureter crosses its upper end oblifj^uely on the inner side. It lies on the sacrum