INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. 675 termination, on tlie outer side. Its brandies are muscular and branches cutaneous. Muscular branches are furnislied to the two long flexors, the to muscles, tibialis posticus, and the soleus. There is an offset for each of the muscles ; and they may arise either separately along the trunk, or together from the ujDper end of the nerve. The branch to the tibialis is the largest; and that to the flexor hallucis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot (calcaneo-plantar ; fig. 216,^) ^i^id to skin begins above the ankle, and piercing the internal annular ligament and sole, as two or more pieces, ends in the integuments of the inner and under parts of the heel: this nerve will be followed to its termina- tion in the dissection of the foot (fig. 217). The INTERNAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT stretclies between the heel and internal the inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep layer jjgament: of muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a narrow part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the ^^^^^g" leg ; and the opposite gives attachment to the al)ductor hallucis muscle of the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons. The innermost encloses Sheaths: the tibialis posticus, lodged in a groove on the back of the malleolus, their Immediately outside this is another space for the flexor digitoruni. 1'°^'^'^^"- And about three-quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the flexor hallucis, resting in a groove in tlie astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Between the tendons of the two flexors of the digits are placed the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Section V. SOLE OF THE FOOT. Position. The foot is to be placed over a block of moderate thick- Jj|Jf p^j" ness with the sole towards the dissector ; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and by separating and fastening apart the toes. Dissection. The skin is to be raised in two flaps, inner and outer. Raise the by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the front; and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous and dissect nerve of the sole (fig. 217) ; and he may trace out, at a little dis- nerves. tance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The subcutaneous fat is very abundant, and forms a thick cushion Subcuta- ' neous fat. X X 2