563 INTEEJ^AL ILIAC ARTERY. and luiiibo-sacral cord. It is accompanied by tlie internal iliac position of vein, which is posterior to it, and somewhat to its inner side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the branches, following manner :—From the posterior piece of the trunk three arise, viz., the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. And from the anterior portion come the upper vesical, lower vesical (vaginal in female), middle hsemorrhoidal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic ; and in the female also the uterine artery. Artery in the foetus. In the foetus the hypogastric artery takes Artery in the the place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus. At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery ; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed forwards to the bladder, and along the side of that viscus to the on the apex. Beyond tlie bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect and beyond; of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally, at the umbilicus, the vessels of opposite sides come in con- tact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, where they receive the name umbilical. In the fcctus, branches similar to those in the adult are furnished branches, by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very diflferent. Change to adult state. When uterine life has ceased, the hypo- Transforma- gastric artery shrinks in consequence of the arrest of the current jjlatonhe of blood through it, and finally becomes obliterated, more or less adult, completely, to within an inch or so of its commencement. The part of the trunk which is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the bladder, forming the superior vesical artery. Peculiarities. The lenr/th of the internal iliac artery varies from half an Trunk often inch to three inches, its extreme measurements ; but in two-thirds of a large varies in number of bodies it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half (R. Quain). l^-'^g^b Size. In the rare cases where the femoral trunk is derived from the internal rarely in iliac, and is placed at the back of the thigh, this vessel is larger than the external iliac. A. The three branches arising from the posterior piece of the Branches of internal iliac may be first examined. the posterior The ilio-himbar artery (fig. 183, h) passes outwards beneath the nio.iumi.ar psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the lunibo- lias an sacral cord, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch :— The ascending or lumbar branch, which is beneath the psoas, ascending supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses with the last lumbar artery : it sends a small spinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra. The transverse or iliac branch divides into offsets that ramify in a transver.-se the iliacus muscle, some running over and some beneath it. At the iliac crest these branches anastomose with the lumbar and cir- cumflex iliac arteries; some deep twigs communicate with the obturator artery, and enter the hip-bone. 0 0 2