15 MENINGEAL ARTERIES. INT. CAR. ART, VI NERVE NERVE OPHTH. NERVE SUP. MAX. NERVE traversed by a network of slender fibrous cords. Through the space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve on the outer side of the vessel ; but all these are bound to the outer wall of the sinus, and se- Fig. 4.''' parated from the blood in the space by a thin lining mem- brane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic veins from the orbit through the sphenoidal fis- sure, and some inferior cerebral veins. It communicates with its fellow of the opposite side by the inter-cavernous sinuses, and with the pterygoid plexus outside the skull through the foramen ovale and the foramen lacerum. The blood leaves the cavity by the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. The INTERCAVERNOUS SINUSES are two vessels which pass trans- versely in the sella turcica between the right and left cavernous sinuses, being placed one in front of, and the other behind the pituitary body. To the venous ring thus formed around the pituitary body the name of circular sinus has been given. The SUPERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 3,/) lies in a groove in the upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinuses. Small veins from the cerebellum are received into it. The INFERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 3, A) is larger than the superior, and lies in a groove along the line of junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by small veins from the cerebellum, and one from the internal ear. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The BASILAR SINUS or. PLEXUS is a venous network in the substance of the dura mater over the basilar j)rocess of the occipital bone, uniting the inferior petrosal sinuses. Meningeal Arteries. These arteries supplying the cranium and the dura mater come through the base of the skull; tliey are named from their situation in the three fossaj, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are small branches of the anterior ethmoidal artery (p. 46), which enters the skull by the anterior internal orbital canal: they are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The MIDDLE meningeal arteries are three in number: two, named large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary trunk ; and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillary artery appears through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and artery and sixth nerve tributaries and com- munica- tions. Intercavern- ous or circular Superior petrosaL Inferior jjetrosal. Basilar plexus. Arteries of dura mater are :— Anterior meningeal. Middle meningeal. Large from internal maxillary * Transverse section of the cavernous sinus (after Langer).