198 DISSECTION 0¥ THE BRAIN. vanes in extent. Dissection. Fibres of lateral tract. Direct cerebellar tract. Posterior white fibres and slender Formation of restiforiu body. Arciforin ftbres: superficial, and deep. libres from each side, bat the proportion of the pyramidal fibres which decussate in the medulla varies much in different individuals. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the deeper fibres of the medulla oblongata, the pyramid may be cut across on the right side between tlie decussation and the olivary body (fig. 60) and raised towards the pons. The lateral trad is composed of the remaining fibres of the lateral column of the cord, after the crossed pyramidal tract has been given off. Most of these pass deeply behind the olivary body, and through the reticular formation to the pons ; but one small band, the direct cerehellar trad, is continued superficially from the lateral column to the cerebellum. This band is often visible on the surface of the medulla, as a whiter streak lying along the outer edge of the lateral tract, and inclining backwards above the tubercle of Kolando to jtjin the resti- form bod\'. fv.niridi. The of the cuneate funiculi are the continuation of the posterior, and posterior median columns of the cord respectively, and are believed to end entirely in the grey nuclei of the funiculi. The funiculus of Eolando has only a very thin superficial white hn er, which is also derived from the pos- terior column. The restiform body is formed mainly by the arciform fibres of the medulla, with the direct cerebellar tract from the lateral column of the cord. Arciform fibres. In the upper half of the medulla oblongata, covering its anterior surface and traversing its substance, is an extensive system of fibres, curving outwards and backwards from the median plane to the restiform body, to which this name has been given, l^ho, superficial arciform fibres {ii^. 61, i") have already been noticed in the description of the exterior of the medulla oblongata (p. 196). The deep arciform fibres (li) are more numerous, and are seen over the whole area of transverse sections except in the pyramid. Some of fliem come to the surface on the * Transverse section of the medulla ohlongata at the lower part of the fourth ventricle (Clarke), a. Pyramid, h. Olivary body. c. Tubercle of Eolando. d. Hestiform body. e. Lateral boundary of fourth ventricle. /. White core of the olivary body, with the roots of the hypoglossal nerve to its inner side. ff. Olivary peduncle, h. Deep arciform fibres entering the raphe (a few more are added from a second drawing), k.l. Reticular formation. 'II. Floor of fourth ventricle, o. Hypoglossal nucleus. j>. Grlosso-pharyngeal nucleus. r. Inner auditory nucleus. s. Superficial arciform fibres. t. Remains of the gelatinous substance.