581 STEUCTtlUE OF THE PENIS'. Its surface is studded throughout with the apertures of minute glands, glands, which are lodged in the submucous tissue, and the ducts of which are inclined obliquely forwards. Submucous tissue. Beneath the mucous lining of the urethra is a Submucous stratum of longitudinal unstriated muscular fibres, mixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. It is continuous behind with the sub- mucous fibres of the bladder, and is joined in the prostate by the nature; muscular fibres accompanying the common seminal ducts. The stratum differs at sjDots :—it is most developed in the prostate ; arrangement in the membranous portion the muscular structure is less abundant; ^^etlira. and in the spongy part fibrous tissue forms most of the submucous layer. Around the membranous and j^rostatic divisions of the urethra Erectile there is, in addition, immediately beneath the mucous membrane, a JhrouWout thin layer of vascular or erectile tissue, which is continued back- wards from the' corpus spongiosum to the neck of the bladder. Structure op the penis. The form and the relations of the ^^^^^^^ penis having been described on p. 557, the bodies of which it is two vascular composed remain to be noticed. If a section is made along one [^Q^^^j^gg^ side of the penis, it will show this organ to be composed of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue (corpora cavernosa) encased in a fibrous covering, with an imperfect septum between them, and having the corpus spongiosum attached along their under surface. Corpora cavernosa (fig. 189, r). These bodies form the bulk of Corpora the penis, and are two dense cylindrical tubes of fibrous tissue, con- attached' taining erectile structure. Each is fixed behind by a pointed process separatelj', the glands of the prostate, g. Membranous part of the urethra, h. Cowper's glands, a duct from each opening into the urethra, i. Spongy part of the urethra. Jc. Bulb of the corpus spongiosum. I. Glans penis, n. Fossa navicularis. o. Openings of lacunoe and glands, r. Corpus cavernosum of the penis. * View of the fibres of the case of the corpus cavernosum. 6. External or longitudinal layer, a. Inner or circular fibres. 1. Pectiniform septum.