680 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. partly superficial, partly deep. Superficial part: relations ; branches to heel, to muscles, and outer side of foot. Plantar nerves also two. Internal nerve to three toes and a half; muscular branches; digital nerves are divided, ex- cept first. and give muscular branches, cutaneous and articu- lar offsets. External plantar to towards the root of the great toe, so that it crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz., from the inner side of the cal- caneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Only the first ]Dart of the artery is now laid bare ; the remaining portion, supplying the digital branches, will be noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 685). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the vessel is concealed by the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum ; but for a short distance near its termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. It rests on the OS calcis and flexor accessorius ; and it is accompanied by vense comites and the external plantar nerve. Branches. From the beginning of the artery two or three internal calcaneal branches arise. They perforate the origin of the abductor hallucis, and ramify over the heel, anastomosing with the terminal branches of the peroneal artery. Ofi^sets are also furnished to the muscles between which it lies ; and others turn round the outer border of foot to anastomose with the tarsal and metatarsal arteries. The PLxYNTAR Nerves (fig. 218) are derived from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial trunk behind the inner ankle. They are two in number, and accompany the plantar arteries ; but the larger nerve lies Avith the smaller blood-vessel. The INTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (^) courses between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor hallucis, and giving but few muscular ofi"sets, divides into four digital branches (fig. 217, ^-s, 4, for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and half the fourth ; it resembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. Muscular offsets are given by the trunk to the short flexor of the toes (perforatus) and the abductor hallucis ; and a few superficial tiuigs perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch (^) to the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others are bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. Muscular branches are furnished by two of these nerves before they reach the toes ; thus, the first supjDlies the flexor brevis hallucis ; and the second gives a branch to the innermost lumbrical muscle. Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, being divided at the spot mentioned, supplies the contiguous sides of two toes, while the first belongs altogether to the inner side of the great toe ; all give oflsets to the integuments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE (fig. 218, ") is Spent chiefly in the