PISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 636 > Obturator externus: origin; insertion. The adduc- tors cover it and it touches liip-joint. Use. Detach oljturator. Obturator iirtery divides into two; inner, and outer branch. Branches of the nerve. nerve. The pectineus and tlie internal circumflex vessels are con- tiguous to the inner border ; and the sartorius and vastus internus touch the outer edge. Action. These muscles act as flexors of the hip-joint; and the use of the psoas on the spinal column is given with the description in the abdomen (p. 538). The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (flg. 204, f) is triangular in form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the inner half, and from the bony circumference of the thyroid foramen for a corresponding extent,—the bony attach- ment being an incli wide opposite the body of the pubis, and reach- ing inwards to the adductor brevis and magnus. The fibres are directed backwards and outwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, and adductor brevis and magnus. It covers the obturator membrane and vessels, and is pierced by the deep part of the obturator nerve. As it winds back it is in contact with the lower surface of the hi]3-joint. The inser- tion of the muscle will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 649). Action. The muscle is an external rotator of the thigh ; but its action will be given in full with the other muscles of the same group in the buttock (p. 650). Dissection. By detaching the obturator muscle from the pelvis, the branches of the artery of the same name will be seen beneath its fibres. The deep part of the nerve may be followed back to the foramen at the same time. A better view will be obtained if this dissection is deferred till after the limb is removed. The OBTURATOR ARTERY is a branch of the internal iliac (p. 565), and enters the thigh through the to]3 of the thyroid foramen. In the aperture the artery divides into two pieces, which form a circle on the obturator membrane beneath the muscle :— The internal jnece runs along the inner half of the membrane, and furnishes ofl'sets to the ol:)turator externus and the upper ends of the adductor muscles. The external loiece descends close to the outer edge of the foramen, and after giving a branch inwards to join the lower end of the pre- ceding, is continued to the ischial tuberosity and the muscles arising therefrom. Ofl'sets pass to both obturator muscles ; and an articular twig is given to the hip-joint. Branches of nerve to the obturator externus come from the deep portion of the obturator, and enter the posterior surface of the muscle.