DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 328 capsule, triangular fibro-carti- lage: attach- ments, and rela- tions. Synovial nieinbrano. Bones are joined into two rows. Dissection of carpal and meta- carpal joints. How first row is united. Separate ligaments of pisiform hone. Second row is like first. —an arrangement just the opiDosite to tliat between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro- cartilage ; but a kind of ccqmde, consisting of scattered fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fihro-cart/lage (fig, 108, c) is placed transversely below the end of the ulna, and is tliickest at its margins and apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which se23arates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its apex to the styloid pi'ocess of the ulna, and the depression at the root of that projection. Its margins are united with the contiguous anterior and posterior ligaments of the Avrist-joint; and its surfaces enter into the radio-carpal and the lower radio- ulnar articulations. It serves to unite the radius and ulna, and to form part of the socket for the carpal bones. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane is very loose, and ascends between the radius and the ulna : it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-cartilage. The motion in this articulation is referred to with the movements of the radius (p. 326). Union of the Carpal Bones. The several bones of the carpus (except the pisiform) are united into two rows by small dorsal, palmar, and interosseous bands ; and the two rows are connected together by wide sej^arate ligaments. Dissection. The articulations of the carpal bones with each other Avill be prepared b}^ taking away all the tendons from the hand, and cleaning carefully the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments from the pisiform bone to the unciform and fifth meta- carpal are to be defined in the palm. At the same time the ligamentous bands uniting the metacarpal with the carpal bones, and with one another should be dissected. Bones of the first row (fig. 109). The semilunar bone is united to the scaphoid and j)yi'amidal by dorsal (d) and loalmar transverse bands ; as well as by small interosseous ligaments at the up23er part of the contiguous surfaces. The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the pyramidal by a distinct capside and sipiovial sac. It has further two special ligaments ; one of these is attached to the process of the unciform, and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The bones of the second row (fig. 109) are connected together in the same way as those of the first, viz., by a dorsal {i) and a * Lower ends of the forearm bones with the uniting fibro-cartilage, a. Ivadius, b. Ulna. c. Triangular fibro-cartilage.