417 EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF CORD. The extent of the spinal cord is from the L)wer margin of the foramen magnum of the occipital bone to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but Fig. 138.* its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third month the medulla reaches the whole length of the spinal canal ; but it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the posi- tion it has in the adult. Its length is usually from sixteen to eighteen inches. Above, the cord joins the medulla oblon- gata ; and below, it ends in a small taper- ing part {conus mediiUaris), from which the filum terminale (fig. 138, d) is continued downwards. The lower end of the conus niedullaris is sometimes marked by one or two irregular swellings. The size of the spinal cord is much increased wliere the nerves of the limbs are attached. There are, therefore, two enlargements on it, viz., cervical or brachial, and lumbar or crural; t he one in the neck reaches from the first cervical to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other is smaller, and is on a level with the eleventh and twelfth (k)rsal vertebrae. In the upper enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelling the measurement from before back nearly equals the transverse. While the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distinguished from the ]>osterior by the central fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery; as well as by the irregular line of the anterior nerve-roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the struc- ture the student will require a piece of a fresh 0 cord which has been hardened in spirit; for the cord which is obtained from the spinal canal / at this period is not fitted for the purpose of dissection. Supposing the pia mater with the roots of the nerves removed on one side, the ' j^j student will be able to observe the following jl divisions of the cord. "* Sulci of the cord (fig. 139). The anterior median fissure occupies the middle line of the front of the cord in Extent varies below. and ia tli^ emVirso. Loii"Cli. Inferior t<'rininatif>n in the adult. Two s\V(^ll- ings on it. Antftrior surface, liow known. Dissection, to see con- stituents of cord. Purrovv.s of the cord are anterior * Membranes of the sphial cord laid open, to show the lower end of the cord with the filum terminale. a. Dura mater, and h, the fibrous Imnd fixing it to the coccyx. c. Pointed lower end of the cord (conns niedullaris). d. Filum terminale of the cord. E E