273 LIGAMENTS OF SCAPULA. AcROMio-CLAVicuLAR ARTICULATION. The articular surfaces of joint witli ^ the clavicle and acromion process of the scapula are connected acromion: ' together by a capsule, which is thick above (superior ligament), but capsule, very thin below. An interarticular fihro-cartilage is sometimes present at the upper flbro-carti- 2)art of the joint; and occasionally it forms a complete septum. If the fibro-cartilage is j^erfect, there are two synovial cavities in the and synovial joint ; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial sac. Movements. This articulation allows the scapula to chauge its Use of position in relation to the clavicle when the former bone is moved, either in gliding over the surface of the thorax, or in being rotated with the elevation and depression of the arm. Scapular Ligaments. The sjjecial ligaments of the scapula are Ligaments two in number, and extend from one point of the bone to another. scapula. The suprascapular ligament is a narrow band stretching Posterior, across the notch in the upper border of the scapula. By one end it ^^^'^ is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the border behind the notch. It converts the notcli into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes. The CORACO-acromial ligament (^) is triangular in form, and anterior— extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its ajDex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, reaching backwards to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The ligament consists usually of two formed of thickened bands, anterior and posterior, with a thinner intervening pieces: part. It forms part of an arch above the shoulder-joint, which pre- vents the head of the humerus being displaced upwards. Dissection. To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the acromion Dissection, process is to be sawn through, and to be turned aside with the outer end of the clavicle ; but in a repetition of the dissection of the upper limb, the bone may be left uncut for the j)urpose of seeing the use of the coraco-acromial arch. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle ; this is to be taken away after it has ' been observed. The supraspinatus muscle (fig. 89, a) has the same form as the Supraspina- hoUow of the bone which it fills. It arises from the surface of the * supraspinous fossa of the scapula, except over the neck, from the origin; upper side of the spine of the bone, and from the fascia covering its surfiice. Its filjres end in a tendon, which crosses over the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the upper imjiression on the great insertion; tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the acromion relations; process; and it rests upon the scapula, the suprascapular vessels and nerve, and the shoulder-joint. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus at the attachment to the humerus. Action. It comes into use with the acromial portion of the deltoid use. in raising the limb and supporting the joint. Dissection (fi^r. 94). The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of Dissection ^ ° ^ ^ of supra-