400 DISSECTIOJ^ OF THE BACK. Dissection of comi)lexus. Complexus: origin; insertion tendinous inter- sections ; relations; Dissection of tlie nei-ves of the neck: inner and outer branches; first nerve; complexus, the semispinalis, and tlie multifidiis spin£)e. Most of the vessels and nerves of the back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection. To display the complexus it will only be necessary to turn outwards the cervical prolongations of the erector spinse muscle, and follow down the slips of origin to the dorsal transverse processes. The semispinalis and multifidus are partly seen now below the complexus, lying between the erector spina3 and the spines of the vertebrae. The COMPLEXUS (fig. 132, d) is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, the muscle arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the upper six dorsal and seventh cervical vertebrse, and from the articu- lar processes of the succeeding cervical vertebrce as high as the third : it is also joined in most cases by one or two slips from the lowest cervical or upper dorsal spines. The fleshy fibres pass upwards to be inserted into an impression between the curved lines of the occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the external occipital crest. The inner part of the complexus, having two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon, is often described separately as the biventer cervicis. Another tendinous intersection crosses the cutaneous surface of the muscle near the upper end. The complexus is concealed by the splenius and trapezius. Along the inner side is tlie semispinalis muscle, M'ith the ligamentum nuehse. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispinalis, and the posterior cervical nerves and vessels ; and the cutaneous offsets of two or three of the nerves perforate it. The complexus may be regarded as the cranial prolongation of the semispinalis muscle. Action. Both muscles will move the head directly back. One will draw the occiput down and back towards its own side. Dissection of vessels and nerves (tig. 133). In the neck the nerves and vessels will be brought into view by detaching the complexus from the occipital bone and the spines of the vertebia?, and raising it carefully from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle are the ramifications of the cervical nerves, and the deep cervical aiid other vessels, surrounded by dense connective tissue. Each nerve, except the first, divides into an inner and an outer branch. Dissect out first the inner branches, w^hich lie partly over and j)firtly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle (g). The external branches are very small, and are given off between the transverse processes close to where the trunks appear; they are to be looked for outside the complexus, entering the muscles prolonged from the erector spinse and the splenius. The small first nerve is the most difficult of the set to find : it is a short trunk, contained in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and will be best found by looking for the small twics furnished bv it to the muscles around.