ARACHNOID AND PIA MATEK. 183 separates and supports different parts of the Ijrain, and serves as an internal periosteum to the cranial Loues. The pia mater is the most internal layer, and contains the ramitications of the vessels of the brain. The arachnoid, Avhich is interj^osed between the other two, is the membrane that is seen wlien the brain is removed from its cavity. Besides enveloping the brain, these membranes are prolonged on the cord into the spinal canal. Only the cranial part of the last two will be now noticed. For the description of the cranial portion Dura mater, of the dura mater, see p. 9. The ARACHNOID is a very thin fibrous membrane, whicli envelops Arachnoid the brain loosely, and is separated from the dura mater by the "'^"^ interval named the subdural space, from the pia mater by the suh- arachnoid space. Its outer surface is free and smooth, and in the natural state is in close ai:)position to the dura mater. The inner surface is attached to the pia mater by numerous fine cords and bands, which cross the subarachnoid space. Tlie membrane covers relations tlie convolutions and laminc^e of the large and small brain, bridging ^"^^^' over the sulci between them, and at the base of the brain it stretches across from side to side between the cerebral hemispheres, so as to leave a considerable space beneath it. Above, it is prolonged into tlie median fissure between the cerebral hemispheres as far as the falx cerebri, but does not reach to the bottom of the cleft. On the nerves leaving the cavity of the cranium, the arachnoid sheaths on forms tubular sheaths Avhich enter the apertures in the dura mater, "^i'^'^'* and then terminate in a free edge ; but around the vessels passing and vessels, to or from the brain, the membrane joins the dura mater. The subarachnoid space is filled by a wateiy fiuid named cerebro- ^^^^^^^^^^^ spinal. Its size varies greatly at diff'erent parts. Over the con- varies^iu^'^ volutions and prominences of the brain the arachnoid approaches e-'^tcnt .: the pia mater closely, and the interval is ver}^ small; but opposite the sulci and depressions of the surface the space is expanded. The largest cavity is between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata, three large where the arachnoid is reflected from the one to the other nmch cavities, earlier than the ^Dia mater. By an aperture in the latter membrane at this spot the subarachnoid space communicates with the cavity of the fourth ventricle. Another considerable interval exists between the cerebral hemispheres in front of the pons ; and a third extends tlie whole length of the corpus callosum, in the great longitudinal fissure. The PIA MATER closely invests the brain, following all ine(|uali- Pia mater ties of the surface, and dipping into the sulci of the cerebrum and cerebellum. It also sends a large process, named velum interpositum, forms velum into the interior of the cerebrum, and from this vascular processes pos^t^m known as choroid plexuses project into some of the ventricles of the and choroid brain. Two similar fringes, the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle, project into that cavity between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. The pia mater consists of a network of vessels, formed by the structure, ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into, or issuing