658 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and hip- joints, on tlie pelvis. Semimem- branosus reaches from pelvis to tibia: around it: use on knee and hip- joints, on pelvis. Great sciatic nerve in the thigh supplies muscles. Small sciatic in the thigh ; cutaneous offsets. "Detach the liamstrings. with the biceps as far as the lower third of the thigh. As the tendon turns forwards to its insertion, an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gracilis, on a level with the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated from the internal lateral ligament by a bursa. Action. If the leg is movable, the muscle bends the knee and rotates inwards the tibia. Supposing the knee-joint straight but the hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by this and the other hamstrings. Should the limbs be fixed on the ground, the muscle will assist in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk from a stooping posture. The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS MUSCLE (fig. 210, f) is tendinous at both ends, and receives its name from the membraniform appearance of the upper tendon. The muscle arises from the upper and outer impression on the ischial tuberosity ; and it is inserted below into the inner and hinder part of the head of the tibia. The muscle is thick and fleshy below, where it bounds the popliteal space. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged, together with the long head of the biceps, in a hollow in the upper tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor magnus. Along the outer border is first the great sciatic, and then the internal popliteal nerve. Between its tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the knee-joint (p. 699). Action. This hamstring is united with the preceding in its action, for it bends the knee and rotates in the tibia; and with the knee straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after the femur has been carried forwards. When the foot rests on the ground, the semimembranosus acts on the pelvis like the other hamstring muscles. The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 210,^) lies on the adductor mag- nus muscle below the buttock, and divides into the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, though its point of bifurcation may be carried upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps. Branches. Near the buttock it supplies large branches to the flexor muscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. Small sciatic nerve (fig. 210, ^). Between the gluteus maximus and the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia ; but it becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short distance. Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia ; and the largest of these arises near the popliteal space. Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, and the branches of the perforating and anastomotic arteries, the hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip-bone and thrown down ; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to be cleaned.