584 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. THE RECTUM. To prepare the gut. Rectum: length ; dimensions: sacculi. Same coats as in the rest of the intestine :— Peritoneum. Muscular coat has longi- tudinal and circular llbres. Mucous coat is thick and vascular ; folds in it. Permanent folds in wall of rectum. Dissection. The rectum is to be washed out and then distended with tow; and the peritoneum and the loose fat are to be removed from it. This portion of the intestine is about eight inches in length. Its upper end is rather smaller than the sigmoid flexure of the colon, but in its lower half it is dilated, especially in old people : the anal canal in which it terminates (p. 554) is the narrowest part of the large bowel. It is sacculated, although not so distinctly as the colon ; the pouches are arranged in two rows, right and left, and they become larger and less numerous towards the lower encl."^ Structvre. The rectum contains in its wall a peritoneal, a mus- cular, a submucous, and a mucous stratum ; and the muscular and mucous coats have certain characters which distinguish this part of the intestinal tube. The peritoneum forms but an incomplete covering, and its arrange- ment is referred to in the description of the relations of the pelvic viscera (p. 553). The muscular coat consists of two layers of pale or unstriated fibres, viz., a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The longitudinal fibres are mainly collected into anterior and poste- rior bands, which spread out and increase in thickness below : the anterior band is the broader, and is formed by the union of two ol' the bands of the colon, while the posterior is the continuation of the band lying along the attached border of the colon. These bands are shorter than the other strata of the wall, and thus give rise to the sacculations. The circular fibres describe arches around the intestine, and become thicker and stronger towards the anus, where they are collected in the band of the internal sphincter muscle (p. 426). The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and resembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus ; it is also thicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestine. When the bowel is contracted the mucous lining is thrown into numerous accidental folds, for the most part transverse or oblique ; but in the anal canal the folds are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are also IDaermanent transverse folds of the intestinal wall corresponding to the depressions between the sacculi externally. The largest and most regular of these are in the lower portion of the gut, one being on the right side and front about three inches from the anus, and corresponding approximately to the spot where the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum ends, another on the left side about one inch higher, and a third, which is less constant, on the left side pos- teriorly, below the first. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the front, provided it ife tolerably fresh. *" See a paper by W. J. Otis, "Anatomical Researches on tlie Human Eectam," Leipzig, 1887.