DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 618 accompanying tlie hepatic veins pass throiigli tlie diaphragm, and enter the glands of the posterior mediastinum. Nerves. Nerves come from the sympathetic and the pneumo-gastric, and ramify with the hepatic artery. THE GALL-BLADDER. Use and situation form; relations Duct of sal bladder; The gall-bladder (fig. 169, g h) is the receptacle of the bile. It is situate in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and to the right of the quadrate lobe. It is pear-shaped, and its larger end (fundus) is directed forwards beyond the margin of the liver; while the smaller end (iiech) is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to terminate in the cystic duct by a zigzag part. In length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the widest part. It holds from an ounce to an ounce and a half. By one surface it is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end Fig. 172.* touches the abdominal wall opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib (fig. 155, 6), where it is con- tiguous to the transverse colon; and the small end is in contact with the duodenum. Structure. The gall-bladder possesses a peri- toneal, a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free surface of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end. The fibrous coat is strong, and forms the framework of the sac ; intermixed with it are some involuntary muscular fibres, the chief being longitudinal, but others circular. The mucous coat is marked internally by numerous ridges and intervening depressions, which give an alveolar or honeycomb appear- ance to the surface. On laying open the gall- bladder this condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to diminish towards each ex- tremity. In the bottom of the larger pits are depressions leading to recesses. Where the gall-bladder ends in the cystic duct (fig. 172) its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges resembling those in the sacculated large intestine. The cystic duct (6) joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form the common bile-duct. It is about an inch and a half long, * Gall-bladder and its duct. a. Gall-bladder, h. Cystic duct. c. Ridges in the interior, d. Common bile-duct. e. Common hepatic duct.