THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBEAXES. 416 except in lirst two cervical, the sacral, and coc- cygeal nerves. Situation of ganglia. Exceptions in cervical. sacral, and (coccygeal. Arteries of cord. Anterior spinal, a single artery : ternnnation oflsett Posterior arteries are two; lie on side; of cord. Veins : termina- tion ; at top of cord. Situation of the coi-d. are found at the upper ami lower ends of tlie spinal column in tlie following nerves. The roots of the first two cervical nerves join on the neural arches of the corresponding vertebrae; and the anterior and posterior primary branches diverge from tlie trunks in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place within the spinal canal ; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures on the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in the spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Situation of the ganglia. The ganglia are placed commonly in the intervertebral foramina, but where the position of these apertures is irregular, as at the U2:tper and lower extremities of the spinal column, they have the followiug situation :—In the first two nerves they lie on the neural arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral nerves they are contained in the spinal canal; and in the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is usually within the sac of the dura mate]-. Vessels of the spinal cord. The arteries on the surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal arterij occupies the middle line of the cord beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It begins by the union of two small branches of the vertebral artery (p. 184) ; and it is continued to the lower end of the cord by a series of anastomotic T^ranches, which are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the neck, and from the intercostal arteries in the dorsal region. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolongation of the cord. The branches of this artery ramify in the pia mater, some entering the median fissure. The posterior spinal arteries, one on each side, are continued from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the nerves. These vessels are furnished from the same source as the anterior (p. 184), and their continuity is maintained by a series of anastomotic ofi'sets, Avhich enter the canal along the spinal nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some twigs enter the posterior septa of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the cord the veins are united into two or more small branches, which, communicating Avitli the intraspinal veins, join in the skull the inferior cerebellar veins, or the inferior petrosal sinuses. The SPINAL CORD (medulla spinalis) is the elongated cylindrical part of the cerebro-spinal centre, which is enclosed within the spinal canal. Invested by the membranes before examined, the cord occupies about two-thirds of the length of its canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it.