FEMALE OEGANS OF GENERATION. penis; and the glans receives the ending of the dorsal artery (p. 446). The BULB OF THE VESTIBULE (semi-bulb, Taylor; fig. 193, a) is an elongated and flattened mass of cavernous or erectile tissue, which is enclosed in a thin fibrous coat. It lies by the side of the vestibule and the entrance to the vagina, above (deeper than) the nympha, resting against the lower surface of the triangular ligament, and being covered by the sphincter vaginse muscle (a). Each is about an inch and a half long, and is larger at its hinder end, where it measures about half an inch in depth. By their narrow anterior ends the two bulbs are united in front of the urethra ; and they are joined by a venous plexus to the small gians of the -pig^. 193.* clitoris. These bodies answer to the divided bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrao in the male. GENERATIVE ORGANS. The generative or- gans, or internal organs of generation, are the uterus and vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection. The vis- cera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use. The surface of the vagina and the lower part-of the uterus should be cleaned ; but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. Bulbs of vestibule situation ; relations; connected to clitoris clean vagina. THE VAGINA. The tube of the vagina (fig. 182, i) is connected with the uterus Vagina: at one end, and with the vulva at the other. It has a slightly ^^^^^^ curved course between the two points mentioned ; and the anterior and curve and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the former measures about two inches, and the latter three. In the body the vagina is flattened from before back, so that the form opposite surfaces are in contact; and the upj)er part of the posterior wall is applied to the lower end of the uterus. Its size varies at ^^^^ ^i^e. different spots ;—thus the external orifice, which is surrounded by * Erectile bodies of the female genital organs, and opening of the vagina (Kobelt). A. Sphincter vaginae muscle, b. Clitoris, c. Nympha. a. Bulb of the vestibule. b. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris, c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris.