COWPER'S GLANDS. 435 the pelvis. The hindmost fibres of the constrictor are connected Deep with the central point of the perineum, and are sometimes described muscle^ separately as the tmnsversus 'perinei profiLndus. Action. This muscle acts as a sphincter in narrowing the use of membranous part of the urethra, and ejecting the contents of the constrictor, tube. It may also aid in producing erection of the penis by compressing tlie veins of the corpora cavernosa, wliich are sur- rounded by its fibres. Involuntary circular fibres within the constrictor muscle surround Circular the urethra from the bulb to the prostate, and form a layer about jj^ethra^ 3^^th of an inch thick ; they are not fixed to bone, and are con- tinuous above with the circular fibres of the prostate. This layer is from the a portion of the large involuntary muscle, of which the prostate is tiie'buib**' the chief part, surrounding the beginning of the urethra. Action. This involuntary layer assists in moving forwards the use. urine and the semen. The glands of Cowper will be found hj cutting through some Cowper's of the hinder fibres of the constrictor muscle. They are situate ^j^^j^^^^j^ behind the membranous part of the urethra, one on each side of the size, and' middle line, and close above the bulb. Each gland is about the ^^^^i'^^*^"'*^' size of a pea, and is made up of small lobules. Connected with each is a minute duct, an inch or more in length and length, which perforates obliquely tlie wall of the urethra (corpus o7the^duct\ spongiosum), and opens into the canal about three-quarters of an inch in front of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. The nature of the secretion of the gland is not known. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and t^iey vary they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. The student may complete the examination of the i^jssection oi vessels perineum by tracing out on -the left side the pudic vessels Avith and nerve, their remaining branches, and the dorsal nerve of the penis. From the point of its division beneath the crus into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the artery is to be followed back- wards along the bone : the nerve will be found by the side of, but deeper than the artery. The PUDIC ARTERY has already been dissected in the posterior Pudic half of the perineum (p. 427). At the front of the ischio-rectal' fossa it penetrates the base of the triangular ligament, and then runs forwards close to the edge of the hip-bone (fig, 145, a), in a course and canal formed by the tendinous origin of the constrictor urethra3. About half an inch behind the symphysis pubis it jiierces the ending, inferior layer of the ligament, and immediately divides into the arteries of the cavernous structure and dorsum of the penis. It is accompanied by venae comites and the dorsal nerve of the penis. Branches Its offsets in this part of its course are :— a. Deep muscular branches (cl). As the artery is about to enter -^inscuiar. between the layers of the triangular ligament it furnishes one * See a paper on the Arrangement of tlie Muscular Fibres of the Ui-ethra, in vol. xxxix, 1856, of the Trans, of the Roy. Med. Chir. Society. F F 2