501 STEUCTURE OF STOMACH. tlie pylorus tliey are most numerous and strongest, and form a ring or sphincter (c) round tlie opening. The oblique fibres (tig. 162, e) are continuous with the circuhxr or and oblique deep layer of the oesophagus. On the left and right of the cardiac orifice they are so arranged as to form a kind of sphincter {d and e) (Henle) ; those on the left (e), the strongest, arch over the great end of the stomach, and spread out on the anterior and posterior €!urfaces, graduall}^ disappearing on them. Fibrous or submucous coat. By removing the muscular layer over The fibrous £i small space, the fibrous coat will appear as a white shining stratum ^u't firm."* Fig. 162.* of areolar tissue. This coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the larger vessels and nerves ramify before their distribution to the mucous layer. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat will project through it, supposing the stomach to be distended with air. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open the stomach, Mucou.s but the appearances now described can be recognised only in a ^^'"^ recent specimen. This coat is a softish layer, of a pale rose colour soon after death, feel and in the healthy condition. In the empty state of the stomach the membrane is less vascular than during digestion ; and in infancy the natural redness is greater than in childhood or old age. When the stomach is contracted the mem1)rane is thrown into numerous folds; wavy ridges or rugce, which become longitudinal along the great <iurvature, towards the pylorus. The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the thickness; pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opposite the muscular disposition ring, which assists in closing the opening. If this membrane and Py^o^"-'^- * Diagram representing tlie arrangement of the muscular fibres of the sstomach. The external and middle layers are partly removed, a. External or longitudinal fibres, h. Middle or circular, c. Sphincter of the pylorus. d. Oblique fibres on the right of the cardiac opening, e. Oblique fibres, more numerous, on the left of the cardiac orifice, and covering the great end of the stomach. ,