UNION OF EADIUS AND ULNA. 325 rounding ligaments ; and tlie shafts of the bones are united by interosseous ligaments. Upper radio-ul^^ar articulation. In this joint the head of the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavit}^ of the ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band :— The annular or orbicular ligament (fig. 106, a) is about one-third of an inch wide, and is stronger behind than before ; it is placed around the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and posterior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border, the thicker, is connected with the ligaments of the elbow-joint; but the lower is free, and is applied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the cavity of the ulna the radius moves freely. The synovial meyahrane is a pro- longation of that lining the elbow- joint; it projects inferiorly between the neck of the radius and the lower margin of the annular liga- inent. Ligaments of the shafts OF the bones. The aponeurotic stratum connecting together the bones in nearl}^ their whole length consists of the two following parts:— The interosseous nicmhraue (tig. 105, ^) is. a thin tibrous layer, which is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, and forms an incomplete septum l)etween the muscles on the front and back of the forearm. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, though a few on tlie posterior surface have an opposite direction. Superiorly, the membrane is wanting for a considerable space, and through the interval the posterior inter- osseous vessels pass backwards. Some small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels ; and the largest of these (■*) is about t^vo inches from the lower end, through which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the Avrist. The membrane gives attach- ment to the deep muscles. The oUique ligament (fig. 105,-) is a slender band above the inter- osseous ]nembrane, the fibres of which have a direction opposite to those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the lower end of the coronoid process, and by the other to the radius below the tuberosity. The ligament divides into two the space above the in- terosseous membrane. Oftentimes this band is not to l)e recognised. at the upper end by orbicular ligament around the head of the >)one: is ilelicieut above; oblique ligament. * View of the orbicular ligament [a), which retains the upper end of the radius against the ulna.