362 DISSECTION OF THE TIIOEAX. and coro- nary sinus formed. appears at its middle, and undergoes transformation at eacli end :—At the upper end it becomes converted into a part of the superior intercostal vein. At the lower end it remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary sinus ; and the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 346) is a remnant of the trunk as it lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a trace of the occluded vessel in the form of a small fibrous band in the vestigial fold of the pericardium (p. 344). Vena cav.'i inferior. Four pul- nionai-y veins." Right veins the longer. Left veins. The INFERIOR or ascending cava enters the right auricle as soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches join the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this A^ein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen (p. 536). The PULMONARY VEINS are two on each side. Tliey issue from the hilum of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 342. The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath the right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots from the upper and middle lobes of the lung ; and the inferior vein is formed by branches from the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. NERVES OF THE THORAX. Nerves of tlie tliorax. To trace vagus. Phrenic nerve from the cervical plexus, passes to diaphragm. Right nerve above root of lung. Left ner\'e above root. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic ner^'es suj^ply the viscera of the thorax ; and the phrenic nerve courses through the cavity to the diaj^hragm. Dissection. The phrenic nerves have already been fulh' displayed in the thorax ; but the pneumo-gastric nerves are now to be prepared. The vagus is to be followed, on each side, behind the root of the lung, and its large plexus in that position is to be dissected out : some fine branches from tlie gangliated cord of the sympathetic, coming forwards over the spinal column to the jilexus, must also be looked for. To the front of the root the vagus supplies a few filaments. Beyond the root, the nerve is to be pursued along the ossoi^hagus by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The PHRENIC NERVE is a branch of the cervical plexus (p. 74). In its course through the thorax it lies along the side of the pericardium, and at a little distance in front of the root of the lung, with a small companion artery. When near the diaphragm it divides into branches, which perforate the muscle, and are dis- tributed on the under surface. The nerves of opposite sides differ in length, and in their relations above the root of the lung. The right nerve is shorter and straighter than the left. In enter- ing the chest it crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in front of the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vein and superior cava till it reaches the pericardium. The left nerve crosses the subclavian artery, but has the same position as the right to the mammary vessels when entering the