OPHTHALMIC ARTEEY. 45 supplies two or more ciliary branches (fig. 12) to tlie eyeball. These lie on the inner side of the optic nerve, and join the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. The infratrochlear branch (^) arises as the nasal nerve is about infratroch- to leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of ^^^^ i^ranch. the superior oblique nmscle, to end in the upper eyelid, the con- junctiva, and the side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of communication from the supratrochlear nerve. In the nose (fig, 37). While in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- Nasal nerve nishes branches to the lining membrane of the septum and outer wall; these will be subsequently referred to with the nerves of the nose (p. 145). Termination of the nasal nerve (fig. 10). After the nerve becomes ^ cutaneous on the side of the nose, as seen in the dissection of the facial nerve (p. 37.), it descends beneath the compressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the tip of the nose. The OPHTHALMIC Or LENTICULAR GANGLION (fig. 12, ^) is a Small Ji'^^'^jPj^^ reddish body, about the size of a pin's head, and in form nearly ^ ° square. It is placed at tlie back of the orbit between the optic situation; nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the outer side of, and close to the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior part the connec- ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots) ; and from the anterior part proceed ciliary branches to the eyeball. The ganglion receives roots from sensory, motor, and sympathetic nerves. The branches of communication are three in number. One, the Three roots: long root (^), is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which long, joins the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thickness, the short root (^), passes to the inferior angle from the branch of the short, third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And the sympathetic root is derived from the cavernous plexus, either in and sym- union with the long root, or as a distinct branch to the posterior P''^*^^^*^^- border of the ganglion. Branches. The short ciliary nerves (fig. 12), ten or twelve in Ciliary number, are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper eyebaiL^ and lower angles at the front of the ganglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. In their course to the eyeball they lie along the outer and under joarts of the optic nerve, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. The OPHTHALMIC ARTERY, a branch of the internal carotid, enters Ophthalmic the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is below and to the outer side of the optic nerve, but it then courses inwards over (or occasionally under) the nerve to the inner side of the orbit, in the orbit, and finally perforates the palpebral fascia above the internal tarsal ligament to end by dividing into frontal and nasal branches. The branches of the artery are numerous, though inconsiderable Branches: in size. They supply the structures within the orbit, and some general dis- leave that cavity to be distributed to the lining membrane of the ^I'l^^*^^'^-