167 ARYTENOID CARTILAGES AND EPIGLOTTIS. iioicl muscles. On each side, immediately in front of tlie square part, is a slightly raised articular facet, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is horizontal, somewhat undulating, and is borders, united to the trachea by fibrous membrane. The upper Ijorder of the broad part of the cartilage is slightly excavated in the middle, and is limited on each side by a convex articular facet for the arytenoid cartilage, which slopes downwards and outwards. In front of that spot, the border descends rapidly as it passes forwards to the middle line. The two ARYTENOID CARTILAGES (c) are placed one on each side Arytenoid at the back of the larynx, on the upper border of the cricoid carti- cartilages: lage. Each is pyramidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, situation and ofiers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. ' The base has the form of an elongated triangle, with one of the base; angles (the postero-internal) rounded off. Its anterior extremity is thin and tapering, and gives attachment to the inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament, whence it is named the vocal process. The external angle is thick, and projects backwards and outwards, form- ing the muscular process, into which the crico-arytenoid muscles are inserted. On the under aspect of the muscular process is an oval, concave articular facet, sloped downwards and outwards, for the cricoid cartilage. The apex of the cartilage is directed backwards, apex; and is surmounted by the capitulum of Santorini. The inner, surface is narrow, especially above, and fiat ; it is surfaces, covered by the mucous membrane. The anterior or outer surface internal, is the largest and irregular, being convex above and concave below, anterior or It is marked near the upper end by a tubercle, and lower down, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, l)y an oblique ridge. This surface gives attachment to the superior thyro-arytenoid liga- ment and the thyro-arytenoid muscle. At its posterior asjoect the car- and tilage is concavejind smooth, being covered by the arytenoid muscle, r^stenor. Cartilages of Santorini, cornicula or capitida laryngis. At- ^"^gg^'^^jP'**' tached to the apex of each arytenoid cartilage is the small, conical Santorini. fibro-cartilage of Santorini, which is inclined backwards and inwards. The aryteno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous Fibro-carti- bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the aryteno- wrisberg. epiglottidean folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated in form, like a grain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytenoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection. These cartilages are often absent. The epiglottis (fig. 46, a) is single, and is the largest of the Epiglottis: pieces of yellow fibro-cartilage. In form it resembles an obovate forin and leaf, with the stalk below and the blade above. Its position is ^^^^ ' behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During \ respiration it is placed vertically ; but during deglutition it takes an oblique direction over the opening of the larynx.