DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 470 C'onstvicfcinr boundaries, how re- laxed. Usual ves- sels around Unusunl state of vessels. Femoral hernia. Covering six ill number. stricture either at neck, or at saphenous opening. Incision to divide ex- ternal and intenial stricturi'. Risk of wounding; and limiting it externally is tlie femoral vein {b). In front i.s Poupart's ligament, with tlie deep crural arcli; and behind is the pubis, covered by the pectineus muscle and the pubic portion of the fascia lata. Crossing the front of the space, but at some little distance from it, is the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. The oiDening is larger in the female than in the male. Two of the boundaries, anterior and inner, are firm and sharp- edged, though their condition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the thigh is raised and approximated to its felloAv, those bounding parts will be relaxed. Position of vessels around the ring (fig. 154). On the outer side is the femoral vein (b) ; and above this are the epigastric vessels (c). In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubis ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. But in some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from the epigastric, and lies along the ring as it passes to the pelvis. It may have two positions with respect to the crural ring:—either it is placed close to the iliac vein, so as to leave the inner side of that space free from vessels; or it arches over the aperture, descending on the inner side at the base of Gimbernat's ligament; in this last condition the ring will be encircled by vessels except behind. Course of femoral hernia. The intestine leaves the abdomen by the opening of the crural ring : and it descends internal to the vein in the crural sheath, as far as the saphenous opening in the thigh, where it projects to the surface. Coverings. In its progress the intestine will pusli before it the peritoneum and subperitoneal fat (septum crurale) ; and it will displace, or cause to be absorbed, the gland which fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the saphenous opening, the intestine carries before it the inner side of the crural sheath, and a layer called the cribriform fascia ; and, lastly, it is invested by the superficial fascia and skin of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuller details (pp. 612 to 616). Seat of stricture. The stricture of a femoral hernia is placed opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament, or lower down at the margin of the saphenous opening in the thigh. And the constric- tion may be caused either by a fibrous band outside the upper narrow end of the tumour, or by the thickening of the peritoneum inside the neck, as in inguinal hernia. Division of the stricture. To free the intestine from the constricting fibrous band arching over it, an incision is to be made ^o^\\\ to the neck of the sac at the inner and upper part. And to relieve the deep stricture Avithin the neck of the sac, the peritoneal bag is to be opened and a director introduced, and the knife is to be carried horizontally inwards, or uj)Avards and inwards, through the thickened sac and a few fibres of the edge of Gimbernat's ligament. Danger to vessels. When the incision is made upAvards and in-