337 BOUNDARIES AND SIZE. The base is constructed at the circumference by tbe last dorsal The base, vertebra behind, by the end of the sternum in front, and by the ribs Avith their cartilages on each side ; while the space included by the bones is closed by the diaphragm. The base is wider transversely than from before back, and is form of convex towards the chest; though at certain spots it projects more than at others. Thus in the centre it is slightly lower than on each side, and is on a level with the base of the ensiform process. On the right side it rises to a level with the upper border of the fifth and heigiit: rib near the sternum ; and on the left, to the corresponding part of the upper border of the sixth rib.* From the lateral projections, the diaphragm slopes suddenly towards its attachment to the ribs, but more behind than before, so as to leave an angular interval between it and the wall of the chest. The level of this attached its side edge will be marked by an oblique line, over the side of the chest, from the base of the ensiform process to the eleventh dorsal spine ; but it differs slightly on the two sides, being rather lower on the left. The apex of the space is continued higher than the osseous boun- -^pex dary, and reaches into the root of the neck. Its highest point is neck, not in the middle line, for there the windpipe, blood-vessels, &c., lie, but is prolonged on each side for one or two inches above the anterior end of the first rib, so that the apex may be said to be bifid, is bifid: Each point projects between the scaleni muscles, and under the how subclavian blood-vessels ; and in the interval between them lie the bounded, several objects passing between the neck and the thorax. Dimensions. The extent of the thoracic cavity does not corre- Exterior sizo spond with the apparent size externally ; for a part of the sjoace in- cavity, eluded by the ribs below is occupied by the abdominal viscera; and the cavity reaches upwards, as just stated, into the neck. In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm, the Depth depth of the space varies greatly at different parts. At the centre, where the depth is least, it measures generally from six to seven inches, but at the back about half as much again ; and the other vertical measurements can be estimated by means of the data given of the level of the base on the wall of the thorax. Alterations in capacity. The size of the thoracic cavity is con- size is stantly varying during life with the condition of the ribs and dia- ^f^^p*^ phragm in breathing. The horizontal measurements are increased in inspiration, when transverseiy the ril^s are raised and separated from one another, and are dimi- i^^nts of nished in expiration as the ribs approach and the sternum sinks. I'i^s; An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the diaphragm in depth by in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is taken into the "^'^P'^^^siii- lungs, thus increasing the cavity ; and it ascends when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or to diminish it in violent efforts. But the movement of the but un- ^ ' equally. * This is the height in the dead body. The level to which it may reach in great respiratory efforts during life will be stated with the account of the Diaphragm (p. 531). vanes: before; behind; on sides.