PTEEYGOID MUSCLES. 85 shape, and arises by two heads, which are separated by an interval origin; opposite the spheno-maxillary fossa. The upper head is the smaller, and is attached to the fore part of the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone ; the lower head springs from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. From this origin the muscle runs backwards and outwards to be insevted into the insertion, hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw-bone, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the pterygoid is concealed by the temporal muscle relations; and the lower jaw ; and the internal maxillary artery usually lies on it. Its deep surface is in contact with the internal pterygoid, the inferior maxillary nerve, and the internal lateral ligament o^' the jaw. Through the interval between the heads pass the buccai nerve and the internal maxillary artery, when the latter is placed beneath the muscle. The parts in contact with the borders of the external pterygoid have been enumerated above. Action. If both muscles contract, the jaw is moved directly for- use of both wards, so that the lower dental arch is placed in front of the upper; i"'^scles, but if one muscle act alone (say the right), the condyle of the same of one side is drawn forwards, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are moved obliquely to the left across those of the uj^per. By the alternate action of the two muscles the trituration of the food is mainly effected. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 20, ^) croSSeS the direction internal of the external, and is nearly parallel to the ramus of the jaw. It P^^^^ys^^'l '• arises in the pterygoid fossa, mainly from the inner surface of the origin; external pterygoid plate, and by a small slip from the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone and the superior maxilla in front of the pterygoid process. The fibres descend to be inserted into insertion; a rough mark on the inner side of the ramus of the lower jaw, extending from the inferior dental foramen to the angle. On the muscle are placed the dental and lingual nerves, the contiguous dental vessels, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Its deep ^^^^^' surface is in relation with the superior constrictor below, and the tensor palati above. The origin of this muscle embraces the lower part of that of the external pterygoid. Action. It acts with the masseter in raising the mandible. ^se. Temporo-maxillary articulation (figs. 21 and 22). ThisJoi"^?^ ^ ° lower jaw. articulation is a compound joint, being formed by the condyle of the lower jaw and the fore part of the glenoid cavity of the temporal bone, with an interposed disc of fibro-cartilage. The bones are united by the following ligaments :— The ca-psule is a thin membranous tube Avhich is attached above to the temporal bone around the articular surface, and below to the ' condyle of the lower jaw, reaching farther down behind than in front. The cavity in the interior is divided into two parts, upper and lower, by the fibro-cartilage ; and the upper portion of the capsule is wider and looser than the lower. The external lateral ligament is a thickened band of the capsule. External composed of fibres passing from the tubercle at the root of the ^ "'^'