303 ULiS^AR AXD MEDIAN NERVES. finger and the sheath of the tendons ; and twigs are supplied to the and arches, phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the bones— an arch being close above each joint. On the dorsum of the last phalanx is a plexus from which the nail-pulp is supplied. Palmar part op the ulnar nerve (fig. 98/). The ulnar Ulnar nerve nerve divides, on or near the annular ligament, into a superficial ^'^^"^ and a deep part. The deep part accompanies the deep branch of the artery to the divides into muscles, and will be dissected with that vessel (fig. 99). deep and The superficial piart furnishes an off'set to the pal maris brevis superficial muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the inner part of P^^*^- the hand, and ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next. Digital nerves (^). The more internal nerve is undivided, like the Digital corresponding artery. The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of their opposed sides ; in the palm of the hand this branch is connected with an offset (•^) of the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar part of the median nerve (fig. 98,^). As soon as the Median median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament it becomes pfies^inus- cmlarged and somewhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal ciesand parts for the supply of digital nerves to the thumb and the remain- ing two fingers and a half ; the outer part also furnishes a small muscular branch to the ball of the thumb. The branches of the nerve are covered by the fascia and the superficial palmar arch ; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The muscular branch ("*) supplies the outer head of the flexor Branch to brevis, the abductor, and the opponens pollicis muscles. muscles. h. The digital nerves (^) are five in number. Three of them are Five digital undivided, and come from the external of the two pieces into which ^^^^'^'^^: the trunk of the median splits. The other two spring from the inner piece of the nerve, and are bifurcated, each supplying the ojiposed sides of two fingers. The first tivo nerves belong to the thumb, one on each side, and first two, the outer one communicates with a branch of the radial nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and third, gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and fourtii, ■divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth also divides into two branches, which are distributed to fifth, the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it communicates with a branch of the ulnar nerve. Oil the fingers. On the sides of the fingers the nerves are in front On the sidos •of the arteries, and rea^h to the last phalanx, where they end in g^ers- filaments for the ball, and the pulp beneath the nail. In their course downwards the nerves supply chiefly tegumentary branches : lateral offsets.