626 DISSECTIOX OF THE THIGH. Vastus internus arises from femur and adductor tendons: forms prominence above knee. Crureus has widest origin: common ending: is deepest part of all. Common tendoii above knee. Subcrureal bursa. Lay bare l)art below knee. Infrapatellar tendon inserted into tubercle of tibia; expansion over it. Small sub- crureus muscle ends on the synovial sac. the rectus, tensor vaginse femoris, and gluteus maximus muscles. The deep surface rests on the crureus, and receives branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS (fig. 202, e) also has a narrow origin from the inner surface of the femur along the linea aspera and the pro- longation upwards of its inner lip, reaching as high as the small trochanter ; and in the lower half of the thigh from the tendons of the adductor longus and adductor magnus. The fibres join an aponeurosis which blends in the common tendon, and is attached to the patella lower than the vastus externus. The muscular mass is in part covered by the sartorius and rectus, but it projects between those muscles below. Some of the lower fibres are almost transverse, and will be able to draw the patella inwards. The CRUREUS arises from the u}:^ v three-fourths of the anterior and outer surfaces of the femur, except where they are occupied by the vastus externus, and from the lower half of the external inter- muscular septum. Its fibres end, like the other parts, in an aponeurosis which enters into the common tendon. The rectus and vasti cover the crureus except for a small extent at its lower and hinder part. It lies upon the bone and the sub- crureus muscle. The common or suprapatellar tendon resulting from the union of the foregoing is attached to the fore part of the upjoer border of the patella. It is oblong in shape, and about three inches long. A few fibres are prolonged over the front of the bone into the ligamentum patellse, which forms the continuation of the tendon. Between the suprapatellar tendon and the femur there is a bursa, which usually opens into the knee-joint. \ Dissection. To see the continuation of the tendon, and its insertion into the tibia, the student should divide along the middle line of the patella and knee-joint a thin aponeurotic layer, whicli is derived from the lower fibres of the muscle, and covers the joint. On reflecting inwards and outwards the fibrous layer, the tendon will be exposed. The infrapatellar tendon, or ligamentum jjaie^te, is about two inches long, and is narrower and thicker than the part above the knee. It extends from the lower margin of the patella to the tubercle of the tibia ; and a bursa separates it from the bone above its insertion. From the lower part of the vasti muscles a superficial aponeurotic expansion is derived : this prolongation, which is strongest on the inner side, is united with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule in front of the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. Suhcrureus muscle. Beneath the crureus, near the knee-joint, is a thin layer of pale fibres, which is but a part of the large muscle, separated from the rest by areolar tissue. Attached to the femur in the lower fourth, and often by an outer and inner slip, it ends in aponeurotic fibres on the synovial sac of the knee-joint.