221 TRANSVERSE FISSURE OF CEREBRUM. The HIPPOCAMPUS MAJOR (fig. 70, I) is tlie large convex eminence Hippocnm- in the floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and like i'"^ inajor. that is cnrved, Avith the concavity directed inwards. Its anterior extremit}', which is named ^:)e.s hippocampi, is somewhat enlarged, pes hippu- and presents two or three indentations, resembling the foot of a <'ampi- feline animal. Along the inner margin of the hippocampus is tlie i<i'nia hippo- Ta-niahippo- ramp)i or fimbria (fig. 71, c), which is prolonged from the fornix ; "^'""^ this ends below by joining the small recurved part of the unchiate convolution (p. 214). Dissection, To examine more fully the hippocampus, tlie hinder Dissection, portions of the corpus callosum and fornix should be divided in the middle line, and the posterior part of the right hemisphere should be drawn away from the rest of the brain. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippocampus, and this projection has been cut across, its structure will be seen. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface l)y a striictiue thin medullary layer, with which the taenia blends. On its opposite cLupus' surface is the hollow of the hippocampal fissure of the exterior of the brain, which is lined by grey substance. Beneath the tseuia Idppocampi the grey matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata : this is external to the cavity of the A eiitricle, and has been, named the dentate convolution (p. 215). The EMINENTIA COLLATERALis (fig. 70, h) is the triangular, slightly Collateral convex surface occupying the fioor of the posterior and descending cornua of the lateral ventricle to the outer side of the hippocam])i. It lies over the collateral fissure of the under surface of the hemi- formeii i.> sphere ; and its extent varies greatly in difierent su1)jects. flssure.'' ' The AMYGDALOID TUBERCLE is a Variable eminence due to a c(»l- Anivf^iaioid lection of grey matter, the amygdaloid nucleus (fig. 74), on the outer side of the uncus, with the cortical layer of which it is continuous. Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. By draiving the sepa- fJr'-at t'iiiis- verse lissure rated part of the right hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the optic thalamus, and replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the position and boundaries, on one side, of the great cleft of the brain. This fissure lies beneath the fornix and splenium of the corpus is beuoatii callosum, and above the optic thalami and corpora <|uadrigemina leaoji^VV'ase (fig. 69); and in the dissected brain it opens into the lateral ventricle of brain, aloug the edge of the fornix on each side, from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. The slit opening into the lateral ventricle {choroidal fijisure^ is bounded by the edge of the fornix with the taenia hippocampi on the one side, and by the optic thalamus and crus cerebri on the other. A fold of pia Pia mater mater (velum interpositum) projects into the transverse fissure ^ ' beneath the fornix (fig. 71, g), and forms lateral fringes—the choroid plexuses, which appear in the ventricles along the margins of the slit. In the natural state the fissure is separated from the cavity of the ventricle by the epithelium of the ependyma being continued over the choroid plexus. The student is now to return to the examination of the parts in Parts in the