436 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Artery of bulb in the triangvilar ligament; its situation varies. Artery <>f body "of penis. Artery of dorsum of penis. or more branches to tlie levator ani and sphincter, and fine twigs through the ligament to the constrictor and the urethra. b. The artery of the hulh is a branch of considerable size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing almost transversely inwards between the fibres of the constrictor muscle, about half an inch from the base of the triangular ligament, the artery reaches the upper surface of the bulb, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. The distance of this branch from the l)ase of the ligament will be influenced by its origin nearer the front or back of the perineal space. If the vessel arises earlier than usual, it may be altogether behind the ligament, and may cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation of lithotomy. c. The artery of the corpus caverriosnvi {c) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At first this vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramifies in the cavernous structure of the penis (p. 583). d. The dorsal artery of the pejiis {h) is in direction the continua- tion of the pudic ; it runs upwards between the crus and the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at p. 446. Accessory pudic artery : Accessory pudic artery. In some cases the pudic artery is not large enough to supply the branches above described to the penis and the urethra. One or more offsets will then be contributed by an accessory vessel, which leaves the pelvis in front by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this accessory artery is the internal iliac (p. 565). Pudic veins. Dorsal nor of the pen Parts cut i lithotomy. in cutting- down to " urethra. The pudic veins, two in number, have frequent communications together, so as to form a plexus round the artery ; they receive similar branches, except that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join them. The DORSAL NERVE OF THE PENIS has been seen in the ischio- rectal fossa (p. 428). In the anterior half of the perineum it takes a similar course to the pudic artery, but at a deeper level and in a distinct sheath, within the triangular ligament, and then pierces the superficial layer of that structure close to the inferior ramus of the pubis, to be continued with the dorsal artery to the l^enis. Its termination is described at p. 446. The nerve supplies filaments to the constrictor urethrse muscle. Parts cut in the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation for stone in the bladder may be divided into three stages, viz., cutting down to the urethra, opening the canal, and slitting the tube and the neck of the bladder. In the external incision the knife is entered near the middle line of the j^erineum, one inch in front of the anus, and is drawn backwards on the left side as far as midway between the ischial tuberosity and the anus. The skin and fat, the transverse perineal muscle and artery, the inferior hsemorrhoidal vessels and nerve lying across the ischio-rectal fossa,