119 THYROID BODY. vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are nearer to the carotid than difference on the right side, and are sometimes jjlaced over the artery, in the ne^y^e"^ ^^'^ lower third of the neck. Parts in the upper aperture of the thorax. The relative Parts in the position of the several parts entering or leaving the thorax by the thomx!^^ upper opening may be now observed. In the middle line lie the remains of the thymus gland, and the In middle trachea and oesophagus. In front of the trachea are the lower ends of the sterno-byoid and sterno-thyroid muscles with layers of the cervical fascia, and the inferior thyroid veins ; and behind the gullet and windpipe are the longi colli muscles. Between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve on the left side. On each side the dome of the pleura and the apex of the lung On each project into the neck ; and in the interval between the pleura and the trachea and oesophagus, are placed the vessels and nerves passing between the thorax and the neck. Most anteriorly on both sides partly the lie the innominate vein, the phrenic nerve, and the internal mam- both sides, mary artery ; but the vessels and nerves next met with are different and partly on the two sides :—On the right side come the innominate artery, different, witli the vagus, the cardiac nerves, and the right lymphatic duct. On the left side are the left vagus, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind on each side are part of the first dorsal nerve, the cord of the sympathetic, and the superior inter- costal artery. The THYROID BODY (fig. 17,^^) is a soft reddish mass, which Thyroid embraces the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two lateral , ^ OOTlSlStS Ol lobes, united by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe, two lobes The connecting piece from a quarter to three-quarters of an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed over the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller end upwards, and -is about two inches in length. It is interposed Relations between the windpipe with the larynx and the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is covered by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe varies ; but usually extent of it reaches as high as the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. From the upper border of the thyroid body, a conical process. Middle lobe known as the pyramid, often ascends towards the hyoid bone, to Py^^"^^" • which it is attached by a fibrous band. The pyramid generally springs from the inner part of one of the lateral lobes, seldom from the isthmus ; and it is sometimes connected to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator glandidm thijroidem. Detached portions of ^^^^^^^^'^ glandular substance, or accessory thyroid glands, are not unfrequently found between the main body and the hyoid bone. The thyroid body is of a brownish red or purple hue, is granular in texture, and weighs from one to two ounces. It is larger in the J^e"^*^"'^ woman than in the man. On cutting into the gland a viscid yellowish fluid escapes. It has not any excretory tube or duct. No duct.