MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 25 Action. By the action of this muscle the upper lip is raised, and use. the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS (fig. 7, is Opposite the Depressor of elevator of the u^iper lip, and has mucli yellow fat mixed with its ^"^^^'^i'J^^^ • fibres. The muscle has a wide origm from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching from near the symphysis to a little beyond the mental foramen; ascending thence it is inserted into the skin of the lower li^D. Its inner border joins in the lip the muscle of the opposite side ; and its outer is overlapped by the depressor anguli oris. Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same use. side is dej^ressed and everted ; but by the use of both muscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwards, and rendered tense at the centre. The LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS (fig. 7, f) lias M'cll-marked fibres, Elevator of and is partly concealed by the levator labii superioris. Arising from the canine fossa below the infraorbital foramen, its fibres descend towards the angle of the mouth, where they are superficial to the buccinator, and are j^artly inserted into the skin, but the greater enters orbi- number are continued into the orbicularis of the lower lip. cuiarih. Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts use. as an antagonist to the depressor. The DEPRESSOR ANGULI ORIS (fig. 7, is triangular in shape. Depressor It ftmes from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower jaw ; and ascending to the angle of the mouth, a few of its fibres are there vnserted into the skin, but the greater number decussate with also joins those of the elevator muscle and pass into the upper part of the orbicuians: orbicularis. The depressor conceals the mental branches of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. It is united at its origin with the platysma myoides, and near its insertion with the risorius muscle. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards by it, as use. is exemplified in a sorrowful countenance. The ZYGOMzVTic MUSCLES (fig. 1, ' and ^) are directed obliquely ^J^^'^^^^'^'^ from the malar bone towards the angle of the mouth and the upper lip. One is longer and larger than the other ; they are therefore named major and minor. The zygomaticus major (^) arises from the outer part of the malar large and bone, and is inserted into the skin and mucous membrane at the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor (') arises from the malar bone in front of small: the major, and blends with the elevator of the upper lip. Actio7i. The large muscle draws upwards and backwards the use. corner of the mouth, as in laughing ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upper lip. The RISORIUS MUSCLE (fig. 7, ^) is a thin bundle of fibres, some- Risorius times divided into two or more parts, which arises externally from "^""^^^^ • the fascia, over the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Actio7i. It retracts the corner of the mouth in smiling, use. The BUCCINATOR (fig. 7, is the flat and thin muscle of the Buccinator muscle: