AETICULATIONS OF THE LARYNX. 169 Fig. 4/ tissue. By its lower border tlie membrane is fixed, to tbe iij^per edge of the cricoid cartilage, reaching back to the articulation with the arytenoid. Its central part is thick and strong, and is attached above to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. The lateral part is thinner, and is continued upwards l^eneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, to end in a thickened border, which is attached behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid car- tilage, constituting the inferior thyro-ary- tenoid ligament in the true vocr^l cord (p. 163). The central part of the membrane is partly exposed between the crico-thyroid muscles, and small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels into the larynx. The lateral part is separated from the thyroid cartilage by the thyro-arytenoid and lateral crico-arytenoid muscles. The deep surface of the membrane is lined by the mucous membrane. The crico-thyroid articulation is formed Ijetween the inferior cornu of the thyroid and the lateral articular facet of the cricoid cartilage. A capsular ligament, Avhich is thickest behind, and lined by synovial membrane, surrounds the articu- lation. This joint allows of a slight degree of gliding movement backwards and for- wards, and of a rotatory movement around a transverse axis, by which the front of the cricoid cartilage is raised or depressed. (See the action of the crico-thyroid and thyro-arytenoid muscles.) Crico-arytenoid articulation. Between the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages there is a synovial joint surrounded by a loose capsule. To the inner side of the joint there is a well marked crico-arytenoid ligament, which passes from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage near the middle line to the adjacent part of the base of the arytenoid, and prevents the latter cartilage being drawn forwards over the cricoid. The arytenoid cartilage glides upwards and inwards, or down- wards and outwards, to a slight extent on the oblique articular facet of the cricoid ; but its principal movement is one of rotation, by which the vocal process is carried inwards and somewhat downwards, approximating the vocal cords and narrowing the glottis, or outwards and upwards, enlarging the glottis. Between the apex of the arytenoid cartilage and the capitulum * View of the vocal cords and crico-thyroid ligaments. 1. True vocal cord. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Ary- tenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryugis. 6. Lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane. median part, and lateral parts; elations. niovemeuts. Crico- arytenoid joint and ligament: movements, gliding and rotation. Arytenoid and capituluuj.