492 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Pancreas; situation and form; relations, of surfaces of borders, and of ends. The peritonea] relations of the duodenum have been noticed at p. 483. Pancreas (hg. 160, e). The pancreas is situate behind the stomach, extending from the duodenum to the spleen, and occupy- ing parts of the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions. In form it is elongated, with its right portion much expanded from above down, constituting the head ; this part lies in front of the first and second luml)ar vertebrse, the great vessels intervening. The gland is covered in front by peritoneum derived from the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. Its anterior surface is for the most part concave, corresponding to the stomach ; but in front of the spine it forms a projection {omental tuberosity, His) opposite the small curvature and lesser omentum. Posteriorly it is in contact with the vena cava, aorta, pillars of the diaphragm, left kidney and renal vessels, sj)lenic vein and beginning of the vena porta), and the solar plexus. Projecting above the pancreas, where it crosses the aorta, is the coeliac axis, from which the splenic artery runs to the left along the upper border ; while on the right side the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum lie above it. At the lower border is the third part of the duodenum ; and the superior mesenteric vessels emerge l)etween the two. • The head of the pancreas is received into the concavity of the duodenum ; and the common bile-duct lies between the two for a short distance behind. The greater breadth of the head is due to a portion of the gland being bent downwards; and this projecting part is directed to the left along the duodenum, beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. The left end or tail touches the spleen, and rests on the splenic flexure of the colon. CCELIAC AXIS AND PORTAL VEIN. Arteries of viscera. Veins. How to dis- sect coeliac axis, and branches, hepatic, and splenic. A short branch of the aorta—the coeliac axis—furnishes arteries to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, pancreas, and spleen : it subdivides into three primary branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The veins corresponding to the arteries (except the hepatic) are collected into one trunk—the vena portse. Dissection. The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and in tracing them out fully the student should spare the nerve-plexuses around them. Supposing the liver well raised, he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, and show its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach. Next, the hepatic artery, with the portal vein and the bile-duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall-bladder; and a considerable branch of the artery should be pursued beneath the pylorus to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which lies along the upper border of the pancreas, is to be cleaned ; and its branchos to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should be