NEEVES OF THE ARM. 283 with the musculo-ciitaneoiis nerve. Its rehitioiis to muscles are the same as those of the artery. The ULNAR NERVE derived from the imier cord of the brachial Ulnar nerve plexus, lies close to the inner side at first of the axillary, and then of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis : then leaving the blood-vessel, it is directed backwards through the inner intermuscular sejotum to the interval between the olecranon and the internal condyle, being surrounded by the muscular fibres is without of the triceps. There is not any branch from the nerve till it }ar'^s^i^g reaches the elbow-joint. elbow. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS (") is a tegumentary nerve of the fore- internal arm. Arising from the inner cord of the plexus, it is at first ]7e*ve be^^ superficial to the brachial artery as far as the middle of the arm, "eath the where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia and reach the forearm (p. 289). Near the axilla it furnishes a small oftset to the skin of the front of the arm. The NERVE OF Wrisberg (small internal cutaneous ; ^) arises with Nerve of the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillary vein, it is directed beneatiAhe inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and joins with fast^ia. the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the integument (p. 277). The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE, named from supplying muscles muscuIo- and integuments, ends on the surface of the forearm. It leaves the nerveln^Uie outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the arm: pectoralis minor (p. 261), and immediately perforates the coraco- brachialis : it is then directed oblicjuely to the outer side of the limb between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. At the front of the elbow it becomes a cutaneous nerve of the forearm. Branches. The nerve furnishes a branch to the coraco-brachialis its muscular before entering the muscle, and others to the biceps and lirachialis anticus where it is j)laced between them. Dissection. The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought into Dissection, view by cutting through the tendon of the bicej)s near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be defined on each side, so as to show that it Deiine reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only ^ for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is re(![uired in detaching the brachialis externally from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely applied. As the muscles are separated, the musculo-spiral nerve with a small artery comes into sight. The BRACHIALIS ANTICUS (fig. 93, h) covers the elbow-joint and Brachialis the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises Irom the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid origin; muscle ; and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, xiz., froni all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer. The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, wdiich is inserted into the im- insertion; pression on the front of the coronoid ju^ocess of the ulna (p. 300).