129 SOFT PALATE. The SOFT PALATE (veluiTi pendulum palati; q) is a moveable Soft palate structure between the mouth and the pharynx, which can either n!outh^: close the opening of the mouth, or cut off the communication with the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual surfaces; position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) its anterior surface is concave, and is continuous with the roof of the mouth ; while the opposite surface is convex and turned to the j)harynx. The upper border is fixed to the posterior margin of the hard borders; palate ; and on each side it joins the pharynx. The lower border from it is free, and is produced in the centre into a conical pendulous part imila. —the uvula (p). Along its middle is a slight ridge, indicative of the original separation into two halves. Descending from the soft palate on each side of the fauces are Arches or • ■ T)illars' the two folds of mucous membrane before referred to, containing muscular fibres, and named the arches or pillars of the soft palate or fauces. The anterior pillar (i) springs from the anterior surface anterior; of the soft palate near the base of the uvula, and reaches to the side of the tongue rather behind the middle ; and the posterior (l), posterior. longer than the other, is continued from the lower border of the velum to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their origin to their termination, they limit a triangular space in which the tonsil lies. The soft palate consists of an aponeurosis, with muscles, vessels, ^f^^J^j"^'^*^ nerves, and mucous glands ; and the whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissection. Some of the muscles of the palate are readily dis- Dissect played, but others require care in their dissection. On the right side the two principal muscles of the soft palate— levator and T -1 • mi 111 tensor on the elevator and tensor, are very plam, 1 hese have already been right half; partly dissected ; but to follow them to their termination, let the upper attachment of the pharynx on the right side, and the part of the superior constrictor which arises from the internal pterygoid plate be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane and a few muscular fibres cover- ing its lower end. The tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate ; and its situation in the palate beneath the levator should be made evident. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should also be ascertained. On the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised with great left ' , " . palato- care from the posterior surface of the soft palate, to obtain a view pharyngeus, of the superficial muscular fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus muscle ; and beneath them, close to the middle line, are the longi- tudinal fibres of the azygos uvulse. A slender muscular bundle ^^^^^^ contained in the ridge of mucous membrane descending from the extremity of the Eustachian tube is to be exposed and traced to its junction with the palato-pharyngeus. On the right side, a deeper set of fibres of the palato-pharyngeus is to be followed beneath the levator and azygos muscles. K