CHAPTER VIII. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section I. WALL OF THE ABDOMEN". The dissection is to be carried as far as the end of Sectiox III Directions (p. 499), before the body is turned for the examination of the back, dissection. Position. The body will be suthciently raised by the blocks Position of beneath the thorax and head for the dissection of the upper limbs '^o&y. and neck, but the dissector should see that the chest is higher than the pelvis. If the abdomen is flaccid, it may be inflated through an aperture in the umbilicus, but if it is hrm, proceed with the dissection without blowing it up. Surface-marking. On its anterior aspect the abdomen is pretty Appear- uniformly convex, especially in fat bodies ; but at the side there is surface of^^'*' a slight hollow below the ribs, and a groove marks the position of the abdo- the iliac crest. Along the middle line is a groove over the linea alba, which begins above in a depression over the ensiform j^rocess (epigastric or infrasternal fossa), and becoming gradually shallower Pit of the below, ends a little beyond the umbilicus. The latter is a round, depressed cicatrix, situate nearer to the pubic bones than to the lower end of the body of the sternum, and ojDposite, as a rule, the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebraj. On each side of the median groove is the elevation of the rectus muscle, which is intersected in adult well-formed bodies by two or three trans- verse furrows. Over the lower ends of the recti and the adjacent parts of the Eminence of pubes pubic bones the surface is somewhat elevated, owing to a slight accumulation of fat; and the name pubes has been given to this part from its thick covering of hair. This projection is especially marked in front of the bones in the female, where it is distinguished as the mons Veneris. Beneath the eminence of the pubes the student Mons will be able to recognize with his finger the symjjhysis pubis, and to trace outwards from it the osseous pubic crest, which leads to the prominent pubic spine. From this to the anterior superior iliac inguinal spine the curved inguinal furrotu extends, separating the abdomen from the thigh. If the finger be carried along the furrow it will Poupavt's detect the firm band of Poupart's ligament, and sometimes one or ' two inguinal glands.