CHAPTER y. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Directions. The dissection of the back may be iiiidertakeu l)y one Directions, student ; or conjointly by the dissectors of the head and upper limbs, the former preparing the neck, and the latter making ready the dorsal and lumbar regions. If the back should be allotted to more than one student, the dis- sector of the upper limb may attend chiefly to the paragraphs marked with an asterisk ; and the dissector of the neck may study specially the paragraphs which are not so marked. But as many of the dissections in the earlier stages require the co-operation of the students employed on the same side of the bod}'^, a general attention should be given to the whole by each. The dissector of the abdomen is to examine the arrangement of the fascia lumborum, after the first layer of the dorsal muscles has been learnt. Position. The body lies with the face downwards ; and the trunk J'^'^j!^^'^" is to be raised by blocks beneath the chest and the pelvis, so that the limbs may hang over the end and sides of the dissecting table. To make tense the neck, the head is to be depressed and fastened with hooks. In this region there are six successive lavers of muscles, amongst Strata iu back. which vessels and nerves are interspersed. Dissection. The first step is to raise the skin in two flaps by J^.J^^^^ means of the following incisions :—One cut is to be made along ' the middle line of the body from the occipital protuberance to the back of the sacrum. Another is to be carried from the last dorsal spine to the acromion process of the scapula. The flap of skin above the last cut is to be turned outwards by the dissectors of the head and upper limb. By a transverse incision opposite the iliac crest, the remaining piece of integument may l^e detached, and reflected by the dissector of the upper limb in the same direction as the upper flap. Beneath the upper flap of skin the trapezius muscle is placed, and under the lower one the latissimus dorsi. The cutaneous nerves may be now sought in the superficial fatty Seek layer : tliey are accompanied by small arteries which will guide the ^^erves*:"^ student to their position. The nerves vary much in size in the c c 2