360 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Objects con- tained in the arch. Three branches of the arch. Innominate artery ends in carotid and sub- clavian : relations. Left com- mon caro- tid: relations in the thorax. Left sub- clavian artery : course and relations in the chest. nerves, tlie last sending inwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border, in front of the great branches, is the left innominate vein {g), to which the left upper intercostal vein {i) is directed over the hinder part of the arch ; and to the lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arterial duct (e) is attached. Below the concavity of the arch of the aorta are the root of the left lung, the branching of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. The three large branches of the arch supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. First on the right is the trunk of the in- nominate artery (h) ; close to it is the left carotid (c) ; and last of all comes the left subclavian (d). The INNOMINATE ARTERY (brachio-cephalic ; h), the tirst and largest of the three branches, measures from one inch and a half to two inches in length. Ascending to the right beneath the sternum, it divides opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation into the right common carotid and subclavian arteries. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein (<j), and lies behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origins of the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. At first it rests on tlie trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the air-tube. To its right is the innominate vein of the same side (h). Usually no lateral branch arises from this artery. Left common carotid ai^tery (c), Tlie common carotid artery of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance between the arch and the top of the sternum. In the thorax the artery ascends obliquely to the left sterno- clavicular articulation, but not so close as the innominate to the first piece of the sternum and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein(f/), and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but afterwards inclines to the left of that tube, so as to be jilaced over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. The LEFT subclavian artery (d) ascends to the neck through the upper aperture of the thorax, and then curves outwards between the scaleni, where it has the same relations as the vessel of the right side (p. 68). The trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the level of the first rib. In the thorax it is deeply placed, near the spine. To its inner side is at first the trachea, and after- wards the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. On its outer side it is invested by the left pleura ; and the left innominate vein crosses in front of the vessel as it enters the neck. Somewhat anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direction, are some of the cardiac nerves. The relations of the first part of the left subclavian artery in tlie neck are given on j?. 117.