DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 284 relations of surfaces, of borders; vise, fore- arm free, and fixed. Tliis muscle is for the most part concealed by the biceps. On it lie the brachial vessels, with the median, musculo-cntaneous, and mnsculo-spiral nerves. It covers the humerus and the articLdation of the elbow. Its origin embraces by two slips the tendon of the deltoid ; and its insertion is placed between two fleshy points of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border reaches the inter- muscular septum in all its length ; but the outer is separated below from the external intermuscular septum by two muscles of the forearm, supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior. Action. The bracliialis brings forwards the ulna towards the humerus, and bends the elbow-joint. If the ulna is fixed, as in climbing with the hands above the head, the muscle bends the joint by raising the humerus. BACK OF THE ARM. Position of the part. Lay bare the triceps, and separate pieces. Triceps mnsoie has tliree heads origin of middle head, of outer head. and of inner head; directioii of the fibres; insertion; Position. During the examination of the back of the arm, the limb is to be raised in a semiflexed position by means of a block beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be brought nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres ; and it is to be fastened with hooks in that position. Dissection (fig. 94). On the back of the arm there is one muscle, the triceps, beneath wdiich are placed the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda vessels. The skin having been already reflected, the muscle will be laid bare readily, for it is covered only by fascia. To take away the fascia, carry an incision along the middle of the limb to the point of the elbow ; and in reflecting it, the loose sub- a]3oneurotic tissue should be removed at the same time. Separate the middle from the inner and outer heads of the muscle ; and trace the musculo-spiral nerve and vessels beneath it. Define the outer head, which reaches down to the spot at which the musculo-spiral nerve api^ears on the outer side. The TRICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 94) is divided superiorly into three heads of origin, inner, outer, and middle : two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. The middle or long head (a) has a tendinous origin, about an inch wide, from a rough mark on the axillary margin of the scapula close to the glenoid cavity, where it is united with the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The outer head (b) is narrow and arises from the back of the humerus, extending from the root of the large tuberosity to the spiral groove. The inner head (c), fleshy and wide, arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, reaching laterally to the intermuscular septa, and gradually tapering upwards as far as the insertion of the teres major. From the difterent heads the fibres are directed with vary- ing degrees of inclination to a wide common tendon above the elbow. Inferiorly, the muscle is inserted into the end of the olecranon pro- cess of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon there is sometimes a small bursa.