DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. consists of two strata : apertures in it for iiretlira, for arteries and nerves of penis ; parts bet. ween layers. Dissection. Constrictor nrethraj: attach- ments ; disposition of libres. Ti-ansverse ligament. The ligament is comjDosed of two layers of membrane (superior and inferior) which are united along the base. The superior layer is derived from the recto-vesical fascia. The inferior is a separate membrane, formed chiefly of transverse fibres ; but it is so thin as to allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. Perforating the inferior layer of the ligament, about one inch from the symphysis pubis, is the canal of the urethra ; but the margin of the opening giving passage to that tube is blended with the tissue of the corpus spongiosum. Nearer the symphysis, and close to the bone on each side, the terminal part of the jDudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis (h and 3) perforate the ligament by separate apertures. Between the layers of the ligament are contained the membran- ous part of the urethra, the Fiff. 146.^ constrictor urethree muscle, Cowper's glands, the pudic vessels with their branches to the bulb, and the dorsal nerves of the penis. Dissection. The muscle be- tween the layers of the liga- ment will be reached by cutting through with care, on the left side, the superficial stratum near its attachment to tiie bone, and raising and turning inwards that piece of membrane. By a little cautious dissection, and the removal of some veins, the fleshy fibres of the constrictor urethrse will be exposed. The CONSTRICTOR URETHRA (fig. 145, I; 146, b) extends trans- versely across the subpubic arch, enclosing the membranous -pait of the urethra in the same way as the sphincter ani externus surrounds the end of the rectum. The muscle is attached by tendinous bundles on each side to the rami of the pubis and ischium, and other fibres spring from the two layers of the triangular ligament. Between these attachments the fleshy fibres are directed transversely and obliquely across the middle line, one set passing in front of, and another behind the urethra, where they are interrupted in some cases by a small median tendon. At the anterior border of the muscle there is a short fibrous band stretching across between the inferior rami of the pubic bones, and bounding with the subpubic ligament at the lower margin of the symphysis an oval opening, through which the dorsal vein of the penis enters * The sympliysis pubis seen from above, with part of the urinary bladder and the prostate, and with the tube of the urethra surrounded by the con- strictor muscle (Santprini). a. Bladder cut open : the swelling of the prostate surrounds it in front, h. Constrictor urethra :—c. Part of the muscle before, and d, part behind the urethra.