VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. 489 sigmoid flexure. The absorbents of the intestine, after passing through these glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands. Sympathetic Nerve. The foUowincj plexuses of the sympathetic Plexuses of _ _ . . . ^ . . ■ 1 • the sympa- on the vessels, viz., superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, and m-thetie to the ferior mesenteric, are derived from the solar plexus beneath the ^'i^cera. stomach. The remaining portion of the symjiathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to (p. 497). Dissection. On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector will have Dissection already made out the plexuses of nerves distributed to the intes- tinal tube beyond the duodenum. He has now to trace on the aorta the connecting nerves between aortic the mesenteric plexuses, by taking away the peritoneum below the P^^^"^' ^"'^ ])ancreas. From the upper part of the aortic plexus an ofi'set is to be followed along the spermatic artery ; this may be done on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By detaching the peritoneum below the bifurcation of the aorta, iiypogastiic and following doAvnwards over the iliac arteries the nerves from the P^®^"**' aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the Jiypogastric plexus, above the promontory of the sacrum. The superior mesenteric plexus is a large bundle of nerves, and is Superior distributed to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric piexus artery. The nerves surround closely the trunk and larger branches is on artery of the artery : but near the intestine some of them leave the vessels, same ' , ' name: and divide and communicate before entering the gut. The offsets secondary of the main plexus are named after the arteries which they accom- plexuses, pany, viz., intestinal nerves to the small intestine, and ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic plexuses to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is an open network of nerves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery ; it is stronger on the sides between^ than on the front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving acces- mesenteric sory branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. Above, the plexus derives an oftset, on each side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends below, on each side, in branches offsets, which cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus. From it offsets are furnished to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The spermatic plexus, formed by roots from both the aortic and the Spermatic renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle ; in the cord r^<^^"s • it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the ovarian (spermatic) artery are i7i female, furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plexus supplies the part of the intestinal inferior tube to which its artery is distributed. This plexus is furnished piexiis*r'^ from the left side of the aortic j^lexus ; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the j)receding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the sigmoid flexure the branching of the nerves join nerves and the union of contiguous twigs are well marked. Its ofi'sets ves^seis*'; (plexuses) are left colic, sigmoid, and suijerior hsemorrhoidal : they ramify on those arteries, and have a like distribution. ^' exuses. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre for the Hypogastric supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate i'^^^"^ '•