INNER CEREBRAL SULCI. 213 outer surface, tliey are not usuall}- described as formiug lobes like the foregoing. Dissection. Tlie parts to be now described can only be seen How to .s satisfactorily on a separate hemisphere ; but if the student possesses only the one brain, he may show much of the inner surface by cutting off the left hemisphere as low as the corpus callosum. Sulci. The Cidloso-wargwal snkus {cm) begins below the rostrum Caiioso- of the corpus callosum, and arches upwards, following the curve of ^uiof,!"^^ Fig. 68.-=^- the fore part of that body. It is then directed backwards as far as the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, where it bends up- wards and ends by notching the superior margin of the hemisphere (fig. 66, cm). -Its fore part is frecpiently interrupted b}" one or two small gyri uniting the adjacent convolutions. The parieto-occijjital or iierpendicular fissure (fig. 68, jjo) is a deep Paiieto- cleft which descends from the upper margin of the hemisphere at flygj^^'g**' the back part, with a slight inclination forwards, to join the follow- ing sulcus on a level with the liinder end of the corpus callosum. The calcarine fissure (c) is nearly horizontal. It begins close to caicaiin the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, and is directed forwards, receiving the i)arieto-occipital hssure about the middle of its length, to end a little beloM^ the splenium of the corpus callosum. It gives rise to the eminence called calcar avis in the lateral ventricle, \\ hence its name. * Sulci and convolutions of the inner aspect of the hemisphere. Sulci : cm. Calloso-marginal. po. Parieto-occipital fissure, c. Calcarine fissure. A. Hippocampal fissure, coll. Collateral fissure, it. Inferior teniporo-sphenoidal sulcus. Convolutions: >i. Marginal. Ov. Ova! lobule. Call. Callosal convolution. Q. Quadrate lobule. Ctin. Cuneate lobule, v. Uncinate convolution, eot. External occipito-temporal. it. Inferior temporo-sphenoidal. fd. Fascia dentata. th. T^nia hippocampi. * Cut surface of optic thalamus.