689 CUTANEOUS NEEVES OX THE FRONT. little toe and foot, as well as in the venous arch ; and it is continued helow the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 666). Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 221). The superficial nerves on the front of the leg and foot are derived mainly from the musculo- cutaneous and anterior tibial branches of the external popliteal trunk, and from the external saphenous nerve of the two popliteal. Some inconsiderable oftaets ramify on the front of the leg from the internal saphenous and external popliteal. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE (^) Cuds OU the dorsum of the foot and toes. Perforating the fascia in the lower third of the leg with a cutaneous artery, it divides into two principal branches (inner and outer), which give dorsal <ligital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and the contigu- ous sides of the great toe and the next. The branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx :— The irmer branch (^) sends one off"set to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and another to the adjacent sides of the second and third toes : it communicates with the internal saphe- nous and the anterior tibial nerves. Tiie outer branch (^) also divides into two nerves ; these lie over the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the contiguous sides of the three toes corresponding with those spaces : it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer border of the foot. The ANTERIOR- TIBIAL NERVE (^) bccOmeS (Cutaneous in the first interosseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 214,^) comes back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe ; all the outer margin of the foot receives nerves from it, and the oftsets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it supplies l)oth sides of the little toe and part of the next. Internal saphenous nerve (fig. 221,'^). This nerve is con- tinued along the vein of the same name to the middle of the instep, where it ceases mostly in the integuments, but some branches pass through the deep fascia to end in the tarsus. Source of the cutane- ous nerves. from the p]xternal saplienous Internal saphenous. Cutaneous nerves of the front of the leg and foot. 1. Anterior tibia]. 2. Musculo-cufcaneous, with 3, its inner, and 4, its outer piece, 5. Internal saphenous. 6. Offsets of external popliteal. Y Y