290 DISSECTIOX OF FEONT OF FOREAEM. nerve to back of hand and fingers. Extent of nerves on fingers. Deep fascia of forearm : at the wrist; posterior annular ligament. Take away fascia, nerves, and veins. Clean out hollow of elbow. rest of the fingers and the back of the hand. Appearing by the styloid process of the nlna, it joins the radial nerve in an arch across the back of the hand, and is distributed to both sides of the little finger, and to the ulnar side of the ring finger : it communicates with the part of the radial nerve furnished to the space between the ring and middle fingers ; and sometimes it supplies this space entirely. The dorsal digital nerves are much smaller than those on the palmar aspect, and cannot be followed on the fingers farther than the base of the second phalanx. On the sides of the finger each communicates with an ofi'set from the palmar nerve. The APONEUROSIS of the forearm is continuous with the similar investment of the arm. It is of a pearly white colour, and is formed of fibres which cross obliquely. The membrane is thicker behind than in front, and is stronger near the elbow than towards the wrist. At the upper part it receives prolongations from the tendon of the biceps in front, and of the triceps behind ; and it gives origin to the muscles springing from the condyles of the humerus. Longi- tudinal white lines indicate the position of deep processes (inter- muscular septa), which separate the muscles, and give origin to their fleshy fibres. On the back of the forearm the fascia is attached to the hinder border of the ulna, and to the margins of a triangular surface at the upper end of that bone, which is left sub- cutaneous. At the wrist the lascia joins the anterior annular ligament; and near that band the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces it, and receives a sheath from it. Close to the pisiform bone there is an aperture through which the ulnar vessels and nerve enter the fat of the hand. Behind the wrist it is thickened by transverse fibres, giving rise to the posterior annular ligament; but on the back of the hand and fingers the fascia becomes very thin. Dissection. The skin is to be replaced on the back of the fore- arm and hand, in order that the denuded parts may not become dry. Beginning the dissection on the anterior surface of the limb, let the student divide the aponeurosis as far as the wrist, and take it away with the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous off'sets of the median and ulnar nerves near the hand. In cleaning the muscles it will be imj^ossible to remove the aponeu- rosis from them at the upper part of the forearm without cutting the muscular fibres. In front of the elbow is the hollow, already partly dissected, between the two masses of muscles arising from the inner and outer sides of the humerus. The space should be carefully cleaned, so as to display the brachial and forearm vessels, the median nerve and branches, the musculo-spiral nerve, and the recurrent radial and ulnar arteries. In the lower half of the foreaini a large artery, radial, is to be ]aid bare along the outer border; and at the inner side, close to the annular ligament, the trunk of the ulnar artery will be recognised as it becomes superficial. These vessels and their branches should