ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. 61 two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from Spinal beneath the same muscles to the sterno-mastoid is the spinal acces- sory nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the Laryngeal thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the larynx, with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; Clean gland, and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid trmyio"^ muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that hyoid. muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process has been already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space. Behind, is the sterno-mastoid muscle (^); and Boundaries, in front, the boundary is formed by a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, are the lower jaw, the skull, and the ear ; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin, the superficial fascia with the platysma, the deep fascia, and the ramifi- cations of the facial and superficial cervical nerves, together with the anterior jugular vein. Muscles in the space. In the area of the triangular interval, as it Contents of is above defined, are seen the larynx and pharynx in part, and ^i^^*^'^- many muscles converging towards the hyoid bone, some being above and some below it. Below are the depressors of that bone, viz., omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyro-hyoid to ; and above are the elevator muscles, viz., mylo-hyoid, digastric, and stylo-hyoid. Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are two of the constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Vessels in the triangular space. The carotid blood vessels and') ^^^^^y^j,^ occupy the hinder and deeper part of the space along the side of space: the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and their course would be marked on course; the surface by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. As high as the level of the cricoid cartilage they are buried beneath coverings; the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone ; but beyond that spot they are covered by the superficial layers over the space, and by the sterno-mastoid muscle which, before it is displaced, conceals the vessels as far as the parotid gland. For a short distance after its exit from beneath the depressor bifurcation, muscles of the hyoid bone, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk ; but opposite, or a little above, the upper border of the thyroid cartilage it divides into two large vessels, external and in- ternal carotid. From the place of division these arteries are con- tinued onwards beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the vessel destined for the f^^^^J-unks internal parts of the head (internal carotid) being the posterior of to one another.