BOUNDARIES OF THE TYMPANUM. 737 temporal brancli of tlie fifth nerve, and enter the auditory passage between the bone and the cartilage (p, 91). Middle Ear. The chief part of the middle ear is the tympanum MidcUe ear or drum, a cavity containing air, which is interposed between the tympamim, external auditory canal and the labyrinth or internal ear. The space is traversed by a chain of small bones, with which special muscles and ligaments are connected. It communicates in front with the pharynx by a canal named the Eustachian tube ; and Kustaciiian behind, it is prolonged into a series of excavations in the mastoid ' ^ ., " . and mastoid part of the temporal bone—the mastoid cells. Small vessels and cells, nerves ramify in the cavity. Dissection. The tympanic cavity should be examined in both a Dissection dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the sf[uamous portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw through the rcjot of bone.' the zygoma and the Glaserian fissure, the tympanum will be brouglit into view by cutting away with the bone-forceps some of the upper surface of tlie petrous portion, and the anterior part of the meatus auditorius. In the recent bone prepare the dissection as above, but without rloing injury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. The TYMPANUM has the form of a very short cylinder, which is Tympanum : l^laced obliquely, so that its end-surfaces (the inner and outer walls form and of the tympanum) are nearer to the median plane in front than behind. The circumference of the cylinder is somewhat irregular, and interrupted at j^arts : in it a roof, a fioor, and an anterior and a posterior Avail are distinguished. The cavity measures about half '^""ensions an inch from above down and from before back. Its breadth may be given as one-sixth of an inch ; but it is wider above and behind' than at the lower and fore parts; and it is narrowest in the centre, owing to the projection towards the cavity of the promontory on the inner wall, and of the tympanic membrane externally. The inner hounddru of the tympanum (fig. 242) is formed by the inner wall outer Avail of the osseous labyrinth, by the parts of AA^hich the con- formation of this surface is mainly determined. Occupying the jreater part of the inner Avail is a rounded eminence called the is marked by prmnontorij (jjr) ; this becomes narrow behind, and its surface is i^^'^'^o^torj^ marked by tAvo or three minute grooA'es Avhich lodge the nerves of ^^'^ grof)ves; the tympanic plexus. AboA'e and beloAv the narroAved end of the ' promontory is an aperture : both lead into the labyrinth. The upper aperture (fo) is semicircular in shape, A\'ith the con- fenestra vexity upwards, and is named fenestra oralis: it opens into the^^^'^' vestibule, and into it the inner bone (stapes) of the chain is fixed. The lower aperture, fenestra rotunda {fr), is rather triangular in ^^^^["^. form, and is situate AA^thin a funnel-shajjed hollow : in the macerated bone it leads into the cochlea ; but in the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane—the secondarA^ membrane of the tympanum. Arching above the fenestra ovalis on this Avail is a ridge of bone ,jC {cf^) AA^hich marks the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and Faiiopius;