SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 121 Tlie dissector is not to examine now the pterygo-maxillary or sub- maxillary regions on the left side, because such a proceeding would interfere with the subsequent dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, oji this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection. For the display of the two lower ganglia of the sym- ^^^g^^^^^*^^" pathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to take away the thetic, great blood-vessels by cutting them across at the lower part of the neck, and near the digastric muscle. In removing the vessels, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The middle ganglion must be sought in the fat and areolar tissue viz., middle . . and lower near the inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen ganglia, fibove the neck of the first rib, after tlie subclavian artery has been divided. The upjDer cardiac nerve may be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The up]Der end of the sternum wdth the attached clavicle is to be ^g^no*.^ taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; clavicular mid the piece of bone is to be put aside for the subsequent exami- nation of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The middle and inferior cervical gmiglia of the sympathetic nerve are so similar to the corresponding ganglia of the right side, that the nerve, same description will suffice (p. 115). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left as on the right ^g^ygg^. side, viz.j sujjerior, middle, and inferior, but they present some diff'erences. The superior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the neck on both upper sides ; but the left in enteriiig the chest lies between and parallel to the carotid and subclavian arteries, and it ends in the superficial cardiac j^lexus. The middle cardiac nerve unites frequently with the next, and middle passes beneath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small branch, which enters lower, the thorax conjoined with the preceding, to end in the deep cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHAEYNX. The pharynx can be examined only when it has been separated Directionss, fiom the back of the head and the spinal column ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner indicated below, so as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The block being removed from beneath the neck, the Detach head is to be j^laced downwards, so that it may stand on the cut from spine, edge of the skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with