LIGAMENTS OF ATLAS AND AXIS. 175 the laminse and spines, capsular ligaments lined by synovial mem- brane for the articular processes, and an intervertebral disc between the bodies of the bones. Directions. The common ligaments will be best seen on the dorsal or lumbar portion of the spine, where they are more strongly elsewhere, developed ; their preparation and description will be found at the end of the thorax, with the description of the ligaments of the spine (p. 380). Should the student examine them in the neck to see their difference in this region, he should leave uncut the neural arches of the upper two vertebrae, to wliich special ligaments are attached. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebrje to each Special ligaments Fig. 49.' ^^^^ other and to the occipital bone : some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are fibrous membranes, between which connect the axis to the atlas, and the latter to the occipital ^^j.^g*])'^ bone in front and behind. Capsular ligaments also surround the and oecipi- articulations formed by these bones on each side, but they will be ^'"^^ examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. The anterior atlanto-axial ligament (fig. 49, ^) consists of a mem- Anterior branous layer attached to the anterior arch of the atlas and the body of the axis, and a superficial thickened band in the centre, prolonged atlas and from the upper end of the anterior common ligament, and connect- ing the ridge on the front of the axis to the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. The anterior occipito-atlanfal ligament (fig. 49) resembles the and between foregoing, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, ocJfjpft^f bone. * External ligaments in front between the occipital bone, atlas, and axis. (Bourgery.) 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Capsule of articulation between occipital bone and atlas, internal to which is the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament. 3. Anterior atlanto-axial. 4. Lateral articulation between the atlas and axis opened.