QUADEATUS LUMBORUM MUSCLE. 539 The psoas and iliacus may be regarded as two heads of one muscle—the ilio-psoas. The QUADRATUS LUMBORUM (fig. 177, G) is a short, flattened Quadratus muscle between the pelvis and the last rib. About two inches wide origin below, it arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the iliac crest behind, and an inch outside that band ; it generally receives in addition two or three slips from the transverse processes of the upper lumbar vertebrae. The fibres ascend to be inserted by insertion; distinct fleshy and tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, and into the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia is contained lumborum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, ^ '^-^ '» together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Behind the (|uadratus is the erector spinse muscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the spine (one muscle use of both antagonising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterally the lumbar region of tlie spine of one. to the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the ciuadra tus. Covering the surface of the tjuadratus is Fascia of the a thin membrane, which is derived from the hinder aponeurosis of ^^^^' the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum ; p. 392) ; it passes in front of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. A thickened band of this fascia forms the external arched ligament, to Avluch the diaphragm is connected (p. 530). Fascia of the iliacus and i^soas. A fascia covers the double flexor Iliac fascia of the hip-joint, and is fixed to the bone on each side of the muscle, mo-psoas; The membrane is strongest opposite the pelvis, where it is attached attachments to the iliac crest on the outer side, and to the brim of the cavity on the inner side : it receives a strong accession from the tendon of the psoas parvus when that muscle is present. Over the upper part of and above, the psoas it becomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebrae ; while on the other it is blended with the fascia over the quadratus ; and above, it joins the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been before explained (p. 469). Dissection. The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands j'^^j^l^^j^g^-"^.^ lying along the vertebrae, and to trace upwards some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides : a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (receptaculum chyli), and the lower end of and the the large azygos vein may be well seen : and the two are to be [.u^um^'and foUow^ed upwards into the thorax. On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic nerves and splanchnic