LIGAMENTS OF SIIOULDEPt-JOINT. 321 The following muscles surround the articulation ;—above and behind are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres ndnor ; below are the long head of the triceps and the lower part of the subsca|ai- laris ; and internally it is covered by the last-named muscle. On the upper part of the capsule is a thick l)and of fibres—-the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament (fig. 90, which springs from the outer side of the coracoid process of the scapula, and widening over the top of the joint, is attached to the great tuberosity and margins of the bicipital groove. Dissection. To see the interior of the articulation cut circularly through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done, the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid ligament, and the tendon of the biceps will be manifest. The tendon of the hiceijs nmscle arches over the head of the humerus, Fi^. 104.* muscles around; accessor)- bund. Dissection of internal structures. Tendon of the biceps. and serves the purpose of a ligament in supporting the bone. It is attached to the upper part of the head of the scapula (fig. 104, d), and is united on each side with the glenoid ligament. At first flat, it afterwards becomes round, and enters the groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, where it is surrounded by the synovial membrane. The glenoid liganient (fig. 104, c) is a fibrous band, which surrounds Glenoid the fossa of the same name, increasing it for the reception of the i'sa"^«rit- head of the humerus. It is about two lines in width, and is con- nected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps ; but most of its fibres are fixed separately to the margin of the glenoid fossa. The synovial memhrane lines the articular surface of tlie capsule, Synovial -. . . -. ■> -I -. 1 • • T J. ■ • J.1 luembran- and IS contmued through the aperture on the inner side to join the ^' View of the interior of the shoulder-joint, a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus, b. Interval of the bicipital groove, c, Grlenoid hgament around the glenoid fossa, d. Tendon of the long head of the biceps fixed at the top of the fossa. Y