716 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Jilantar igameiits: lateral li^ ments; oblique plantar. Line of the articulation across the foot. Two syno- vial sacs. Form of the bones. Motion from above down, with abduc- tion and adduction. more or less longitudinal as tlie}'^ extend from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. The metatarsal hone of the second toe receives three ligaments, one coming from each cuneiform hone. The third hone obtains a ligament from the external cuneiform ; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the cuboid. Plantar ligaments (fig. 231). There is one longitudinal hand from each of the outer two cuneiform to the corresponding metatarsal bone ; but between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are only some scattered fibres. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal; they lie deeply between the bones, and are connected with the second and third metatarsals : they will be better seen by cutting the transverse bands joining the bases of the bones. To the bone of the second toe thera are two bands, one on each side;—the inner is strong and is attached to the internal cuneiform ; and the outer is fixed to the external cunei- form bone. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is provided with one lateral slip on its outer side, which is inserted behind into the external cuneiform bone. Oblique plantar ligaments. A fasciculus of fibres extends across from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsals; and from the external cuneiform there is another slip to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Line of the articulation. The line of the articulation between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in consequence of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulation, the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the outer side of the second metatarsal bone ; then about two lines farther back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform ; and finally, half an inch in front of the last articulation, for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone. Two synovial cavities are present in these tarso-metatarsal articu- lations. There is one between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, which serves also for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of the latter bones : this is not always separate from the following. The second is placed in the joint between the external and middle cuneiforms with their metatarsal bones (third and second), and is an offset of the common synovial cavity belonging to the articulation of the navicular with the cuneiform bones (p. 714) : prolongations from it extend between the lateral articular faces of the second, third, and fourth (inner side) metatarsals. Articular surfaces. The osseous surfaces are not flat; for the metatarsal bones are undulating, and the tarsal are uneven to fit into the others. Movement, From the wedge-shaped form of the metatarsal bones, only a slight movement from above down is obtainable ; and this is greatest in the little toe and the next. In the little toe there is an abductory and adductory motion ; and a small degree of the same exists in the fourth toe.