DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 320 Divide abductor indicis, to show lUnar head of flexor hrevis pollicis. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the jjosterior peiforatmg arteries appear. Lastly, the outer head of the abductor indicis is to be divided, and carefully separated from the first metacarpal bone, so as to display the deep head of the flexor brevis poUicis. The INNER HEAD OF THE FLEXOR BREYLS POLLicis is a slender muscular slip arising from the ulnar side of the base of the first metacarpal bone, and inserted with the adductor obliquus into the inner margin of the base of the first phalanx. It is not always present. Sectiox VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER, ELBOW, WRIST, AND HAND. Directions. Dissection of external ligaments r shoulder. Shoulder- joint, Looseness. Capsular ligament: attach- ments ; aperture: Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb, which are still moist, may ])e examined at once ; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, while the student learns the others. Dissection. For the preparation of the external ligaments of the shoulder-joint the tendons of the surrounding muscles, viz., sub- scapularis, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the capsule ; and as these are united with it, some care will be needed not to open the joint. The Shoulder-Joint. This ball and socket joint (iig. 104) is formed between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the scapula. Enclosing the articular ends of the bones is a fibrous cap- sule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. The bones are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may be drawn from the scapula for the distance of an inch. The ccqmdar ligament (fig. 90,"''') encloses the articular portions of the bones. It is much thickened above, and slightly so below; and the surrounding tendons are closely adherent to it. By the one end it is fixed around the articular surface of the scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. By the other the ligament is fixed (fig. 104) to the neck of the humerus close to the articular surface above, but at a little distance down the bone below ; and its attachment is interrupted between the tuber- osities (&) by the tendon of the biceps muscle, over which it is con- tinued, covering in the bicipital groove (fig. 90). On the inner side there is an aperture in the caj^sule, below the coracoid process, through which the synovial membrane of the joint is continuous with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis.