INFRA-HYOID MUSCLES. 65 liyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great cornu. The anterior belly is in contact with the fascia, after escaping relations; from beneath the sterno-mastoid, and rests on the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. This part of the muscle crosses the caro- tid vessels on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Action. The omo-hyoid muscle depresses and tends to draw back- use. wards the hyoid bone. The STERNO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 16, ^) is a fiat thin band nearer sterno- the middle line than the preceding. It arises from the inner end nmscie: of the clavicle at its posterior aspect, from the back of the manubrium and the cartilage of the first rib. From this origin it ascends to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, internal to the preceding muscle. Its fibres are often interrupted near the clavicle by a tendinous intersection. One surface is covered by the sterno-mastoid and the fascia, relations; When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found to touch the sterno-thyroid, the thyro-hyoid, and the thyroid cartilage. The right and left muscles are separated by an interval which is wider below. Action. It draws the hyoid bone downwards after swallowing ; use. and in laborious respiration it will aid in raising the sternum. The STERNO-THYROID MUSCLE is broader and shorter than the sterno- sterno-hyoid, beneath which it lies. It arises from the posterior muscle: surface of the sternum and cartilage of the first rib below the sterno- hyoid, and is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it meets the thyro-hyoid muscle. The inner border touches its fellow below, while the outer relations; reaches over the carotid artery. The superficial surface is for the most part covered by the preceding hyoid muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, the larynx, and the thyroid body. A transverse tendinous line frequentl}' crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to draw downwards the larynx after use. deglutition, but in conjunction with the following muscle it can also act on the hyoid bone. Like the sterno-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THYRO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 16, ^) forms a continuation of Thyro- the sterno-thyroid. Arising from the oblique line of the thyroid Jj^^^^g^ig, cartilage, the fibres ascend to the anterior half of the great cornu, and the outer part of the body of the hyoid bone. On the muscle lie the omo-hyoid and the steriio-hyoid; and beneath it are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. Action. It draws up the larynx towards the hyoid bone, as in "se. swallowing. The sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid together fix the thyroid cartilage for the action of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Directions. The remaining parts included in this section are the scaleni muscles and the subclavian blood-vessels, with the cervical F