200 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. and in commissure. Special grey masses. Pons: l)Osition, form, surfaces, borders, and sides. It consists of ventral and dorsal jiortions. Dissection to expose the fibres. (caput), consisting of tlie substantia gelatinosa of Rolando, becomes greatly enlarged and approaches tlie surface, giving rise to tlie funiculus and tubercle of Rolando (fig. 61, c). From tlie base of the horn, processes of the grey matter extend backwards into the slender and cuneate funiculi, and are known as the nuclei of those bodies. They are largest in the neighbourhood of the lower end of the fourth ventricle, where they cause the swellings which have been described above as the clava and cuneate tubercle (p. 195). By the opening out of the posterior median fissure and central canal of the cord to form the fourth ventricle, the anterior jDortion of the grey commissure and the bases of the anterior horns are exposed, constituting the grey layer in the floor of that cavity. Special deposits of grey matter. These are the olivary nucleus, which has just been examined, some groups of nerve-cells at the back of the medulla oblongata forming nuclei of origin for several cranial nerves, which will be noticed in connection with the anatomy of the fourth ventricle, and a few small masses of grey substance on the front of the medulla beneath the superficial arciform fibres (nuclei arciformes). Pons Varolii. The PONS VxkROLii (annular protuberance ; fig. 57) is situate above the medulla ol^longata, and between the hemispheres of the cere- l)ellum. In its natural position in the skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelli, resting against the hinder part of the body of the sphenoid bone. It is nearly of a square shape, tliough it is I'atlier wider from side to side, in which direction it measures about an inch and a half. The anterior surface is convex and prominent on each side, but marked along the middle line by a groove in which the basilar artery lies. By the opposite surface the pons forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The uj)per border Is the longer, and arches over the crura cerebri. The lower border is nearly straight, and projects above the medulla oblongata. On each side the pons is continued into the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and the fifth nerve issues at tlie junction of the two. Structure. The ventral or anterior half of the pons consists (jf transverse fibres which are in part of their extent divided into two layers by the prolongation uj)wards of the fibres of the pyramids of the medulla oblongata. The dorsal or posterior half is a continua- tion of the reticular formation, with the grey layer of the floor of the fourth ventricle, from the medulla oblongata. Dissection. The superficial transverse fibres of the pons being divided along the line of the pyramid of the right side (fig. 59) may be turned outwards so as to denude the longitudinal fibres (c) of that body ; and this set of longitudinal fibres, having been cut across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as far as the upper border of the pons. Beneath them wall appear the second or deep set of transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 60, f).