DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 72 opening of lymphatic ducts. Valves. Position may vary. Cervical nerves: position and number. First two differ from rest. Brachial plexus, formed by five nerves. Disposition of nerves in the plexus. Branche:- in the neck are:— Nerves of scaleni an<l longus colli, by the anterior jugular. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 29, ^); and at the like spot on the left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic duct ends (fig. 29, ^). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian trunk is placed outside the opening of the external jugular vein. It should be borne in mind that occasionally the vein is as high in the neck as the third part of its companion artery ; and that it has been seen in a few instances with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCHES OF THE CERVICAL NERVES spring from the common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. These nerves are eight in number, and are equally divided between the cervical and brachial plexuses ; the upper four being combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter plexus. Close to their origin they are joined by ofifsets of communication from the sympathetic cord. To this general statement some addition is needed for the first two nerves, the peculiarities of which are noticed in Section XVIII. Brachial plexus (fig. 18). The lower four cervical nerves and the larger part of the first dorsal are blended in this plexus ; and a fasciculus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches from the neck to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nerves lie at fi-rst between the scaleni muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebrse, and afterwards in the posterior triangular space. The arrangement of the nerves in the plexus is as follows:— The fifth and sixth nerves unite near tlie vertebrae, forming an upper trunk ; the seventh remains distinct and constitutes a middle trunk ; and the eighth cervical and first dorsal join beneath the anterior scalenus in a lower trunk. Near the outer border of the middle scalenus these three trunks bifurcate, each giving off an anterior and a posterior division. As they pass beneath the clavicle the anterior divisions of the upper and middle trunks join to form the outer cord of the plexus ; the posterior divisions of the three trunks by their union give rise to the posterior cord; while the large anterior division of the lower trunk is continued as the inner cord. The three cords accompany the subclavian artery, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla where the nerves of the limb arise. Branches. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. Those of the upper set end mostly in muscles of the lower j)art of the neck and of the scapula ; while the lower set consists of the branches to the upper limb, with which they will be described. Branches above the clavicle. Branches for the scaleni and longus colli muscles. These small twigs arise from the nerves close to the intervertebral foramina, and are seen when the anterior scfilenus is divided.