DIS8ECTI0N OF THE BEAIX. 232 their origin. Fibres of ci-usta. and of t(\"mentnni. Dissection of them in the corpus striatum. Ascending libres spread out in hemisphere, formuig corona radiata. Transverse libres. entering tlie midbrain from tlie pons are collected into two sets, wliich are contained respectively in the crusta and the tegmentum. In this region they are reinforced by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and l)y fibres derived from the corpora quadrigeniina, as well as l)y others springing from tlie grey nuclei of the crura. The fibres of the crusta enter the internal capsule ; and while some (including the pyramidal tract) are continued without interruption through this into the medullary centre of the hemisphere, others pass into the lenticular and caudate nuclei, and fresh fibres are added from those bodies. The longitudinal fibres of the tegmentum for the most part end in the optic thalamus, from the outer side of which also numerous fibres are given oft" to the capsule ; but one tract of tegmental fibres, prolonged from the fillet, passes beneath the thalamus into the hinder part of the internal cajDSule, some of the outer ones inclining to the side and traversing the inner part of the lenticular nucleus as they course upwards. Dissection. A complete systematic view of the ascending fibres cannot now be obtained on the imperfect brain. At this stage the chief purpose is to show the passage of the radiating fibres from the crus through the large cerebral ganglia. To trace the ascending fibres through the corpus striatum, the caudate nucleus of this body should be scraped away (fig. 77) ; and the dissection should be made on the left side, on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this pro- ceeding the internal capsule comes into view, consisting of white fibres with intervening grey matter of the corj^us striatum, giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb (pecten of Reil). On taking away completely the hinder part of the caudate nucleus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and radiating to the posterioi' and inferior portions of the hemisphere. Arrangement of the ascending fibres. The fibres of the internid capsule diverge as they pass through the grey matter of the corpus striatum, and at the outer margin of that body they enter the medullary centre of the hemisphere, where they decussate with the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum, and radiate to all parts of the hemisjihere. The ascending fibres thus form in the hemisphere a part of a hollow cone, named the corona radiata^ the apex of which is towards the crus cerebri, and the concavity turned down- wards. The base of the cone is at the surface of the hemisphere, where the fibres pass into the grey cortex of the convolutions. From the foregoing description it will be evident that the fibres constituting the corona radiata are of two kinds, viz., those extend- ing without interruption from the cortex to the isthmus cerebri, and those uniting the cortex with the corpus striatum and optic thalamus. The transverse or commissural fibres connect the hemisijlieres of the cerebrum across the median plane. They give rise to the great commissure of the corpus callosum (p. 215), and to the anterior commissure (p. 227). These bodies have already been examined.