168 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. surfaces, anterior. and posterior; sides; glands in it. Ossification of: laryngeal cartilages. Ligaments of the larynx. To hyoid Ijone and trachea. Thyro-hyoid jaembrane: median and lateral parts. Lateral thyro-hyoid ligament often contains a cartilage. Relations. Crico- tracheal membrane. Between cricoid and thyroid cartilages. Crico- thyroid niembrane The anterior surface is covered in its upper part by mucous membrane, which forms the three glosso-epiglottidean folds (p. 155) between it and the tongue ; its lower. part is attached to the hyoid bone l^y fatty tissue containing glands, and by the hyo-epiglottidean ligament. The posterior surface is entirely covered by closely adherent mucous membrane, and is for the most part concave ; but at the lower end there is an elevation known as the tubercle or cushion of the epiglottis. To the sides the aryteno-epiglotticlean folds of mucous membrane are united. After the mucous membrane has been removed from the cartilage, its substance will be seen to be excavated l)y numerous pits, which lodge mucous glands. In the adult the hyaline cartilages of the larynx are commonly to a greater or less extent (in old j^ersons sometimes completely) converted into bone. The ossification begins in the thyroid and cricoid cartilages at about twenty years of age, the deposition of osseous matter in the former taking place first in the neighbourhood of the inferior corim, and thence extending along the inferior and posterior borders ; while in the cricoid two or three bony spots appear near the arytenoid articular surface on each side, ancl spread through the upper part of tlie cartilage. The arytenoid cartilages ossify later, from below ujjwards. The tendency to ossification is more marked in the male than in the female. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is connected by extrinsic ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Otlier ligaments unite together the cartilages, sometimes with joints. Union of the larynx with the hyoid hone and the trachea. A loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) extends from the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone ; and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-hyoid membrane (fig. 45, l) is attached on the one hand to the upj)er border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other to the upper border of the hyoid bone. Its central part, extending from the body of the hyoid bone to the margins of the notch in the thyroid cartilage, is of some thickness, but its lateral j)arts are thin and ill-defined. It ends behind in a rounded elastic cord on each side (lateral thyro-hyoid ligament), uniting the extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone to the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage : this band frequently contains a small cartilagmous or osseous nodule (cartilago triticea). The superior laryngeal nerve and vessels perforate the lateral part of the membrane; and a synovial bursa is placed between its central part and the posterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage to the first ring of the trachea, crico-tracheal ligament, resembles the fibrous layer joining the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of tlie cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are united by a membrane in front, and a synovial joint on each side. The crico-thyroid membrane (fig. 47, ^) occupies the space between the thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages ; and its right half is now visible. It is of a yellow colour and is formed mainly of elastic