NUCLEI OF CRANIAL NERVES. 211 ninth, and eighth nerves. cells from wliich many of tlie cranial nerves take tlieir origin. Some of these appear in the floor of the fourth ventricle, while floor of others are placed a little below the surface. ^^ntricie Beneath the calamus scriptorius, and in the portion of the floor lower of the cavity formed by the medulla oblongata, are the nuclei of half of floor . . o ' four nuclei the twelftli, tenth, ninth and eighth nerves. The hijpoylossal nucleus viz., (XII ) extends through nearly the whole length of the medulla ob- of twelfth, longata ; its lower part is hidden, lying in front of the central canal below the level of the fourth ven- tricle, but its upper half approaclies the surface in the lower portion of the fasciculus teres. The 7mdeus of tJic nu/us (X) corresponds to the ala ci- nerea, and is continued above into the (jlosso-jjJiaryngeal nucleus (IX) Avhich lies beneath the inferior fovea. The ]iosition of the inrur or principal au- ditory nuchas (Villi) is indicated by the auditory tubercle. In the Innder part of the pons, and beneath the upper half of the floor ol' the A'cntricle, are nuclei of the fifth (two), sixth, seventh and eighth nerves, ' \mt only that of the sixth is indicated by a superficial prominence. The nucleus of the sixth (VI) lies beneath the elevation of the fasciculus teres above the auditory strise. The facial nucleus (VII) is placed external to and deeper than the last ; and the motor nucleus of thr Jijlk vcrce {Vm) is above that of the focial. The sensory nucleus of tJie fifth (Vs) two of fifth, lies external to the foregoing, and just beyond the lateral margin of the ventricle. The outer auditory nucleus (VIIIo) is situate at the lateral angle and outer ■■1 . T n T 1 1-^ • of eighth. ot the ventricle, close above the auditory strite. Above the fourth ventricle, in the grey matter surrounding the ^jj ^j'J^-^Jf^" a(|ueduct of Sylvius, are the nuclei of the fourth (IV) and third (III) vil%f nerves in the floor, and the nucleus of the descending mot of the fifth f^^^^^i^ (Vf?) on the side of the canaL flfth nerves. f sixth, seventh '* Dicigram showing the position of the nerve-nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Roman numbers indicate the nuclei of the corre- sponding nerves. Vf^. Nucleus of the descending root, Ym. Motor nucleus, and Ys. Sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve. VIIIo, Outer, and VIII/. Inner auditory nucleus. XL Upper part of the spinal accessory nucleus. On the left side : cq. Position of the corpora quadrigeniina. ot. Auditory tubercle. nr. Ala cinerea.