DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. thyroid lias been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx and the mucous meml^rane of the pharynx. Afterwards the superior laryngeal nerve is to be found as it pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, and branches of it are to be followed to the mucous membrane of the larynx and pharynx. Two communi- cations are to be looked for between the laryngeal nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accompanies each nerve, and its offsets are to l»e dis- sected at the same time as the nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric (p. Ill) : the former is distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter mostly to the muscles. The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the larynx, furnishes backwards an offset to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; this joins filaments of the upper laryngeal. The nerve passes finally beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid. Its small muscular branches are mostly super- ficial, but that to the arytenoid muscle lies beneath the posterior crico-arytenoid. Beneath the thyroid cartilage the inferior is joined l)y a long offset of the upper laryngeal nerve. The superior laryngeal nerve (internal division) pierces the thyro- hyoid membrane, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it furnishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerve. The trunk terminates in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane ;—Some of these ascend in the aryteno-eiDiglottidean fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the inner side of the sacculus, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the true vocal cords. One branch of this set pierces the arytenoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. Tlie external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve has previously been traced to the crico-thyroid muscle (p. 111). Vessels. The arteries of the larj-nx are furnished from the superior and inferior thyroid branches (pj). 80 and 71). The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters the larynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the ejDiglottis, and the mucous membrane from the root of the tongue to the vocal cord. Like the nerves, the two laryngeal arteries communicate both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of the phar\'-nx and the posterior muscles of the larynx.