73a DISSECTION OF THE EYE. and anterior ciliary. Ciliary nerves end in iris and ciliary muscle , Space con- taining aqueous humour is partly divided into two by the iris: anterior part; posterior, its bound- aries. Retina is in two parts. Dissection to see the retina. Pigmentary membrane. Nervous retina: the superficial part of tlie choroid coat, external to the arteries, and converge to four or live trunks, which perforate the sclerotic coat about midway between the cornea and the optic nerve to end in the ophthalmic veins. The anterior ciliary veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, receiving tributaries from the iris and the ciliary processes, and accompany the arteries through the sclerotic to end in the oph- thalmic trunks : they communicate with the venous space of the canal of Schlemm (p. 724). The ciliary nerves (fig. 235, /) are derived from the lenticular ganglion, and the nasal nerve (p. 45). Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid as far as the ciliary muscle : at this spot the nerves send offsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibres of the ciliary muscle, enter the iris. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and the choroid, and fine twigs enter the sclerotic. Chamber of the Aqueous Humour (fig. 234). The space between the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris- is suspended, contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the foetus before the seventh month this interval is separated into two by the iris and the pupillary membrane ; but in the adult it is only partly divided, for the two communicate through the pupiL The boundaries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on which a vertical section has been made. The anterior chamber is the larger of the two ; it is limited in front by the cornea, and behind by the iris. The 'posterior chamber (^) is a narrow interval behind the iris at the circumference, which is bounded in front by the iris ; behind by the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour ; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The Retina (fig. 234, c). This layer is the innermost and most delicate of the coats of the eyeball, and is situate between the choroid coat and the transparent mass (vitreous) in the interior. It consists of two parts, viz., a thin membrane internally, continuous with the optic nerve, and a pigmentary layer outside, which adheres to the choroid coat. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an eye which is obtained within forty-eight hours after death. To bring it into view on the eyeball in which the middle coat was dissected, the choroid must be torn away carefully with two pairs of forceps, while the eye is immersed in fluid. In this dissection the pigmentary layer separates from the nervous portion of the retina, and is removed with the choroid coat. The pigmentary portion of the retina is a very thin, dark layer, which lines closely the inner surface of the choroid coat, and is continued over the ciliary processes into the uvea on the posterior surface of the iris (fig. 237). The nervous portion of the retina is a soft membrane of a pinkish grey tint and semitransparent when fresh ; but it soon loses this