361 SUPEEIOR CAVA AND INNOMINATE VEINS. Veins. In addition to the cardiac veins (p. 346), there are the The great superior and inferior cavse, and the pulmonary veins ;—the former ^^"^^ •~ are the great systemic vessels which return impure blood to the right auricle of the heart; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs to the left auricle. The SUPERIOR or descending cava (tig. 119,/) results from Vena cava the union of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the ^"P^"^^" = heart the blood of the head and neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is placed behind the junction of the first costal cartilage formed by of the rif^ht side with the sternum. From that spot the large vein i»no"'>"ate o , J. o veins; descends to the i^cricardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag f>oyj.se ■ about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer surface the vein is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve is in contact v/ith it. To tlie inner side are the j.gjj^|.io,^g. innominate artery and the ascending aorta. ]3ehind the vein is the root of the right lung. When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is joined branches, by the large azygos vein ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinum. The innominate veins are two in number, right and left; and Brachio- each is formed near the inner end of the clavicle by the junction of vems: the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Below, they are united in the superior cava. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their relations to surrounding parts. The right vein (li) is about one inch long, and descends almost right, vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, to its junction with the opposite vein. On the outer surface the pleura covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein (g) is nearly three inches in length, and is directed and left; obliquely to the right, along the upper border of the arch of the aorta. It crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the nerves descending over the arch. The hrcmches of the veins are nearly alike on the two sides. Each receives the vertebral, the internal mammary, and the inferior thyroid of its own side ; and the left vein is joined in addition by the superior intercostal, and some small thymic and pericardial veins. Occasionally the innomiuate veins are not united in the vena cava, but Soniethiies descend separately to the heart, where each has a distinct opening in the ^^'^^ .^^L^^ right auricle. Wlien such a condition exists, the right vein takes the course 5n^o\'5,e ^ of the upper cava in front of the root of the right lung ; but the left vein heart, descends in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch generally connects the two above the arch of the aorta. This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one at a very early period of the growth of the foetus ; and the two vessels are also persistent in some mammalia. Change of the tivo veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two during foetal growth, to produce the usual arrangement in the adult, concern are changed the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. _ First a cross branch is formed between the two trunks, and this enlarging gives rise to the left innominate veiti. Then the left trunk below the cross branch dis-