248 DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. Intermus- cular de- pressions. Arm : its prominence and groovch-. Promi- nences around the elbow-joint. Dissection to raise the integument. Eeflect skin. Fascipe: superficinl, and deep. thickest over axilla. Dissection of cutaneoiiE nerves of the chest: from cervi- cal plexus acromion process of tlie scapula. Continued downwards from about the middle of the clavicle is a slight depression between the pectoi'al and deltoid muscles, in which the coracoid process can be felt near that bone. A second groove, extending outwards from the sternal end of the clavicle, corresponds with the interval between the clavicular and the sternal origins of the great pectoral muscle. Along the front of the arm is the prominence of the biceps muscle; and on each side of that eminence is a groove, which subsides inferiorly in a depression in front of the elbow-joint. The inner of tlie two grooves is the deeper, and indicates the position of the l)rachial vessels. If the elbows-joint be slightly flexed, the j^rominences of the outer and inner condyles of the luimerus will be rendered evident, espe- cially the inner. Below the outer condyle, and separated from it by a slight interval, the head of the radius is placed ; it may be i-ecognised by rotating that bone, the fingers at the same time being placed over it. At the back of the articulation is the |)rominencc' of the olecranon ; and to the outer side of this, the capitellum forms a projection when the elbow is fully bent. Dissection. As the first step in the dissection, raise the skin from the side of the chest and the armpit, over the great pectoral muscle and the hollow of the axilla, l)y means of the following incisions :— One is to be made along the middle of the sternum. A second, carried along the clavicle for the inner two-thirds of its length, is to be continued over the front of the shoulder and arm to rather beyond the anterior fold of the armpit, and then to be turned across the inner surface of the arm as far as the hinder fold of the axilla. From the ensiform process a third cut is to be directed outwards over the side of the chest, as far back as to a level with the posteiior fold of the armpit. The flaj) of skin thus marked out is to be reflected outwards beyond the axilla ; but it should be left attached to the body, in order that it may be used for the preservation of the part. The suhcufaneous fatty layer of the thorax resembles the same structure in other 2^arts of the body ; but in this region it does not usually contain much fat. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is the stronger deep fascia, which closely invests the muscles, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It is thin on the front of the chest, but becomes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over the armpit, will render evident its increased strength in this situa- tion, and the casing it gives to the muscles bounding the axilla ; and if the fore finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capability of confining an abscess in that hollow. . Dissection. The cutaneous nerves of the side of the chest are to be next sought. At the spots where they are to be found they are placed beneath the fat, which must be cut through to expose them ; and those over the clavicle lie also beneath the platysma muscle. Small vessels indicate the position of the nerves. Some of them (from the cervical plexus) cross the clavicle at