457 SPEEMATIC COIID. way between tlie symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac internal spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin ring?"""^ «'i thin tubular prolongation of the fascia (infundibuliform fascia) is continued around the cord as before said. Dissection. The tubular prolongation on the cord may be traced iJiwsectiou by cutting the transversalis fascia horizontally above the opening of process on the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With tlie handle of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoncsal fat. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the transversalis Subperi- fascia and the peritoneum. Its tliickness Aaries much in different fn'oTOin^"^"' bodies, but is greater at the lower than at the upper part of the abdomen. This structure will be more specially noticed in the examination of the wall oi the abdomen from the inside. Dissection. After the subjieritoneal fat has been seen, let it be Trace re- reflected to look for the remains of a piece of peritoneum along the ^"eHtoneuni. cord, in the form of a fibrous thread. The peritoneum, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects Peritoneum forwards slightly opposite the internal abdominal ring. Connected J'^* prolonged with it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolonga- on the cord: tion to the testis in the fcetus) Avhich extends a variable distance ^ilong the front of the cord. It is generally impervious, and can be piece may followed only a very short way ; but it may sometimes be traced as vL"",^'^^ a fine band to the tunica vaginalis oi the testis. In some bodies the i)rocess may be partly open, being sacculated or saccu- iit intervals ; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in front of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, the tube of peritoneum receiv- or open, ing the testis in the foetus may be unclosed, so that a coil of intestine oould descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the foetal tube of peritoneum sometimes remains fomaie pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament; the pa^iy^open. anobliterated pojich is named the canal of Nack. The SPERMATIC CORD (fig. 153, v) extends from the internal Spernmtic iibdominal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and the efferent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or tlnujugh which they pass. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, since its is oblLpie iu ^iperture oi entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture oi exit wall, from, the muscles : but escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. In the oblique part of its and \ erticai <^ourse it is contained in the passage named the inguinal canal; it ^•^^'^"'^^5 is placed at first beneath the internal oblique, and rests against the transversalis fascia; but beyond the lower border of the oblique relations; muscle, it lies on the upper surface of Poupart's ligament, with the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from the strata in the wall of coverings, the abdomen. Thus, from within out come—the subperitoneal fat, the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia, the cremaster muscle continuous with the internal oblique, the intercolumnar or