274 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. scapular vessels. Supra- scapular artery- ends in infraspina- tus, and gives sub- scapular and supraspi- nous offsets. Vein. Suprascapu- lar nerve: branches, muscular and articu- lar. Posterior scapular artery. Dorsal sca- pular artery. tlie scapula can be traced by detaching from behind forwards the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, so as to leave a thin layer of the fleshy fibres with the ramifying blood-vessels on the surface of the bone. In the supraspinous fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinous fossa : and entering the infraspinous fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between these vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY (ct) is derived from the thyroid axis of the subclavian trunk (p. 70). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the suprascapular ligament, and passing beneath the supraspinatus muscle, ends in the infraspinous fossa, where it gives off'sets to the infraspinatus muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery and the posterior scapular of the subclavian. Before entering the supraspinous fossa, it gives a small branch to the ventral surface of the scapula; and beneath the supraspinatus it furnishes offsets to that muscle, the bone, and the shoulder-joint. The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external jugular vein. The SUPRASCAPULAR NERVE (^) is a branch of the brachial plexus (p. 74). When it reaches the upper border of the scapula, it enters the supraspinous fossa beneath the suprascapular ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus ; and it is con- tinued beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder-joint, and other offsets to the scapula. The POSTERIOR SCAPULAR ARTERY runs along the base of the scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles, furnishing off'sets to them and to the surfaces of the bone. It is more fully noticed with the dissection of the back (p. 394). The DORSAL SCAPULAR ARTERY {!)) is a branch of the subscapular (p. 259), and after giving off its infrascapular offset, turns round the axillary border of the bone opposite the posterior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinous fossa beneath the teres minor, it suj^plies that muscle and the infraspi- natus, and anastomoses with the suprascaj)ular and posterior scapular arteries. It sends a considerable branch downwards between the teres muscles, towards the lower angle of the bone.