47i CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. wards to loosen the constricting band in the neck of the tumour, vessels in there will not be any vessel injured unless the cut should be made so long as TO reach the spermatic cord in the male, or the small ])ubic l)rancli of the epigastric artery. And when the incision is made directly inwards with the same ami in-egu- \\ti\\, there is not usually any vessel in the way of the knife. But of^th'^em^*''" in some few instances (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence) the obturator artery takes its unusual course in front, and on the inner side of tlie neck of tlie hernia, and will l)e before the knife in the division of the stricture. As this condition of the vessel cannot l)e recognised beforehand, the surgeon will best avoid the danger of wounding the ai'tery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. Section III. CAVITY OF THE ABDO:\lEX. The abdominal cavity is the S})ace included between the spinal Di'nniti..ii, column behind, and the muscles stretching from the thorax to the pelvis in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), and f.m- and contains the digestive, urinary, and gencrati^'c organs, with vessels and nerves, J.Hssection. To prepare the cavity for examination, the remainder Dissection of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be cut, along the abdomeii. left side of the linea alba, as far as the ensiform process. The resulting fla}>s may be thrown to the sides. Si::e and form. This cavity is the lar<^est in the bodv. It is lai'gest ^ ^ Ctivity iii ovoidal in form, with the ends upwards and downwards, so that it tiie body; measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is ovoidal. is much wider above than below. Boundaries. Above, it is limited by the diaphra<'ni : below, by Bonndarios X o 3 >/ above and the recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani muscles, and by the other below, structures closing the outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are concave towards the cavity , and are in part tleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and iiattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and i" fi<>|it and partly muscular ;—thus, towards the upper and lower limits is the bony framework of the skeleton, viz., the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other ; but between these the wall is formed by the broad muscles which have been examined. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous and behind, to it, viz,, the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished action of by tlie contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contrac- ^j^^j^gylt'jV tion and ascent of the levatores ani; and the cavity is restored to ani; its ibrmer dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles.