DISSECTIOX OF THE HEAD. 18 losses to «)rbit. Fourth uene in the wall of sinus. Fifth nen ( lias two roots. Lav; and Gassc rian gang- h'on on it gives three branches. Small root. DiflFerence in the use of the roots. Ophthalmic nerve enters orbit; sphenoidal fissure, it sinks below- the fom-th and a part of the fifth, and di^ddes into two branches. Xear the orbit the nerve is joined by one or two delicate filaments from the cavernous plexus (p. 20). The FOURTH or trochlear xerve (fig. 4, courses forwards to one muscle in the orbit. It is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and pierces the diu^a mater at the free edge of the tentorium, close behind the posterior cliiioid process. In the wall of the sinus it lies beloAV the third; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it rises higher than aU the other nerves. "UTiile in the wall of the sums the fourth nerve is joined liy t%vigs of the sympathetic. Fifth or trifacial xErve (fig. 5, This nerve is distributed to the face and head, and consists of two parts or roots—a large or sensor}-, and a small or m.otor. The large root of the nerve passes through an aperture in the dura mater into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, where it immediately enters the Gasserian ganglion. The Gasserian ganglion, placed in a depression close to tiie point of the petrous part of the temporal bone, is flattened, and about half an inch T;\ide. The uj)per surface of the ganglion is closely imited to the dura mater, and presents a semilunar elevation, the convexity of which looks forwards. Some filaments from the X^lexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the three following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and highest, is destined for the orbit and forehead, Xext in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary ner\-e, passes through the foramen ovale to reach the lower jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. The small root, lying in the same tube of the dura mater as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion without communicating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion : if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion wLich are rmconnected with the small or motor root, viz., the ophthalmic and suj^erior maxillary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxillary, which is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. It will moreover be subsequently seen that the fibres of the motor root are almost entirely confined to the part of the inferior maxillary nerve supjjlying the muscles of the lower jaw, and that the larger branches of the nerve are wholly sensory in function. The ojjhthalrnic nerve is the only one of the three trunks which needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is continued through the sj^henoidal fissure and the orbit to the fore- head. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Xear the orbit it divides into three branches (p. 40).