DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 conical in form, wliicli projects upwards between the false vocal cord and the ala of the thyroid cartilage, reaching as high as the ripper border of the latter. Its cavity communicates with the fore surrounding part of the ventricle by a somewhat narrow aperture. On the deep parts. surface of the mucous lining are numerous small glands, the ducts of which open on the inside. Its outer side is covered by the thyro - epiglottidean muscle. The size and extent of the pouch vary greatly in dif- ferent subjects. Dissection. The general shape and position of the vocal cords are evident on the left half of the larynx, but to show more fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in con- tact, and detach on the right side the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle from its cartilages. Take away in like manner the thyro-arytenoid, raising it from before back. By the removal of the last muscle an elastic membrane, crico- thyroid (fig. 47, ^'), comes into view ; and it will be seen to be continued u]3wards into, and give rise to the promi- nence of the inferior or true vocal cord. Lastly, dissect off the mucous membrane from the vocal cords on the right side, and in doing this the wall of the ventricle and saccule, which are formed mainly by this membrane, will disappear. Vocal cords: The vocal cords (fig. 45) are two bands on each side, which extend from the angle of the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilage, one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle of construe- the larynx. Each consists of a fold of the mucous membrane supported by a ligamentous structure—the superior and inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments respectively, conr^"^ The superior or false vocal cord (c) is arched with its concavity downwards, and is much softer and looser than the lower. Its free and thyro- border Is thick and rounded. The contained superior thyro- Kgament arytenoid ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, and is * Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the larynx. A. Ventricle of the larynx, b. True vocal cord. c. False vocal cord. d. Sacculus laryngis. E. Arytenoid cartilage, r. Cricoid cartilage, g. Thyroid cartilage. H. Epi- glottis. K. Crico-thyroid membrane. L. Thyro-hyoid membrane.