300 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. Dissection. Dissection. The attacliiiient of the biceps and bracliialis anticus to the bones of the forearm may be now cleaned and examined. Insertion of The insertion of the hrachialis anticus takes place by a broad thick ant^ciis!^'^ tendon, about an inch in length, which is fixed into the inner and lower 2)arts of the rongh impression on the front of the coronoid process of the nlna. Insertion of Insertion of the hlceps. The tendon of the biceps is inserted into l)iceps. ^j^^ rough hinder part of the tul)erosity of the radius, a bursa separating it from the fore part of the prominence. Near its attachment the tendon is twisted, so that the anterior surface be- comes external. The supinator l3re^ds muscle partly surrounds the insertion. Section V. THE TALM OF THE HAND. Dissection. Clean small palmar muscle, and trace cutaneous nerves. Define the palmar fascia, digital vessels and nerves; and expose digital sheaths. Cutaneous palmar nerves : one from median. the other from ulnar. JJisscction (fig. 98). The digits being separated and fixed firmly with tacks, the skin is t(j be reflected from the palm of the hand by means of two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre from the wrist to the fingers ; and the other is to be made from side to side at the termination of the first. In raising the inner tiaj), the small palmaris brevis muscle will be seen at the inner margin of the hand ; and its insertion into the skin may be left till the muscle has been learnt. In the fat the ramifications of the palmar branches of the median and ulnar nerves are to be traced. The student should remove the fat from the palmaris muscle, and from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand ; and he should take care not to destroy a fibrous band (transverse ligament) which lies across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise, near the fingers, the digital vessels and nerves, and must be especially careful of two,—viz., those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear higher up than the rest, and are more likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be exposed. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid bare. Cutaneous palmar nerves. Small twigs are furnished to the integu- ment from both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two branches descend from the forearm. One is the offset of the median nerve (p. 298) which crosses the annular ligament: it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is imited with the palmar branch of the ulnar : a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 297), and has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand : it is distributed to the uj>per and inner part of the palm.