319 RADIAL ARTERY AT WRIST. it is more superticial, and is crossed hj the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb (g). Offsets of the musciilo-cntaneons nerve entwine around the artery and nerves, (p. 289), and branches of the radial nerve are superficial to it. Its Branches branches are numerous but inconsiderable in size :'■— are small: , a. The dorsal carpal branch (/) passes transversely beneath the to back of extensor tendons, and forms an arch with a corresponding offset of ^'"^''P^^^' the ulnar artery ; this arch is joined by the interosseous arteries. From the carpal arch branches (g) descend to the third and fourth dorsal inter- interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three dorsal interosseous '^•^•'^sous; arteries: at the cleft of the fingers each divides into two, which are continued along the dorsum of the digits. Below, they communicate with the digital arteries ; and above, they are joined by the per- forating branches of the deep palmar arch. b. The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch (fig. 102, h) metacarpal; gains the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and receives, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, a per- forating branch from the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it joins the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and gives small dorsal branches to the index and middle fingers. c. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb (c) arise opposite the dorsal metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to thmnb*^ be distributed on its posterior aspect. d. The dorsal branch of the Mute ^?i^er is distributed on the radial and fore €dge of that digit. The different divisions of the annular ligament may be seen more Sheaths of completely by cutting the sheaths of the ligament over the several ii"ament tendons passing beneath. There are six separate compartments, f^om with- ixnd each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most ex- out inwards, ternal one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollpw for the two radial extensors of the wrist ; and a small space for the long extensor of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger ; and then conies a slender compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal Bones to all is the space for the extensor carpi ulnaris. The last muscle the^tendons grooves the ulna; but the others lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the exception of the extensor minimi digiti which is situate between the bones. Dissection. If the supinator brevis be divided by a vertical in- To see cision, and reflected from the radius, its attachment to that bone sn^nator!*^ Avill be better understood. The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its gangli- interosseous form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist. The posterior surface of the dorsal interosseous muscles of the and inter- hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their insertion J'nuscies. into the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be observed.