634 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. External circumflex. Internal circumflex ends on back of thigli, supplies liip- joint and muscles. Three perfo- rating brandies : first; second; third; and the ending is a fourth. Anastomotic branches. Profunda vein. Cut through adductor brevis. Adductor niagnus : origm IS narrow; fibres diverge to a. The external circumflex artery (fig. 204, e) has been described in the dissection of the parts on the front of the thigh (p. 627). b. The internal circumflex artery (fig. 204, d) arises from the inner and posterior part of the profunda, and tnrns backwards between the psoas and pectinens, but above the adductor brevis. Opposite the small trochanter it ends in two branches, which will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 649). It supplies the undermen- tioned offsets to the inner side of the thigh :— An articular artery enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum. At the border of the adductor brevis two muscular hranclies arise ;—one ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles : the other, which is larger, descends with the deep piece of the obturator nerve beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. c. The perforating arteries, three in number, pierce the tendons of some of tlie adductor muscles close to the linea aspera of the femur : they supj^ly muscles on the back of the thigh, and wind round the bone to end in the vastus externus and crureus (p. 659). The flrst (/) begins opposite the lower border of the pectineus, and perforates the short aud large adductors. The second (g) arises below the middle of the adductor brevis, and passes through the same muscles as the preceding. The third (h) springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. From tlie second or third perforating A^essel a medullary artery is suj^plied to the femur. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) pierces the adductor magnus near the aperture for the femoral artery. d. Muscular or anastomotic branches (^) to the back of the thigh (three or four in number) pass through the adductor magnus at some distance from the linea aspera, and end in a chain of anasto- moses in the hamstrings (p. 659). The PROFUNDA VEIN results from the union of the different branches corresponding with the offsets of its companion artery. It accompanies closely the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, and ends above in the femoral vein. Dissection. To bring into view the remaining muscles, viz., ad- ductor magnus, obturator externus, and the insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through near the pelvis, and to be thrown down. Then the investing layer of fascia and areolar tissue is to be removed from each muscle. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The ADDUCTOR MAGNUS (fig. 204, e) is triangular in form, with its base directed upwards, one side being attached to the femur, and the other free at the inner side of the thigh. The muscle arises from the conjoined rami of the pubis and ischium along their inner margin, and from the lower impression on the ischial tuberosity. The anterior fibres converge from their