683 THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. toes. While raising the tendons, the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with ; and small nerves and vessels to the outer three lunibricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from tlie muscles now brought into view. Third Layer of Muscles (fig. 219). Only the short muscles Muscles of of the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal ^^y^^'* bone of the great toe the flexor brevis hallucis lies, and external to this is the adductor obliquus hallucis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the adductor transversus hallucis. The fleshy mass between the adductor obliquus and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interosseous muscles of the next layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS HALLUCIS (fleX. brCV. poUicis pedis ; fig. 219, Flexor a) arises behind by two tendinous slips, one of which is fixed to the hallucis: inner side of the cuboid bone, while the other is prolonged from the origin; tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the front of the first meta- tarsal bone the fleshy belly divides into two heads, which are inserted insertion; into the sides of the base of the metatarsal phalanx. E,esting on the muscle at one part, and in the interval between relations; the heads at another, is the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor hallucis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first jdiahxnx it flexes the meta- use. tarso-phalangeal joint of the big toe. The ADDUCTOR OBLIQUUS HALLUCIS (add. pollicis pedis; fig. 219, Adductor b) , which is larger than the preceding muscle, arises from the sheath hallucis: of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the origin; third and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorh^ the muscle is united with the outer head of the short flexor, and is inserted with it into insertion; the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneatli the outer relations; border the external plantar vessels and nerves are directed inwards. Action. Its first action will be to adduct the great toe to the use. others, and it will help afterwards in bending the metatarso- phalangeal joint of the toe. The ADDUCTOR TRANSVERSUS HALLUCIS (traUSVersUS pedis ; fig. Adductor 219, d) arises by fleshy bundles from the capsules of the metatarso- hTilucfsT^** phalangeal articulations of the three outer toes (frequently not from origin; the little toe), and from the transverse metatarsal ligament. Its insertion into the great toe is united with that of the adductor insertion; obliquus. The cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons and the nerves of relations; the toes ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the interosseous nmscles and the digital vessels. Action. It will adduct the great toe to the others, and then use on the approximate the remaining toes. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI . (fig. 219, c) is a uarrOW Flexor