645 SCIATIC AND PUDIC VESSELS. plexus. A branch to the quadratus and inferior gemellus (^) may be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but this will be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have been seen. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. The arteries on the back of the The vessels pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the internal tueTiiac"^ iliac (p. 565). The sciatic artery (fig. 206, h) supplies the buttock below the sciatic gluteal. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it a^'tery: descends with the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator internus muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus: course here the artery gives off many branches with the superficial offsets and emliug; of its companion nerve ; and much reduced in size, it is continued with that nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes the following branches :— branches;— a. The coccygeal branch, arises close to the pelvis, perforates the coccygeal; great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum and coccyx. b. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) is branch t« very slender, and entering the nerve near the pelvis, ramifies in it ^len^e^; along the thigh. c. Muscular branches enter tlie gluteus maximus, the upper muscular; gemellus, and obturator internus ; and by means of a branch to the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the hip-joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (fig. 206, e). Varymg in size, this artery anasto- is directed outwards to the root of the great trochanter, where it anastomoses with the internal circumfiex and first perforating arteries. The internal pudic artery (fig. 206, d) belongs to the perineum pvidic and the genital organs: it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to which ^^'teiy it lies. Only the small part of the vessel which winds over the ischial crosses the spine is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the perineal f^i^^] space through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, and is there dis- tributed (p.'42 7). It supplies a small branch over the back of the sacrum, which offsets, anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries ; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The vei7is with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive tributaries veius. corresponding with the branches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves. The nerves appearing at the back of the pelvis, below Nerves come the pyriformis, are derived from the sacral plexus (p. 568) ; the pi^xur*''^'^^ largest are furnished to parts beyond the gluteal region, but some are distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. The inferior gluteal nerve is larger than the superior, and inferior arises from the upper part of the sacral plexus (fig. 207, i g). The f}uteul**^ short trunk is directed backwards below the pyriformis, and divides maximus. into numerous branches which radiate upwards and downwards.