DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 704 in flexion and exten- sion, and in rota- tion : use of acjcessory bands. Surfaces of bone. On femur, patellar and tibial charactei'f of tibial: peculiarities of inner. Articular surfaces of tibia. Subdivision of joint- surface of Ijatella. Kinds of movement. Flexion : movement of tibia; change in direction : sion. In flexion and extension they move forwards and backwards with the tibia over the femoral condyles. During flexion they recede somewhat from the fore part of the joint, and surround the narrow parts of the condyles; but in extension they are flattened out on the surface of the tibia. Of the two cartilages, the external moves the most in consequence of its being less attached to the capsule. In rotation the fibro-cartilages follow the condyles of the femur, and glide over the tibial articular surfaces, the external moving more than the internal. The accessory bands ia front and behind serve to retain in place the less fixed external fibro-cartilage; thus the anterior ligament keeps forwards the front of that cartilage in flexion, and the posterior secures the back of the same from displacement in rotation. Articular surfaces of the hones. The end of the femur is marked by a patellar and two tibial surfaces. The patellar is placed in the middle above the others ; it is hollowed along the centre, with a slanting surface on each side, the outer being much the larger of the two. The surfaces for contact with the tibia, two in number, occupy the ends of the condyles, and are separated from the patellar im- pression by an oblique groove on each side. At the lower part of each is a somewhat flattened surface, which is in contact with the tibia in standing; while behind there is a more convex portion, which touches the tibia in flexion. The inner condyle of the femur is curved in its anterior third, the concavity being directed outwards and backwards : this has been named the " oblique curvature." Along the concave margin of the curve is a semilunar facet, which touches the perpendicular surface of the patella in extreme flexion. On the head of the tibia are two slight articular hollows, the inner being the deeper and larger, which rise towards the middle of the bone, on the points of the tibial sj)ine. The joint-surface of the patella has the following marks. Close to the inner edge is a narrow ^perpendicular facet, and along the lower border is a similar transverse mark. Occupying the rest of the bone is a squarish surface, which is subdivided by a vertical and a transverse line into two pairs of facets—upper and lower. Movements of the joint. The chief movements of the knee are two in number, bending and straightening, like the elbow ; but there is, in addition, rotation of the tibia when the joint is bent. Flexion and extension. Each of these movements may be divided into stages for the purpose of indicating changes in its direction. In flexion, the tibia with its fibro-cartilages moves backwards round the end of the femur ; and the motion is limited by the extensor muscle, and by the meeting of the calf of the leg with the thigh. For the anterior third of the movement the tibia is directed back- wards and inwards along the oblique curve of the inner condyle, giving rise to an inward rotation of the leg ; but for the posterior two-thirds, the tibia passes straight back and up over both condyles.