LAEGE INTESTINE. 607 In length this portion of the alimentary canal measures about hve or six feet, —one-fifth of the length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement of the caecum, and gradually decreases as far as the upper part of the rectum : in the lower part of the rectum there is a dilatation above the anus. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished by the following characters :—It is generally of greater capacity, being in some places as large again, and is more fixed in its position. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations. Its wall is thicker, and attached to the surface, esj)ecially along the trans- verse colon, are small processes of peritoneum containing fat—the appen- dices epiploica3. Dissection. For the purpose of ex- amining the large intestine, the student should cut off and blow up the ceecuni, with part of the ileum entering it; and he should prepare in a similar way a 23iece of the transverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The areolar tissue and the fat are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The c^cuM, or the head of the colon (fig. 167, a), is the rounded end of the large intestine, which projects, in the form of a jjouch, below the junction of the ileum with it. It measures about two inches and a half in length, and rather more in width, though gra- dually narrowing below : it is the widest j^^nt of the colon, its inner side it is joined by the small intestine (h) ; and length Compared with small gut, larger, more fixed, not coiled, Definition of ctecum; At still receives ••/NT . P ileum and a small worm-like projection (c)—the vermiform appendix. lower there appendix. Appendix vermiformis (fig. 167, c). This little convoluted tube is attached to the lower and hinder part of the csecnm, of which it was a continuation at one period in the embryo. From three to six inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is connected to the inner side of the caecum by a fold of peri- toneum. Its hollow has an aperture of communication with the intestine (d). In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Vermiform appendix: attach- ment ; dimensions it is hollow. * Interior of a cseciim, dried and laid open. a. C?ecum. h. Small intestine, c. Vermiform appendix, and d, its aperture, e. Ileo-coHc piece of the valve at the junction of the small intestine. /. Ileo-csecal piece of the valve, g. Retinaculum of the valve on each side.