DISSECTIOiX OF THE CEREBELLUM. 2:36 and flocculus. Lower worm includes tuber valvula', pyramid, uvula, nodule, furrowed band, and inferior medullary velum. Dissection. small conical part named the flocculus or suhpeduncular lobe (/), which is placed in front of the biventral lobe, and curves upwards round the lower border of the crus cerebelli, being attached to the general mass of the small brain only by a narrow white stalk. Parts op the inferior vermiform process (fig. 69). On the inferior vermiform process there are seen, from behind forwards —first a small eminence, comprising seven or eight narrow trans- verse laminse which unite the posterior infeiior and slender lobes of the two sides, and named titber valvulce (fig. 79, e) ; next a larger, tongue-shaped projection, which serves as a commissure to the biven- tral lobes, and is called iho,pyramid (d) ; and then a narrow elongated part—the uvula (c), at the anterior extremity of which is the rounded prominence of the nodule. The uvula is connected to the amygdaloid lobe on each side by a grey strip named the furrovxd hand, and the nodule to the fl(jcculus by a thin white lamina—the inferior medullary velum, but to see these parts the following dissection must be made. Dissection. Tlie biventral and slender lobes are to be sliced off on the left side, so that the amv<>daloid lobe mav be everted from tlie Fi£T. 80. valley (fig. 80). By this proceeding the stalk of the flocculus is exposed, and is seen to be continued into the thin and soft white layer of the inferior medullary velum (6), which joins the nodule internally : beneath the velum a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band {d) is also exposed on the side of the uvula. Inferior The inferior medullary velum is a thin white layer which forms a v^lum!^'*^ commissure to the flocculi, and is connected to the upper surface of the nodule in the middle. Its exposed part on each side, between the flocculus and the nodule, is semilunar in shape, and the anterior edge is free ; but behind, it is continued into the meduUaiy centre of the cerebellum (fig. 69). * View fronj behind of the under surface of the cerebellum, with some of the lobes removed to show the inferior medullary velum, a. Uvula. 1). In- ferior medullary velum with a bit of whale-bone under it. c. Flocculus. (1. Furrowed band. e. Pyramid. /. Amygdaloid lobe, turned aside. (J. Medulla oblongata raised, showing j)osterior surface.