HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 99 that point its fibres are mixed with those of the lingual nerve. Near the suljmaxillary gland an offset is sent to the submaxillarv ganglion. The HYPOOLOSSAL or twelfth nerve in the snhniaxillaiy region Twelfth is directed forwards across the lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle, Jy^i^ ^one*^ and under cover of the mylo-liyoid. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-giossus, spreading out and dividing into numerous branches as it disappears. Branches. While resting on the hyo-glossus. the twelfth nerve its branches furnishes offsets to the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid * i,\\igc\^s muscles, as well as one or two communicating filaments to the of tongue, lingual nerve. Its terminal branches, within the genio-glossus, supply that muscle and the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. The lingual branches are long and slender, and some of them may be ti'aced forwards to the tip of the tongue. The (iLOHso-PHARYXGEAL nervc (fig. 25, appearing between the t wo carotid arteries, (iourses forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus, and •ends under the hyo-glossus in branches for the tongue. (See the ])ISSECTION OP THE TONGUE.) The diui of the .^iibinjixillarij gland (fig. 25, •'), Wharton's duct, Wharton's issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the ^^^^^^ I)order of the mylo-hyoid muscle. Aliout two inches in length, it is directed upwards and forwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and over the lingual nerve, to open on the centre of an eminence by the side opens by of the friionum linguae : the opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle l»e passed along the duct. The deep part of the sub- ]iiaxillary gland extends along the side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland. The SUBLINGUAL GLAND (fig. 25, n) is au almond-shaped l)ody Subungual with its longest diameter, which measures about an inch and a half, <lirected from Ijefore l)ackwards. It lies beneath the fore part of the tongue, between the genio-glossus muscle and the lower jaw, and resting on the mylo-hyoid. Its upper 1 )order is covered by the forms a mucous membrane, which is raised into a fold along the floor of the {|eiow^^°^^ mouth over the gland ; and its inner end touches the one of the tongue, •opposite side behind the symphysis of the jaw. The gland consists of from ten to twenty small masses, each of and is a which has a separate duct. The ducts (ducts of Eivinus) open for structure! the most part on the sublingual mucous fold, but some of them join the submaxillary duct, and one larger tube (duct of Bartholin), which is however frequently wanting, springs from the deeper part of the gland and runs forwards to end either in common with, or close tr) the duct of Wharton. * Tlie brancli to the genio-hyoid muscle is composed of fibres derived from tije cervical nerves. Compare note on p. 78.