DISSECTION OF TflE HAND. 302 vanes m thickness, has a syno- vial sac. Dissection. Superficial palmar arch: position in the hand; relations. Branches : to join the ••leep arch; four digital branches; these join offsets of the deep arch; termination on the fingers; flexor tendons are retained in place against the phalanges by a fibrous sheath. Opposite the middle of the first and second phalanges the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band {vaginal ligament; e and /) Avhich is almost tendinous in consistence ; but opposite the joints it consists of a thin membrane with scattered and oblique fibres. If the sheath be opened it will be seen to be lined by a synovial membrane, which forms long and slender vascular folds {rincula vascidosa) between the tendons and the bones. Dissection. The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the digital sheaths opposite the joints of the fingers may be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of the ulnar artery, and the median and ulnar nerves become aj)parent. Palmar part of the ulnar artery (fig. 98). In the pahn of tlie hand the ulnar artery is directed towards the muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with two offsets of the radial trunk, viz., the superficial volar branch (c), and the branch to the radial side of the fore finger (/). The curved part of the artery, which lies across the hand, is named the siqjerficial palmar arch (d). Its convexity is turned towards the fingers, and its position in the palm would be nearly marked by a line across the hand from the cleft of the thumb. The arch is comparatively superficial, being covered for the most part only by tlie integuments and the palmar fascia ; but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle (h) lies over it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Yenae comites lie on its sides. Branches. From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital arteries, and from the concavity some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small deep branch arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. a. The deejJ or communicating branch {^profunda; fig. 99, h) passes backwards Avith the deep i^art of the ulnar nerve, between tlie abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery (]>. 309). h. The digital branches (g) are four in number, and supply both sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the index finger. The branch to the inkier side of the liand and little finger is un- divided ; but the others, lying over the three inner interosseous spaces, bifurcate below to supply the contiguous sides of the corre- sponding digits. In the palm these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Near the roots of the fingers they receive communicating branches from offsets of the deep arch ; but the digital artery of the inner side of the little finger has its communicating branch about the middle of the palm. From the point of l)ifurcation the arteries extend along the sides of the fingers ; and over the last phalanx the vessels of opposite sides unite in an arch, from the coiwexity of which offsets proceed to supply the ball of the finger. Branches are furnished to the