DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. 110 to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and take part in the formation of the pharyngeal plexus ; and one or two smaller twigs penetrate the superior constrictor muscle. stylo- h. A muscular hrancli enters the stylo-pharyngeus while the nerve pharyngens, contact with the muscle. tonsil, c. The tonsillitic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former they end in a kind of plexus—circulus tonsillaris. and tongue. d. Lingual hranclies. The terminal branches of the nerve supply the hinder part of the tongue, in connection with which they are described (Section XV). Vagus non e The PXEUMO-GASTRic or VAGUS NERVE (fig. 28, ^) is the largest of the cranial nerves in the neck, and escapes through the jugular foramen in the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal accessory. In the foramen it has a distinct gan- glion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal acces- sory nerve is connected. When the nerve has left the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a ganglion nearl}- an inch long (gang, of the trunk). This gan- glion lies iDetween the internal ca- rotid artery and jugular vein, and communicates with several nerves. To reach the thorax, the vagus de- scends almost vertically (fig. 27,'') between the internal jugular vein and the internal and common ca- rotid arteries ; and it enters that cavity, on the right side, by cross- ing over the subclavian arter}'-, but beneath the innominate vein. Itsui)i,..r ^ The (janglion of the root (jugular ganglion; fig. 28,^) is of a gangiioji, gi^eyish colour, and from it small branches in the jugular foramen arise. and lower The ganglion of the trunk {^) is cylindrical in form, reddish in ganglion. eolour, and nearly an inch in length ; it communicates with the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympathetic nerves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve enter the ganglion, but those derived * Diagram of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nevvcs. A. Pons. B. Medulli oblongata. 1. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 2. Vagus. 3, 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. 5. Petrosal ganglion. 6. Tympanic nerve. 7. Auri- cular brancli. 8. Root-ganglion, and 9. Trunk-ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrous and upper ganglion of the vagus. 11. Small part of spinal accessory. 12. Large part of spinal accessory. 13. Pharyngeal, and H, superior laryngeal brancli of vagus.