DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. external iliac, and readies from tlie lower border of Poiipart's liga- ment to tlie opening in the adductor magnus muscle ; at that spot it passes into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. Occupying three-fourths of the length of the thigh, the course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation outwards of the limb with the knee-joint half bent, by a line drawn from a point midway between the sym- physis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, to the prominent tuberosity of the inner condyle of the femur. In the upper part of its course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, and is comparatively superficial, being un- covered by muscle ; but lower down it is placed along the inner side of the shaft of that bone, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its relations allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two portions, superficial and deep. The superficial part of the artery (fig. 201, a), which is now laid bare, is contained in Scarpa's triangular space, and is from three to four inches long. Its position in that hollow may be ascertained by the line before mentioned. Encased at first in the crural sheath for about two inches, it is covered by the skin and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata and some inguinal glands. At its beginning the artery rests on the psoas muscle; and it is subsequently placed over the pectineus (e), though at some distance from the muscle in this position of the limb, and separated from it by fat, and the profunda and femoral veins. Its companion vein (/i) is on the inner side and close to it at the pubis, but is placed behind the artery as it leaves the space. The anterior crural nerve lies on the outer side, being distant about a third of an inch near Poupart's ligament; and the internal cutaneous branch of the nerve lies over the artery along the edge of the sartorius. Crossing beneath the vessels is the nerve of the pectineus (^). Unusual position. A few examples of transference of the main artery of tlie limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In these cases the vessel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popHteal space. The branches of the artery in Scarpa's sj^ace are the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous ofi'sets have been seen (p. 60*7), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The inferior exter7ial pudic artery (fig. 201, e) arises separately from, or in common with, the other pudic branch. It courses in- wards over the jDectineus muscle, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to end in the scrotum or labium pudendi, according to the sex : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perineal artery. The deep femoral branch or the pirofunda (fig. 203,") is the largest offset of the femoral artery, and arises from the outer side of that trunk from one or two inches below Poupart's ligament. Its dis-