DISSECTION OF . THE BUTTOCK. 638 tlirougli ilio-liypo- gastric, and external cutaneous; from pos- terior branches of lumbar and sacral nerves: fronx sacral plexus, llirougli small sciatic. and perfo- rating cutaneous Ijrancli. Clean gluteus maximus mode of ]iroceedinr Fascia of the buttock is thin and un- important. Gluteus origin inter- nally from pelvis; lumbar plexus (p. 541), viz., ilio-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are spent in tlie integuments of this region. The iliac branch of the ilio-hyi)ogastric (J) crosses the iliac crest in front of the lumbar nerves, lying in a groove in the bone, and ex- tends generally only a short distance below the crest. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh bend backwards to the integuments above the great trochanter, and cross the ramifi- cations of the last dorsal nerve. Posterior primary branches. The offsets of the posterior primary pieces of the lumbar nerves (^) are two or three in number, and cross the crest of the ilium at the outer edge of the erector .S2)ina3; they ramify in the integuments of the middle of the buttock, and some branches may be traced nearly to the great trochanter. The branches of the sacral nerves (^) perforate the gluteus maxi- mus near the sacrum and coccyx, and are then directed outwards for a short distance in the integuments over the muscle. These offsets are usually two in numl3er : the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, and the other by the side of the coccyx. Small sciatic (^). This nerve of the sacral plexus sends super- ficial branches to the buttock. Its cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus maximus, accompanied by superficial branches of the sciatic artery ; two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and are lost in the integuments of the lower part of the buttock ; the remaining branches (^) descend to the thigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it (p. 647). The PERFORATING CUTANEOUS NERVE of the sacral plexus {^) turns round the edge of the gluteus maximus near the coccyx, and supplies the skin of the adjacent part of the buttock : this nerve has been exposed in the dissection of the perineum. Dissection. The thin and unimportant deep fascia of this region may l^e disregarded, in order that the great gluteal muscle, which is the most difficult in the body to clean, may be well displayed. To lay bare the muscle, let the student turn aside the cutaneous nerves, and adduct and rotate inwards the limb to make tense the muscular fibres. Having cut through the fat and fascia from the origin to the insertion, let him carry the scalpel along one bundle of fibres at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If the student has a right limb, it will be more convenient to begin the dissection at the upper border ; but if a left limb, at the lower margin of the muscle. The fascia of the buttock is a prolongation of that enveloping the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the ilium, and to the sacrum and coccyx. It is much thicker in front of, than on tlie gluteus maximus, and gives attachment superiorly to the gluteus medius, which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus, the fascia splits to encase the muscle. The GLUTEUS maximus (fig. 205, a) is the most superficial muscle of the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is fleshy, and is connected