747 OSSEOUS LABYEINTH. which, is pierced by minute apertures for nerves and vessels, and corresponds with the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. Be- hind the crest of bone, near the common oj^ening of two of the and aque- semicircular canals, is the aperture of the aqueduct of the vestibule (c), f^^ctbehir a narrow canal which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone : it contains a process of the mem- branous labyrinth called the ductus endolymphaticus, and a small vein. Fig. 247.* The roof is occupied by a slight transversely oval dejjression, fossa in roof. fovea hemielliiJtica ; this is separated from the fovea hemispherica by a prolongation of the crest (h) on the inner wall. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS (fig. 248) are three osseous tubes. Three semi- which are situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their eiSs^'^ form. Dissection. These small canals \^•ill be easily brought into view preparation by the removal of the surrounding bone by means of a file or bone ' forceps. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the posterior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are unequal in length, and each forms more than half length; an ellipse. They communicate at each end with the vestibule, but termination the contiguous ends of two are blended together so as to give only five openings into that cavity. Each is marked by one dilated one end extremity, called the ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not ^^^^^^^ '■> * View of the vestibule of the right side, obtained by cutting away the outer boundary in a foetus, enlarged three times, a. Fovea henaispherica, b. Crest of the vestibule. c. Aperture of aqueduct of the vestibule. (/. Common opening of two semicircular canals, e. Upper semicix'cular canal, partly laid open. /. Horizontal semicircular canal, partly opened, g. Opening of the scala vestibuli of the cochlea.