DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 596 An anterior and a posterior ligament, with a fibre cartilage. A band between articular, and trans- verse pro- cesses. Motion. Union of sacrum and hip-bone. To dissect tlie liga- ments. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligament: a special long band. A layer of cartilage on each bone. Use of joint is to render pelvis elastic. the areolar tissue has been removed altogether from the hones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fibres that pass between the bones in front of the fibro-cartilage. The posterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the margin of the lower opening of the sacral canal, but narrows as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fibro-cartilage resembles that between the bodies of the other vertebrae, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Interarticular ligaments. The cornua of the sacrum and coccyx do not usually form joints, but are united by a ligamentous band on each side. The lateral ligament passes on each side between the projections representing the transverse processes of the last sacral and first coccygeal vertebrae. Movement. While the coccyx remains unossified to the sacrum, a slight antero-posterior movement will take place between them. Sacro-Iliac Articulation. The irregular surfaces by which the sacrum and the hip-bone articulate are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are farther connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which the hip-bone remains. The thin anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar tissue. The small sacro-sciatic ligament will be brought into view by removing the fleshy fibres of the coccygeus ; and the large ligament is dissected with the lower limb. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. The 'posterior sacro-iliac ligament is very strong, and consists of bundles of fibres which pass obliquely from the rough part of the inner side of the ilium above the auricular surface to the depressions on the back of the first and second pieces of the sacrum. A distinct band, longer and more superficial than the rest, runs from the posterior superior iliac spine to the third and fourth pieces of the sacrum : this is named the long posterior ligament. Articular cartilage. This may be seen after the sacro-sciatic and ilio-lumbar ligaments have been examined, by opening the articula- tion and separating the bones. It covers the articular surfaces of both sacrum and ilium, but is much thicker on the sacrum. Its surface is generally uneven ; and the intermediate cleft is sometimes partly interrupted by transverse fibres uniting the two layers. Mechanism. There is scarcely any appreciable movement in this articulation, owing to the tightness with which the two bones are bound together by ligaments, and the irregular form of the articular surfaces, which are consequently unable to glide over one another. In the erect posture the sacrum is suspended between the two hip- bones by the thick posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and the upper arch of the pelvis is thereby rendered less rigid than would be the