DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 528 and nerves. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the artery to the testis. Vessels of Vessels of the vas deferens. A special artery is furnished to the the duct. excretory duct from the upper or lower vesical, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. Vein^ from the epididymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. Section Y. DIAPHEAGM WITH AORTA AND YENA CAVA. Dissect vessels and nuiscles. To see the diaphragm. Define arches. Diaphragm situation and form : origin at the circum- ference ; insertion of libres into a central tendon. Parts in contact with the under surface, and with the upper, Directions. After the body is replaced in its former position on the back, the student should prepare first the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be necessary to remove the peritoneum, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the strong processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebrse. While cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on the surface, and of others in and near the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches near the spine, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected ; one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle (quadratus), and will be made more evident by separating it from the fascia covering the quadratus. The DIAPHRAGM or midriff (fig. 176, a) forms the vaulted moveable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and tendinous in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is alike on both sides. Thus, it arises by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the ensiform process and the six lower rib cartilages ; from two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the spinal column,— one being placed over the quadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle ; and, lastly, from the lumbar vertebrse by a thick muscular piece or pillar. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon ; but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted (p. 530). The abdominal surface is concave, and is covered for the most part by the peritoneum. In contact with it on the right side are the liver and the kidney ; and on the 02:)posite side, the stomach, the spleen, and the left kidney : in contact also Avith the pillars are the pancreas and the solar plexus with the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura of each side and the peri-