711 LIGAMENTS OF TARSAL BONES. In the ordinary mode of standing the foot is everted to the Condition of utmost, or nearly so, by the Aveight of the body ; if then inversion gtandhio- • is practised, the inner side of the foot is raised from the ground, effect of ' and the part is supported on its outer edge. inversion. Astragalus WITH THE NAVICULAR BONE. The head of the Astragalus astragalus is received into the hoUoAV of the navicular bone, and is navicular united to it by a dorsal ligament; but the place of plantar and bone: lateral ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the navicular bone. The astragalo-navicular ligament (fig. 230, d) is attached to the dorsal astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the ^'sament. navicular bone : its attachments will be better seen when it is cut through. Dissection. The external ligament of the articulation may be seen To lay bare on the dorsum of the foot in the hollow between the os calcis and nav?cuia?^"" the navicular bone. Supposing the tendon of the tibialis posticus ligaments, removed, the internal ligament will be exposed, covering the head of the astragalus on the iimer side and below. The internal or inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament (fig. 232, c) is Internal attached behind to the inner and fore parts of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, and in front, to the inner extremity and lower border of the navicular bone. This ligament is partly fibro-car- tilaginous ; its inner side is crossed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle ; and its deep surface forms part of the socket for the head of the astragalus. The external calcaneo-navicular ligament (fig. 230, e) is placed outside the head of the astragalus, and is about three-quarters of an ° inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the upper part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is inserted into the outer side of the navicular bone. The synovial cavity of this articulation is continued backwards Synovial into the joint between the front of the os calcis and the astragalus. Articular surfaces. The head of the astragalus has three convex Surfaces of articular surfaces, a large one in front, elongated transversely and broader externally than internally, for the navicular bone ; a narrow oblique surface below for the os calcis ; and a small intermediate triangular facet internally for the internal calcaneo-navicular liga- ment. The surface of the navicular bone is hollowed, and is widest externally. Movement. The navicular moves down and in over the head of Movement: the astragalus in inversion, or up and out in eversion. As the bone is forced downwards, the upper and external liga- state of ments of the joint are made tight; and when the navicular is moved ^^s^'"^"^^- in the opposite way, the strong internal ligament is put on the stretch. The OS calcis with the cuboid bone. The ligaments in this Os calcis articulation are plantar, dorsal, and internal. bone,^by^"^ The dorsal or superior calcaneo-cuhoid ligament (fig. 230, g) is a dorsal rather thin fasciculus of fibres, which is attached near to the con- tiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone ; it is sometimes