86 DISSECTION OF THE PTEEYGOID REGION. zygoma and the adjoining part of the outer surface of that process to the outer and posterior part of the neck of the lower jaw. and internal The internal lateral ligament (fig. 21, ^) is a long, thin, mem- ligament, hranoiis band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it is connected to , a ridge on the inner side of the glenoid fossa, formed by the spinous ^Drocess of the sphenoid and- the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the inner margin of tlie dental foramen in the lower jaw. The ligament lies between the jaw and the internal j^terygoid ; and its origin is concealed by the external pterygoid muscle. The internal maxillary vessels, with the auriculo-temporal and inferior dental nerves, pass between the band and the ramus of the jaw. Dissection. Dissection. After the external lateral ligament and the capsule Fig. 21.* Fig. 22. t Fibro- cartilage shape, and attach- ments : Two syno- vial sacs. have been examined, the interarticular fibro-cartilage will be exposed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 22). The interarticular fibro-cartilage (fig. 22, is an oval plate, elongated transversely, and thinner in the centre, where it is some- times ]Derforated, than at the margins. The upper surface fits the articular hollow and eminence of the temporal bone, being convex behind and concave in front ; and the lower is moulded to the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the capsule; and in front the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular disc allows a double movement to take place in the articulation, the condyle of the jaw revolving in the socket formed by the fibro-cartilage, while the latter glides forwards and backwards over the temporal articular surface. Two synovial sacs are present in the articulation—a larger one above, and a smaller one below the fibro-cartilage. * Ligaments of the jaw—inner view (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo-maxillavy. f A view of the interior of the temporo-maxillary joint (Bourgery and Jacob). 3, Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-cartilage ; the (lark intervals above and below the disc are the synovial cavities.