BEANCHES OF INFEHIOR VENA CAVA. 537 The spermatic vein (o) enters the abdomen by the internal Spennatic abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 527). At first there are two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery ; but these soon join into one trunk. On the left side it opens into the renal vein at a ends differ- right angle, and there is generally a small valve over the aperture ; f^ft^amT on the right side it enters the inferior cava below the renal vein, right sides; As the vein ascends to its destination, it receives one or more branches from the wall of the al^domen, and the fat about the branches: kidney. In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as in the vein in the female male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. Valves are absent from the vein and its branches, but commonly there is one at its union with the renal. The renal ov emulgent vein (n) is of large size, and joins the vena Renal vein: cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the kidney; and the trunk resulting from their union is superficial to position to the renal artery. The right vein is the shorter, and usually joins the cava a little difference on lower than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery; it receives the left sper- matic and suprarenal veins. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is compared Suprarenal with the body from which it comes. The riglit opens into the cava, rentiy on' and the left into the renal vein, ^^c^ ^if^'^- The hepatic veins enter the vena cava where it is in contact with Hepatic the liver. They are described on p. 517. -^oticed.^ The lumbar veins correspond in number and course with the Lumbar arteries of the same name. They Avill be dissected later (p. 544). The diaphragmatic veins (inferior), two with each artery, spring Phrenic from tlie under surface of the diaphragm. Tliey join the cava either as one trunk or two. DEEP MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEN. The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumborum. The PSOAS MAC4NUS (fig. 177, p) reaches from the lumbar vertebrte Psoas to the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly in the situation; thigh. The muscle arises from the front of the transverse processes of "^j^il^/'""'^^^ the lumbar vertebrae, from the bodies and intervertebral discs of vertebr;?; the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrai by five fleshy pieces,— each piece being connected with the intervertebral substance and the borders of two contiguous vertebrae, and from tendinous bands over the blood-vessels opposite the middle of the vertebras. The fibres give rise to a roundish belly, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament, and ends below in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives also most of the fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inserted into the small insertion ^ 1 , P ^1 p into femur; trochanter oi the lemur.