681 EXTERNAL PLANTAE NEEVE. deep muscles of tlie sole of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves one toe and to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next. It ^ ' corresponds in its distribution with the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides has super- at the outer margin of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial ^leep parts; and a deep portion ;—the former gives origin to two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be dissected afterwards (p. 686). While the external jdantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor branches to of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve (fig. 217) are two digital two. One (') is undivided : it is distributed to the outer side of ... ORG Sin2l6 the little toe, and gives offsets to the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and oftentimes to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other {^) bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two toes, and one divided, supplies their collateral surfaces : this nerve communicates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal jdantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have the same dis- distribution tribution as those from the other plantar trunk, and end like them others, in a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit. Dissection (fig. 218). To complete the ^preparation of the second Lay bare layer of muscles, the abductor hallucis should be detached from the layer of OS calcis and turned inw^ards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, m^iscies. and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second Layer of Muscles (fig. 218). In this layer are the Muscles of tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz., flexor jayer!^ longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, which cross one another. Connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle-; and at its division into pieces four fleshy slips (lumbricales) are added to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum (fig. 218, b), while Tendon of entering the foot beneath the angular ligament, lies on the internal of^o^y''^^'^ lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the accessory divides into muscle and a slip from the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, and ^^^^^5 divides into tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with and beneath a these pierce tendon from the flexor brevis (e). About the centre of the meta- tendons^ tarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor (f) is transmitted through the other, and ]Dasses onwards to be iriserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Uniting the flexor tendons with the two short folds nearest phalanges of the toes are short synovial folds, one to each, as in the hand ; and the one fixing the flexor perforans is anterior (p. 305). Action. It flexes the last phalangeal joint, and combines with use. the short flexor in bending the first and second joints. If it acted