DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 42 Lachrymal nerve ends in. eyelid: offset joins superior maxillary. Nasal, after- wards. Dissection. Elevator of upper eyelid, attached to tarsus: relations: Upper rec- tus muscle: origin; insertion: position to other yaxts Upper oblique muscle traverses a pulley: insertion; the frontal bone, it sends downwards a twig of communication to the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. The lachrymal nerve (fig. 11, ^) after entering the orbit in a separate canal of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the outer part of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland in the upper eyelid, where it pierces the palpebral fascia, and is distributed to the structures of the lid. The nerve furnishes branches to the lachrymal gland; and near the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments to join the temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The nasal nerve is not fully seen at this stage of the dissection, and will be noticed later (p. 43). Dissection. Divide the frontal nerve about its middle, and throw the ends forwards and backwards : by raising the posterior piece of the nerve, the separate origin of the nasal branch from the ophthalmic trunk will appear. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LEVATOR PALPEBRiE suPERiORis (fig. 11, b) is the most superficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens in front, and bends downwards in the upper eyelid to be inserted by a broad tendon into the front of the tarsal plate. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the frontal neuve and the periosteum; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the middle, a small branch of the third nerve will be seen entering the posterior half on the under surface. Action. The lid is made to glide upwards over the ball by this muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the skin above the lid being folded inwards at the same time. The SUPERIOR RECTUS (fig. 11, d) is the upper of four muscles that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In front the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the trans- parent cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact with the globe of the eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwards seen ; the upper surface is partly covered by the preceding muscle. The action of the muscle will be given with the other recti (p. 48). The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 11, a) is thin and narrow, and passes through a fibro-cartilaginous loop at the inner angle of the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises behind from the upper and inner part of the optic foramen, and ends an- teriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop referred to (fig. 11), is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the ball.