DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. '214 Hippoeam- pal fissure. Collateral fissure. Marginal oonvolu- tion. Oval lobule. Convolu- tion of the corpus callosuni. Quadrate lobule. Cuneate lobule. Uncinate convolution. External occipito- temporal convolution. The liijppocamijal or dentate fissure (h) is placed in front of the foregoing, at the inner margin of the lower ]3ortion of the hemi- sphere, and separates the uncinate convolution (u) from the tsenia hippocampi (th). It corresponds to the hippocampus major in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and its relations will be better seen when that body is examined. The collateral fissure (coll) gives rise to the collateral eminence in the lateral ventricle. It extends from near the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the fore part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and is frequently broken up into two or three jiarts by cross gyri. Convolutions. The marginal convolution (m) occupies the space between the calloso-marginal sulcus and the border of the hemi- sphere. It is much subdivided, and at its j)osterior extremity a small portion which is marked off by a short vertical furrow is- distinguished as the oval or i^aracentral lohule (Ov). The marginal convolution is continuous over the border of the hemisphere with the internal orbital and superior frontal convolutions, while the oval lobule is formed by the upper end of the ascending frontal convolu- tion. The callosal convolution (gyrus fornicatus ; Gall) is narrower and simpler than the marginal. Beginning below the rostrum of the corpus callosuni, this convolution follows the curve of that body, and turns downwards behind its posterior extremity to end in a thin part which joins the uncinate convolution (u). It is bounded in the greater part of its extent by the calloso-marginal sulcus, but behind the spot where this furrow turns upwards it is continuous with the quadrate lobule (q). Near its ending, it is limited below by the calcarine tissure. The quadrate lobule (q) is placed betAveen the end of the calloso- marginal sulcus and the parieto-occipital fissure. Much subdivided by secondary furrows, it reaches the margin of the hemisphere above, where it is continuous with the superior parietal lobule, and joins the callosal convolution below. The cuneate lohule (occipital lobule ; Cun) is triangular in shape, the base being formed by the margin of the hemisphere. In front of it is the parieto-occipital, and below the calcarine fissure. Small irregular sulci divide it into secondary gyri. The uncinate or internal occijpito-teni'poral convolution (u) extends from the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the Sylvian fissure, being bounded by the calcarine and hij)pocampal fissures above, and by the collateral fissure below. It is somewhat narrowed in the middle, where the callosal convolution joins it, and enlarged in front and behind. At its fore part is a small piece {uncus) bent backwards over the lower end of the dentate fissure, from which the convolution derives its name. The external occipito-temporal convolution (eot) lies between the collateral fissure and the inferior temporo-sphenoidal sulcus (it). This is frequently not distinct from the lower temporo-sj)henoidal convolution. At the bottom of the hippocampal fissure, the grey cortex of the