DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 448 apertures Numerous small apertures in the tendon transmit cutaneous vessels ' and nerves ; and near the pubis is the large opening of the external abdominal abdominal ring (c), which gives passage to the spermatic cord in the ""S- male, and to the round ligament in the female. Use of both Action. Both muscles taking their fixed point at the pelvis will actiWrom ^^^^ ^^^^ trunk forwards ; but supposing the spine fixed, they will pelvis, draw down the ribs. If they act from the thorax they will elevate and thorax ; the pelvis. one muscle Should one muscle contract it will incline the trunk to the same acting; gj^jg^ qj. paise the pelvis, according as the upper or the lower attach- ment may be moveable ; or if the trunk is prevented from being bent, it will turn the thorax to the opposite side, influence on The external oblique also acts powerfully with the other broad cavST'"^^ muscles in flattening the wall and diminishing the cavity of the abdomen, and in forcing up the diaphragm during expiration by means of pressure transmitted through the abdominal viscera. Parts of the aponeurosis. Besides the general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line, the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin, and the thickened border named Poupart's ligament. In the linea Linea alba (fig. 152). This white band on the front of the alba the abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of opposite are uniSi? sides. It extends from the ensiform process to the pubic symphysis, and is wider above than below. It is perforated here and there by small apertures, which allow pellets of fat to j)rotrude in some below bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which now umbilicus pi'ojects beyond the surface, though before the skin was removed, a hollow indicated its position. External External abdominal ring (fig. 148, c). This opening is situate abdominal near the pubis, between the diverging fibres of the aponeurosis. It is """ ard somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the pubic crest, and situation; the apex directed upwards and outwards. The long measurement size; of the aperture is about an inch, and the transverse about half an inch. inner side or 1^'^ margins are named pillars, and difter in form and strength, pillar; The inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the front of the symphysis pubis, where it decussates wdth the corresponding piece of the opposite side. The outer margin is stronger, and is outer pillar; curved, SO as to form a kind of groove for the support of the spermatic cord : this margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament,, fascia pro- and is attached below to the pubic spine. A thin membrane (inter- longed from columnar fascia), derived from some fibres on the surface of the margm; . " aponeurosis, covers the openmg. objects The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, and in through. female to the round ligament ; and in each sex the transmitted part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering from the intercolumnar fascia. Through this aperture an inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. Intereolun;- The intercolumnar fibres run transverselv on the surface of the nar fibres :