201 STEUCTQRE OF PONS. Tlie deep transverse fibres may next be cut tliroiigh outside the pyramidal tract (fig. 60), and the reticuhir formation will then be seen, in which deep longitudinal fibres ascend from the medulla oblongata (fig. 60, d). The transverse fibres of the ventral portion of the pons are derived Transverse from the crus or middle peduncle of the cerebellum. They are veSraf mostly collected into two layers, superficial and deep (fig. 62), portion, which enclose tlie k)ngitudinal filn-es of the pyramid ; but some transverse fibres pass between the bundles of the pyramidal tract. The superficial fibres are nearly horizontal in the lower part of the pons, but the upper ones descend to join the cerebellar peduncle, and some are S(M'n on tlie surface crossing obliquely over the lower fibres. The pyramidal fihres (fig. 62 ; 63,|>;/r.?>) enter the pons below as a Pyramidal tract in pons. Fig. 62.* single mass, Imt in tlieir passage upwards through the pons they are broken up by decussating bundles of transverse fibres. Much in- creased in number, they emerge at the upper border of the pons, and are continued into the superficial j^ortion (crusta) of the crus cerebri. Scattered amonost tlie transverse fibres are numerous small Grey matter masses of grey matter (nuclei pontis) ; and fibres entering the jDons fibres, by one cerebellar peduncle are believed to cross to the other side, Supposed and there join nerve-cells in these nuclei, from which other fibres fl^H^ take origin, and ascend with the fibres of the pyramid to the crus cerebri. The reticular formation of the pons (fig. 62) is formed of longi- Formatiq tudinal fibres continued from the medulla oblongata (p. 199), and'^^*'^*'"'*"^* passing upwards to the deep portion (tegmentum) of the crus cerebri (fig. 60, d), decussating with transverse fibres which are derived from the dorsal grey layer. It contains much interspersed grey * Diagram of a transverse section through the lower part of the pons, show- ing its chief constituents.