64 dissectioj^ of the neck. joins jugular, or into the subclavian vein. In tlie neck tlie anterior and Jugular.^ external jugular veins communicate. There are two anterior veins^ one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other ; and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. In many subjects the lower part of the anterior jugular vein is joined by a considerable branch which runs downwards, along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the facial vein. Sterno- The STERNO-CLEiDO-MASTOiD MUSCLE (fig. 16,^) fomis the super- muscie*^ ficial prominence of the side of the neck. It is narrower in the centre than at the ends, and arises below by two heads of has its origin which are separated by an elongated interval. The inner sternum and liead is fixed by a narrow tendon to the anterior surface of the clavicle, fj-gf; piece of the sternum ; and the outer head has a wide fleshy attachment to the sternal third of the clavicle. From this origin the heads are directed upwards, the internal passing backwards, and the external almost vertically, and join about the middle of the and inser- neck in a flattened belly. Near the skull the muscle ends in a skuil^-* broad tendon, which is inserted into the mastoid process at the outer aspect from tip to base, and by a thin aponeurosis into a rough surface behind that process, and into the outer part of the upper curved line of the occipital bone, position to The muscle divides the lateral surface of the neck into two other parts, ^j,j^^jjg^^|^p spaces. On its cutaneous aspect the sterno-mastoid is covered by the integuments, the platysma and the deep fascia, and is crossed by the external jugular vein, and by the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves. If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts :— The clavicular origin is superficial to the anterior scalenus and omo- hyoid muscles, the transverse cervical and suprascapular arteries, and the phrenic nerve. The sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery w^ith its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus, the middle scalenus, and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skull on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital artery, and part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nei^^e perforates the muscular fibres about the junction of the upper and middle thirds, use. Action. Both muscles acting bend the cervical part of the spine, carrying the head forwards; but one muscle will turn the face to the opposite side. In conjunction with other muscles attached to the mastoid process, one sterno-mastoid will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two muscles will assist in elevating the sternum. Omo-hyoid The OMO-HYOID MUSCLE crosses beneath the sterno-mastoid, and begins^at consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small intermediate tendon the scapula, (fig. 15, ■^). The origin of the muscle from the scapula, and the relations of the posteiior belly are to be studied in the dissection of and ends at the back. From the intervening tendon the anterior fleshy belly hyoidbone: ^^g^ .3^ directed upwards along the outer border of the sterno-