674 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Peroneal artery courses along fibula, beneath flexor hallucis ; termination: veins and nerve: branches :- ^Muscular. Medullary to fibula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Commuui- <>ating. Substitu- tions. Posterior tibial veins. Posterior tibial nerve extent: and rela- tions : bi'anch from the peroneal artery, which is directed inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole of the foot. The PERONEAL ARTERY (fig. 216, (/) is often as large as the jjos- terior tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to that bone in a fibrous canal between the origins of the flexor longus hallucis and tibialis posticus, reaches the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane. At this spot it sends forwards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal); and it is directed onwards over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the heel {h), where it terminates in branches, which anastomose with ofi'sets of the tarsal and external plantar arteries. Two companion veins surround the artery; and the nerve to the flexor hallucis lies on it generally. Branches. Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes muscular, medullary and communicating ofi'sets. a. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor hallucis ; and some turn round the fibula to the long and short j)eroneal muscles, lying in grooves in the bone. b. The medullary artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and is transmitted through the tibialis posticus to the aperture about the middle of the fibula. c. The anterior ]3eroneal branch passes forwards through an open- ing below the interosseous membrane, and is continued to the dorsum and outer part of the foot; on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. d. A communicating offset near the ankle joins in an arch with a similar branch of the posterior tibial. Peculiarities. The anterior branch of the peroneal may take the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries of the foot, as in those of the hand, by which the deficiency in one is supplied by an enlarged offset of another. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS begin at the inner side of the foot by the union of the plantar venae comites : they ascend, one on each side of the artery, and imite with the anterior tibial at the lower border of the popliteus to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresponding with the ofi'sets of the artery : branches connect them with the saphenous veins. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 216,^), a Continuation of the '■ internal popliteal (p. 655), reaches like the artery from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis and the inner malleolus. While beneath the annular ligament, or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot. Its relations to surrounding muscles are the same as those of the artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side above the origin of the peroneal ofi'set, but thence to the