20 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Branches. Syrapatheti(^ forms carotid plexus, cavernou>- plexus, union Avith cranial nerves. Distribu- tion. Two super- ficial petro- sal nerves. Directions lor preser\ - ing parts. divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympa- thetic in the neck (p. 115). The hranches of the artery here are few. In the sinus there are some small arteries (arterice receptaculi) for the supply of the dura mater and the bone, the nerves, and the pituitary body : and oppo- site the anterior clinoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissection of the base of the brain (p. 186). Sympathetic Nerve. Accompanying the carotid artery is a pro- longation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which forms the following plexuses : — The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous siims, and communicates with the sixth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is mainly derived from that offset of the upper cervical ganglion which courses along the inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either sepa- rately from, or in conjimction with the nasal nerve. After forming these plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are continued on the cerebral and ophthalmic branches of that vessel. Petrosal nerves. Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 38, ^) entering the hiatus Fallopii to join the facial nerve. External to this is sometimes seen the sruall superficial petrosal nerve (fig. 38, but this is frequently concealed in the substance of the temporal bone. The source and destination of these small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to notice their position, and to see that they are kept moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. Now that the study of the base of the skull has been completed a preservative fluid or salt should be applied, and the flaps of skin should be stitched together over all. Section III. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Directions, Directions. Tlie muscles and vessels are to be dissected together on the left side of the face, and the right side is to be kept for the nerves. Position of Position. The head is to be lowered from the position in which head. -^^ ^^^^ placed for the examination of the base of the skull, and turned