70 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. second, and third part. Vertebral artery in the neck. Small branches. Vertebral vein, and branches. Internal mammary artery in the neck. Thyroid axis divides into three. Supra- scapular artery. Transverse cei-vical artery: outwards to tlie thyroid body and .tlie slionlder. Tliese arise commonly near the scalenns muscle, so as to leave an interval at the beginning of the trunk free from offsets. This interval varies in length from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from less than a quarter of an inch to an inch and three-quarters. In some instances the branches are scattered over the first part of the artery. The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises beneath the an- terior scalenus from the second part of the artery, and gives off the deep cervical branch : a small sj)inal artery frequently comes from this part of the trunk. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, the internal mammary, the suprascaptilar, or the thyroid axis may be added. The vertchral artery is generally the first and largest branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and posterior part of the trunk. Ascending between the contiguous l)orders of the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull through the foramina in the other cervical vertebrae. Before the artery enters its aperture it lies behind the internal jugular vein, and is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery. It is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies small muscular offsets. Its farther course and distribution will be given afterwards. The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to which it is here sujoerficial, and descends over the subclavian artery to join the innominate vein ; it receives the dee}) cervical vein, and the branch {anterior vertebral vein) that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. The internal mammarij branch leaves the lower j)art of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, and on the outer side of the innominate vein, enters the thorax between the cartilage of the first rib and the pleura. As the artery dis- appears in the chest, it is crossed superficially by the j)hrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be learnt with the dissection of those parts. Thyroid axix. This is a short thick trunk (fig. 17) which arises from the front of the subclavian artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches—one to the thyroid body, and two to the back of the shoulder. The suprascapidar branch courses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, to the superior border of the scapula, and entering the supraspinous fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are more fully seen in the dissection of the back. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the suj)erficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. (See the dissection of the back.)