DISSECTION OF THE OEBIT. 40- Trace super- ficial nerves, Orbit lias seven muscles; several cra- nial nerves: their distri- bution : and souie vessels. Laelirynial gland at outer part of orbit. Ducts open behind upper eyelid. Fourth nerve supplies superior oblique. Ophthalmic gives three branches. and the small foiirtL. nerve at the back of the orbit : all these nerves are above the muscles in the cavity. The superior oblique muscle lies on the inner side, and is recognised by the fourth nerve enter- ing it; the levator palpebrse and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. At the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards to their exit from the orbit, and backwards, with the fourth nerve, through the sphenoidal fissure, to the wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting anterior clinoid process, should this still remain ; and some care will he required to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commence- ment. Contents of the orbit. The eyeball, the lachrymal gland, and a quantity of granular fat, are lodged in the orbit. Connected with the eye are six muscles—four straight and two oblique ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in the cavity are numerous, viz., the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the small temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and offsets of the sympathetic ; their general distribution is as follows :— The second nerve enters the eyeball ; the third supplies all the muscles of the cavity but two; the fourth enters the superior oblique ; and the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball with the sym- pathetic, but the greater number of its branches j)ass through the orbital cavity to the face. The ophthalmic vessels are also contained in the orbit. The LACHRYMAL GLAND (fig. 11, f) secretes the tears, and is situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, something like a small almond, and measures about three-quarters of an inch in its longest diameter, which is directed transversely. From its fore part a thin accessory piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland ; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. The gland has from eight to twelve very fine ducts, which open on the surface of the conjunctiva in a curved line above the outer part of the upper eyelid, and a little in front of the fornix. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 11, ^) is the most internal of the three nerves entering the orbit above the muscles. In the cavity, it is directed inwards above the levator palpebrse to the superior oblique muscle, which it pierces on the orbital surface. The OPHTHALMIC TRUNK of the fifth nerve (fig. 11), as it approaches the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, and then divides into the frontal and lachrymal branches ; the first passes into the orbit between the heads of