DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. Ill its lower half the artery is superficial, being covered only hy tlie integiiinents and the deep fascia. Here it is placed in a hollow between the tendons of the supinator loiigus (^) and flexor carpi radialis ("*). It lies from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two muscles of the deej) group, viz., flexor longus l^ollicis, and pronator c[uadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Veins. Yenoi comites lie on the sides, with cross branches over the artery. Nerve. The radial nerve is on the outer side of tlie artery in the upper two-thirds of the forearm, but is separated from the vessels by a slight interval near the elbow. In the lower third the nerve passes backwards and becomes superficial behind the tendon of the su])inator longus. Branches. The radial artery in this part of its course furnishes many unnamed muscular and cutaneous ofi^sets, and three named branches, viz., recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent is the first branch, and supplies the muscles on the outer side of the limb. Its course is almost trans- verse to the supinator longus, beneath which it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One off'set ascends beneath the supinator, an<l anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. b. The superficial volar hrancJt (fig. 98, c) is very variable in size, and arises near the lower end of the radius. It is directed towards the palm of the hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb ; and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial j^almar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very small, and v.ill be seen in the examination of the deep muscles. Arising rather above the end of the radius, it passes transversely inwards at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery : from the arch thus formed, ofisets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radial artevji. When the radial arises Ligh in the arm, its course is close to the brachial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle ; and in passing the bend of the elbow it is occasionally subcutaneous, i.e., above the deep fascia, and liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm the aitery may likewise be subcutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor subliinis digitorum, the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near the inner condyle of the humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may be seen entering the under surfaces of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOR suBLiMis DIGITORUM (flex. perforatus ; fig. 95,*^) is the largest of the superficial muscles, and is named from its position to another flexor in the deep set. It arises in common with the fore- going muscles from the inner condyle of the humerus and the intermuscular septa, also from the internal lateral ligament of the