DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 The breast: form and position; with its dimensions and weiffht. Position and form of the nipple: the areola colovir is variable ; skin lias iilands. Breast of the male. structure. Investint and fibrous tissue. Vesicles. Lobnles and lobes. Lactiferous ducts ; The Mamma is the gland for the secretion of the milk, and is situate on the lateral part of the front of the chest. Resting on the great pectoral muscle, it is nearly hemispherical in form, but most prominent at the inner and lower aspects. Its dimensions and weight vary greatly. In a breast not enlarged by lactation, the width is commonly about four inches. Longitudinally it extends from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its thickness is about one inch and a half. The weight of the mamma ranges from six to eiglit ounces. Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side) rises the conical or cylindrical projection of the nipple or mamilla. This prominence is about half an inch or ratlier more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring— the areola, about an inch in width, the tint of which is influenced by the complexion of the body, and becomes darker during pregnancy and lactation. The skin of the nij)ple and areola is provided with numerous j)apillse and glands ; and on the surface are some small tubercles marking the position of the latter. In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the female in general form, though it is much less developed ; and it possesses a small nipple, which is surrounded by an areola provided with hairs. The glandular or secretory structure is imperfect. Structure. The mamma is a compound racemose gland, and con- sists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct. A layer of areolar tissue, containing masses of fat, surrounds the gland, and penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes ; l3ut between the lobules of the gland, and in the nipple and areola, there is not any fatty suljstance. Some fibrous septa fix the gland to the skin, and support it; these are the lirjamenta suspensoria of Astley Cooper. Vesicles. The little vesicles or alveoli at the ends of the most minute ducts are rounded in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury are just visible to the naked eye. Each is surrounded externally by a close vascular network. Lobules and lobes. A collection of the vesicles around their ducts forms a lobule, and by the union of the lobules the lobes are pro- duced. Of these there are about twenty altogether, and each is provided with a distinct duct. The ducts issuing from the several lobes (about twenty) are named from their office galactophorous ; they converge to the areola, where they swell into oblong dilatations or reservoirs (sinuses) of one-sixth to one-third of an inch in width. Onwards from that spot the ducts become narrower ; and, surrounded by areolar tissue and vessels, they are continued through the nipple, nearly parallel to one another. * If the student has a male body, he may disregard the description of the mamma ; and if the body is a female, he may set aside the breast for a more convenient examination of its structure.