DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. 108 afterwards glosso- pharyngeal and its branches. Dissection of the nerves in tlie neck : of spinal accessory of glosso- pharyngeal of vagus: pharyngeal l)lexus, cardiac )llsets, and recin-- rent; of liypd glossal of sympa- thetic in part. be defined ; the latter is to be shown joining a ganglion on the vagus, and applying itself to the trunk of that nerve, A commu- nication between the two pieces of the spinal accessory is to be found. On the pneumo-gastric is a small well-marked ganglion, fi-om which the auricular branch before referred to takes (jrigin ; and li'om the ganglion filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Next follow the giosso-pharyngeal nerve through the fore part of the foramen, and take away any bone tiiat overhangs it. This nerve presents two ganglia as it j^asses from the skull (hg. 28) ; one (jugular), wliich is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube (^f membrane containing it; tlie other, much larger (petrosal), is situate at the hinder border of the petrous jjortion of the temporal Ijone. Fr(;m the lower one, seek the small nerve ot Jacobson, wliich enters an aperture in the crest of bone Ijetween the jugular foramen and the carotid canal, and another filament of communication with the ganglion of the sympathetic. Sometimes the dissector will be able to find a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricular branch of the j^neumo-gastric, and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric ner\ e. Beloiv the for a men of exit from the skull, the cranial nerves have been for the most part denuded l)y the dissection of the internal carotid ; l)ut the intercommunications of the vagus, hypoglossal, sympathetic, and first two spinal nerves, near the skull, are to be traced out more completely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufticientl}' laid bare already ; but its small piece is to be traced to the vagus close to the skull, and onwards along that trunk. The chief part of the giosso-pharyngeal has also been dissected ; but the oflsets on the carotid, and others to the pharynx in fi'ont of the artery are to be defined. On the pneumo-gastric trunk the student will find an enlarge- ment close to the skull (ganglion of the trunk), to which the hypo- glossal nerve is intimately united. From the ganglion proceed two branches (pharyngeal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the parts indicated by their names, especially the first which enters tlie pharyngeal plexus. The task of exposing the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and those of the giosso-pharyngeal and sympa- thetic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contaiiied. Two or more cardiac offsets of the vagus, one at the upper and another at 1;he lower part (jf the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly, the dissector may jirej^are more fully the recurrent branch coursing up beneath the lower end of the common carotid : by removing the fat around it, offsets may be seen passing to the chest and the windpipe. Only the first, or the deep part of the hypoglossal nerve remains to be made ready for learning ; its communications with the vagus, sympathetic, and the spinal nerves are to be shown. . A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on (x). 114);