DISSECTION OF THE HEAD, 10 and struc- ture. Processes. Falx cei-ebri: form and attach- ments : borders; sinuses in it. Superior longitudinal situation and endiiii. its interior; vems open- in-' into it. Directions for removal of brain. membranes are in tlie natural condition closely applied to one anotlier. The fibrous tissue of wliicli tlie dura mater is composed is so arranged as to give rise to two strata, an external which adheres to the bones, and an internal which is lined by an epithelium similar to that on serous membranes. At certain spots these layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri (fig. 3) is the median sickle-shaped process of the dura mater, which dips in between the hemis2Jheres of the large brain. Its form and extent will be evident if the right half of the brain is gently separated from it. Narrow in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, it widens behind, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater named the ten- torium cerebelli. Its upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the internal occipital protuberance ; and the lower or free border, concave, is turned towards the central portion of the brain (corpus callosum), with which it is in contact posteriorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses :—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in the hinder part of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium. The SUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS (fig. 3, b) exteuds from the ethmoid bone to the internal occipital protuberance. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood through numerous small veins, when pressure is made from before back with the finger along the middle line of the dura mater. "When the sinus is opened it is seen to be narrow in front, and to widen behind, where it ends in a dilatation termed the torcular Herophili, on one side (more frequently the right) of the internal occipital protuberance. Its cavity is triangular in form, with the apex of the space turned to the falx ; and across it are stretched small tendinous cords—chordae Willisii—near the openings of some of the cerebral veins. Frequently small Pacchionian bodies project into the sinus. The sinus receives small veins from the substance of the skull and dura mater, and larger ones from the brain; and the blood flows backwards in it. The cerebral veins open chiefly at the posterior part of the canal, and they lie for some distance against the wall of the sinus before they perforate the dura mater ; their course is directed from behind forwards, so that the current of the blood in them is opposed to that in the sinus : this disposition of the veins may be seen on the left side of the brain, where the parts are undisturbed. Directions. Before the rest of the dura mater can be examined, the brain must be taken from the head. To facilitate its removal, let the head incline backwards, while the shoulders are raised on a