315 EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARI8. extensor : linally, botli parts enter the common expansion on tlie lirst phalanx of the little linger. Action. It extends the little finger and moves hack the wrist and and use. elbow. As the inner -piece of the split tendon is not united with the common extensor, it can straighten the digit during Mexion of the otiicr lingers. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS MUSCLE (f) arises from the Extensor common tendon, the aponeurosis of the forearm, and an inter- ^FP^ muscular septum on its outer side ; it is also fixed by fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). Its tendon becomes Ii'lh^ from Heshy libres near the origin; annular ligament, and passes through a separate sheath in that struc- ture to be inserted into the tuberosity at the base of tlie metacar]3al iusortion; bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer, relations; with part of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little linger, with the posterior interosseous vessels. Action. The ulnar extensor straightens the wrist, and inclines the and use. hand towards the ulnar side : it can then extend the elbow-joint. The ANCONEUS (g) is a small triangular muscle near the elbow. Anconcms: It arises from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct origin; from, and on the ulnar side of the common tendon of the foregoing muscles. From this origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into insertion; the outer side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper third of the posterior surface of the ulna. Tlie upper fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the touches tw lowest of the triceps muscle. Beneath the anconeus lie the supinator ^^'^^i^^ > bre^'is muscle, and the interosseous recurrent vessels. Action. It assists the triceps in extending the elbow. use. Dissection (fig. 103). For the disj^lay of the deep muscles at the Dissection of back of the forearm, and of the jDosterior interosseous vessels and of nmscks nerve, three of the superficial muscles, viz., extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris, are to be divided above and turned aside ; and the small branches of the nerve and artery entering these muscles may be cut. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed from the muscles, and from the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender and interos- part of the nerve, which sinks beneath the extensor of the second f^u^nervr^^ phalanx of the thumb about the middle of the forearm, should be traced beyond the wrist. The separation of the muscles shoidd be made carefully, since the outer two of the thumb are not always very distinct from each other. Deep Layer of Muscles (fig. 103). In this layer there are five Fivemus- muscles, viz., one supinator of the forearm, and four special extensor (|t^fp^]^ayer. muscles of the thumb and index finger. The highest muscle, partly surrounding the upper third of the radius, is the supinator brevis (d). Below this are the three muscles of the thumb in the following- order ;—the extensor of the metacarpal bone (e), the extensor of the first (f), and that of the second phalanx (a). On the ulna the indicator muscle (h) is placed.