DISSECTION OF DEEP VESSELS AND NEllYES OF NECK. covered by the common integuments, fascia, and platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though fartlier back. But above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. While in the neck, the internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which separates it from the vertebrse. Vein: The internal jugular vein accompanies the artery, being contained in a sheath with it, and placed on the outer side. Small vessels. Below the digastric muscle the occipital artery is directed back over the carotid ; and the oflset from it to the sterno- mastoid may run down on the carotid trunk. Above the digastric the posterior auricular artery crosses the internal carotid. Nerves. The pneumo-gastric is contained in the sheath between the artery and vein, being parallel to thenj ; and the sympathetic, also running longitudinally, lies behind the sheath of the vessels. Crossing the artery superficially, from below up, are the hypoglossal, which sends its descending branch downwards along the vessel ; next the pharyngeal branch of the vagus ; and lastly the glosso-pharyngeal. Directed inwards beneath the carotid is the superior laryngeal nerve, furnishing the external laryngeal branch, together with pharyngeal offsets of the upper ganglion of the sympathetic. Close to the skull, the cranial nerves of the neck are interposed between the artery and the vein. Around the carotid entwine branches of the sympathetic, and offsets of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The cervical portion of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, though it is sometimes very tortuous ; and it usually does not furnish any branch. Fart in the temporal hone. In the carotid canal the winding course of the vessel commences. The artery first ascends in front of the cochlea and tympanum; next it is directed forwards and inwards almost horizontally ; and lastly it turns upwards into the cranium through the foramen laceruni. Branches of the sympathetic nerve and a venous plexus surround the carotid in the bone. While in the canal the artery supplies a small branch to the cavity of the tympanum. The cranial part of the artery is described with the base of the sknll (p. 19). The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN is continuous with the lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the jugular foramen nearly to the first rib. Behind the inner end of the clavicle it joins the subclavian to form the innominate vein (p. 71). As far as the thyroid cartilage the vein accom2:)anies the internal carotid, but below that point it is the companion to the common carotid artery ; and it lies on the outer side of each. Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close throughout, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the cranial nerves ; and at the lower part of the neck there is a larger intervening space (p. 76), in which the j)neumo-gastric nerve, with its cardiac branch, is found.