DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 160 cartilage, and causes tlie cricoid to move forwards and doAvnvvards^ thus opi^osing the crico-thvroid musclej and shortening the vocal cords. It also moves inwards the fore part of the arytenoid carti- lage with the true vocal cord, so as to place the latter in the position necessary for vocalization. The short fibres passing from the arytenoid cartilage to the vocal cord will tighten the fore part, and relax the hinder part of the cord. Tliyro- The THYRO-EPIGLOTTIDEAN MUSCLE is a thin layer which varies deafnuuseie; n^LUch in its development in different bodies. Its fibres arise from the thyroid cartilage in conjunction with the outer part of the thyro- arytenoid, and are directed upwards, covering the outer surface of the saccule of the larynx, to be inserted into the margin of the epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottidean fold with the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle. The whole of the muscular fibres passing from the arytenoid and thyroid cartilages to the epiglottis are sometimes described together as the d.epressor of the epiglottis. use. Action. This muscle draws downwards the epiglottis and aryteno- epiglottidean fold, and assists in closing the upper aperture of the larynx. Interior of CaVITY OF THE LARYNX AND PARTS INSIDE. On looking into the The cavity is cavity of the larynx from above, the tube will be seen to become constricted narrower from above downwards, owing to the projection inwards of in mi ( ( . prominent folds on each side termed the vocal cords. The lower or true vocal cords are placed on a level with the bases of the ary- tenoid cartilages, and the slit-like interval between them is called the glottis. Below this the cavity enlarges again to the lower aperture of the larynx, where it is continued into the trachea. Upper open- Up2>er aperture of the larynx (fig. 31, n). This is the orifice by J°g: which the larynx communicates with the pharynx. It is tri- form and angular in shape, with the base, which is formed by the epiglottis, ijoiiiidaries. ^^pj^^^^^ forwards and upwards. The sides, which are sloi)ed from before downwards and backwards, are formed by the aryteno-epi- glottidean folds of the mucous membrane ; and at the apex is the arytenoid muscle, with the upper ends of the arytenoid cartilages, covered by the mucous membrane. This aperture is closed by the tubercle of the epiglottis during deglutition, i.owcr open- The lower aperture of the larynx, bounded by the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, is nearly circular in form, and of the same size as the interior of the cartilage. Dissection. Dissection. To see the parts within the larynx, the tube is to be divided by a median incision along the back; but in cutting through the arytenoid muscle, let the knife be carried a little to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. Parts inside On the side wall of the larynx (fig. 45) there will now be seen aijnx. ^j^^ projecting bands of the vocal cords separated by a depression called the ventricle of the larynx. If a probe be j>assed into this hollow, it will enter a small pouch—saccuhis laryngis, by an aperture at the upper and fore part, under cover of the suj^erior vocal cord. Glottis: The glottis or rima glottidis is the narrowest part of the laryngeal