728 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. anterior surface; posterior surface. The pupil. Membrane of the pupil in the foetus situation time of dis- appearance. Component structures. Sphincter and dilator of pupil. How they act. Situation of pigment. Fig. 23; liganientiim pectinatuni with the cornea. The anterior surface is free in the aqueous humour, and is marked by lines converging towards the pupil. The posterior surface is covered with a thick layer of pigment (fig. 237), to which the term uvea has been applied. The aperture in it (fig. 235) is the jjH-^^-iZ of the eye ; this is slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly circular in form ; but its size is constantly varying (from -^^tli to J of an inch) by the contraction of the muscular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the retina. Membrane of the j^upil. In the fa'tus the aperture of the pupil is closed by a vascular transparent membrane, which is attached to the edge of the iris, and divides into two distinct chambers the space in which the iris is sus- pended. The vessels in it are continuous behind with those of the iris and the case of the lens. About the eighth month the vessels become imper- vious, and at the time of birth only fragments of the structure remain. Structure. The stroma of the iris is composed of connective tissue, the fibres of which are directed for the most part radially towards the pupil. In it are in- voluntary muscular fibres, both circular and radiating, together with pigment-cells ; and vessels and nerves ramify through the tissue. Muscular fibres. The sphincter of the pupil (fig. 236, d) is a narrow band about -^-^th. of an inch wide, which is close to the pupil, on the posterior aspect of the iris. The dilator of the 2^upil (e) consists of bundles of fibres which begin at the outer border of the iris, and end internally in the sphincter. Action. Enlargement of the pupil is effected by shortening of the radiating fibres ; and diminution, by contraction of the circular ring. The movements of the iris are involuntary, and regulate the admis- sion of light into the ball. The pigment of the iris is partly interspersed in the substance oi' the membrane, and partly collected into a thick layer on the pos- terior aspect, the above-mentioned uvea, which is continuous with the pigmentary stratum of the retina. The colour of the iris depends upon the nature and quantity of the interspersed pigment. * Enlarged representation of the parts of the eyeball on one side opposite the lens : the letters refer to the same parts as in fig. 234. d. Cornea. e. Ciliary muscle, radiating fibres. /. Iris. g. Lens. i. Posterior chamber. j. Ciliary part of the retina, m. Circular bundle of the ciliary muscle. n. Front of vitreous body. o. Canal of Petit, r. Canal of Schlemm. s. Inner end of ciliary process, t. Suspensory ligament of the lens.