DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 22 concealed. Tiiangiilar in shape, it arises by its apex from the upper maxillary bone near the anterior nasal aperture. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, which covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and is continued into the opposite muscle, use. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous j)art of the nose, and depresses the tip of the organ. Common The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL^QUE NASI (fig. 6,^) is placed wfng^of nose ^he side of the nose, and aHses from the nasal process of the and upper upper maxillary bone, in front of the attachment of the orbicularis. The fibres pass downwards, and the most internal are attached by narrow slij^ to the ala of the nose, while the rest are inserted into the adjoining part of the skin of the upper lip. Near its origin the muscle is partly concealed by the orbicu- Fig. 6/:- laris paljDebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous. Its outer border 1 joins the elevator of the upper lip. ^se Action. This muscle raises the upper lip and wing of the nose, forming wrinkles in the overlying skin. Dilator of ^ DILATATOR NARis. In the dense tissue "^^^^■'^ • ' ii'ifij '' '/A on the outer side of the nostril are a few muscular fibres, both at the fore and back j)art of that aj)erture (fig. 6, and '"), to which the above name has been given: they are seldom visible without a lens. The anterior slij) {^) passes from the car- tilage of the aperture to the integument of the margin of the nostril ; and the posterior (') arising from the upper jaw-bone and the small quadrate cartilages, ends also in the integuments of the nostril. Action. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by raising and everting the outer edge. Depressor of The DEPRESSOR ALJs NASI (fig. 6,") will be Seen if the up23er lip is everted, and the mucous membrane is removed by the side of the frsenum of the lip. It arises below the nose from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and ascends to be inserted into the sej^tum narium and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Action. By drawing down and turning in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the aperture to its usual size, nmscies of MuscLES OF THE Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- eyeiids and brow are four in number, viz., orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, levator palpebrce superioris, and tensor tarsi j* : the two latter are dissected in the orbit, and will be then described. Muscles of the nose. ]. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and Hp. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. The two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Depressor alje nasi. 7. Naso-labial slip of orbicularis oris. t The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 49) is sometimes described as a part of the orbicularis. anterior and posterior parts ; brow.