LIGAMENTS OF ANKLE-JOINT. 707 out. In the lower articulation the ligaments permit some yielding and lower - - -- - artic"''- tion. of the fibula to the pressure of the astragalus, as when the weight ^^^^^^i^- of the body is thrown on the inner side of the foot; but if the force is violent, that bone will be fractured about the junction of the third and lowest fourths sooner than the ligaments give way. Articulation of the Ankle (fig. 228). The ankle is a hinge or Bones in ginglymoid joint, in which the upper part of the astragalus is received jJint"^^^" into an arch formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula; and the four ligaments belonging to this kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissection. To make the dissection required for the liojaments of Dissection ^ ^ of the ankle- joint. Fig. 228. * the ankle-joint, the muscles, and the fibrous tissue and vessels must be removed from the front and back of the articulation. For the purpose of defining the lateral ligaments, the limb must be placed first on one side and then on the other. The internal liga- ment is wide and strong, and lies beneath the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The external is divided into three separate pieces ; and to show these, the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus, should be taken away. The anterior ligament is a thin fibrous membrane, which is Anterior attached to the tibia close to the articular surface ; and to the upper tWrTEuid part of the astragalus near the articulation with the navicular bone, imperfect. In the ligament are some rounded intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. The posterior ligament is thinner than the anterior, and is attached Posterior to the tibia and astragalus, close to the articular surfaces of the ^^s^"^®"^ bones. Towards the outer side it consists of transverse fibres, * Internal lateral ligament of tlie nnkle (altered from Bourgery). 1. Pos- terior, 2, middle, and 3, anterior fibres of the inner ligament. 4. Internal calcaneo-navicular ligament. z z 2