CHAPTER lY. DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Section I. CAVITY OF THE THORAX. Definition. Contents of cavity. Dissection to open thorax. Sternum to be kept. Form in general; on a cross section. Boundaries, The cavitj^ of the thorax is the space included by the spinal column, the sternum, and ribs, and by certain muscles in the intervals of the bony framework. In it the organs of resj)iration, and the heart with its great vessels are lodged ; and through it the gullet, and some vessels and nerves are transmitted. Dissection. Supposing the soft parts covering in front the bony parietes of the thorax to have been examined and taken away, the cavity is to be opened by removing a portion of the anterior boun- dary. To make a sufficient opening in the thorax, the sternum is to be sawn through opposite the interval between the first and second ribs, and again between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs. After detaching the lining membrane (pleura) from the inner surface of the chest-wall, the student is to cut through the true ribs, except the first and seventh,* as far back as he can conveniently reach. The loose sternum and the ribs can be removed by dividing the internal mammary vessels, the triangularis sterni, and tlie inter- costal muscles in the first and sixth spaces. The bag of the pleura, and the cavity with its contents will now be ready for examination. The sternum and the cartilages of the ribs will be required here- after for the dissection of the ligaments. Form. The included cavity is irregularly conical, with the scpex above and the base below ; and it appears, from the collapsed state of the lungs, to be only partly filled by the contained viscera, but during life the whole of the now vacant sj^ace is occupied by the expanded lungs. On a horizontal section its shape would appear broadly cordiform ; for the cavity is flattened on the sides, is diminished in the middle line by the prominent spinal column, and projects backwards on each side of the spine. Boundaries. On the sides are the ribs with the intercostal muscles; in front is the sternum ; and behind is the spine. * The student must leave these ribs uncut; the division of them will not he advantageous to him, and will injure the dissection of the neck and abdomen.