LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTEEY. 117 side (pp. 66 to 68) will serve for those on tlie left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct arches over the part of the subclavian artery of thoracic internal to the scalenus muscle. If it is uninjected it looks like a vein, rather flattened, and smaller than a crow-quill; and it will be found about half an inch above the clavicle, crossing behind the internal jugular vein, and then bending downwards to end in the jangle between the latter and the subclavian vein. On this side the clavicle is to remain articulated, in order that the joint may afterwards be studied. The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY arises from the arch of the aorta, Left -instead of from an innominate trunk, and ascends thence over the art^iy ^''^^ first rib in its course to the upper limb. With this difference on differs much the two sides in the origin of the subclavian—the one vessel subclavian beginning opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, the other in the thorax—it is evident that the length and relations of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus anticus must also differ on the two sides. First part. The part of the artery internal to the anterior scalenus in the first is much longer on the left than the right side. It ascends nearly * vertically from its origin to the level of the first rib, and then bends somewhat abruptly outwards over the toj) of the lung. On leaving the chest it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the oesophagus, and does not rise usually so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. Between the artery and the surface are structures like those on relations to the right side, viz., the integuments with the platysma and deep parts^'""^^ fascia, and the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles. To the inner side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, the latter arching forwards above this part of the artery ; and the pleura is in contact with the outer and posterior surfaces. Its relations lower in the chest are described in the dissection of the thorax. Veins. The internal jugular and vertebral veins, as well as the veins; beginning of the innominate, are in front of this part of the artery. Nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve lies parallel to the vessel position of instead of across it as on the right side ; and the phrenic nerve serves, crosses over it close to the scalenus. Accompanying the artery are the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, which course along its inner side to the chest. The second and third parts of the artery, viz., beneath and beyond Rest of the scalenus, are essentially the same as on the right side (p. 69). ^^^^^y- The branches of this artery resemble so closely those of the right Branches trunk, that one description will serve for both (pp. 69 to 71). It tho'sTof^ may be remarked that the superior intercostal of the left side is right vessel, usually internal to, instead of beneath the scalenus as on the right side ; in other words, this branch arises sooner. The THORACIC DUCT (fig. 29, ^) conveys the chyle and lymph of Thoracic the greater part of the body into the venous circulation. Escaping ^^^^ from the thorax on the left side of the oesophagus, the duct ascends comes from in the neck as high as the seventh cervical vertebra. At the spot ti^orax,