97 LINGUAL VESSELS AND NERVE. t(3ngue is depressed, and hollowed along the middle. The hinder fibres acting alone raise the hyoid bone and protrude the tongue ; while the anterior retract the tip of the tongue. The LINGUAL ARTERY (fig. 19, /) arises from the external carotid Lingual opposite the great cormi of the hyoid bone. At first it is directed '"'^^^'^ forwards above the hyoid bone, and then upwards beneath the hyo- theTongue glossus to the under part of the tongue (fig. 25) ; it ends at the Jj^^^*^''^^^^ anterior border of that muscle in the sul:)lingual and ranine Ijranches. glossus. Before it reaches the hyo-glossus, the artery forms a small loop, with its convexity upwards, which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve ; and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles also lie over the \'essel, but are separated from it by the hyo-glossus. The trunk rests on the middle constrictor and genio-glossus muscles. Its I tranches are :— a. A small hyoid branch is distributed to the nuiscles at the its in-anches upper border of the hyoid bone ; it anastomoses with its fellow of the opjjosite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid boueT^^ artery of the same side. h. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo-to back of glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of the tongue and tongue ; tlie tonsil. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must be divided to see it. c. The sublincjual branch springs from the final division of the to the sub- artery at tlic edge of the hyo-glossus, and is directed outwards to giand\^ the gland of the same name. Some offsets supply the gums and the contiguous muscles, and one continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. d. The ranine branch (fig. 25,^) is the terminal part of the to the lingual artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the o?tolml?. genio-glossus to the tip of the tongue where it ends. Muscular offsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue of the same side. This artery is very tortuous, and is embedded in the muscular fibres of the tongue. The lingual ajtery is accompanied l)y two small vcncc comites, but Lingual tlie largest vein of the tongue is the ranine, which lies external to the artery of the same name, and, after being joined by suhlingucd brandies, passes backwards over tbe hyo-glossus muscle with the hypoglossal nerve. These veins end in the internal jugular. The LINGUAL NERVE (fig. 25, ^) has l)een followed in the pterygo- Lingual maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the loAver jaw "'^^^'^ and the internal pterygoid muscle (p, 92). In the submaxillary region the nerve is inclined inwards to the side of the tongue, across along side the mucous membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, it is directed forwards below the Whartonian duct, gives and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are fur- nished to the surronnding parts, thus :— Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, to the near the gland of that name. ganghon, Farther forwards one or more branches descend on the hyo- twelfth • 1 • p 1 1 IT nerve, glossus to unite in a loop with twigs ot the hypoglossal nerve. H