673 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The aponeurosis covering the tihiahs is attached externally to the Aponeurosis over tlie imi.scle. inner border of the fibula ; but internally it joins the flexor longus ^'^^^^'^^ digitorum without being attached to bone : it may be regarded as con- stituting a fibular origin of that muscle. Fibres of the flexor longus hallucis arise from one surface of the membrane, and of the tibialis posticus from the other. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (fig. 216, e) is One of the vessels Posterior resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk (p. 652). It artery- extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower extent • edge of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, course; but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. For the upper two-thirds of the leg the vessel is concealed PfJ^f^^^^^'g by two muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus ; but and below; in the lower third, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its upper half the trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the pai"ts i^e- lower end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is ' the flexor hallucis. Under the annular ligament, the artery is j)laced between the J^gg|^'|^'^^ tendons of the common flexor of the digits and the special flexor of ankle; the great toe. Vena) comites closely surround the vessel. The posterior tibial veins; nerve is at first internal to the artery; but at the distance of about nerve; an inch it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a branches :— large peroneal trjink to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular branches enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus ; and an offset from the branch to the soleus j^ierces the attach- ment of that muscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. b. The medullary artery of the tibia arises near the beginning of Medullary the trunk : penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous, of the leg. (L One or two small internal malleolar branches ramify over the internal 1 malleolar, mner malleolus. e. A communicating branch arises opposite the lower end of the Communi- tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor longus hallucis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding off'set of the peroneal artery. Sometimes there is a second loop between these vessels superficial to the flexor hallucis (fig. 216,/). Peculiarities. If the posterior tibial artery is smaller than usual, or Size of absent, its deficiencies in the foot will be supplied by a large communicating "^^J' X X