116 DISSECTIOJ^ OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. loop to lower ganglion; branches of distribution, thyroid branches. middle cardiac nerve. Inferior ganglion on neck of first rib. Branches to spinal nerves and vertebral artery ; and inferior cardiac. Directions. cervical ganglia, forming a looj) (ansa Yieussenii) over tlie front of the snbclavian artery, and supplying it with filaments. Branches for distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid body, together with the middle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid artery^ and end in the thyroid body; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The middle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across the subclavian artery ; its termination in the cardiac plexus will be learnt in the chest. In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size, but irregular in shape, and lies over the interval between the first rib and the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it extends in front of the neck of the rib, and joins the first swelling of the knotted cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those of the other two ganglia. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming the vertebral plexus- around it, and communicating with the cervical nerves. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, issues^ from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions. The student now proceeds to dissect the left side of the neck, but the remains of the right half should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the left half. Section X. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Directions Dissection of anterior triangle of neck; of scaleni, and subcla- vian artery; Directions. In the dissection of the left half of the neck, the differences between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be only made to it. After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the anterior part of it is to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (pp. 58 to 65) is to be used for the anterior triangular space, the sterno-mastoid, and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scaleni muscles and the subclavian vessels are to be learnt. The dissection and description of the muscles on the right