PXEUMO-GASTRIC NEEVE. Ill from the spinal accessory nerve (") pass over the ganglion without being connected to it. The hrmiches of the pneumo-gastric nerve arising in the neck Brandios may be divided into those uniting it with other nerves, and those distributed to the several organs. * Connecting hrmirJifs (tig. 28) arise from the ganglia of the root to unite T . T n j.\ ' with otlioi'.s; and trunk ot the vagus. From the (jeivglion of tlte root. The (luricular hranch (Arnold's auriculav nerve, ') is tlie chief offset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter ' an aperture near the root of the styloid process : it traverses the substance of tlie temporal bone, and is distributed to the outer ear. Its farther course will be described with the anatomy of the ear. One or two short tilaments unite this ganglion with the small ^vith eleventh part of the spinal accessory nerve ; and a brancli from the upper sympa- ' ganglion of tlie sympathetic enters it. Occasionally there is an offset (^") to join the petrosal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. From the ganglion of the trunk. Communicating filaments pass with between it and the hypoglossal nerve. Other l)ranches connect it to syiuj-a-' the upper ganglion of the sym])athctic and the loop of the first two ^/j'^^'j^^'.ji,.,! cervical nerves. ner\-e.s. Branches for dixtrilititioii. The cervical branches arise from the Branches lower ganglion and the trunk of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. a. The pharyngeal hronch (lig. 28,^'') springs from the upper To pharynx part of the ganglion of the ti'unk, and is directed inwards over the internal carotid artery to the side of the pharynx, being joined in its course by the descending pharyngeal branches of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. On the surface of the middle constrictor, the ramifications of the united nerves communicate freely together, and through with the pharyngeal bran(^hes of the sympathetic, to form the jJexu"^^''^^ pharyugeal pjlcxus. The od'sets of the plexus enter the wall of the pharynx and supply the constrictor muscles, the palato-glossus, palato-pharyngeus, levator ■ palati and azygos uvulae muscles, and the mucous membrane between the mouth and the larynx. h. The superior laryngeal verre (fig. 28, ^'*) is much larger than upper the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion of lan'mx the trunk. It runs obli(j^uely downwards and forwards, passing on the inner side of the internal and external carotids (fig. 27,''), to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. Here it p(.'rforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and divides into branches for the sui)ply of the mucous memlu'ane of the larynx (Section XVI). While beneath the internal carotid artery it furnishes the following offset:— The external laryngeal hranch (fig. 27,') descends on the inferior its external constrictor muscle to the side of the larynx, and then beneath the sterno-thyroid to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it ends. Near its origin it gives off a filament to join the upper cardiac branch of the sympathetic ; and lower do-wn it supplies twigs to the inferior constrictor.