395 SERRATI POSTICI MUSCLES. * Tlie SERRATi MUSCLES are very tliin, and receive tlieir name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in mirnber, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins from the spines of the vertebrae. Tlie SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR (fig. 131, a) civises from the ligamentum nuchse, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical, and upper two or three dorsal vertebrae, with the supra- spinous ligament. The fleshy fibres are inclined down and out, and are inserted by slijjs into four ribs, from the second Fi?. 131." to the fifth, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is co- vered by the rhomboidei, except at its upper border. * The SERRATUS POSTI- CUS INFERIOR (fig. 130, G) is wider than the j)receding muscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and with the fascia lumborum, and is connected to the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and ujjper two or three lumbar vertebra?. The fleshy fibres ascend somewhat to be inserted into the last four ril)s outside their angles, each successive piece extending further forwards than the one below. This muscle lies on the mass of the erector spinae ; the vertebral ai:)oneurosis is united. Action. Both serrati are inspiratory muscles. The upper one raises the ribs into which it is inserted; while the lower one draws backwards the lower ribs, and prevents their being carried upwards by the contraction of the diaphragm. The VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS is a thin fascia A\diich covers the fourth layer of muscles in the thoracic region. Internally it is attached to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. Externally it is fixed to the angles of the ribs ; and in the intervals between the bones it joins the layer of connective tissue covering the intercostal * Pai-t of the third and fourth layei's of the muscles of the back. a. Serratus posticus superior, b. Splenius capitis, c. Splenius colli, d. Continuation of the ilio-costalis. e. Longissimus dorsi. F. Spinalis dorsi. Serrati are two in number. The upper the smaller attacli- ments: insertion and with the upper border of its tendon Use of serrati. Vertebral' aponeu- rosis : attache. ments.;