490 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMExX. situation; in front of the last lumbar vertebra. It is formed by the union of formation; the prolongations of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are of large size, and interlace in a dense flattened mass, without any and ending, interspersed ganglia. Below, the plexus divides into two portions, right and left, which are coiitinued downwards on the inner side of internal iliac vessels to the pelvic jjlexuses. RELATIONS OF AORTA AND VJ^NA CAVA. Dissection of aorta. and vena cava. Aorta lies on front of spine : parts avonnd. Vena cava inferior: extent; relations; is by tlie side of the aorta, excejit above. Arteries crossing it and vein. Before the viscera are removed from the bodj, the relations of the abdominal aorta and vena cava may be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic arteries along the great curvature ; and after raising the stomach, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas, A short arterial trunk (coeliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be finite cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroj^ed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed up as far as the liver, where it disappears. The reLations of its upper end can be better observed after the dissection of the vessels of the liver. The AORTA enters the abdomen between the jjillars of the dia- 2)hragm, and divides into the common iliac arteries opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra. At its beginning the vessel lies somewhat to the left of the middle line ; and it commonly inclines slightly inwards as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta is covered at first by the pancreas, then l)y the third part of the duodenum, and for a short distance below by the peritoneum. Beneath the pancreas it is crossed by the splenic vein above the superior mesenteric artery, and by the left renal vein below that vessel ; and the solar and aortic plexuses of the sympathetic lie along its anterior surface throughout. It rests on the lumbar vertebiae, with the pillars of the diaphragm embracing it at the beginning. To its right side is the vena cava. For its relation to other deep parts see p. 533. The INFERIOR VENA CAVA begins o])])o.site the fifth lumbar vertebra by the union of the common iliac veins, and reaches thence to the heart. The venous trunk is placed on the I'ront of the vertebral colunin, to the right of the aorta. It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the same viscera as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but aboA^e that spot it is inclined away from the artery, and ascending in front of the diaphragm, is embedded in the back of the liver for about an inch and a half. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of, and higher than the aortic opening. Its relations with vessels are not the same as tliose of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the kidney is the spermatic. Superficial to it beneath the pancreas is the beginning of the portal vein.