379 AETICULATIONS OF THE EIBS. of fibres between tlie rough part of tbe tuberosity of the rib and the tip of the transverse process with w^hich the latter articulates. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse ligament is placed and middle; between the neck of the rib and the transverse process which the tuberosity touches. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the transverse process. Its fibres are collected into separate bundles, with fatty tissue between them. The synovial cavity of the costo-transverse articulation will be synovial opened by dividing the posterior ligament. There is no joint between the last two ribs and their transverse pifferences j)rocesses ; and the posterior and middle costo-transverse ligaments and twelfth are united in one band. Movements of the ribs. The ribs undergo a movement of rotation The ribs around an axis which passes through the costo-central articulation around an in a direction corresponding very nearly to that of the neck of the axis, bone. By this rotation the fore part of the rib is carried upwards and outwards in inspiration, and do^vnwards and inwards in expiration. The degree of outward movement is necessarily pro- which is portionate to the obliquity of the axis, and is therefore greater in oblique. ^^^'^ the case of the lower ribs than the upper, since the backward inclination of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrjB, and of the necks of the ribs, increases from above downwards. The lower The lower ribs, while being elevated, also move somewhat backwards, their mOTe^back- tuberosities gliding over the sloped facets of the transverse processes ; ^q'^^^^j,^"'^ and in the eleventh and twelfth ribs the upward and downward movements are but slight, while the forward and backward move- ments are relatively free, owing to the absence of the costo-transverse articulation. Costal cartilage with the rib. The end of the rib is hollowed Rib and to receive the costal cartilage, and the two are directly united. The periosteum of the rib is continued into the perichondrium of the cartilage. Chondro-sternal Articulations. The cartilages of the true Costal car- ribs, except the first, are articulated to the sternum by synovial tile sternum, joints. The extremity of each cartilage is received into a depression on the side of the sternum, and is fixed by a surrounding capsule fig. 54, In front and behind, the capsule is thickened by radiat- ing fibres, which are described as anterior and posterior ligaments. In the joint of the second cartilage there is an interarticular Second car- ligament (fig. 54,'^), like that to the head of the rib, which joins the douWe j^ohit. cartilage between the pieces of the sternum ; and the synovial sac is double. Similar bands are sometimes present in one or two of the succeeding joints. A special band of fibres passes from the cartilage of the seventh Costo- rib to the ensiform process, and is named costo-xijjJwid ligament. K^nient. The cartilage of the first rib adheres directly to the sternum, First carti- without forming any joint, ^^s^- Interchondral Articulations. The cartilages of the ribs from Cartilages the sixth to the ninth articulate together by means of broad processes anotherf on their adjacent edges, Avhich are connected by synovial joints.