131 MUSCLES OF PALATE. The TENSOR or CIRCUMFLEXUS PALATI (fig. 31, B ; 32,^) is a thin Tensor flattened muscle, lying immediately behind the internal pterygoid plate. About an inch wide at its origin, it is attached to the arises scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the pharynx; outer side of the Eustachian tube, and to the spinous process of the sphenoid. The fleshy fibres end below in a tendon, which turns round the haniular process, and is inserted into a ridge close inserted into to the posterior border of the hard palate, and blends inferiorly of soX'^^^^'^ with the aponeurosis of the velum. palate; The fleshy part of the tensor palati is placed between the internal relations; pterygoid muscle externally and the Eustachian tube and levator palati internally. The tendon enters the pharynx between the attachments of the buccinator muscle, and is thrown into folds as it winds round the hamular process, a bursa being placed between the two. In the soft palate it lies between the palato-pharyngeus and joalato-glossus. Action. Acting from the skull the muscle will fix and make use on tense the soft palate ; but its movements will be very limited, P^^^*^' seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. The soft palate being fixed by its depressor muscles, the tensor, on tube, taking its fixed point below, opens the Eustachian tube in swallowing. The PALATO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a Paiato- small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior pillar sioi=sus. (fig. 31, i) of the soft palate. It is connected below with the side of attach- the tongue; from this spot the fibres ascend in front of the tonsil to the ' anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and relations; at its insertion it is placed beneath the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus closes the isthmus of the fauces, use. bringing the soft palate into contact with the tongue, and approxi- mating the anterior pillars, thus shutting ofi" the mouth from the pharynx. The PALATO-PHARYNGEUS (fig. 31, Q ; 32, is much larger than Palato- the preceding muscle, and gives rise to the eminence of the pos- terior pillar (l) of the soft palate. It begins in the soft palate in forms two two layers, which enclose between them the levator palati and ^^^etan;" azygos uvulse muscles. The superficial, very thin, and situate immediately beneath the mucous membrane, meets in the middle line the corresponding part of the opposite muscle; it is also posterior joined by a slender fasciculus, which descends from the anterior jofned by- extremity of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube {salpi7igo-pharyn ■ ^^^^^^1^^. geus, Santorini ; fig. 31, c). The deep or anterior layer is much ^^^^^jq" stronger, and lies between the levator and tensor palati muscles ; layer is its upper fibres spring from the hinder margin of the hard palate • and the aponeurosis of the velum, while the lower ones join those of the opposite side. The two layers meet at the outer part of the soft palate, and the muscle descends behind the tonsil on the side wall of the pharynx. Spreading out below, the anterior fibres are inserted jj. 2 into thyroid