733 LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. iiienibrane is rendered lax by the drawing forwards of the ciliary processes. Canal of Petit. Around the margin of the lens-cajDsnle is a narrow Canal of space (fig. 234, o) about one-tenth of an inch across, which is situate between the suspensory ligament and the front of the vitreous situation; humour. When the canal has been opened, and filled with air by anterior means of a blow-pipe, it is sacculated at regular intervals, like the f^^^g^^^^^'^^"' large intestine, by the inflation of the plaits of the anterior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens bounds the space internally. Lens and its Capsule. The lens is situate behind the pupil of Lens of the the eye (fig. 234, (/), and brings to a focus on the retina the rays of light entering through that ai)erture. The CAPSULE is a firm and very elastic transparent case, which Capsule of closely surrounds the lens proper. The anterior surface (fig. 234) ^^^^lens: is free, and projects towards the pupil, around which it touches the anterim-^ iris; but externally the two are separated by a small interval—the surface, posterior chamber {i) ; close to the margin of the lens it is joined by the suspensory ligament (t). The jjosterior surface is received posterior into a hollow on the front of the vitreous body, to which it is surface, inseparably united. The circumference of the case gives attachment and cir- to the posterior fibres of the suspensory ligament, and behind this cumference; bounds the canal of Petit (o). The capsule is a structureless glassy membrane, much thicker over is a iiomo- the front of the lens, as far out as the attachment of the suspensory fj^ ",5;brane • ligament, than over the back, where it is very thin in the centre. In the adidt human eye the cax)sule of the lens is not provided with blood-vessels ; but in the foetus a branch of the central artery of vessels only the retina supplies it (p. 731). in foetus. Dissection. The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin Open cap- membranous capsule in which it is enclosed. ''^^ ^ '^^ The LENS is a solid and transparent doubly convex body; but the Surfaces are curves are imetj[ual on the two surfaces (fig. 234, g), the posterior eq^liv"" being greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded ; and the measurement from side to side is one-third of an inch, but dimensions; from before back about one-fifth of an inch. The density increases density ; from the circumference to the centre ; for while the superficial layers may be rubbed off with the finger, the deeper portion is firm, and is named the nucleus. On each surface are three lines diverging from the centre, and lines on the reaching towards the margin; they are the edges of planes or ^'^^^ ^^^^' " septa," where the ends of the lens-fibres meet, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not distinctly seen, because they bifurcate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Structure. After the lens has been hardened by spirit or boiling, fti'^ctme is , -, -, • o ■ c -, ,n laminar it may be demonstrated to consist oi a series oi layers (fig. 240) arranged one within another, like those of an onion. The laminae of each surface have their apices in the centre, where the septa meet; they may be detached from one another at that spot, and turned outwards towards the equator of the lens. The lamina) are