THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBEANES. 412 and see next covering. Deep siu"fac(; of dura mater. Subdural space. Arachnoid membrane is loose, and leaA'cs a space beneath. To show subarach- noid space. Subarach- noid space contains a fluid, and opens into ventricles of bi'ain : an imperfect septum behind. Dissection of third covering. Pia mater supports the cord, gives offsets- Fibrous bands. vertebra, and to be removed by cutting the bands tliat attach the dura mater to the posterior common ligament. When the cord is taken out, place the anterior surface uppermost, with the lateral offsets widely separated. To show the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle as far as the small terminal fibrous cord before referred to ; but the membrane is to be raised while it is being cut through, so that the loose arach- noid on the cord may not be injured. Lastly, fasten back the dura mater with pins. The inner surface of the dura mater is now seen to be smooth and shining, and everywhere free except at the spots along each side where it is perforated by the nerves, and gives attachment to the processes of the ligamentum denticulatum. The cavity between the dura mater and the arachnoid is named the subdural space. The ARACHNOID (fig. 136, h) is the thin translucent covering of tlie Cfjrd immediately beneath the dura mater. It surrounds the cord loosely, so as to leave a considerable interval between the two, called the subarachnoid space. The loose sheath is largest at its lower part, where it envelops the mass of nerves forming the caucla equina. Around the roots of each nerve the arachnoid forms a short tube, which is lost as they perforate the dura mater. Dissection. The subarachnoid space may be made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel beneath the membrane, or by putting a piece of the cord in the water and blowing air between the arachnoid and pia mater. The subarachnoid space separates the arachnoid membrane from the spinal cord invested by the pia mater. It is larger below than above, and is occupied by the cerebrospinal fluid. Superiorly it is continuous with the cranial subarachnoid space ; and through this it communicates with the cavity in the interior of the brain by means of an aperture in the roof of the fourth ventricle (p. 183). Along the back of the cord the sjDace is imperfectly divided by a median partition {septum p)Osticunfi) composed of bundles of fibrous tissue, which is most developed in the neck. Similar fine trabecula; pass between the posterior nerve-roots and the arachnoid. The subarachnoid space also contains the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. In order to see the next covering of the cord, with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid membrane is to be taken aAvay ; and two or three of the anterior roots of the upper dorsal nerves may be cut through and reflected, as in fig. 136. The PIA MATER (fig. 136, li) is much less vascular on the spinal cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord with a sheath, and sends a thin fold into the anterior median fissure ; it furnishes coverings to the roots of the spinal nerves. The outer surface of the pia mater is rough. Along the front is a median fibrous band {linea splendens ; fig. 13B, g) ; and on each side another fibrous band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is attached to it. In the cervical reQ,ion the membrane has