575 STRUCTURE OF URINARY BLADDER. common seminal duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. In the mucous lining are numerous tubular glands (Henle). Common seminal ducts (fig. 188,/). These tubes (right and left) Semmai^^^ are formed by the junction of tlie narrowed part or duct of the former/: ^ vesicula seminalis with tlie vas deferens of the same side. They begin opposite the base of the prostate, and are directed downwards extent; and forwards through an aperture in the transverse prostatic fibres, course; and along the sides of the A^esicula prostatica (p. 579), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather less than an inch, and length; their course is convergent to their termination close to each other in termination; the floor of the urethra (p. 579). Structure. The wall of the common duct is thinner than that of structure, the vesicula seminalis ; but it possesses similar coats. It is sur- rounded by longitudinal involuntary muscular fibres, which blend in the urethra with the submucous stratum. THE BLADDER. After the bladder has been removed from the pelvis, its form Bladder out and the extent of its difl'erent regions can be more conveniently ^^^^^ ^'^^ • studied. While the bladder is in tlie body, it is ovoidal in shape, and form; rather flattened from above down ; but out of the body it is rounder than when in its natural position, and it loses the arched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches dimensions, in length, and three inches across. Its capacity is greatly influenced by the age and habits of the individual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint without inconvenience during life, though it can contain much more when distended. Structure. A muscular and a mucous coat, with an interven- coats or the ing fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at certain parts ladder, the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. The imperfect covering oi jperitonemn has been described (p. 552). Peritoneal. The muscular coat is formed of three thin layers of unstriated Muscular muscular fibres, viz., an external or longitudinal, a middle or g^^j.^*g"^^" <:ircular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 187, ^) form a continuous covering, External or with the usual plexiform disposition of the muscular bundles, and nai? ^' extend from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the attach- urachus and the subperitoneal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior ^^"t'^; and lateral fibres enter the prostate ; while the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, but a fasciculus on each side is united to the back of the pubis through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than on the sides, forms Sometimes this outer layer of fibres is called detrusor uvince from its udm^!^^ action in the expulsion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 187, ^) are thin and scattered on the body Middle continuous