499 ENDING OF PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVES. The remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already noticed (p. 489); but the derivation of the sujjerior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves. The large nerve perforates the crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- spianchuif lunar ganglion. wvxe, The small nerve conies through the same opening in the diaphragm small, as the preceding, and joins the cadiac plexus. The smallest nerve, Avhich is often absent, throws itself into the , - - ' ' smallest, renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves end on the stomach :— The left nerve divides into branches, which extend along tlie Ending of small curvature, and over the front of the stomach; these send ^"^^^ ^'^^''^ offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the li^iit. stomach near the upper border; it commiinicates with its fellow, and gives branches to the cccliac and splenic plexuses. Dissection. Most of the viscera are now to be removed from the Picpure fur abdomen, in order that tlie l)ody may be turned for tlie dissection of the back. The stomach and the spleen, with the duodenum and the pancreas, Jf^^^'^.yjJ",:^.., are to be taken away together by cutting through the oesophagus near the diaphragm, as well as the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is to be removed from the abdomen by dividing its liga- ments, and cutting the vena cava below the diaphragm. At the same time the left testicle, and the right kidney with the suprarenal body, should be removed for examination while the body is turned ; the former can be taken out by cutting through the spermatic cord, and the latter by dividing its vessels about the middle. Directions. - Supposing the body to be now turned for the dissec- Directions tion of the back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual dissector, time, the dissector may look first to the fascia lumborum, whicli is described in Chx^pter V., p. 392. The rest of the time should be occupied in learning the viscera included in the followinc; Section. Section IV. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube between Dcnuition the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the masticated food is received to be clianged into chyme. Dissection. To see the form, the stomach must be blown up separate ^ ' and blow K K 2