375 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. From the third and fourth ganglia offsets are sent to the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the loiver six ganglia are larger and much whiter than the others, and are united to form visceral or splanchnic nerves of the abdomen : these are three in number, (large, small, and smallest) and pierce the diaphragm to end in the Fig. 121.* solar and renal plexuses. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which receives roots appa- rently from only four or five ganglia (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as high as the third ganglion. Descending on the bodies of the vertebra3, it pierces the fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the semilunar s-ancj- lion of the abdomen. At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may present a ganglion. The small splanchnic nerve begins in the tenth and eleventh ganglia, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted inferiorly through the crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus by the side of the coeliac artery. The smallest splanchnic nerve sj^rings from the last ganglion, and accompanies the other nerves through the diaphragm ; in the abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This nerve may be absent, and its place is then taken by an offset of the preceding. of lower six, large, and form great splanchnic to semilunar ganglion; small splano.linic to coeliac plexus; smallest splanclmic to renal plexus. PARIETES OF THE THORAX. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles, soft parts with the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside the ribs is a thorfr thin fleshy layer at the back,—the subcostals. The base of the thorax is formed by the diaphragm. The SUBCOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of fleshy fibres, which SubcostaLs are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- P^^^^^*^"' * Scheme to iUustrate the connection between the spinal and sympathetic nerves. (Todd and Bowman.) a. Posterior root of a spinal nerve, with a ganghon, c. b. Anterior root. d. Posterior primary branch, e. Anterior primary branch of the spinal nerve. /. Knotted cord of the sympathetic. g. GangHa on the cord. h. "White offset from tlie spinal to the sympathetic nerve, i. Grey offset from the sympathetic to the spinal nerve.