DISSECTION OF THE HAND. 806 its insertion. Dissection of deep arch. and uf muscles of thumb and little finger. Five mns- cles to tlnimli. Abductor attacli- nients; relations and use. Dissection Opponens tixed to ]netacarpal bone, beneath former: phalanx of tlie thumb. Tlie common synovial membrane f^urrounds it beneatli the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. JHssection (fig. 99). The deep palmar arch with the dee]> branch of the ulnar nerve, and some of the interosseous muscles, will come into view if the flexor profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lumbricales muscles towards tlie fingers ; but in raising the tendons the student should preserve the fine nerves and vessels entering the inner two lumbrical muscles. The short muscles of the thumb and little finger are next to be prepared. Some care is necessary in making a satisfactoiy separation of the diff'erent small thumb-muscles ; l)ut those of tln^ little finger are more easily defined. Short Muscles of the Thumb (fig. 99). These are five in number. The most superficial is the abductor pollicis (a) ; and lieneath it is the opponens pollicis (b), which will be recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the outer head of the short flexor (c) ; below this and the tendon of the long flexor is the adductor obliquus (c') ; and the wide muscle coming from the third metacarpal bone is the adductor transversus (d).'"" The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (a) is the most sujjerficial muscle, and is about an inch wide. It arises from the upper part of the annular ligament on the outer side, and from the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone ; and it is inserted into the base of the first phalanx (jf the thumb at the radial margin, sending a slip to join the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis. The muscle is subcutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis : it is joined at its origin by a slip from the tendon of the palmaris longus, and often by one from the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Action. The abductor pollicis moves the thumb in the direction of its radial border away from the index finger. Dissection.. The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting through the abductor. To separate the muscle from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the head of the metacarpal bone, where there is usually a slight interval. The OPPONENS POLLICIS (b) arises from the annular ligauicnt beneath the preceding, and from the outer side of the ridge of the tra])ezium ; and it is inserted into the outer surface and I'adial border of the metacarpal bone for the whole length. This muscle is for the most part concealed by the j^receding, though it projects on the outer side. Along its inner border is the flexor brevis pollicis. Action. It draws the metacarpal bone inwards over the ])alm, It has been usual to describe only four short muscles of the thumb, the adductor obliquus being regarded as the inner head of the flexor brevis. The present division and nomenclature are those adopted by Cunningham, whose comparative investigations have done much to elucidate the homologies of tlie intrinsic muscles of the hand and foot.