29 PAROTID GLAND. a process of tlie cervical fascia ; a horizontal line from tlie angle of relations; the jaw to the sterno-niastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the gland in this direction. Above, the parotid is limited by the zygomatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly, the gland projects somewhat into the face over the masseter muscle, and has connected with it in this situation a small accessory part, known as the socia accessory imrotidis. Issuing from the anterior border is the excretory duct—dmt of The duct Stenson (ductus Stenonianus, fig. 19), which crosses the masseter mouth : below the socia parotidis, and perforates the buccinator and the mucous membrane of the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face ; and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and a half; its length and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and tliree or four^^'^^f^ce of lymphatic glands are seated on it : but from the deep part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection. By removing with caution the parotid gland, the J^'l^g^^^gi'^ hollows that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dis- parte! *^ sector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An ex- amination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the clangers attending any operation on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the position and the diminished size of the aperture. Two large' processes of the gland extend deeply into the neck. behhid One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the jaw. mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, where it reaches the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Coursing through the middle of the gland is the external carotid Vessels and artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furnishes the posterior auricular, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Superficially to the artery lies the truuk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins ; and this common trunk, receiving some veins from the parotid, divides near the angle of the jaw into two branches, the anterior of which passes downwards to join the facial vein, while the posterior inclines back- wards over the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and is continued into the external jugular vein (fig. 16). Crossing the. vessels in the gTand. the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve,