363 PNEUMO-GASTEIC NEEVE. cavity. In the thorax it is directed over tlie arcli of tlie aorta to the root of the lung, and makes a curve lower down around the projecting heart. Before reaching the aorta the nerve is placed external to the left common carotid artery ; and it inclines gradually from without inwards, so as to be in front of the left vagus on the arch. Branches. Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the Some off- nerve to the pleura and j)ericardium. IXTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. A Small part of tllis artery, which internal lies beneath the first rib, and winds round the phrenic nerve and "J-tSy'^'^^ the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum, is now to be seen. It gives the following offset:— The siqmior phrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a "very gives _ slender artery, which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the dia- UJanS^ phragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anastomosing therein Avith the phrenic artery from the aorta (p. 534), and with the mus- culo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary (p. 265). The PNEUMO-GASTRIC Or VAGUS NERVE paSSeS through the thorax Vagus to the abdomen. In the lower jjart of the thorax the right and left nerves have a similar position, for they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But aljove the root of the lung, the two nerves have different rela- tions. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz., to the heart, the windpipe and lungs, and tlie gullet. The right vagus enters the thorax between the subclavian artery 'R^g\^t vagus and the innominate vein, and is directed obliquely backwards, by of umg, the side of the trachea, to the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it gives rise to the posterior pulmonary plexus. From and ou the plexus two large offsets are continued to the back of the gullet, cesopiiagus. and unite below into one trunk, which reaches the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve appears in the thorax on the outer side of the left 1^"^^^"^.^^^^^ common carotid artery, and courses over the arch of the aorta, and of lung beneath the root of the lung, forming there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonary plexus one or two branches and on l)ass to the front of the oesophagus, and join with offsets of the Esophagus, right nerve in a plexus ; but the pieces are collected finally into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the gullet to the anterior jmrt of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve seen in the thorax are Branches the following :— ' a. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve, arising on the right Recurrent side on a level with the subclavian artery, and on the left at the ^^^^^seai. lower border of the arch of the aorta, bends inwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely connected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympa- thetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. h. Cardiac branches {thoracic). Besides the cardiac branches fur- cardiac nished by the vagus in the neck, other offsets pass in front of the branches: trachea to the cardiac plexus. On the right side they come from