LACHRYMAL APPAEATCJS. The lachrymal canals (canaliculi ; fig. 14, ^ and ^) lead from the pimcta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac. From the margin of the lid, each canal is directed vertically for about half a line, and the,n bends inwards, following the course of the inter- nal tarsal ligament. Internally the two canals converge, and they open into the lachrymal sac, rather above its middle, either sepa- rately or by a common orifice. The lachrymal sac and nasal duct extend from the inner side of the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated end is the sac, and the lower part the duct. The sac Q) is placed in the hollow formed by the nasal process of the superior maxillary and the lachrymal bones. In front, it Fig- 14.* is crossed by the ligament of the eyelids; and behind, it is co- vered by an expansion derived from that band, which is fixed to the lachrymal crest. If the aponeurotic covering be removed, the mucous lining will appear. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct {^) is the narrower part of the tube, and is about half an inch long. It is entirely surrounded by bone, and inclines glightly outwards and backwards as it descends. In the nasal cavity it opens into the fore j)art of the inferior meatus, where its opening is guarded by a small fold of the mucous membrane. Within the bone, the duct has a fibrous coat lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the nose below, and through the canals with the conjunctiva above. Directions. The examination of the eyeball may be omitted with more advantage till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The description of tlie eye will be found in Chapter X, Canals for the tears. Receptacle of the tears. Situation of the sac, or dilated part. its opening. Structure of the duct. Anatomy of eyeball afterwards. Section Y. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position. For the dissection of the right side of the neck, let the Position of liead be supported on a block of a moderate height, and let the ^^^^ i"^^'*- face be turned to the left side and fiistened in that position with * The eyelids and lachrymal apparatus. 1. Puncta lachrymalia. 2. Upper, land 3, lower lachrymal canal. 4. Caruucula lachrymalis. 5. Lachrymal sac. 6. Nasal duct. E 2