442 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Abdominal rings, outer, and inner. Raise the skin from the front. Position of cutaneous nerves: on tlie side; and in front. Seek vessels ana nerves in right groin. Separate fascia in lett groin into super- ficial and deep layers. Immediately above and to tlie outer side of the pubic spine the opening of the external abdominal ring may be felt; and the promi- nence of the spermatic cord descending through it to the testicle may be detected. The internal abdominal ring is farther to the outer side, but it cannot be recognized on the surface with the finger ; its position may be ascertained by taking a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and a finger's breadth above Poupart's ligament. Dissection. The requisite incisions for raising the skm from the sides and front of the belly are the following :—One cut is to extend outwards over the side of the chest from the ensiform process to* about midway between the sternum and the spine. A second in- cision is to begin at the symjDliysis pubis, and to be carried outwards along Poupart's ligament and the iliac crest till it ends opposite the first cut. Lastly, the hinder extremities of the two incisions are to be connected along the side of the chest and belly. The piece of skin thus marked out is to be raised towards the middle line, but is not to be taken away; and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to- be sought in the fat at the side and front of the abdomen. Along the side of the abdomen look for the lateral cutaneous^ nerves, five or six in numl)er, which issue in a line with the corre- sj)onding nerves of the thorax. At first they lie beneath the fat,, and divide into two : one offset is to be traced forwards and the other backwards, Avith small cutaneous arteries. On tlie iliac crest, near the front, is a large branch from the last dorsal nerve ; and usually farther back on the crest, and deej)er, is a smaller branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Near the middle line the small anterior cutaneous nerves will be recognized with small arteries ; these are uncertain in number and size, and are to be followed outwards in the fat. In the inguinal region the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be dissected on the right side, and the superficial fascia on the left. For this purpose, all the fascia superficial to the vessels is to be removed from the right groin. The vessels which will then appear are the superficial pudic internally, the superficial epigastric in the centre, and an offset of the superficial circumflex iliac artery exter- nally. Some inguinal glands lie along the line of Poupart's liga- ment. Two cutaneous nerves are to be sought:—one, the ilio- inguinal, comes through the external abdominal ring, and descends to the thigh and scrotum ; the other, ilio-hypogastric, appears in the superficial fascia above, and rather outside the abdominal ring. In the examination of the superficial fascia on the left side two strata are to be made out, one over and one beneath the vessels. The layer that is superficial to the vessels is to be reflected by means of a transverse cut directed inwards from the front of the iliac crest, and by a vertical one near the middle line to the pubic bone. The subjacent vessels mark the depth of this layer ; and when these are reached, a triangular flap of the fascia is to be thrown towards, the thigh. To define the thinner deep stratum, cut it across in the same manner as the other layer, and detach it carefully with the