498 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. gives offsets on blood- vessels. Semilunar ganglia: situation; Several otrsets of the plexus. Plexus to the dia- phragm has a ganglion on right side. Suprarenal nerves. Renal plexus. Coeliac I ilex us divides like the artery, into coro- nary, splenic, and hepatic the last has secondary plexuses, vjz., pyloric, gastro- epiploic, duodenal, and cystic. nerves ; and it is joined also by a great part of the right pneiimo- gastric nerve. Large branches are furnished to the different viscera along the vessels. The semilunar ganglia, one in each half of the plexus, are the largest in the body, and are placed close to the suprarenal capsules, resting on the diaphragm : the ganglion of the right side is beneath the vena cava. At the upper end each is joined by the great splanchnic nerve. The mass is irregular in shape, and often divided into smaller ganglia ; from its outer side nerves are directed to the kidne}^ and the suprarenal capsule. Offsets of the ijlexus. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses round the vessels ; thus, there are cteliac, mesenteric, renal, sj)ermatic, diaphragmatic plexuses, &c. The diaphragmatic or phrenic plexus comes from the upper end of the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the artery to enter the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phrenic nerve of the cervical plexus and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion where the plexus is joined hj the spinal nerve ; and from it filaments are supplied to the vena cava and the suprarenal body : this ganglion is absent on the left side (Swan). The suprarenal nerves are very large and numerous, in comparison with the size of the viscus supplied, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. One of the splanchnic nerves communicates Avith this plexus. The renal plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion and outer side of the solar plexus, and is joined by the smallest si)lanchnic nerve. The nerves surround the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 489). The coeliac plexus is a direct continuation of the plexus around its artery : it is joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and by a branch from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. The plexus divides like the artery into three offsets—coronary, splenic, and hepatic. a. The coronary plexus accompanies the vessel of the same name to the stomach : it communicates with the left vagus nerve, h. The splenic pdexus furnishes nerves to the pancreas, and to tlie stomach along the left gastro-epiploi'c artery ; and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nerve. c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena portoe, the hepatic artery, and the bile-duct into the liver, and ramifies on those vessels : in the small omentum the plexus is joined by offsets from the left vagus. The following secondary plexuses are furnished around the branches of the liej^atic artery, and have the same name and dis- tribution as the vessels : A pyloric p)lexus courses along tlie small curvature of the stomach. Two other plexuses—right gastro-epiploic and pancreatico-cluodenal, correspond in distribution with the branches of each artery. A cystic plexus passes to the gall-bladder with the artery.