171 LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE. glands of variable size. Tlie largest are foimcl at the back of the trachea, in the membranous part of the wall, where some are placed outside the librous layer, and others between that membrane and the muscular fibres. Smaller glands lie beneath the mucous membrane. Other small glands are found at the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartilaginous rings. The arteries of the trachea are derived from the inferior thyroid Vessels and and bronchial. The veins have a corresponding termination. Nerves are supplied to the tube from the vagus, mainly through the recur- . . rent laryngeal, and from the sympathetic. Section XYIII. PEEVERTEBRAL MUSCLES A^D YERTEBEAL VESSELS. Directions. On the piece of the spinal column which was laid aside after the separation of the pharynx from it the student is to spine, learn the deep muscles on the front of the vertebree. Dissection. The prevertebral muscles will be prepared by remov- Dissection, ing the fascia and areolar tissue. They are three in number on each side (fig. 48), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line, and the longest, is the longus colli ; the muscle external to it, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major ; and the small muscle close to the skull, which is external to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor. The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar j)rocess of the occipital bone. The LONGUS_ COLLI MUSCLE (fig. 48, a) is situate on the bodies of the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae, and is pointed above and below. It consists of three parts—one internal and two external, Longus colli which differ in the direction of their fibres, but are closely united partsT^ together. The internal part is vertical, and arises by fieshy and internal or tendinous processes from the bodies of the upper two dorsal and straight, lower two cervical vertebrae, and from the front of the transverse processes of the lower three cervical vertebrae. It is inserted by similar slips into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. The upjper external part is inclined obliquely inwards, superior It arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of'^^^'1'^*^' the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the side of the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. It is generally joined by a slip from the upper end of the vertical part of the muscle. The lower external part, also oblique, but in the and inferior opposite direction to the last, arises in common with the inner part o^^i^l^e; from the upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into tlie transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae.