DISSECTIOX OF THE LARYJs^X. 170 there is sometimes a synovial joint, hut tlie two cartilages are most frequently united Ly connective or fibro-cartilaginons tissue. The thyro-arytenoid ligaments have been examined with the vocal cords (pp. 162 and 163). Twoiiga- Ligaments of the epiglottis. An elastic himd.^ thyro-einglottidcan epT^^^lottis ligament, connects the lower extreiaity of the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage, close to the notch in the upper border of the latter (fig. 45) ; and a membranous layer of fibrous and elastic tissue, lujo-ejnglottidean ligament, passes between the front of the epiglottis and the hyoid bone. Coustitu- Structure of the Trachea. The Avindpipe consists of a series trachea. pieces of cartilage (fig. 43), Avhich are deficient behind, and con- nected together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the carti- lages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane and muscular fibres ; and the interior is lined by mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages: Cartilages. The pieces of cartilage vary in number from sixteen form; to twenty. Each forms about three-fourths of a ring, extending irregu- round the front and sides of the airtube. Their arrangement is not quite regular throughout, for some of them are often bifurcated at one end, or sometimes two adjacent pieces are partly fused together. The highest is commonly broader than the others, and may be joined to the cricoid cartilage. The lowest piece is triradiate, or V-shajDed, a median j)rocess being sent dowmvards and backwards in the angle between the two bronchi. Fibrous The fibrous membrane ensheaths the cartilages and, being con- lajer. tinned across the intervening spaces, binds them together. It also extends across the posterior part of the tracliea. Dissection. Dissection. On removing the fibrous membranes and the mucous glands from the interval between the cartilages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will ajDpear. After the muscular fibres have been examined the membranous part of the tube may be divided, to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular Muscular fibres. Between the ends of the cartilages is a continuous iScOc.^*^ layer of transverse bundles of imstriated muscle, which is attached to the truncated ends and the adjacent part of the inner surface of the cartilaginous hoops. By the one surface the fleshy fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and glands, and by the other with the elastic tissue. Some longitudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue. Submucous The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the trachea beneath tissue! mucous membrane ; and at the posterior part, where the carti- lages are wanting, it is gathered into strong longitudinal bundles. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. Mucous The mucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and is epithelium' furnished with a columnar ciliated epithelium. and glands. Connected with this membrane are numerous branched mucous