651 ANATOMY OF THE HAM. region, let a longitudinal incision be luadc beliind the knee for the over the distance of six inches above, and four inches below the joint. At each extremity of this cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two flaps, the one being turned outwards and the other inwards. In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves, viz., one or two twigs seektiie in the middle line of the limb from the small sciatic nerve beneath ^^^f"!^^^^ iicr> Co. the fascia ; and some offsets of the internal cutaneous nerve towards the inner side. After the subcutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. Fascia lata. Where this fascia covers the popliteal space it is Fascia of strengthened by transverse fibres, particularly on the outer side ; over the and it is connected laterally with the tendons bounding that iiam. interval. The short saphenous vein perforates it opposite the knee, or a little lower down. Dissection (fig. 209). The fascia over the ham is now to be Remove removed without injuring the small sciatic ner^'e and accompanying artery, and the short saphenous vein, which are close beneath it. A and take the large quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without hamr'"*'^ injury to the several small vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large inter- seek the nal popliteal nerve in the middle, and the external popliteal on the th"s*j^ace outer side. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous ofi'sets of the inner will be recognized more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction : in fat bodies the two small nerves from the inner popliteal trunk to the knee-joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve from the external 2>opliteal. In the bottom of the space are the po})liteal vi-ssels, the vein being Clean tlie more superficial than the artery. The ,-tudent is to seek an articular ^^^^^ ^' branch (superior) on each side, close aljove the condyle of the femur, and to clean numerous other branches uf the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the calf. On the upper part of the find obtu- artery, the branch of nerve from the obturator to the knee-joint is ^'^^^^ to be found ; and on the sides of the artei-y are three or four lym- and glands, phatic glands in the fat. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced in tlieir natural position on the iinier side. The POPLITEAL SPACE, or ham (fig. 209), is the hollow behind The ham: the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large vessels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the situation form of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one-third of the femur, and downwards along one-sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condition the muscles on the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited to the region imme- diately above the joint. This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the boundaries, limb; and the lateral boundaries are therefoie formed by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer outer side, is the biceps muscle {^) as far as the joint, and the plantaris