VEINS OF THE IIEAKT. 347 diliereiit veins will be seen to be guarded by valves, witli the exception of the oblique vein; and at its right end is the Thebesian valve of the right auricle. The left coronary or fjreat cardiac vein, beginning in front near Large coro- the apex of the heart, first ascends in the interventricular groove, and then turns to the Ijack in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, to open into the coronary sinus ("'). It receives branches, mainly from the left side of the heart, in its course; and its ending in the sinns is marked by a double valve. The right coronary vein (^) is of small size, and runs in the hinder part of the right auriculo - ventricular groove to the right end of the coro- nary sinus. The jposterior cardiac veins (ft) ascend on the back of the left ventricle to the coro- nary sinus ; and one larger vessel, the middle cardiac vein, lies in the posterior in- terventricular furrow. The anterior cardiac veins are three or four in number, and run upwards on the front of the right ventricle to open separately into the lower part of the right auricle. Smallest cardiac veins. Other small veins lie in the substance of Smallest the heart, and are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac nerves. The nerves for the supply of the heart are Nerves of derived from a large plexus (cardiac) beneath the arch of the aorta, from which offsets proceed to accompany the coronary arteries. The greater part of this plexus is deeply placed, and will be dissected at a later stage, but a superficial prolongation may now be seen. The snperjicial cardiac plexus is placed below the arch of the aorta, superficial to the right of the ductus arteriosus. The nerves joining it are the plexus left superficial cardiac of the sym]3athetic, the lower cervical cardiac of the left vagus (p. 364), and a considerable bundle from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglion is sometimes seen in the plexus. Inferiorly it sends off nerves along the right coronary artery to the ends in heart. A few filaments run on the left division of the pulmonary J^'f^y. artery to the left lung. * Back of the heart with its veins and the coronarj^ sinus. (Marshall.) A. Right auricle, b. Left auricle, with the appendix, c. 1. Coronary sinus. 2. Oblique vein. 3. Right coronary vein. 4. Left or great coronai-y vein. +tPos- terior cardiac veins; the larger one on the right is the middle cardiac vein.