DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 554 relations with parts around: sometimes much <lilated. Anal canal. liladder is in pelvis when empty, and projects above when full. Axis. Position in pelvis varies with age. Apex has three cords fi om it. Base; parts in contact with it. Surfaces : inferior, distance of about one inch and a half, where it opens on the surface by the anal passage. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is supported by the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani and external sphincter muscles. In front of this part of the rectum are the prostate, the mem- branous part of the urethra, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethra. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling. Sometimes the lower half of the rectum is very much . enlarged, especially in women and old men ; and in that condition in the male it rises up on each side of the prostate. The anal passage or canal (Symington) leads downwards and backwards from the lower end of the rectum to the anal open- ing. Its length varies from half an inch to one inch, being shorter when the bowel is distended. It is surrounded by the sphincter muscles ; and in the closed state it is compressed laterally, so that its side-walls are in contact, and the lumen has the form of a median slit. The URINARY BLADDER (vesica urinaria ; fig. 181, a) is the receptacle for the urine, and is situate in the fore part of the pelvis. When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and lies against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when distended it becomes rather egg-shaped, with the larger part towards the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall. In distension during life it is slightly curved forwards over the pubic bones, and projects above them ; and if its axis were prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall anteriorly a variable distance (according to the distension) above the pubic symphysis, and the lower end of the sacrum posteriorly. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in early life as in the adult. For in the child this viscus rises much above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the part near the neck is elongated. But in the adult the bladder is for the most part contained within the space enclosed by the pelvic bones, and the base projects backwards. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (p. 551 and 553). The relations of the moderately full bladder are as follows :— The summit or ai^iex is rounded, and from it three ligamentous cords are prolonged to the umbilicus; the central one of these is tlie urachus ; and the two lateral are the obliterated hypogastric arteries (fig. 155). All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peritoneum. The base or fundus is large, and rests against the middle piece of the rectum. Connected with the fundus are the vesiculse seminales and the vasa deferentia ; and between these is a triangular space, from which the peritoneum is mostly absent. The ureter opens into the upper part of the base on each side. Surfaces of the body. The inferior or pubic surface of the body is in