ROOTS OF THE XERVES. 415 small ganglia, one for each bundle of filaments^ which are blended, at their outer ends. Sometimes the first or suboccipital nerve is without a ganglion. The anterior or agamjlionic roots (fig. 137 a, a) arise from the side Anterior of the spinal cord by filaments which are attached irregularly—not ^^thi^t in a straight line, and approach near the middle fissure at the lower ganglion, end of the cord. Taking the same direction as the posterior root to the inter- pierces vertebral foramen, the fibrils enter a distinct openii]g in, and have ^nd ioius a separate sheath of, the dura mater. In their farther course to the , trunk of the nerve they are gatliered into two bundles (fig. 137 b, a), ganglion, and pass over the ganglion without joining it. Finally, the anterior root blends with the posterior beyond the ganglion, to form the trunk. Characters of the roots. Besides variations in the relative size of cimractei-s the two roots, the following characters are to be noted :— '^^ rnotfi. Union of the fibrils. The fibrils of contiguous anterior roots may ^^v'l"'^''^^ be intermingled, and the fibrils of the neighbouring posterior roots j'oin'. '^' may be connected in a like manner ; but the anterior is never mixed with the posterior root. Si?x of the roots to each other. The posterior root is larger than Posterior the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve; and the number Qf ^^'^'sei, the filaments is also greater. Farther, the posterior is proportion- proportion- ally larger in the cervical than in any other group ; in the dorsal nerves there is but a very slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Si:^e of both roots along the cord. Both roots are larger where the Roots ;nc nerves for the limbs arise than at any other part of the cord ; and ne'nf<:\s or' they are largest in the nerves to the lower limbs. They are li"'^"- smallest at the lower extremity of the cord. »■ Direction and length of the roots. As the apertures of transmission '". from the spinal canal are not generally opposite the place of origin of the nerves, the roots are for the most part directed obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down ; for in the upper cervical nerves the roots are horizontal ; but in the lumbar and ii.ost so sacral nerves they have a vertical direction around the filum ^" * terminale (iig. 138) ; and the bundle of long nerve-roots descending where they from the end of the spinal cord is named, from its resemblance to a equina?"* ' horse's tail, the cauda equina. The length of the roots increases in proportion to their obliquity. Length in- Thus, the distance between the origin and the place of exit of the aixm^down! roots of the lowest cervical nerve equals the depth of one vertebra ; in the lowest dorsal nerve it amounts to the depth of two vertebra3; and in the lumbar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes nearly a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of the roots. Commonly the roots unite as before Union of stated in the intervertebral foramina ; and the trunk of the nerve j^^^jntTr.*^ bifurcates at the same spot into anterior and posterior primary vertebr.ii branches (fig. 137, d and e). But deviations from this arrangement