DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 46 Branch to retina. Ciliary arteries are posterior- two named long ciliary, and an- terior. Lachrymal branch to gland and eyelids: offsets through malar hone. Supraorbi- tal branch. Muscular. Ethmoidal branches, posterior and an- terior. Branches to eyelids. Frontal branch. cranium, to the interior and exterior of tlie nose, and to tlie adjoin ing part of the forehead. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch which pierces the optic nerve about half an inch behind the eyeball. The ciliary branches are divided into anterior and posterior, which enter the eyeball at the front and back :— The posterior ciliary usually arise by two trunks—inner and outer, close to the optic foramen: they divide into a number of branches (from ten to twenty) which run to the eyeliall around the optic nerve, and jDerforate the sclerotic coat at the posterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve), named long ciliary, pierce the sclerotic farther out than the others, and lie along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the ophthalmic, and perforate the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the eyeball they anastomose with the long ciliary. For the ending of these vessels, see the dissection of the eyeball. The lachrymal artery accompanies the nerve of the same name to the upper eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, and joining in the palpebral arches (p. 33). It supplies branches, like the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and the conjunctiva ; and it anas- tomoses with the large meningeal artery by an offset through the sphenoidal fissure. The lachrymal artery also sends twigs to the external rectus muscle, and a small branch with each of the divisions of the temporo-malar nerve ; these join the temporal and transverse facial arteries. The supraorbital branch is small, and arises as the artery is crossing the optic nerve. It takes the course of the nerve of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 5.) The muscular branches are a superior to the upper and outer muscles, and an inferior to the lower and inner muscles, as Avell as small irregular offsets. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, and are directed through the canals in the inner wall of the orbit:— The posterior is the smaller of the two, and often arises in common with the supraorbital artery. It ends in offsets to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the nose and the ethmoidal cells. The anterior branch (internal nasal) accompanies the nasal nerve to the cavity of the nose (Section XIV), and gives meningeal offsets to the fore part of the falx cerebri and the dura mater of the anterior fossa of the sku.ll. The palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally arise together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyelids (p. 33). The frontal branch turns round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 5).