369 DESCENDING THORACIC AOETA. The nerves of tlie lung are derived throngli tlie pulmonary Pulmonary plexuses from the vagus and sympathetic, and follow the branches of the airtube. They have minute ganglia connected with their filaments. PARTS ON THE SPINE AND THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. In front of the spinal column are the objects in the interpleural space of the posterior mediastinum, viz., the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic duct, and oesophagus ; and beneath the pleura on each side of the spine is the sympathetic nerve. Dissection. The thoracic duct should be found first near the dia- Dissection ])hragm by removing the pleura ; there it is about as large as a auet"^^'^"' crow-quill, and rests against the right side of the aorta : this slender vessel may be injected with tallow. The areolar tissue and the pleura are to be cleared away from the f>f"ther different things before mentioned ; and the az3^gos veins, one on the right and two on the left of the aorta, should be dissected. Next follow the thoracic duct upwards beneath the arch of the aorta, and along the oesophagus beneath the pleura, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. After raising the pleura from the inner surface of the chest, the and of sym- gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve will be seen lying over ^ the heads of the ribs. Branches are to be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves ; and others inwards over the bodies of the vertebrae,—the lowest and largest of these forming the three trunks of the splanchnic nerves. The DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA is the part of the great systemic Descending vessel between the termination of the arch and the diaphragm. Its nortaf ^ extent is from the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra (the extent; left side) to the front of the last dorsal vertebra. Contained in the posterior mediastinum, the vessel is rather course; curved, lying at its upper end on the left, but below on the front of the spinal column. Beneath it are the vertebrse and the smaller and reia- azygos veins. In front of the vessel are the root of the left lung and the pericardium. On its left side it is covered throughout by the pleura ; and on its right side are the oeso23hagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein, though near the diaphragm the gullet is placed over the aorta. The branches of the vessel are distributed to the surrounding Branches, parts, and are named from their destination bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and intercostal. a. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, and ^[g'J^n^"* adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, on which they ramify (p. 368) ; they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and tion; the oesophagus. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and inferior), two left; which arise from the front of the aorta at a short distance from each other. The artery of the right lung arises in common with one of the one right. B B