365 CARDIAC NERVES. ductus arteriosus ; and tlie arch is to Le turned upwards witli the j^reat vessels attached. Tlie lymphatic glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away from the plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the left coronary plexus of the heart will be visible. The dee]) cardiac j^lexusis situate between the trachea and the arch Deep cardiac of the aorta, and consists of right and left halves, which are joined Pi^^"'^- by cross branches. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sjanpathetic and Aligns, with the exception of two brandies of the left side ; and from it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs. The right imrt of the plexus is j^laced above the right branch of Eight part, the pulmonary artery, and receives the nerves of the right side, viz., ^lowformed; the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck, the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus in both the neck and chest, and the cardiac offsets of the recurrent branch. The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed mostly to branches to the ri^ht side of the heart, and pass downwards before and behind ^'s^it coro- the right branch of the pulmonary artery ; those in front run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery to end in the right coronary plexus (p. 348) ; and the nerves behind supply the right auricle of the heart. Offsets are sent laterally on the branch of the artery to the ^ root of the lung. root of lung. The left half of the 'plexus lies close to the ligament of the arterial Left part: duct, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cnterj^io- it - cardiac nerves of the sympathetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest, and numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend from it to the heart around the left branch and oflfsets end the trunk of the j)ulmonary artery, and after supplying branches to nary plexus^ the left auricle, terminate in the left coronary plexus (p. 348). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the ligament to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some nerves reach the left ^^^^^ anterior pulmonary plexus by coursing along the branch of the of lung, pulmonary artery. Termination of the cardiac hranclies of the siinvpathetic nerve of the other car- 1 / , , _ X ' diac nerves.. neck (p. 115). On the right side there may be only two cardiac nerves entering The right the thorax, for the highest nerve is often blended with one of the piexus!^^^' others. These nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus ; and they communicate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the oneieft aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a glJpei:^^;^!. branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nerve, f)thers the' the middle cardiac, is usually seen entering the left side of the deep plexus, plexus, as the lower one generally blends with it. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. Dissection. To see fully the pieces of the airtube in the root of JJj^g^^gj^^ljnd the lung, it will be necessary to divide the branches of the pul- its divisions.