286 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Trace ■branches. Superior profunda artery lies behind the hume- rus, supplies triceps, and joins anasto- moses around elbow; cutaneous offsets. MuRculo- spiral nerve winds to outer side of the arm : branches. Internal cutaneoiis branch. Two exter- nal cuta- neous. Branches to the triceps and an- coneus, be cut across over tliem, and tlie fatty tissue should be removed. The trunks of the artery and nerve are to he afterwards followed below the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus. The veins may be taken away. To trace out the branches of the nerve and artery which descend to the elbow and the anconeus muscle, the tricej^s is to be divided along the line of union of the outer with the middle head. The SUPERIOR PROFUNDA branch of the brachial artery (p. 281) turns to the back of the humerus with the musculo-spiral nerve between the inner and outer heads of the triceps ; in this position it supplies branches to the triceps and deltoid muscles, and is con- tinued onwards in the groove in the bone to the outer part of the arm, where it divides into its terminal offsets :—One of these, which is very small, courses on the musculo-spiral nerve to the front of the elbow, anastomosing with the recurrent radial branch ; while a larger one descends along the intermuscular septum to the elbow, and joins the anastomotic and posterior interosseous recurrent arteries. Branches. Besides the terminal offsets of the vessel, a consider- able branch descends to the elbow in the inner head of the trice]3s, supplying the muscle, and communicating with the inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the l^rachial artery. One slender twig accompaides a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and ends in the anconeus muscle below the outer condyle of the humerus. Two or more cutaneous offsets arise on the outer side of the arm, and accompany the superficial nerves. The MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE (fig. 83,'*) is the largest trunk of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (p. 261), and is continued along the back and outer part of the liml) to the hand. In the arm the nerve winds with the superior profunda artery beneath the triceps muscle. At the outer aspect of the arm it is continued between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles to the external con- dyle of the humerus, in front of which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves (fig. 103,^ and ^). The nerve gives muscular branches, and cutaneous offsets to the inner and outer sides of the limb. a. The internal cutaneous hmnch of the arm (fig, 93,'') is of small size, and arises in the axillary space in common with the branch to the inner head of the triceps ; it is directed across the posterior boundary of the axilla to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 277). h. The external cutaneous tranches, springing at the outer side of the limb, are two in number : they are distributed in the integu- ments of the arm and forearm (pj). 277 and 289). c. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and supply all three heads. One slender offset for the inner head arises in common with the internal cutaneous branch, and descends close to the ulnar nerve to enter the muscular fibres at the lower third of the arm. Another long and slender branch behind the humerus,