620 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and pre- serve nerves in contact with it. Dissect the adductors, and clean the extensor jnusele. Dissect tensor of fascia. sartorins is the large extensor knee is to be bent, to make Sartorins course over the thigh; insertion; relations of the first or oblique portion. of the middle. and of the lower part; both edges. Care should be taken of the small nerves in contact with the sartorins, viz., a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh from the saphenous, internal cutaneous and obturator ; two branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle,—one crossing the surface, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle ; and the trunk of the great saphenous escaping from beneath it near the knee, with the patellar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Internal to the sartorins some strong muscles (adductors) are in- clined downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay bare the fore part of these muscles; and beneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorins, he is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the of the knee. For its dissection the tense the fibres ; and an expansion below from the common tendon to the fascia lata and the knee-joint is not to be removed now,—its arrangement will be noticed after. The smaller muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh (ten- sor of the fascia lata) is to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, corresponding with the width of the muscle, should be left along the outer aspect of the limb. After this slip has been detached, the rest of the fascia on the outer side of the thigh is to be divided by one or two transverse cuts, and is to 1je followed backwards to its insertion into the femur. The SARTORius (fig. 202, a), is the longest muscle in the body, and extends from the pelvis to the leg. It arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensor on the one side, and the adductors on the other. Its origin is tendinous from the U23per anterior iliac spinous 23ro- cess of the hip-bone, and from about half the interval between this and the inferior process. The fibres constitute a riband-like muscle, which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia,—mainly into a slight depression l)y the side of the tubercle for an inch and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper j)art is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle ; it rests^ on the following muscles : iliacus (b), rectus (d), and adductor longus (g), as well as on the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The middle portion is vertical, and lies in a hollow between the vastus internus (e) and the adductor muscles, as low as the opening for the femoral artery; but beyond that aperture, where it bounds the popliteal space, it is placed between the vastus with the great adductor in front, and the gracilis (h) with the inner hamstrings behind. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower tendinous part (I) rests on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, being superficial to the tendons