CHAPTER in. DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Section I. THE WALL OF THE THORAX AND THE AXILLA. The wall of llie chest and the axilla, which are described in this Directions Section, are to l^e learnt within a fixed time, in order that the Jlss^JJtion examination of the thorax may he undertaken. While the dissection of the thorax is in progress, the student will have to discontinue his work on the upper limb ; but when that is finished, he must be ready to begin the part of the back that belongs to him. Position. The body lying on the back, the thorax is to be raised Position of to a convenient height by a Idock ; and the arm, being slightly ^^^"^ rotated outwards, is to be placed at a right angle with the trunk. Directions. Before the dissection is begun, attention should be given to the surface-marking ; and the prominences and depressions formed by the muscles, together with the parts of the bones that are to be recognised, should be noticed. TJie position of the chief blood-vessels is also to be ascertained. Surface-marking. On the front of the chest is seen the prominence Marking of of the mamma, large in the female, but small and rudimentary in ^^i^*^ «^ii"face. the male, with the nipple projecting from it near the centre. In tlie male, the nipple is placed most frequently over the fourth inter- " costal space, sometimes over the fifth lib, and occasionally at a still nfppie^'^ higher or lower leveh Its position in the female varies greatly with the development of the mamma. Between the arm and the chest is the hollow of the axilla, in the Armpit, outer part of which the large vessels and nerves of the limb are lodged. The extent of this hollow may be seen to vary much with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for in proportion as the arm is elevated, the folds bounding it in front and behind are carried upwards and rendered tense, and the depth of the space is diminished. In this part the skin is of a dark colour, and is furnished with hairs and large sweat-glands. If the arm is forcibly raised and moved in diff'erent directions,, Head of while the fingers of one hand are placed in the armj)it, the heacl {gJt.^ ^'^ of the humerus may be recognised. On the outer side of the limb is the prominence of the shoulder ; Shoulder and immediately above it is an osseous arch, which is formed inarch of bone front by the clavicle, behind and externally by the spine and the