REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. 479 THE PERITONEUM. This is tlie largest serous membrane in the body. In the male perito- it is a closed sac, like other serous membranes ; but in the female • there is an aperture of communication with the Fallopian tube, and s®"^^*'*^ the mucous Immg oi the latter becomes continuous with the serous membrane. It lines tlie wall of the abdomen (parietal peritoneum), and is reflected over the several viscera (visceral peritoneum), some of whicli it invests comioletely, except where the vessels enter. The surfaces; inner surface is free and smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is detached from the parts to which it is naturally adherent. The membrane, as it passes from viscus to viscus, or from the abdominal wall to viscera, forms processes or folds, to which different names are folds, given, and which for the most part consist of two layers enclosing vessels. The continuity of the sac may Ije traced both horizontally and vertically. Horizontal circle round the lower ixirt of the abdomen. From the Circk-of tin- umbilicus the peritoneum may be followed along the abdominal wall opposite" on the left side to the hinder part of the lumbar region, where it umbilicus, partly surrounds the descending colon, and thence over the kidney to the front of the spine. Here it is reflected forwards along the superior mesenteric vessels, passes round the small intestine, and returns to the spine along the same vessels, thus forming the mesen- tery' From the spine it is continued in the same way on the right side, over the kidney, round the colon, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus again. Vertical circles (pg. 156). Starting at the under surface of the Circles rrom liver, the small omentum (.s om) is found descending; to the small ^ o^n onu. onieiital curvature of the stomach, where the two layers of which it consists layers; separate to enclose that organ, one passing in front and the other behind. At the great curvature they meet again, and give rise to the great omentum or epiploon (g om). After descending to the lower part of the abdomen, they bend backwards and ascend to the transverse colon, which they enclose in the same way as the stomach ; and they are then continued to the posterior abdominal wall, forming the transverse meso-colon (mc). Opposite the lower transverse border of the pancreas these two layers, which have been followed '"eso-coion from the liver to the spine, part company,—the one j^assing up- wards, and the other downwards.'" The ascending layer is continued in front of the pancreas and it« ascend- ing layer; * In the foetus at aa early period the reflected portion of the great omentum is continued up to the spine ; and while the anterior layer ascends over the pancreas as explained in the text, the posterior or descending layer surrounds the transverse colon before passing into the mesentery, thus forming a transverse meso-colon distinct from the great omentum. The front of the transverse meso-colon then becomes adherent to the opposed part of the great omentum, so that the two are united in a single process, and the colon appears to :be enclosed between the omental layers. Occasionally traces of the foetal condition are met with in the adult.