DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 272 A capsular ligament, connecting tlie outer end of the clavicle witli the acromion, will be shown by taking away the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid muscles, and of Another strong band (coraco-acromial) passing transversely be- scapuia. tween the acromion and the coracoid process, and a small fasciculus (suprascapular ligament), placed over the notch in the superior border, are then to be defined. Union of the LIGAMENTS OF THE CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA (fig. 90). The OUter scapula ^^^^ clavicle forms a synovial joint with the acromion, and is Fig. 90.* united to the coracoid process by a strong coraco-clavicular liga- ment. Coraco-cla- The CORACO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENT cousists of two portions, each having a different direction and designation, a conical The posterior piece Q), called conoid from its shape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid j)rocess ; and by its base to the tubercle of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone, and a square The anterior part (^), trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid ; it is attached below to the inner border of the coracoid process along the hinder half; and above to the line on the under surface of the clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition behind, but are separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the ligament suppoi-t the scapula in a state of rest. They serve also to restrain the rotatory movements of that bone ; thus, when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band ; and when upw^ards, by the conoid piece. piece. Use of liga- ment. * Ligaments of the clavicle and scapula, and of the sLoulder-joint (altered from Bourgery). 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Coraco- acromial ligament. 4. Suprascapular ligament. 5. Capsule of shoulder- joint. 6. Tendon of long head of biceps, entering the joint. 7. Tendon of subscapularis muscle. 8, Coraco-humeral ligament.