19 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 111 this situation it is joined by lilaments of the cavernous })k^xus supplies of the s}-nipathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (tig. 4, t) lu^iYs course, to the tentorium cerehelli. The SIXTH or abducent nerve (fig. 5, ^) enters the orbit sixth nerve throuCTli the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital '"i t :i\ c-rn- o i _ ' -Ti _ ous sums; muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, to gain the outer wall with the other nerves. In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of joins syui- the carotid artery ; and it is joined l)y one or two large Ijranches of i'-'^^^^^^^- the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. The SEVENTH or facial and the eighth or auditory nerves seventh and (fig. 5, ') pass together into the internal auditory meatus, the facial |,'erves leave being the smaller and hio-her of tlie two. xAt the bottom of the ^^"^i . . ""ether. meatus they separate ; the facial nerve courses through the acjueduct " of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. The NINTH or glosso-pharyngeal, the tenth, PNEUMO-GASTRIC Xinth, or VAGUS, and the eleventh or spinal accessory nerves (fig. 5, -) eleVentll' pass through the middle compartment of tlie jugular foramen. The glosso-pharyngeal is external to the other two, and has a distinct jugular opening in the dura mater. The spinal accessory nerve ascends through the foramen magnum and, together with the vagus, enters an aperture in the dura mater close to the occipital bone. The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve (fig. 5, °) is the motor Twelfth nerve of the tongue, and consists of two small pieces, which pierce the dura mater sepaiately opposite the anterior condylar foramen; these imite at the outer part of that aperture. Dissection. The dissector may now return to the examination of Dissection the trunk of the carotid artery as it winds through the cavernous ' smus. On the opposite side of the head, on which the nerves in the of sympa- wall of the cavernous sinus are imtouched, an attempt may be made ^,se^'' ^' "^^^ to find two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery, though in an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. One of these (cavernous) is near the root of the anterior clinoid cavernous 2:)rocess; and to bring it into view it will he necessary to cut oft' that piece of bone, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between them and the plexns. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth carotid, nerves, suiTOunds the artery as it enters the sinus. The internal carotid artery appears in the cranium at the internal apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In tliis part of its artery course the vessel lies between the layers of the dura mater bound- ing the cavernous sinus along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two bends so as to have the form of the letter S reclined. It first ascends in the inner part of the foramen lacerum, winds and then runs forwards to the root of the anterior clinoid process ; cavernous finally it turns upwards in the groove on the inner side of this pro- sinus, cess, perforates the draa mater forming the roof of the sinns, and c 2