DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 460 Clean tlie ereinaster. Parts covered l)y external oblique. Internal oblique muscle: origin from pelvis; insertion into the ribs and linea alba. Aponeurosis di^^des to enclose rectus, the ribs back to the free border, and then through the insertion into the iliac crest. The muscle is to be thrown forwards as far as practicable, after the nerves crossing the iliac crest are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs above, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique at the upper part. By the removal of the fatty tissue the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves issuing through it below, w^ill be prepared. At the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle on the cord is to be defined (fig. 150) ; it is about as wide as the little finger, and consists of Heshy loops which descend through the external abdominal ring. Its inner attachment is tendinous, and is easily taken away. Parts covered by the external oblique (fig. 149). Beneath the external muscle are the internal oblique, with parts of the ribs and intercostal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the muscle conceals the spermatic cord, and the branches of the lum- bar plexus in the abdominal wall. The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fi.g. 149, a) is fleshy at the side and aj^oneurotic in front, like the preceding : but its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external oblique. The muscle arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum : c) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. The fibres diverge on the abdomen to their destination The upper ones ascend, and have a fleshy insertion into the cartilages of the last three ribs, w^here the}^ join the internal intercostal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The remaining fibres pass forwards, with varying degrees of obliquity, to the aponeurosis. The a])oneurosis of the muscle extends from the thorax to the pelvis, and is broader above than below. For the most part it is * A. Internal oblique muscle, b. Latissimus dorsi, cut. c. Part of tlie hinder tendon of the transversalis muscle, d. Poupart's hgament. e. Ex- ternal, F, internal intercostals.