CUTANEOUS NERVES. 289 nearly to the elbow ; here it bends forward to join the inner branch of the median and form the basilic vein. The MEDIAN VEIN takes origin near the wrist by small branches luedian. which are derived from the palmar surface of the hand. It is directed along the centre of the forearm nearly to the elbow, and there divides into median-basilic and median-cephalic, which unite, as before seen (fig. 91,-), with the radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a large communicating V)rancli from the deep veins beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nerves. Some of the superficial nerves of the fore- Superficial arm are continued from the arm :—those on the inner side from foreann ^ the large internal cutaneous nerve ; and those on the outer, from the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, and the musculo-cutaneous. On the f(jre part of the limb there is occasion- ally a small off'set of tlie ulnar nerve near the wrist. On the back and back of of the hand is the termination of the radial nerve ; together with ^'^'"^ the dorsal branch of tlie ulnar nerve. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE (p. 277) is divided into two. internal The anterior branch extends on the front of the forearm as far as the wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the ulnar nerve. The jjosterior branch continues along the iDack of the forearm (ulnar side) to the lower part. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE (cutaueOUS part ; p. 283) is external ])rolonged on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, o\'er which it terminates in cutaneous ofi'sets. Near the wrist the nerve is jDlaced over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel, and su2^])ly the carpal articulations. A little above the middle of the forearm the nerve sends backwards a branch to the posterior aspect, which reaches nearly to the wrist, and communicates with the radial and tlie following cutaneous nerve. The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS BRANCH OF THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL external NERVE (p. 277) descends along the hinder part of the forearm as far i^Jl^gcuio"^ as the wrist. Kear its termination it joins the preceding nerve. spiral; The RADIAL NERVE ramifies in the integument of the back of the radial nerve, hand, and some of the digits. It becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and after giving some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two l )ranciies :— One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is ending by distributed on the radial border and the ball of the thumb. external and The other branch (internal) supplies the remaining side of the i^j.g'jl""^^^ thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger; so that the radial nerve distributes the same number of digital branches to the dorsum as the median nerve furnishes to the palmar surface. This portion of the radial nerve communicates with the wiiicii musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nerves ; and the offset to the con- ^V^lg^j tiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined by a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. The DORSAL BRANCH OF THE ULNAR NERVE giveS offsets tO the and branch ^ of ulnar