413 SPINAL PIA MATER. usually a rather dark colour, clue to the presence of pigment- cells in it. Where the spinal cord ceases, viz., about the lower edge of the it ends body of the first lumbar vertebra, the sheath of the pia mater con- sinaiTnbVuus tracts, and gives rise to a slender thread-like prolongation, the ^^^^^j jilum terminale or central ligament of the cord (fig. 138, d). This terminale. contains a little nervous substance in its upper part; and below, it blends with the central imjiervious process of the dura mater. A vein and artery accompany the filum terminale, and distinguish it from the surrounding nerves. The Hgamentum denticulatum (fig. 136, c) is a white, fibrous l)and Tiie dentate on each side of the spinal cord, and has received its name from its serrated appearance. It serves to support the cord, which is fixed b}'' it to the sheath of the dura mater. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the is nxed un band reaches upwards to the beginning of the medulla oblongata, cordt^'^^^' and ends below on the pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of tri- angular or tooth-like projections (d), which are fixed at intervals and on other into the dura mater, each being about midway between the aper- [nater tures of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty- mnni.er and one denticulations, of which the first is attached, to the dura mater f^f^'I^^J^^^"^ opposite the margin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite the twelfth dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. Vessels and nervts of the membranes. The spinal dura i»ftfer has Vessels and l)ut few vessels in comparison with that in tlie skull, its office being (iixi-a^i*^i)|teT ■ different. Filaments of the sympathetic and spinal nerves are fur- nished to the membrane. The arachnoid has no vessels ; and proof of its containing nerves of aracii- in man is yet wanting. ' The }na mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though of pia mater, this is less marked here than on the brain; and from them oftsets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves derived from the sympathetic and the i^osterior roots of the spinal nerves. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken away on one Disseotii>n side ; and the nerve-roots are to be traced outwards to their trans- f,erves^ mission through apertures in the dura mater. One of the off'sets of the dura mater, which has been cut of some and the length, is to be laid open to expose the contained ganglion. The sanghon. student should define the ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 137, b), and should trace a bundle of threads of the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting also of two bundles of threads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior root beyond the ganglion. Spinal Nerves. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves; and Trunks of each nerve is constructed by the blending of two roots (anterior and ^lerves. posterior) in the intervertebral foramen (fig. 137). They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional Number and subdivisions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, s^oups. sacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in