50 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. bone, and slightly from the bone behind the crest. Its fibres are pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the internal tarsal ligament, which divides like that structnre into a slip for each eye- insertion ; jj-^ ^-[-^Q i^fi ^YiQ g|[p Qf ^i^Q lachrymal canal, and blends with the fibres of the orbicularis along the free margin of the tarsus. use. Action. The tensor tarsi draws backwards the inner canthus of the eye and compresses the lachrymal sac, after it has been dilated by the orbicularis palpebrarum in the act of winking. Trace offset Dissection. A small nerve, the orbital branch of the superior inaxifiary^ maxillary trunk, lies aloug the lower part of the outer wall of the nerve. orbit, and may be brought into view after the removal of the eye- ball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken, and is covered, as it enters the orbit througli the spheno-maxillary fissure, by pale fleshy fibres (orbitalis muscle). Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it ; and the junction of a filament of the lachrymal nerve with the former is to be sought close to the bone. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away bit by bit, to follow the temporal branch to the surface of the head. bram h of '^^^ TEMPORO-MALAR or ORBITAL BRANCH of the superior maxillary superior nerve arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and divides at the back nerve^-^^^ of the orbit into malar and temporal branches, which ramify on the face and the side of the head with companion vessels, its malar The malar branch is directed forwards through the canal of the same name in the malar bone to supply the skin of the upper and outer part of the cheek : it communicates here with the facial nerve (p. 38). and The temporal hrancU ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer oStsy^^ wall of the orbit, and after being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through the temporal canal in the malar bone : it is then directed upwards between the temporal muscle and the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 8). Orbitalis Ovhitalis muscle. At the lower and outer angle of the orbit this thin layer of unstriped muscle is sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the spheno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are joierced by the temporo-malar nerve. Apparatus LACHRYMAL APPARATUS (fig. 14). The lachrymal gland, puncta, tears. ^ canals, and sac, with the nasal duct, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. The gland has already been described (p. 40). Dissection. Dissection. A bristle or blunted pin should be introduced into each lachrymal canal through the punctum. The lachrymal sac will appear on removing the tensor tarsi and the areolar tissue from its surface, as it lies on the lachrymal bone. The prolongation from the internal tarsal ligament over the sac should be defined. Apertures The functa lachrymalia (^), one in each lid, are the openings of m eyelids. ^-^^ lachiymal canals. Each is situate on the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and at the summit of the papilla lachrymalis.