DISSECTIOX OF THE HEAD. 6 scalp. the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial offsets, and anastomoses with the supraorbital artery ; this is the branch that is opened when blood is taken from the temporal artery, posterior The posterior branch is larger than the other, and ascends to the blanches. ^^^^ head, over which it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. Its offsets are similar to those of the anterior division, and communicate behind with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Occipital Occipital artery («). The terminal part of this artery, aj)pear- artery. ^^^^ between the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head. Communications take place with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior part of the temporal, and with the following artery. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the occipitalis muscle, the j^ericranium, and the bone. Posterior The POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY (/) appears in front of the artery!'^^ mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One {mastoid) is directed backwards to supply the occipitalis, and anastomose with the occipital artery. The other (auricular) supplies the retrahent muscle, the back of the pinna, and the superficial structures above the ear: offsets from this also pierce the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. Veins of the The Veins of the exterior of the head generally correspond to the arteries in their course, and communicate freely together, as well as with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with the veins of the diploe of the cranial bones. The frontal 'vein is of large size^, and descends to the inner end of the eyebrow, beneath which it is joined by the smaller supraorbital vein : the resulting vessel is known as the angular vein, and forms the commencement of the facial trunk. The temporal vein descends to the temporo-maxillary trunk ; iho, posterior auricular vein to the external jugular ; and the occipital veins join the deep veins at the back of the neck. Nerves of CUTANEOUS Nerves (fig. 2). The nerves of the scalp are fur- the scalp. nished from cutaneous offsets of both cranial and spinal nerves. The half of the head in front of the ear receives branches from the three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few twigs from the facial nerve. The skin of the hinder part of the head is supplied by spinal nerves (anterior and posterior primary branches); and close behind the ear, there is a muscular offset of the facial or seventh cranial nerve. ne?ve-'^^^^^^ The SUPRAORBITAL NERVE (fig. 2,''') comes from the first trunk of the fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its companion artery. It is placed at first beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum and frontalis muscles, and here gives offsets to these as well as to the pericranium. In the orbicularis a communication is established between this and the facial nerA'e. Finally the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches. its two cuta- The inner of these soon pierces the frontalis, and reaches upwards as liigii as the parietal bone. The outer branch is of larger size, and iieuus and