DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. use like medius. Divide smallest gluteus ; trace deep Posterior head of tlie rectus. Origin of pyrifonuis: insertion; relations in foramen. in buttock use with femur hang- ing, and raised; both limbs on ground, only one. Dissect out the chief vessels and nei-ves, and miis- cular branches. vessels and nerve ; the otlier with the hip-bone, the hip-joint, and the onter head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the gluteus medius ; and the posterior is covered by the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is placed between the tendon and the bone. Action. This muscle agrees in its action with the gluteus medius; but as it reaches farther backwards, the hinder fibres may also have some influence in rotating out the hanging femur. Dissection. Cut through the smallest gluteal muscle near the ilium, and define the tendinous portion of the rectus femoris under- neath it, close above the hip-joint. While detaching the gluteus from the parts underneath, the student will notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be obser^'ed and followed as the muscle is removed. The posterior or reflected head of the rectus femoris is a tendon as wide as the little finger, and about two inches long, which is fixed into the impression above the margin of the acetabulum. In front it joins the straight head, which is attached to the anterior inferior iliac spine ; and its lower border is connected with the capsule of the hip-joint. The PYRIFORMIS (fig. 206, b) arises in the pelvis from the front of the sacrum (p. 594), and leaves that cavity through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Outside the pelvis it ends in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter, between the two smaller glutei. The muscle occupies the greater part of the sacro-sciatic foramen, and divides the vessels and nerves passing through that aperture into two groups :—Above it are the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve ; and below it the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves, and some other branches of the sacral plexus. Its upper border is contiguous to the gluteus medius ; and its lower, to the superior gemellus. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion ; it rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip-joint. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. Action. The pyriformis rotates out the femur when that bone is in a line with the trunk ; but if the hip-joint is bent it abducts the limb. Both limbs being fixed, the muscles balance the pelvis, and help to make the trunk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyriformis turns the face to the opposite side. Dissection. The pyriformis may be cut across and raised towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the sciatic and pudic vessels, and to trace the accompanying nerves to their origin from the sacral plexus. A small nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 208, ^) and gemellus superior (") is to be sought in the fat at the lower border of the