38 DISSECTION. OF THE NECK, supraclavi. cular. Posterior cervical cutaneous. Lymphatic glands of neok. Directions. The hack to be examined Remove spinal cord. third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three near the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its inner end ; the middle branch (clavicular) lies about the middle of that bone ; and the external (acrondal) turns over the clavicular attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distributed to the skin of the chest and shoulder. Derived from the descending set are one or two posterior cutaneous nerves of the neck, which ramily in the integument covering the trapezius above the scapula. The lymphatic glands lying along the sterno-mastoid (glandula? concatenatse) are some of the deep cervical glands, and are continuous through the lower part of the posterior triangular space with the glands of the axilla. A chain of superficial cervical glands accom- panies the external jugular vein ; and close to the skull, over the apex of the posterior triangular space, are one or two small sab- occipital glands ; while farther forwards, resting on the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, there are two or three small mastoid glands. Directions. The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difference in the vessels may be observed. Afterwards, the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, preservative fluid or salt having been previously applied. The body is now to be turned for the examination of the back; and during the time allotted for this position the dissector of the head is to learn the posterior part of the neck. (See the dissection OF THE BACK.) After the completion of the back, the student should take out the spinal cord, and then return to the dissection of the front of the neck, which is described below. FRONT OF THE NECK. Detach the head. Examine right side of neck. Position of part. Dissection Directions. After the thorax and back are finished, the head and neck may be detached from the trunk by dividing the spinal colunm between the second and third dorsal vertebra3, and cutting through the arch of the aorta beyond its large branches (if this is not done), so as to take that piece of the vessel with the' head. The dissector continues his work on the remainder of the right side of the neck ; but if the facial nerve has been omitted, it should be first learnt (p. 36). Position. Supposing the facial nerve completed, a small narrow block is to be placed beneath the left side of the neck, and the face is to be turned from the dissector. Farther, the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin being well raised at the same time. Dissection. An incision along the base of the jaw on the right side (if it has not been made already) will allow the piece of integu