DISSECTION OF THE BACK. column in the cervical and doi'sal regions, turning the face in the opposite direction. * Sixth Layer op Muscles. This layer includes a number of short muscles which pass between adjacent vertebrae, or from the first two vertebrae to the head. They are the recti and obliqui capitis, the rotatores dorsi, the interspinales, and the intertrans- versales. Dissection. Between the first two cervical vertebr[e and the occipital bone are the straight and oblique muscles, which are to be fully cleaned. The slips of the nmltifidus spinas are to be detached from the spines of the vertebra3 and turned downwards in order to show the rotatores dorsi in the thoracic region, and the interspinal muscles in the neck and loins. The intertransverse muscles of the lumbar region will be exposed by removing the erector spinoe. The RECTUS CAFiTis POSTICUS MAJOR (tig. 133, a) civises from the side of the 'spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it. The muscle is covered by the complexus, and at its insertion by the obliquus superior. It lies over the 2>osterior arch of the atlas and the ligaments attached to that part of the bone. Action. By the action of both muscles the head will be drawn backwards. One rectus acting alone will rotate, as well as extend the head, turning the face to the same side. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR (fig. 133, b) is a small fan- shaped muscle, lying to the inner side of the preceding. Arising close to the middle line from a slight roughness on the posterior arch of the atlas, it is inserted into the inner third of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and an impression below this. This muscle is deeper than the rectus major : ,it lies over the pos- terior occipito-atlantal ligament. The two small recti correspond to the interspinal muscles between the other vertebrae. Action. The rectus ]3osticus minor extends the head. The OBLIQUUS CAPITIS INFERIOR (fig. 133, c) is the strongest of the suboccipital muscles. It arises from the spinous process of the axis below the rectus posticus major, and is inserted into the lower and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. The inferior oblique is concealed by the complexus and trachelo- mastoid muscles, and is crossed by the great occijjital nerve. Action. This muscle turns the face to the same side, by rotating the atlas on the axis. The OBLIQUUS CAPITIS SUPERIOR (fig. 133, d) arises from the transverse process of the atlas above the insertion of the preceding- muscle, and is directed upwards and inwards to be inserted into the outer part of the space between the curved lines of the occipital bone. The origin of the muscle is beneath the trachelo-mastoid, and its insertion beneath the complexus. In the interval between these it is covered by the splenius. It lies over the vertebral artery and the insertion of the rectus posticus major.