T T 2 GLUTEAL VESSELS. Action. The wliole muscle abducts the hanging femur ; and the use with anterior fibres rotate in the limb. hanging, Both limbs resting on the ground, the muscles assist in fixing the both limbs pelvis. In standing on one leg this gluteus will aid in balancing the pelvis on the top of the femur, and will draw the body over to in standing the same side. on one leg, In walking the fore part of the muscle acts in rotating the pelvis and walking, (jver the fixed limb. Dissection. When the gluteus medius is detached from the pelvis, Detach and partly separated from the gluteus minimus beneath, the gluteal medius to vessels and the superior o-luteal nerve will come into view. The two gluteal vgssgIs chief branches of the artery,—one being near the iliac crest, and the other lower down,—are to be traced beneath the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the main piece of the nerve is to be followed forwards to the tensor vaginae femoris nerve. muscle. The branches of the artery and nerve to the gluteus medius will be cut in removing that muscle. The GLUTEAL ARTERY is the largest branch of the internal iliac Gluteal (p. 564), and issues from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, ^^^^^^ where it at once divides into superficial and deep parts :— two^^^ The superficial part (fig. 206, a) penetrates the under surface of sypjj.ficiai the gluteus maximus and ramifies in that muscle. Some twigs pass inwards over the sacrum ; and others are given to the integuments. The deep 2^(^^^t (fig- 208, a) is the continuation of the artery, and and deep subdivides into two pieces which run between the two smaller glutei. One (superior ; h) courses along the upper border of the gluteus minimus (supplying mostly the medius) to the front of the iliac crest, where it anastomoses with the ascending branch of the exter- the latter nal circumflex artery. The other portion (inferior ; c) is directed and aVolver' forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, with the ^i^^^^'ch. nerve, towards the anterior lower iliac spine, where it enters the tensor of the fascia lata, and communicates with the external cir- cumflex branch, (p. 627): many offsets are furnished to the gluteus minimus, and some pierce that muscle to supply the hip-joint. Vein. The companion vein with the artery enters the j)elvis, and Gluteal ends in the internal iliac vein. The SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE (fig. 208, ^) is the highest branch Superior of the sacral plexus, and arises from the lumbo-sacral cord and the nervT^ first sacral nerve (p. 570). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and divides into two for the supply of the gluteus medius and minimus ; ismuscuiiu-. its lower branch terminates anteriorly in the tensor vaginse femoris (b). The GLUTEUS MINIMUS (fig. 208, c) is triangular in shape, and Gluteus ^ ° ^ ■'- ' minimus: arises from the dorsum of the ilium between the middle and inferior curved lines, extending backwards as far as the middle of the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch. Its tendon is inserted attach- into an impression along the fore part of the great trochanter, where ' it is united inferiorly with the gluteus medius : some fibres are attached to the capsule of the hip-joint. One surface is in contact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal relations;