DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 380 Motion of cartilase.s. Manubrium and body of sternum. Two sets of ligaments unite the vertebrae. How to see the several ligaments. The bodies are united by Anterior comm(m ligament: form and thickness : extent of fibres: Each joint is sinTOimded hj a short capsule, and is supported in front by strong fibres of the anterior intercostal aponeurosis (p. 263). The ends of the eighth, ninth and tenth cartilages are united each to the cartilage above by bands of fibrous tissue. Movements. There is only a limited degree of movement in the chondro-sternal and interchondral articulations, the cartilages being elevated with the ribs in inspiration, and sinking in expiration. Articulation of the Sternum. The manubrium and body of the sternum are united by a piece of cartilage, with anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres. In some cases there is a cavity result- ing from the absorption of the central portion of the cartilage. There is no appreciable movement between the pieces of the sternum, but the articulation aids in giving elasticity to the front of the chest. Articulations of the Vertebra. The vertebrae are united together by two sets of ligaments, —one for the bodies, and the other for the arches and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will sufiice except for those between the first two vertebrae and the head, and those of the pelvis. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined, the same piece of the s^jinal column will serve for the preparation of tlie ligaments of the bodies of the vertebrae. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be defined with very little trouble, by removing the areolar tissue. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of tlie vertebr£B is laid bare ; but if the canal should not be open, the neural arches of the vertebra} are Fig. 123.* to be removed by sawing through the pedicles. The remaining ligaments be- tween the neural arches, spines, and articular processes of the bones may be dissected on the piece taken away in opening the spinal canal. Ligaments of the bodies. The bodies of the vertebrae are united by an anterior and a posterior common ligament, with an inter- vening piece of fibro-cartilage. The anterior common ligament/ (fig. 123, a) reaches from the axis to the sacrum. It is narrow above and wide below ; and it also in- creases in thickness from above downwards. Its fibres are longitudinal ; and by detaching parts of the ligament, the superficial ones will be seen to extend over * a. Anterior common Hgament of the bodies of the vertebrae, b. Lateral short fibres.