BRACHIAL AETERY. 281 The nerves in relation with tlie artery are the following :—The and with internal cutaneous (fig. 93, ^) is in contact with the vessel until it perforates the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve {^) lies to tlie inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco- Ibrachialis muscle ; and the musculo-spiral (fig. 83, is behind for <i distance of two inches. The median nerve (fig. 93, ^) is close to the vessel throughout, but alters its position in this way :-—as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis it is placed on the outer side, but it then crof^ses obliquely over, or occasionally imder the artery, <ind l)ecomes internal about tAvo inches above the elbow-joint. Peculiaritji in position. Tlie brachial trunk occasionally leaves the inner Ucviatiou border of the bice^js in the lower half of the arm, and courses along the inter- hi position; muscular septum, with or without the median nerve, to near the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the vessel is directed to its ordinary position in front of the elbow, beneath the upper fibres of the pronator teres, which has then a wide origin. In this unusual course the artery lies behind a projection (supracondylar process) of the humerus. Muscular coiKvinf/. In some bodies the brachial artery is covered by an in nuiscnlar additional slii> of origin of the biceps, or of the bracliialis anticvis muscle, covering. And sometimes a slip of the brachialis may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk continuing to the forearm. JligJi division. Instead of a single trunk, there may be two vessels in the Artery lower part, or even the whole length of the arm, owing to an unusually high t^o'^ble. origin of one of the arteries of the forearm, more frequently the radial. Vasa aberrantia. Occasionally a long slender vessel passes from the Al)errant brachial or the axillary trunk to the radial, rarely to the ulnar artery. vessels. Branches s}»ring both externally and internally from tlie brachial itsbranchet muscular, artery (fig. 92). Those on the outer side, muscular, supply the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis aiiticus, as well as the lower part of the deltoid ; those on tlie inner side are the superior and inferior profunda, tlie medullary artery of the humerus, and the anastomotic branch. The superior profunda hvanrh (•') is larger than the others, and p^^J^f^f^ leaves the artery near tlie loAver b(n-der of the teres major ; it winds backwards witli the musculo-s])iral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm (p. 286). The inferior pnfanda Jiranch C*) arises opposite the coraco- brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the (decranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. There it anastomoses with the ])Osterior ulnar recurrent and anasto- motic branches, and supplies the triceps. It often arises in common w ith the superior profunda artery. Tlie iiiedullarij artery of the Itumerm begins near the preceding artery to branch, and enters the apc^rtiire about the middle of the humerus, bemg directed downwards. The anastoinotie branch arises one or two inches above the, anas- elbow, and courses inwards through the intermuscular septum to the hollow between tlie olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the artery anastomoses ^\dth the inferior profunda and posterior nlnar recurrent branches, and gives twigs to the