INTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. 46j the sjjermatic cord, and may occupy tlie inguinal canal. With this state of the peritoneum, should an external hernia with its cover- ings descend along the cord in the usual way, it will pass behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus in a serous membrane. In this way there will be two sacs : an anterior (the tunica vaginalis) con- taining serum, and a posterior enclosing the intestine. An infantile hernia is first recognised during an operation by ],ow known the knife opening the tunica vaginalis. The operator then proceeds treated, to lay bare the neck of the hinder or hernial sac, and to treat the stricture of it as before described (p. 464). Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia escapes on the inner internal side of the epigastric artery, and has a straight course through the abdominal parietes. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be understood after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which it passes. Anatomy of internal hernia. In the abdominal wall near tlie Triangle of pubis is a triangular space to which the name of Hesselhach^s triamjle ^fomidaiie.s •' lias been given. This is bounded by the epigastric artery on one side, the outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and the inner part of Poupart's ligament below ; it measures about two inches size: from above down, and one inch and a half across at the base. The constituents of the abdominal wall in this area are—the constituents integuments, the muscular strata, and the layers lining the interior of the abdomen, viz., transversalis fascia, subperitoneal tissue, and peritoneum. The mascles have the following arrangement :—The aponeurosis of the external oblique is pierced by the external and disposi- abdominal ring, towards the lower and inner angle of the space. ^HusJies. The internal oblique and transversalis, which come next, are united together in the conjoined tendon ; and as this descends to its inser- tion into the pectineal line, it covers the inner two-thirds (about an inch) of the space ; and leaves uncovered about half an inch between its outer edge and the epigastric vessels, where the transversalis fascia appears. Any intestine protruding in this spot must make a new path for Hernia in itself, and elongate the different structures, since there is not any twokmds." passage by which it can descend, like an external hernia. Farther, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent and direction in the abdominal wall, must vary according as the gut projects through the portion of the space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part external to that tendon. Course and coverings of the hernia. The commoner kind of in- Coverings ternal hernia (inferior) passes through the part of the triangular common S2)ace which is covered by the conjoined tendon, kind are The intestine in protruding carries before it the peritoneum, the peritoneum subperitoneal fatty membrane, and the transversalis fascia ; next it cent'tissue, elongates the conjoined tendon, or as in a sudden rupture, separates g^jl^^f^^J^jj^ the fibres, and escapes between them. Then the intestine advances conjoined into the lower part of the inguinal canal, opposite the external tendon, abdominal ring, and j^asses through that opening on the inner side spermatic of the cord, receiving at the same time the covering of the spermatic sup'erhciai H H