MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. bundles pass inwards from its lower edge between the fasciculi of the hyo-glossus. The HYO-GLOSSUS enters the under surface of the tongue in its Hyo- middle third, between the stylo-glossus and the inferior lingualis. 8^*^'^'^^^ Its fil)res are collected into bundles which turn round the margin united with and form, with those of the preceding muscles, a layer on the ^^yj^Q*^'" dorsum of the tongue, the hinder lil)res passing almost transversely glossus. inwards, the anterior inclining forwards to the tip. The CHONDRO-GLOSSUS is a small fan-shaped muscle, which arises ciiondro- from the lesser cornu and the adjacent part of the body of the liyoid s^^^s^"^- bone. Its fibres are directed forwards, spreading out beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the tongue^ and are inserted into the submucous layer. Cortex, of the tongue. The muscles above described, together with Muscular the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and tongiie.^ longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where tlie genio-glossus and inferior lingualis muscles are placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down " (Zaglas). Tliis stratum is pierced by the deeper fibres. The GENio-GLOSSUS (fig. 41, a) enters the tongue vertically by Genio- the side of the septum and perforates the cortical covering to end in the tongue; the submucous tissue. In the tongue the filjres spread like the rays of a fan from apex to l)ase, and are collected into transverse laminse as Fig. 41," they pass through the transversalis. The hindmost fibres end on the hyo- glossal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is prolonged from them, beneath the hyo-glossus, to tlie upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The PHARYNGEO-GLOSSUS, or the fibres of the upper constrictor at- tached to the side of the tongue, passes beneath the fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. The intrinsic muscles are four in number in each half of the intrinsic tongue, viz., transversalis, a superior and an inferior lingualis, and muscles, a set of perpendicular fil^res. Dissection. To com^Dlete the preparation of the inferior Ihigualis First .show on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering It in front, ^"f^"^''' r.nd those of the hyo-glossus over it behind are to be cut through. The superior lingualis (fig. 40, a) may be shown on the left side, tiuai^supe- by taking the thin mucous memljrane from the upper surface from guaiii','" tip to base. The transversalis may be laid bare on the right side, l)y cutting then trans- away on the upper surface the stratum of the extrinsic muscles ^'ersalis. * Transverse section of the tongue, a. Genio-glossus. b. Septum lingufe. c. Transversahs. D. Inferior hngualis. (After Zaglas.)