HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. H3 anterior condylar foramen, is at first deeply placed between tlie internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (fig. 27/). It next comes forwards between the vein and artery, turning round the outer side of the vagus to which it is closely united. The nerve now descends in the neck, and becomes superficial below the digastric muscle in the anterior triangular space (p. 77) ; from this spot it is directed forwards to the tongue and its muscles (p. 99). Connecting hranches. Near the skull the hypoglossal is united to iiranches the lower ganglion of the vagus by filaments crossing between the "vagus* two nerves as they are in contact, A little lower down the nerve is joined by ofi'sets from the sym- sympa- pathetic and the loop of the first two spinal nerves. spinal ^^^^ The branches for distribution have been met with in the foregoing nerves, and dissections. Thus, in the neck its descending branch supplies, in miiscies. common with the spinal nerves, the depressors of the hyoid bone. In the submaxillary region it furnishes branches to one elevator (genio-hyoid) of the hyoid bone, to the extrinsic muscles of the tongue except the palato-glossus, and to all the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. Dissection. The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, between the Dissection transverse process of the atlas and the base of the skull, is now to {jfteraiiT be cleaned and learnt. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which forms a loop in front of the atlas, is to be found. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS (fig. 27) is very short, and repre- Rcelua sents a posterior intertransverse muscle. It arises from the fore and ^^^'-'^■'^^'•^ '• upper part of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein ; and in contact parts with the posterior are the obliquus superior and the vertebral artery. ^^'^'^'"^ ' To the inner side lie the anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve and the rectus anticus minor muscle. Action. It assists the muscles attached to the mastoid process in use. inclining the head laterally. . Dissection. For the purpose of tracing backwards the anterior Dissection branch of the first cervical nerve, divide the rectus lateralis muscle, nerve, observing the ofi"set to it ; then cut off the end of the transverse process of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra. The ANTERIOR PRIMARY BRANCH OF THE FIRST CERVICAL Or SUB- ^^^^-^V"^^ OCCIPITAL NERVE is rather smaller than the posterior, and arises from suboccipital the common trunk on the neural arch of the atlas. From that spot ^^^""'^ it is directed forwards above the transverse process, and on the inner lies on atlas; side of the vertebral artery, to the interval between the rectus lateralis and rectus anticus minor muscles. Emerging here, it bends down in front of the transverse process of the atlas and forms a forms a loop loop with the second cervical nerve. As the nerve passes forwards Jecind: it supplies the rectus lateralis and anticus minor muscles, and branches connect the loop with the vagus, hypoglossal, and sympa- branches, thetic nerves. I