OBTUKATOE, NERVE AND BRANCHES. G33 of tlie last muscle it furnishes an offset or two, wliicli join in a joins plexus plexus with the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves (p. 628), ^ and often help to supply the integuments."^ In the aperture of exit, this piece of the nerve sends outwards an branches are articular twig to the hip-joint. hip-joint, Muscular branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the ad- muscular to ductor brevis, and the gracilis. adductoib. B. The deep part (•*) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of Deep part of the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis, is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it:— Muscular branches enter the obturator externus as the nerve eiuis in pierces it; others are furnished to the large, and sometimes to the i,tfgaiis,^ short adductor. A slender articular brcmch (fio-. 204,5) enters the fibres of the ^'"^1 yi'^'-'--^ ^ ' / liraiicli til adductor magnus, and passes through this near the linea aspera to kuee-joiiii. reach the popliteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee-joint : its termination is seen in the dissection of the pop- liteal space (p. 655). Dissection. To prepare the profunda artery and its branches, as Dissect far as they are to be seen on the front of the thigh, it wdll be ^^^"^ '''' requisite to follow back the internal circumflex artery above the uj)per border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches to the apertures in the adductors near the femur. The PROFUNDA (fig. 204, c) is the chief muscular artery of the rrohmdii thigh, and arises from the femoral about an inch and a half below ^'^'"'•^ ' Poupart's ligament (p. 618). At its origin the vessel is placed on origin, the outer side of the jmrent trunk ; but it is soon directed inwards <^^^'^^ii'st', beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur, and ends auaemiin-; at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch that pierces the adductor magnus. Where the vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh it rests parts on the iliacus muscle. But on the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the femoral artery, though deeper in position ; and it is placed first over the pectineus and adductor brevis, and thence to its termination between the adductors longus and magnus. Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles on the Brauciies tn front and back of the thigh, and maintain free anastomoses with th^thigh' other vessels of the thigh (p. 659) ; through these communications Joi" ^eeiy- the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The named Tlie named brandies are these :— are?— ^ * In some bodies the superficial part of the nerve is of large size and has a distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaueous nerve, the place of which it takes : in such instances it joins freely in the plexus. and 4, the deep part. 3. Cutaneous branch of the obturator. 5. Articular branch to the knee from the deep part. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Internal saphenous, and 10, its patellar branch. 8. Nerve to the vastus internus, and 9, its articular branch to the knee.