688 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. tendon of ciiboid bone, and is continued inwards in tlie groove on the under kfngus^^ surface, to be inserted into the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone, relations. In the sole of the foot (fig. 220), it is contained in a sheath which is completed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth meta- tarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only by areolar tissue. A synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened^ and contains a fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. THE FRONT OF THE LEU. Position of the limb. Raise the skin. Seek the cutaneous nerves in the leg; on the foot both vessels and nerves; clean the fascia. Cutaneous veins: internal saphenous; external saphenous. Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be put on the stretch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the skin from the les: o and foot, one incision should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be looked for. At the upper and inner part of the leg are some filaments from the great saphenous nerve ; and at the outer side others, still smaller, from the external popKteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, the musculo-cutaneous nerve may be found, the branches of which should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally in the saphenous veins. On the outer side lies the external saphenous nerve ; and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenous nerve ceases. In the interval between the great toe and the next the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve appears. The digital nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments ; and after the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. The VENOUS ARCH on the dorsum of the foot has its convexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. Internally and externally it passes into the saphenous veins. The INTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins at the inner side of the great toe, and in the arch. It ascends in front of the inner ankle to the inside of the leg (p. 666). Branches enter it from the inner border and sole of the foot. The EXTERNAL SAPHENOUS VEIN begins on the outside of the