INTERJTAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 89 a. The tymjoanic branch passes into tlie tympanum through the branch to GLaserian fissure, and is distributed to the tympanic membrane and ^y^P^"*^'"' parts within the cavity. b. A deep auricular branch arises with the former or separately, to meatus, enters the meatus through the cartilage, or between this and the bone, and ramifies in the meatus and on the tympanic membrane. c. The small meningeal branch begins near the skull, and courses to dura through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve : it "^^^er. ramifies in the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Another small branch springs from the dental artery or the internal Branch with maxillary trunk, and accompanying the lingual nerve, ends in the nefve! cheek and the mucous membrane of the mouth. The branches from the second part of the artery (between the Branches of temporal and external pterygoid) are distributed to the temporal, are—^^^^ masseter, buccinator, and pterygoid muscles. The deep temporal arteries are two in number, anterior and pos- to the terior, and ascend on the side of the skull beneath the temporal muscie^^ muscle. The posterior anastomoses with the middle temporal branch of the superficial temporal artery ; the anterior communi- cates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery (p. 46). The masseteric artery is directed outwards with the nerve of the to the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle, and passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the deep surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other offsets to the muscle from the external carotid trunk. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and to the descends beneath the insertion of the temporal muscle with its com- ' panion nerve : it is distributed to the buccinator muscle and other structures of the cheek, joining branches of the facial artery. The pterygoid branches are uncertain in their position and number ; to pterygoid whether derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter the two jjterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise from the artery in the spheno-maxillary Branches of fossa, only one, the posterior dental, will be now described. The ^^"^^^ • remainder will be examined with the superior maxillary nerve and now seen Meckel's ganglion ; they are infraorbital (p. 102), superior palatine, naso-palatine, Vidian, and pterygo-palatine (Section XIV). The posterior dental branch arises as the artery enters the spheno- is the maxillary fossa, and descends with a tortuous course on the Jieula™^ zygomatic surface of the upper jaw, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Its branches mostly enter the canals of the bone and supply the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, as well as the lining membrane of the antrum; and some external offsets are furnished to the gum. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY VEIN is a short trunk, oftcudoublej whicli internal ' ' maxillary leaves the hinder part of the pterygoid plexus, and runs backwards vein arises beneath the jaw with the first part of the internal maxillary artery, ^^^"^ to join the temporal vein in the parotid gland. , The pterygoid plexus is an extensive network of veins surrounding JjfgJ^f"^''^