377 UPPEE SURFACE OF DIAPHRAGM. muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of tlie sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous offset from this branch, except when the second nerve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles ; and it frequently sends upwards a branch to join the first nerve. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 249). In front it ends like the others. The loiver jive nerves resemble the foregoing in their course and Lower ihc branches in the intercostal spaces: their termination in the°^"^^' abdominal wall is described on p. 455, Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre of the muscle Upper sm- is tendinous, and the circumference is tieshy. In contact with the ciiapLra<^m upper surface are the lung with the pleura on each side, and the heart and pericardium in the middle : the phrenic vessels and Parts touch- nerves pierce this surface, external to the pericardium. In the dia- phragm are the following apertures ;—one for the oesophagus and Apertures the pneumo-gastric nerves, a second for the vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the large azygos vein, and a cleft on each side for the splanchnic nerves. Beneatli it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. The arch of the diapliragm towards the thorax has been before Curve, referred to (p. 337). Directions. The dissector of the thorax now waits while the The ^^i^ssec- examination of the back is made. Afterwards he is to learn the back is now ligaments of the ribs and spine : a notice of these will be found in the following Section. Section II. LIOAMEXTS OF THE TRU2s^K. The ligaments of the vertebra, ribs, and sternum are included in this Section. Articulations of the Ribs. Each rib is united to the spinal ^^Jj^^^^l^-j^ column at the one end, and to the costal cartilage at the other, ^ibj.,*' Between it and the spine there are two synovial joints, and two sets of ligaments, viz., one between the head of the rib and the bodies of the vertebrae, and a second passing from the neck and tuberosity to the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The costal cartilages are connected to the sternum and to one ami costal another by synovial joints and ligaments. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the ligaments between To see^the the ribs and the vertebras, take a piece of the spinal column with bral liga- three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal and "^ents, other muscles, and the loose tissue from the surface of the bones, the student will l)e able to define, as below, the ligaments passing