71 SUBCLAVIAN VESSELS. In its course outwards tlirougii the posterior triangular space, this branch crosses in front of the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, but usually behind the omo-hyoid. Some small offsets are supplied bj it to the parts in the posterior triangle, offsets. In many bodies the transverse branch arising from the thyroid size and axis is of small size, and ends as the superficial cervical artery, ending vary, while the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the subclavian trunk (fig, 17). The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid axis, inferior Directed inwards with a flexuous course to the thyroid body, this artery"' branch passes beneath the common carotid artery and the accom- panying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle, to the side of the trachea. Behind the lateral lobe of the thyroid body it crosses either in front of or behind the recurrent nerve, and divides into branches which enter the lower part of the gland, and communicate Avith the superior thyroid and its fellow. Near the larynx an inferior laryngeal branch is directed upwards gives laryn- Avith the nerve of the same name, and other offsets are furnished to ^^^^ ofiset, the trachea and the neighbouring muscles. The ascending cervical branch of the thyroid is directed upwards ascend. Ijetween the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, and brancii. euds in branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina. The veins corresj)onding with the branches of the thyroid axis Veins cor- have the following destination :—those with the suprascapular and lTf,irterielf transverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein, beginning in the thyroid body, descends on the front of the trachea to the innominate vein. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior part of the Superior subclavian, and arching over the apex of the lung, passes downwards branch! in front of the neck of the first rib : its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical artery, Deep Avhich passes backwards between the transverse process of the last braneli. cervical vertebra and the first rib, lying internal to the two hinder scaleni muscles and the ileshy slips continued upwards from the erector spinte, to end beneath the complexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. A spinal branch is frequently given from the second part of the Spinal arteiy ; its offsets are continued into the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina. The SUBCLAVIAN VEIN is much shorter than the companion artery. Subclavian reaching only from the outer edge of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus. It is a continuation of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the innominate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus. Branches. The subclavian vein is joined at the outer edge of the its anterior scalenus ]iy the external jugular vein, and sometimes also ^^^^^l^^s: