CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. 133 epithelium is columnar and ciliated above the soft palate, but scaly and stratified below that part. Beginning of the cesophagus. This tube is much smaller than the pharynx, and the walls are flaccid. For its commencement, and its of cesopha >-us. relations in the neck, see p. 120. The gullet consists of two layers of muscular fibres, with a lining Two layers of mucous membrane. The extexnal Iciyev is formed of longitudinal fibres^^^^''^^ fibres, which begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, outer lon- an anterior and two lateral; the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the inferior constrictor. The internal layer is formed of circular fibres, which are continuous ap^ inner with those of the inferior constrictor. The structure of the cesophagus is described more fully in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth are to. be examined with the mouth, as all may be considered accessory parts. Mouth. The cavity of the mouth extends from the lips in Mouth: front to the anterior pillars of the fauces behind. Its boundaries are partly osseous and partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw-bone. When the lower jaw is mode- form, rately removed from the upper, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof, concave, is constituted by the hard and bounda- and soft palate,, and is limited in front and on the sides by the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, surrounded by the arch of the lower teeth ; and beneath that body is the sublingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is bounded by the lips ; and the posterior is the isthmus faucium (p. 127), leading into the pharynx. The space between the lips and the teeth is distinguished from the rest Vestibule, of the cavity as the vestibule of the mouth. The mucous membrane is less sensitive on the hard than the soft ^^"^s of^ boundaries of the mouth ; it lines the interior of the cavity, and ^ is reflected over the tongue. In front it is continuous with the skin, and behind with the lining of the pharynx. The epithelium cover- ing the membrane is scaly and stratified. Between each lip and the front of the corresponding jaw the diflfers in membrane forms a small fold—frsenulum. Over the bony part of P^^'*^ * the roof it blends with the dense tissue enclosing the vessels and nerves; on the soft palate it is smooth, and thinner. Along the