DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. The right coronary nerves pass from ths superficial plexus to the right coronary artery, and receive near the heart a communicating offset from the deep cardiac plexus. The left coronary nerves are derived, as will be subsequently seen, from the deep cardiac plexus, and follow the left coronary artery. At first the nerves surround the arteries, but they soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. The CAVITIES OF THE HEART may be examined in the order in which the current of the blood passes through them, viz., right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ventricle. Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to be removed from the body. To open the right auricle, an incision should be made in it near the right or free border, extending from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; and from the centre of this cut the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the appendix. By this means an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the cavity may be examined. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT AURICLE (fig. 115) is of an irregular form,* though when seen from the right side, with the flaps held up, it has somewhat the appearance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex to the left. The widened part or base of the cavity is turned towards the right side, and at its extremities are the 023enings of the superior and inferior cavee. Between those vessels the wall projects a little, and in some bodies presents a slight elevation (tubercle of Lower). The apex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Near the top is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix Qi), which will admit the tip of the little finger. Near, and in the interior of the appendix are prominent fleshy bands, named musculi pectinati, which run mostly in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior wall corresponds mostly with the septum between the auricles, in consequence of the position of the heart (p. 344). On it, close to the inferior cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis [d), which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the foetus : inferiorly it merges into the lower cava. A thin semitransparent structure forms the bottom of the fossa ; and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture into the left auricle at its upper part. Around the upper three-fourths of the fossa is an elevated band of muscular fibres, called annulus ovalis or isthmus * The term cavity of the auricle is sometimes confined to the part in the appendix, and the name atrium or sinus venosus is then given to the rest of the space here named auricle.