STRUCTUEE OF THE TONGUE. 151 of the tongue. Tlieir number varies from seven to twelve. One, larger than the rest, is situate immediately in front of the foramen caecum, and the others are disposed in two rows (one on each side) parallel to the lateral groove, so as to form a figure like a widely- spread letter V, Each papilla is attached by a constricted stem, which is surrounded by a groove ; its wider end or base projects beyond the surface of the tongue, and is covered with small simple papillae. Around the groove the mucous membrane forms a slightly prominent fold, which is also beset with secondary papilla). Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves Parts found separated by a fibrous layer in the median plane. Each half is tongue, made up of muscular fibres with interspersed fat ; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The tongue is enveloped by raucous membrane; and a special fibrous layer attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching Define the tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its '^^P*"'"' dorsum ; and, the remains of the right mylo- and genio-hyoid muscles having been removed, the genio-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating those muscles, and cutting across their intercommuni- hyo-giossai eating fibres, the edge of the septum will appear. By tracing the hinder fibres of the genio-glossus muscle towards the hyoid bone, the hyo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. On the outer side of the genio-glossus muscle is the longitudinal and inferior bundle of the inferior lingualis, w^hich will be better seen subse- ^'"^ui^iis. quently. Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a Fibrous thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum ; the root of the tongue ofTo^ngue! is attached by another fibrous structure, the hyo-glossal membrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ is a submucous layer of the same tissue. Septum. This structure forms a vertical partition between the Septum, two halves of the tongue (fig. 41, b), and extends from the base to the apex, but does not reach to the dorsum. It is thicker behind than in front, and is connected posteriorly with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is attached. Its disposition may be better seen subsequently on a vertical section. The hyo-qlossal membrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, Hyo-glossal Avhich attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the hinder fibres of the genio-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the hyoid bone. The submucous fibrous stratum of the tongue invests the organ, and ^^y^"^*^^*^^^^ is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere ; and in front of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the muscular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue.