333 JOINTS OF PHALANGES. Fk. 111. iiectecl with the anterior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of tlie lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in four opposite directions, together with circumduction, take place in these condyloid joints. Flexion and extension. In flexion, the phalanx glides forwards over the head of the metacarpal bone, and leaves this exposed to form the knuckle when, the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon are put on the* stretch as the joint is bent. In extension, the phalanx moves back- wards to slightly beyond the line of the metacarpal bone, so that the two form an obtuse angle. Tlie anterior ligament and the flexor tendons are stretched, and limit the movement. Abduction and adduction are the lateral movements of the finger from or towards the middle line of the hand. The lateral ligament of the side of the joint which is rendered convex is tightened, and the other is relaxed. The circumductory motion is less impeded in the fore and little fingers than in the others. In the joint of the thumb the movements, especially to the side, are much less extensive than in the fingers. Union of the Phalanges. The ligaments of these joints are similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, viz., two lateral and an anterior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form. Each is connected hy its apex to the proximal phalanx at the side of the head ; and by its base to the distal phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament has the same mode of attachment between the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, but it is not so strong. Tliere is a simple synovial memhraae jDxesent in the joint. The joint of the second with the last phalanx is like the preceding in the number and disposition of its ligaments ; but all the articular bands are much less strongly marked. Articular surfaces. The head of each phalanx is marked by a pulley-like surface. The base presents a hollow on each side of a median ridge, which fits into the central depression of the opposed articular surface. Movements. The two interphalangeal joints can be bent and straightened like a hinge. Flexion and extension. In flexion, the distal phalanx moves round the proximal in each joint, and the motion is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon : in the joint between the middle and the metacarpal phalanx this movement is most extensive. In exten- sion the farther phalanx conies into a line with the nearer one, and the motion is sto2:)ped by the anterior ligament and the flexor tendons. Kinds of motion: bending: extending lateral motion circumduc- tory. Joints of the phalanges have lateral and anterior ligaments. Synovial .sac. Last joint. Surfaces of the bones. Kinds (if motion: bending. extending.