239 FOURTH VENTRICLE. appearance of a tree (arljor vit«) is best seen, in consequence of tlie laminae being more divided, and the white central stalk being thinner and more ramified. The FOURTH ventriclp: (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons (figs. 69 ; 72). It has the form of a lozenge, with the ]>oints placed upwards and downwards. The upper angle reaches as high as the upper border of the pons ; and the lower, nearly to the level of the lower end of tlie olivary body. Its greatest breadth is opposite the lower edge of the pons ; and a transverse line in this .situation would divide the hol- low into two triangular portions —upper and lower. The lower lialf has been named calamus inriptorim from its resemblance to a writing pen. The lateral hoiimlaries are more marked above than l)elow. For about half way down the cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (tig. 72, /), which, projecting over it, forms part (jf the roof ; and along the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform Ijod}^, witli the clava of the funiculus gracilis (tig. 81, d) at the inferior extremity. At the lower bordei- of the middle peduncle of the cere- ])ellum a lateral process of the cavity extends- outwards over the surface of the restiform body, l)eing bounded below by a narrow white streak called the lu/ula (tig. 81, on the right side). The roof of the space is formed above by the valve of Vieussens with the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and by the inferior medullary velum and nodule of the inferior vermiform process ; below by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the medulla oblongata. Between the valve of Vieussens and the Fourth ventrifle: form and extent, breadth : lateral recess. Roof. apex of which is directed towards the medullary centre of the worm (fig. 69). * Back of medulla oblongata and pons, sliowing the floor of the fourth ventricle. /. Fillet, sp. Superior, mp. Middle, and ip. Inferior peduncle of the cerebellum : attached to the superior peduncle on the left side is the half of the superior medullary velum, covered by the lingula. ft. Fasciculus teres. fs. Superior fovea, fi. Inferior fovea. a st. Auditory striae. rb. Restiform body. cL Clava. Crossing the restiform body of the right side, below the auditory stria", is the lignla.