THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBRANES. 418 post erior median, lilt oral, and pos- terior into mediate. Fig. 139.-"- its Avliole length, and penetrates about one-third of the thickness of the medulla. It is lined by a fold of the pia mater, and is deepest towards the lower end of the cord. White medullary substance bounds the fissure ; and at the bottom of it the white fibres are transverse, and are separated by apertures for blood-vessels. Along the back of the cord, also in the middle line, tliere is a narrow groove, from which a process of the pia mater called the posterior median sej^tum extends forwards nearly to the centre of the medulla, separating the nervous substance of the right and left halves. Vessels of the posterior surface of the cord enter in the septum. The lateral furron^ (fig. 139, d) is a shallow groove along the line of attachment of the fasciculi of the posterior roots. Between the posterior median and the lateral grooves another slight furrow, the posterior intermediate, may be seen in the upper part of the cord (fig. 139, e). Divisions of the Cord. Each half of the cord between the median sulci is divided into two by the lateral furrow (fig. 139, d) ; the part in front of that groove and the posterior roots of the nerves is called the antero - lateral column (a) ; and the part behind, the posterior column (h). The antero - lateral colurnn (fig. 139, a) includes rather more than the cord, extending backwards to the posterior roots of the nerA'es, and gives attachment to the anterior roots (k). This part of the cord is sometimes described as consist- ing of anterior and lateral columns, the two being separated by tlie anterior roots of the nerves. The jjostcrior column (fig. 139, h) is situate between the lateral furrow (fZ), with the posterior roots of the nerves (j), and the with median posterior median septum. In the cervical region, the posterior parts^*^™'^^ intermediate sulcus (e) marks oft' a small inner portion, Avhich is named the posterior wedian column (c) ; and the remainder is then distinguished as the postero-external column (h). A narrow central piece, the commissure of the cord, unites the halves between the anterior median fissure and the posterior median septum. Composition of the cord (fig. 139). A horizontal section of the cord shows more distinctly its division into halves, with the * A section of the spinal cord, to show its composition and divisions. In the middle line below is the anterior median fissure, and above are the posterior median groove and septum, d. The lateral sulcus, e. The posterior intermediate sulcus. Columns: a. Antero-lateral. b. Posterior external, c. Posterior median. Cornposition : g. Grey crescent, surrounded by white fibres, h. Grey transverse commissure, and i, canal of the cord in it. j. Posterioi", and anterior root of a nerve entering the grey crescent. two-thirds of the half posterior column, and com- missure. Cord con- sists of grey and white matter.