GLOTTIS AND LARYNGEAL POUCH. IGl cavity, and is placed on a level witli the bases of the arytenoid position, cartilages. If the cut surfaces of the back of the larynx be placed and together, it will be seen to have the form of an elongated triangle, ^^oundarics; with the base turned backwards. It is bounded on the sides by the true vocal cords (fig. 45, b) in the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and by the arytenoid cartilages (e) in the posterior third. In front, the right and left vocal cords meet at their attachment to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind, the base is formed by the arytenoid muscle. The portion of the slit between the vocal cords, being s^^Mivision. alone concerned in the production of the voice, is distinguished as tlie vocal glottis, while the part between the arytenoid cartilages is termed the respiratory glottis. The size of the glottis differs in the two sexes ; and its form ^ize and undergoes frequent changes during life, caused by the movements of ^"^"^ ^ '^"^^ ' the arytenoid cartilages and the vocal cords. In the male, the length, interval measures nearly an inch (eleven lines) from before back- wards ; in the female, from eight to nine lines. Its breadth at the andbreadtii. base is about one-third of the length. The length of the glottis is increased by the stretching, and shortened Ijy the relaxation of the vocal cords. In quiet breathing the glottis has the triangular form seen after Form during death, the space being slightly widened in inspiration, and narrowed in expiration. In forcible inspiration it becomes widely dilated, ratton the vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages being directed out- forced wards, and the aperture acquiring the form of a lozenge with the "^''P^''^^*^" • posterior angle truncated. The widest part is then opposite the junction of the vocal cords with the arytenoid cartilages, and its transverse measurement is about one half of the length. During in produc- vocalization the cords and the vocal processes of the arytenoid y^c^f^ cartilages are brought together, and the vocal glottis is reduced to a narrow chink, while the hinder part of the space is closed by the meeting of the anterior borders of the arytenoid cartilages. The glottis is rendered longer, and the vocal cords are tightened Muscles pro- l)y the crico-thyroid muscles ; the opposite effect is produced by the changes in elasticity of the cords and the contraction of the thyro-arytenoid glottis, muscles. Widening of the glottis is effected by the posterior crico- arytenoid muscles ; and the cords aud arytenoid cartilages are approximated by the thyro-arytenoid, lateral crico-arytenoid, and arytenoid muscles. The ventricle of the larynx (fig. 45, a) is best seen on the left Ventricle: side. It is the boat-shaped hollow between the vocal cords, the upper margin being concave, and the lower nearly straight. It is situation, lined by the mucous membrane, and on the outer surface are the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle. In its roof, towards the front, is the aperture of the laryngeal pouch. The laryngeal pouch or sacculus laryngis (fig. 45, d), has been Pouch of laid bare partly on the right side by the removal of the ala of the ^^^^ ' thyroid cartilage, but it will be opened in the subsequent dissection for the vocal cords. It is a small membranous sac, about half an inch long and rather form and " position; M