,139 EEGIOXS OF NOSE. The MUCOUS lining of the nasal fossa is called the ijituitary Mucous or Schneiderian membrane, and is blended with the subjacent perios- ISse.^^^ teum or perichondrium. It is continuous with the skin at the nostril, with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior naris, and with the conjunctiva through the nasal duct; and it sends prolongations to line the different sinuses, viz., frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. The apertures in the dry Ijone which transmit nerves and vessels, Somefora- viz., the incisor and spheno-palatine foramina, the holes in ^j^^ ^^^^^ ^l^^^^' cribriform plate, and the foramen for the nasal nerve and vessels, are entirely closed by the membrane ; and the openings leading to others the sinuses are reduced in size by the ]3i"olongations passing through them. Afc the termination of the nasal duct the mucous mem- brane forms a single or double fold, which is sometimes sufficient to close the opening and prevent air entering the canal from the nose. Over the middle and lower turbinate bones, and to a greater extent Folds on on the latter, the mucous membrane is thickened and projected bones."^ beyond the edges of the bones by the large submucous vessels, so that the meatuses are deeper and longer in the recent state than in the dried skull. The aj^pearance and structure of the lining membrane differ in the Three upper and lower parts of the nasal fossa, and near the anterior open- nas^aifossa. ing, whence a division of the cavity is made into three portions, which are termed respectively the olfactory region, the respiratory region, and the vestibule. The vestibule (fig. 34,'°) is the slightly dilated portion of the Vestibule, cavity immediately within the nostril. It is bounded by the cartilage of the aperture and the ala of the nose ; and its wall is more flexible than that of the part above. The lining membrane of the vestibule lias the characters of the outer skin, being furnished with papillce and hairs (vibrissa;), and lined by a stratified scaly epithelium. The respiratory reqion is the part below the level of the middle Respiratory . reo^ioii. turbinate bone. Its mucous membrane is thick, of a red colour, ° very vascular, and has numerous mucous glands, the openings of which are readily seen on the surface. The glands are largest and most abundant on the inferior turbinate bone, and at the lower and back part of the cavity. The epithelium of this region is columnar and ciliated. The olfactory region is the narrowed upper part of the nasal fossa. Olfactory which is enclosed by the ethmoid bone. It comprises the part of the roof formed by the cribriform plate, the part of the septum (about one-third) formed by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and, on the outer wall, the upper and middle turbinate bones, together with the flat surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid in front of the former. Over this region the olfactory nerves are dis- tributed, and it is, therefore, the seat of the sense of smell. The olfactory mucous membrane is thinner, softer, and less vascular than that in the respiratory region, and it has in the fresh state a