314 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOEEARM. carpi radialis brevior: insertion : parts aronnd it: outer condyle of tlie hiiiuems by a tendon common to it and the three following muscles, viz., common extensor of the fingers, extensor of the little finger, and ulnar extensor of the wrist ; it takes oriain also from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint. The tendon of the muscle is closely applied to the preceding, and after ])assing with it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into the Ijase of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side l)y the two preceding muscles, this extensor rests on the radius and two of the muscles attached to it, viz., supinator brevis, and pronator teres. Along the inner side is the common extensor of the fingers; and tlie extensors of the' thumb issue between the two. Each radial extensor has usually a and ust'. Common extensor of fingers : origin ; division into four tendons; insertion into the plialanges; relations of the muscle; use, on the lin- gers. on elbow and wrist. Extensor of little finger: termination Action. This muscle acts in the same way as its fellow. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DiGiTORUM (d) is single at its origin, but is divided below into four tendons. It arises from the common tendon, from the fascia, and from aponeurotic septa between it and the adjacent muscles. At the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in four tei^dons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle, and are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the second and third phalanges of the fingers. On the fingers the tendons have the following arrangement. On the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an expansion with the tendons of the lumbricalis and interosseous muscles (fig. 97). At the lower part of that phalanx the expansion divides into three parts (fig, 102, n) ;—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, Avhile the lateral pieces unite, and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Opposite the first two articulations of each finger the tendon sends down lateral bands to join the capsule of the joint. On the fore and little fingers the expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits. This muscle is placed i^etween the extensors of the wrist and little finger, and conceals the deep layer. On the back of the hand the tendons are joined by cross l)ands (l) which are strongest between the ring finger tendon and its collateral tendons ; they prevent the ring finger being raised if the others are closed. Action. The muscle straightens the fingers and separates them from each other. It acts especially on the first phalanges, the two interphalangeal joints being extended mainly by the interosseous and lumbricales muscles. The digits being straightened, it will assist tlie other muscles in extending the wrist and the elbow. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DiGiTi (e) IS the most slender muscle on the back of the forearm, and apj^ears to be but a part of the common extensor. Its origin is in common with that of the extensor communis, but it passes through a distinct sheath of the annular ligament. Beyond the ligament the tendon splits into two, and the outer part is joined by the fourth tendon of the common