DISSECTION OF THE NECK 174 posterior branches. Vertebral artery in neck: relation to the nerve.s; a vein, and nerves are with it; branches. Vertebral vein : origin ; ending; branches Vertebral plexiis ot nerves. The posterior primary hranches of the first two nerves are described in the dissection of the back. The VERTEBRAL ARTERY has been seen at its origin in the lower part of the neck (p. 70) ; and its termination is described with the vessels of the brain. Entering usnally the foramen in the sixth cervical vertebra, the arter}^ ascends through the corresponding- foramina in the other vertebrae. Finally, the vessel winds back- wards round the upper articular process, and crosses the neural arch of the atlas, piercing the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and the dura mater, to enter the skull through the foramen magnum. In its course npwards the artery lies in front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, except the first, which crosses on the inner side. The vessel is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name. In the neck the artery furnishes small twigs to the surrounding- muscles, the s2Dinal canal, and the spinal cord. The vertebral vein begins on the neural arch of the atlas by the nnion of a considerable offset from the intraspinal venous plexuses with other branches proceeding from a network between the muscles in the suboccipital region. It is also joined by the emissary vein leaving the skull through the ^^osterior condylar foramen when that aperture is present. In the neck, the vein forms a plexus around the artery in the foramina of the transverse processes ; and it termi- nates below by emptying itself into the innominate trunk. In this course it is joined by branches from the internal and external spinal veins ; its other tributaries are noticed at p. 70. The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic (p. 116). It surrounds the artery, and communicates with the spinal nerves which it crosses. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE YERTEBE.^] AND CLAVICLE. Directions. Directions. On the remaining part of the spine, the . ligaments connecting the cervical vertebrae to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cervical from the first dorsal vertebra. Then remove altogether the nniscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat from the cervical vertebrae. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. Common The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the cervical vertebrae vertebrlc^ similar to those uniting the bones in other parts of the spine, viz., an anterior and a posterior common ligament, bands between