484 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Mesentery : form: attach- ments. Peritoneal ligaments of the liver: falciform ligament coronary ligament; right latei'al ligament; left latf i al ligament. Splenic folds. inembraiie. The second part is covered in front, except at the spot where it is crossed by the transverse colon. And the last part, which crosses the aorta, is separated from the peritonenni in the middle by the superior mesenteric vessels (fig. 156), but is covered in front by the serous membrane on each side of them. In many cases the peritoneum extends inwards behind the end of the duode- num, forming a recess or pouch to which the name of duodeno-jejv- nal fossa has been given. Fold of the jejunum and ileum. The mesentery supports the rest of the small intestine, and is stronger than any other piece of the serous membrane. Its hinder end is narrow, and is attached along the front of the spine and great vessels from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right sacro iliac articulation. The other end of the fold is wide, and is coimected with the intestine. Ligaments of the liver. On the upper surface of the liver is the suspensorj'" ligament; and along the back there is a wide process which is divided into coronary, and right and left lateral ligaments. The suspensory or falciform ligament extends from before back- wards between the upper convex surface of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. Its lower border is concave, and fixed to the liver ; while the upper border is convex, and is connected to the abdo- minal wall on the right of the linea alba, and to the under surface of the diaphragm. In its free anterior border or base is the remains of the umbilical vein, which is named the round ligament of the liver. The coronary ligament is placed at the back of the right lobe of the liver, and is composed of two layers which are separated by an interval (p. 477). The superior layer passes from the liver to the diaphragm ; but the inferior layer (fig. 169, ^ c Z) is reflected over the front of the kidney and inferior vena cava. This layer becomes continuous round the Spigelian lobe with the posterior layer of the small omentum. The right lateral ligament (fig. 169, ?• Z Z) is a small fold at the right end of the coronary ligament, formed by the meeting of the two layers for a short distance. The left lateral ligament, larger than the foregoing, is a triangular fold of peritoneum, with a free edge turned to the left. It is attached by its anterior border to the liver above the margin of the left lobe ; and by its posterior border to the diaphragm in front of the oesophageal opening. At its right end the upper layer is con- tinued into the left side of the falciform ligament, and the lower layer into the front of the small omentum. Folds op the spleen (fig. 157). These are the gastro-splenic omentum and the lieno-renal ligament, the formation of which has already been explained. mesenteric vessels and sympathetic nerves. Examine Directions. The mesenteric vessels and nerves, which supply the t?intestfne. greater part of the alimentary tube, may be first dissected. After