DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 630 use on knee- j oint and femur; on pelvis. Pectin eus: origin from pubis; inserted into femur relations of surfaces. and borders use on lemur, free and fixed. Adductor longus ex- tends from pelvis to femur; relations to muscles and vessels; use on femur, on pelvis. Dissection of accessory obturator nerve: space. At its insertion tlie tendon is nearer tlie knee than that of the semitendinosus, thongh at the same depth from the snrface, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament ; from the tendon an exj)ansion is continned to the fascia of the leg, like the sartorius. A bnrsa separates the tendon from the ligament, and projects above it to the sartorius. Action. It bencis the knee-joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating in that bone, and then brings the moveable femur towards the middle line with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground, the gracilis will aid in projDping the pelvis on the limb. The PECTixEus (fig. 202, f) is the highest of the muscles directed from the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line, and slightly from the surface in front of that line ; and it is inserted by a thin tendon, about two inches in width, into the femur behind the small tro- chanter, and into the upjDer part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia lata ; and the femoral vessels lie over its lower part : the opposite surface touches the obturator externus and adductor brevis muscles, and the superficial portion of the obturator nerve. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the adductor longus ; and the internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the psoas. Action. It adducts the limb and bends the hip-joint. When the femur is fixed it can support the pelvis in standing; or it can draw forwards the pelvis in stooping. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS lies below the pectineus (fig. 202, o), and is triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the front of the pubis in the angle between the crest and the symphysis ; and it is inserted into the inner edge of the linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the jDectineus, and forms part of Scarpa's triangular space. Its anterior surface is covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sartorius : the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on the superficial part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep femoral artery. The tendon of insertion is closely united to the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Action. With the femur moveable, it will flex the hip-joint, and with the aid of the other adductors will carry inwards the limb, so as to cross the thigh-bones. In walking it helps the other adductors to project the limb. With the femur fixed, the muscle j)rops and tilts forwards the pelvis. Dissection. The adductor brevis muscle, with the obturator nerve and the profunda vessels, -\^'ill be arrived at by reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the j)ectineus near the pubis, and throwing it down, the dissector may find occasionally the small