47 EECTI MUSCLES. The nasal branch (external) supplies the skin and muscles of the Nasal upper part of the nose, and anastomoses with the angular and lateral ^^^'^'^'^'* nasal branches of the facial artery. The ophthalmic veins are two in number, superior and inferior. Ophthalmic VGins' and leave the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the external rectus, to end in the cavernous sinus. The superior superior veiyi is the larger and accompanies the artery : it begins in front by a wide communication with the angular vein, and on its way back- wards it receives tributaries corresponding to most of the offsets of the artery. The inferior vein lies below the optic nerve, and is and inferior, formed by the lower ciliary and muscular l)ranches ; it communi- cates through the spheno-maxillary fissure with the pterygoid plexus. The supraorbital, frontal and palpebral veins do not join the oph- thalmic, but pass to the veins of the face (i3p. 6 and 33). The OPTIC NERVE in the orbit extends from the optic foramen to ^^^^^ uqyy^. the back of the ej^eball. As the nerve leaves the foramen it is sur- rounded by the recti muscles; and beyond that spot the ciliary arteries and nerves entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal expansion of the eye. Dissection (fig. 13). Take away the ophthalmic vessels, and Dissection, divide the optic nerve about its middle, together with the small ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On removing some fat the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, will appear ; and lying on the first two are the offsets of the lower division of the third nerve. The LOWER DIVISION OF THE THIRD NERVE (fig. 13) Supplies Lower three muscles in the orbit. As it enters this space, between the third nerve heads of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately the nerve divides into three branches. One (^) passes to the internal, another ("*) to the inferior ^^^^^[H rectus, both entering the muscles on their ocular surfaces ; the third (^), the longest and most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle, which it pierces at the hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch communicates with the ^"^j^^j^^^ lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. ll,'*) of that body ; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus muscle. The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 13,^) lies below the other nerves, and Sixth nerve, above the ophthalmic veins, in the interval between the heads of the external rectus. In the orbit it first lies against, and then penetrates the inner surface of the external rectus muscle. Kecti Muscles. The internal (fig. 13, d), inferior (c), and straight external recti (b) are placed with reference to the eyeball as their eyeball -. names express. They arise posteriorly from the circumference of origin, the optic foramen by a common attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. The external rectus differs from the others in having two heads : the upper one joins the superior rectus in the common origin : the lower and larger head blends on the one side with the inferior rectus in the common origin, and on the other side