132 DISSECTION OF THE PHAEYNX. cartilage and wall of pharynx ; in swallow- ing; of salpingo- pharyngeus Azygos muscle is in two slips; Tonsil is between pillars of fauces: Pharj-ngeal tonsil. Vessels. and nerves. Mucous membrane of pharynx: glands epithelium. inserted into tlie hinder border of the thyroid cartilage, but the greater number end in the submucous tissue of the pharynx beneath the inferior constrictor, the hinder ones meeting the fellow muscle. in the middle line. Action. The palato-pharyngeus depresses and tightens the soft palate, raises the larynx and lower part of the pharynx, and at tlie same time brings together the posterior pillars of the fauces, thus acting as a sphincter by which the nasal portion is separated from the oral portion of the pharynx. In swallowing, the hinder pillars of the soft palate, being aj)proximated by the action of this muscle, form, together with the uvula, an inclined plane, beneatli which the food is directed downwards. The contraction of the salpingo-pha- ryngeus at the same time assists in opening the Eustachian tube, by drawing inwards and backwards the cartilage bounding its orifice. The AZYGOS rvuL^ (fig. 31, d ; 32,^) is situate along the middle line of the velum near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeu- rosis, and end below in the base of the uvula. Behind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Action. Its fibres shorten the mid-part of the soft palate, and elevate the uvula, directing that process backwards. The TONSIL is an oval prominent body, of variable size, placed above the root of the tongue, in a recess between the anterior and posterior pillars of the soft palate. Externally it is covered by the superior constrictor muscle, and is a little above the angle of the lower jaw. The surface of the tonsil is marked by apertures, which lead into recesses lined by mucous membrane. Its substance consists mainly of lymphoid tissue, partly diffused, and partly collected into follicles set roimd the walls of these recesses. A similar collection of lym- phoid tissue stretches across the posterior wall of the pharynx, between the openings of the Eustachian tube, and is known as the fharyngeal tonsil. The arteries of the tonsil are numerous, and are derived from the facial, lingual, ascending pharyngeal and internal maxillary branches of the external carotid. Its veins have a plexiform arrangement on the outer side. Nerves are furnished to it from the fifth and glosso- pharyngeal. Its lymphcUics join the deep cervical glands. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous in front with the lining of the nose, mouth and larynx. A fold encloses the muscles and glands of the soft palate, from which the membrane descends on each side over the tonsil to the tongue. It is also pro- longed by the Eustachian tube to the tympanum ; and below, it is continued into the oesophagus. It is provided with numerous mucous glands in the upper part of the pharynx, and on both sur- faces, but especially the upper, of the soft palate. Another collec- tion of glands (arytenoid) is enclosed in the fold of mucous mem- brane bounding the opening of the larynx on each side. The