DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 540 the small azygos vein through the pillar of the diaphragm, and may show the knotted cord of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lumbar LYMPHATIC GLANDS. A chain of glands is placed along the side glands: of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the lumbar vertebrae ; they are coiniected by short tubes, which increase one ta-u"ik ^^^^ ^^^^ diminish in number, and opposite the first lumbar vertebra form one principal trunk which enters the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of some of the viscera and of the wall of the abdomen are received. Ccehac Another cluster of large glands surrounds the coeliac axis, and glands: o o 7 covers the upper end of the abdominal aorta. They are distinguished as the coeliac glands, and receive the lymphatics of the stomach, ducts join spleen, pancreas and great part of the liver. Their ducts unite intestine™ witli those of the mesenteric glands, and give rise to one or more large trunks, which pass to the common thoracic duct. th?thoraci? Rlceptaculum chyli. The thoracic duct begins in the abdo- duct. men by the union of three or four large lymphatic trunks. Its commencement is marked by a dilatation, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. The duct enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm w-ith the aorta. Section VI. SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. Dissection of the lum- bar plexus on left side, The spinal nerves of the loins enter into a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous portions of the trunk. Dissection (fig. 178). The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to be learnt on the left side, although the woodcut shows them on the right side ; and to bring them into view, the dissector should cut through the external iliac vessel, and afterwards scrape away the psoas. For the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely ; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. On, or in the substance of, the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerve. The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the psoas, and offsets of it join the spinal nerves ; these are to be followed back along the lumbar arteries. On the right side the psoas is to be left untouched, in order that the place of emergence from it of the different offsets of the ^dIcxus may be noticed. Four lumbar LuMBAR SpiNAL Nerves. The anterior primary branches of the plexus^^^^^ lumbar nerves, five in number, increase in size from above down, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the interverte- bral foramina. With the exception of the last, they enter the with sym pathetic.