432 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. {nsertion by three parts; surrounds the urethra; voluntary and involun- tary. Transvcrsus perinei: origin; ends in central point; Accessory transveise nuisele. A trianp:ular space be- tween the three muscles : the knife may entei in litho- tomy. Perineal nerve has cutaneous, muscular. and genital branches. Dissection of triangular ligament. lower surface of tlie triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, whicli are the longest and best marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect, in front of the erector ; and, according, to Kobelt, they send a tendinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. The intervening fibres turn round the urethra, sur- rounding it for two inches, and join their fellows in a common tendon. The ejaculator nniscle covers the bulb and the corpus spongiosum for nearly three inches below and in front of the triangular liga- ment. If the muscle be cut through on the left side, and turned off the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the urethra, and eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into use at the end of the process, when the j)aS''^age has to be cleared. The action is involuntary in the emission of the semen. The TRANSVERSUs PERiXEi (fig. 144, c) is a small thin muscle, which lies across the perineum opposite the base of the triangular ligament. Arising fi'om the inner side of the ischial tuberosity at the fore part, it is inserted into the central point of the perineum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the sphincter ani and the ejaculator urinaj. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia curves round to join the triangular ligament. Action. From the direction of the fibres the muscle will draw l )ackwards the central jwint of the perineum, and help to fix it pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. Sometimes there is a second small fleshy strip in front of the transversalis, which has been named transversaUs alter ; this throws itself into the ejaculator muscle. The three muscles above described, when separated from eaclk other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- lator urince forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer side, and the transversus perinei the Ijase. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the super- ficial perineal vessels and nerves. The knife entering the posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy will divide the transverse muscle and artery, and pro- bably the superficial perineal A^essels and nerves. The PERiisiEAL DIVISION OF THE PUDic NERVE (p. 427) breaks up in the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa into superficial and deep branches. Its two superficial offsets have been followed to the scrotum (p. 430). The deep branches are muscular to the fore parts of the external sphincter and levator ani, to the transversus perinei, erector penis, and ejaculator urinse, and the nei^ve to the bulb, a long slender branch, which pierces the last muscle and, dividing intO' filaments, enters the hinder portion of the corpus spongiosum. Dissection (fig. 145). For the display of the triangular ligament, the muscles and the cms penis, which are superficial to it, are to be detached on the left side in the following way;—the ejaculator urina^^