DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 506 air enters the wall of the intestine where the peritoneal covering is injured, and spreads thi'ough the whole gut ; but opposite the solitary glands, and the patches of Peyer, the mucous coat is more closely connected with the contiguous structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The piece of the intes- tine may be examined when it is dry. Arteries of Vessels of the intestine. The arteries are derived from the intestinal the intes- tine ; Fig. 166.* A n branches of the superior mesenteric trunk (p. 485), and enter th6 wall of the intestine at the attached border. They run at first beneath the serous coat, round the side of the bowel, and give off numerous ramifications, Avhicli anastomose freely together, and perforate the muscular coat, supplying branches to its substance. Finally, they break up into very minute twigs in the submucous veins; layer, before entering the mucous coat. The veins have their usual resemblance to the companion arteries. absorbents; The absorbents (lacteals) leave the intestine with the vessels and pass to the mesenteric glands (p. 4S7). and nerves. Nerves of the small intestine come from the upjier mesenteric plexus, and entering the coats by tlie side of the arteries, form plexuses with interspersed ganglia. Two coats Structure of the comrnon bile-duct. The bile-duct consists of an diict^ ^^f^i'^^alj strong fibrous layer, and of an internal mucous coat. On the surface of the inner membrane are the openings of numerous glands, branched mucous glands, which are embedded in the fibrous coat; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. Lx^RGE INTESTINE. Extent of The lar2;e intestine is the part of the alimentary canal between the the "^ut termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division, and its attach- ment by peritoneum to the abdominal wall, have been described (p. 475). * A. A piece of mucous membrane enlarged, with its vilh and tubules- Part of a Peyer's patch is also represented with the follicles (a), each having a ring of tubes at the circumference, b. A " solitary gland " of the small intestine, also enlarged, covered by villi (Boehm).