UMBILICAL HERNIA. ■467 the inner side. Its nature can be ascertained with certainty only after death. Seat of stricture. The constriction of the intestine will take place stricture at from similar causes, and at the same spots as in the external as"externai. ]iernia. Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in Division of the living body whether a small hernia is internal or external, the rule observed in dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of tlie tumour ; and if it is necessary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upAvards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomplialo.s, is a protrusion of the intestine Umbilical through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in • *" course' size, and its course is straight tlirough the abdominal wall. Coverings. The coverings of the intestine are—the skin and super- coverings hcial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the ajDerture in the linea alba, together with coverings of the transversalis fascia, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the become tumour the superficial fascia blends with the other contiguous sti'uc- the\iin'i*our tures, and its fat disappears. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investnieut changes in; otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat of stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the stricture, , . . . . wlieie margin of the tendinous opening in tlie abdominal wall; and it may found. Ije either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of hernia. It should be rememl^ered that the narrowed neck is at the upper end and not in the centre of the swelling. Division of the stricture. The constriction nuxy be removed by cutting externally the parts around the neck. Or if the sac is to be opened, the knife may be carried upwards in cutting the stricture ; but there is not any vessel lial^le to injury in the operation. Other Forms of Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the otiicr parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so hernia"u-o as to form a hernia. For instance there may he femoral hernia below femoral, Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia obturator, through the thyroid foramen, with the artery of the same name ; sciatic and sciatic hernia through the sciatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed pre- sently ; but the student may refer to some special treatise for information respecting the other abdominal hernia?. Dissection. The abdomen is now to be opened to see the cords and Dissection 1 • r" !• 1 T1 A open depressions on the posterior suriace oi tlie wall. A transverse cut may abiiomen. be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, three prominent fibrous cords, the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries, will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall. In the middle line is the uracluis, One median :which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus ; on ^^^^ ^^^^^ each side is the obliterated hypogastric artery, extending from the side, side of the pelvis to the uml^ilicus ; and a little external to the last, H H 2