DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 392 of fascia lumborum, to show three layers in it,— posterior, midclle, and anterior. Lumbar fascia, derived from trans versalis tendon, consists of three layei'S: anterior. and middle to transverse processes; posterior to spinous processes. refiected, the dissector of the abdomen can look to the disposition of the fascia liimboriim between the last rib and the hip-bone. In the spot referred to are portions of the external and internal oblique muscles, left in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen. After the removal of those muscles, the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves : one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib ; and the other, the ilio-hypogastric, with its vessels close to the iliac crest. Three layers of the fascia lumborum are to be demonstrated, passing from the aponeurosis of the transversalis to the spinal column. The superficial layer is already exposed, being formed mainly l)y the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. To see the middle layer, which passes beneath the erector spinse to the trans- verse processes, the first layer is to be diA'ided, with the attached jDortion of the latissimus dorsi, by a horizontal incision carried out- wards from the third lumbar spine. On raising the outer border of the erector spinse muscle, which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After cutting in the same way through this j^rolongation, another muscle, the quadratus lumborum, will be seen ; and on raising its outer border, the thin deepest layer of the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The FASCixV LUMBORUM or LUMBxVR APONEUROSIS occupies the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest, and extends inwards to the spine. It is formed mainly l^y the posterior tendon of the transversalis muscle of the abdominal wall (fig. 151, c), but its superficial part receives important accessions from two of the muscles of the back. If the tendon of the transversalis be followed inwards, it will be found to divide at the outer edge of the (_[uadratus lumborum into two layers, which encase that muscle ; and the posterior of these again splits, or gives off a superficial j)rocess, at the outer margin of the erector spinas. There are thus in the lumbar aponeurosis three layers of membrane, forming with the vertebrae two sheaths, the one of which encloses the quadratus lumborum, and the other the multifidus and erector spinas muscles. The anterior layer is thin, and passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus lumborum to be fixed to the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae near their tips. The middle layer is the direct continuation of the transversalis tendon, and lies between the quadratus lumborum and the erector spinae muscles ; it is fixed to the extremities of the transverse processes. The posterior or superficial layer is the thickest, and is attached internally to the spines of the lumbar vertebrae. In this layer are united the aponeuroses of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior muscles, with only a small offset of the tendon of the transversalis. Second Layer op Muscles (fig. 130). This stratum contains