312 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. Section VI. THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Position. Take away the super- ficial iiervos and the fascia. Position. Durmcj; llie Fis. 102.^=- Strip fingers. Separate muscles. Annular ligament behind th( wrist. dissection of tlie back of tlie forearm llic limb lies on the front, and a small block is to be placed beneatli thi; wrist for the pnrpose of stretchiiii; the tendons. Dissection, (fig. 10!2). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and from the ten- dons on. the back of the hand; but in removing the fascia in the fore- arm, the student must be careful not to cut away the posterior inter- osseous vessels, which are in con- tact with it on the ulnar side in the lower third, A thickened band of the fascia opposite the carpus (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Let the integument be removed from the fingers, in order that the tendons may be traced to the end of the digits. The several muscles should l)e separated from one another up to their origin, especially the two radial extensors of the wrist. The POSTERIOR z\NNULAR LKiA- MENT (k) is a part of the deep fascia, thickened by the addition of transverse fibres, and is situate (jj^posite the lower ends of the * Superficial dissection of tba back of the forearm. (Illustrations of Dissec- tions.) Muscles: a. Supinator longus. B. Extensor carpi radialis longior. c. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. d. Ex- tensor communis digitorum. e. Exten- sor minimi digiti. F, Extensor carpi ulnaris. G. Anconeus. h. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. i. Extensor primi internodii. j. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. K. Posterior annular ligament, l. Bands uniting the tendons of the common extensor on the back of the hand. n. Insertion of the common exten- sor into the second and third phalanges. Arteries: a. Posterior interosseous. 1. Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arch. b. Dorsal interosseous branch. 4. Dorsal branches of thumb and fore lingei'.