324 DISSECTIOX OF UPPER LIMB. Anterior lisrameiit. Posterior ligament. Dissection Synovial membrane. Lower end of the liuinerus: two articu- lar surfaces. and three fossa'. Upper end of the ulnii, Head of tht; radius. Kinds of motion: bending: extendint Radius is joined to The anterior ligar)ient is tliiii, and its fibres are separated hj intervals in wHcli masses of fat are lodged. By its upper edge the ligament is attached to the front of the humerus, and by its lower to the front of the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The brachialis anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is much thinner and looser than the an- terior, and is covered completely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon; and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissection. Open the joint by an incision across the front near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the articulai- surfaces may be seen. The synovial memhrane of the joint passes from one bone to another along the deep surface of the connecting ligaments. It is continued downwards on the inner surface of the orbicular ligament, and serves for the joint of the head of the radius with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces. The articular surface of the lower end of the humerus is divided into two parts for the bones of the forearm. That for the radius, on the outer side, forms a rounded eminence (capitellum) which is confined to the front of the bone. The surface in contact Avith the ulna (trochlea) is limited internally and externally by a prominence, and hollowed out in the centre. On the front of the humerus above the articular surface are two de- pressions which receive the coronoid process and the head of the radius during flexion of the joint; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the joint. On the end of the ulna the articular surface of the great sigmoid . cavity is narrowed in the centre, but exj)anded above and below (fig. 106). A median ridge, which is received into the hollow of the trochlea, extends from the upper to the lower end of the fossa; and across the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting over a small space between the coronoid and olecranon processes. The head of the radius presents a circular depression with a raised margin, which plays over the ca]3itellum of the humerus. Movement. This joint is like a hinge in its movements, per- mitting only flexion and extension. In flexion^ the bones of the forearm move forwards, each on its- own articular surface, so as to leave the back of the humerus uncovered. The movement is checked by the meeting of the arm and forearm ; and the posterior and internal lateral ligaments are stretched. In extension, the ulnar and radius are carried back over the articular surface of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm- bone. This movement is checked by the anterior ligament, and the muscles on the front of the joint. Union of the Eadius and Ulna. The radius is connected with the ulna at both ends by means of synovial joints, with sur-