DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 378 andchondro- sternal. Ligaments of head of rib are anterior or stellate and interar- ticular, with syno- vial sacs. Costo- transverse ligaments: superior or ascending, posterior, Fii?. 122. from the liead and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebrse. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilages to the sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in opening the cavity. Ligaments of the head of the rib. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebrae, there are two ligaments to the arti- culation—anterior costo-central and interarticular, with two synovial sacs. The anterior costo-central or stellate ligament (fig. 122,^) is composed of radiating fibres, which pass from the head of the rib to the two vertebral bodies forming the articular cavity, and to the disc between them. Where the rib is in contact only with one vertebra, i. e., in the first, eleventh and twelfth, a few fibres ascend to the vertebra immediately above. The interarticular liagament will be seen when the stellate is divided. It is a very short thin band, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the two articular surfaces on the head of the rib, and on the other to the intervertebral disc. In the joints of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, where the head is not in contact with the intervertebral substance, this ligament is absent. Synovial sacs. There are usually two synovial cavities in the costo-central articulation, one on each side of the interarticular ligament; but in the three joints before mentioned (1st, 11th, 12th) there is but one. Ligaments of the neck and tuberosity. Three ligaments pass from the neck and tuberosity of the rib to the transverse processes of the two vertebrse with which the head is connected; and the tuberosity forms a synovial joint with the transverse process of the lower vertebra. The superior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 122,'*) is larger and longer than the others. It ascends from the upper edge of the neck of the rib to the transverse process of the vertebra above : it is wanting to the first rib. Between this ligament and the vertebra the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves pass ; and externally it is continued into the posterior intercostal aponeurosis. The loosterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 129,^) is a short band * Ligaments of the ribs and vertebra (Bourgery). 1. Anterior hgament of the bodies of the vertebrse. 2. Short lateral fibres uniting the bodies. 3. Stellate ligament. 4. Superior costo-transverse ligament. 5. Interspinous ligament.