267 SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE. muscle often end in an aponeurotic arch, which is fixed to the bone above and below. In front of these muscles, and inserted into the base of the scapula along its whole length, is the serratus magnus muscle (fig. 88, d), the ujDper and lower parts of which are much thickened, and occupy special surfaces on the ventral aspect of the corresponding angles of the bone. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the anterior half to coracoid of the coracoid process at its upper and inner part is also seen (fig. 88, f). Dissection. By the separation of the serratus from the sub- Dissection, scapularis there comes into view a thin fascia, which belongs to the and fascia, latter muscle, and is fixed to the bone round its margins ; after it has been observed, it may be taken away. The subscapularis muscle is to be followed forwards to its in-ofsub- sertion into the humerus ; and the axillary vessels and nerves, with •'^capuians. their ofi'sets to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE (fig. 88, a) lies beneath the scapula, Snbscapu- and is for the most part concealed Ijy that bone when the liral) is in its natural position. It arises from the concave ventral surfiace origin, of the scapula, except near the upper and lower angles, and over tlie neck ; and a thick portion of the muscle is attached in the groove along the axilhiry margin of the bone : many of the fleshy fibres spring from tendinous septa which are fixed to the ridges on the surface of the scapula. The muscle is inserted by a tendon into the and inser- impression on the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy ' fibres into the bone for nearly an inch below this mark. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in contact relations; with the axillary vessels and nerves, and the sei'ratus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder-joint ; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which generally couimunicates with the synovial cavity of that joint. The lower border projects beyond the scapula, and is con- tiguous to the teres major, the latissimus dorsi, and the long head of the triceps ; along this border the subscapular artery runs, the dorsal branch of which, as well as the posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve, turn backwards below it. Action. It rotates in the hanging limb ; and when the humerus use. is raised it depresses that bone. Dissection. The subscapularis is to be separated from the scapula, Dissection but a thin layer of fibres, in which the vessels lie, is to be left on ^^^^ the bone. As the muscle is raised, its tendinous processes of origin, the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the shoulder- joint, and the bursa are to be observed. A small arterial anasto- mosis on the ventral surface of the bone is to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres. The INFRASCAPULAR ARTERY is an oftset of the dorsal branch of the subscapular vessel (p. 259), and ramifies on the ventral surface artery, of the scapula. Passing beneath the subscapular muscle, it forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries.