527 VAS DEFEEENS. globus minor; but it increases again as it approaches the vas deferens. The VAS DEFERENS (fig. 175, Ji) begins opposite the lower end of Vas the testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epididymis. ^ ^^^"'^' At first the duct is slightly wavy, but afterwards it becomes for the most part a firm, round, and direct tube ; near its termination it is enlarged again and sacculated, but this condition will be referred to M'ith the viscera of the j^elvis. In its course to the urethra it ascends over the hinder part of the course to testicle, on the inner side of the epididymis, and then along the ' blood-vessels of the spermatic cord, with which it enters the internal abdominal ring; here it bends downwards round the epigastric artery (p. 458), and is then continued over the bladder (p. 556), and through the prostate to open into the urethra. The length of length and this part of the excretory duct is about two feet, and the width of its canal about -^\jth. of an inch. Opening into the vas deferens, at the angle of imion with the Vasaben-ans epididymis, there is frecjuently a small, narrow, ccecal appendage, the present ■vas aberrans of Haller (fig. 175, I). It is convoluted, and projects situation, upwards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled. Its capacity and size, is greatest at the free end. Structure. The vas deferens has a thick muscular coat, which is Tiiree coats covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined internally by mucous }^]^ membrane. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord, fibrous, On a section its Avali is dense and of a rather yellow colour. The muscular coat is comj)osed of longitudinal and circular fibres a muscular, arranged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous msmbrane is marked by longitudinal folds in the and a straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated portion. Organ of Giraldes. In the spermatic cord of the fo-tus and child, some- Organ of times in the adult, a small whitish, granular-looking body may be recognised, Giraldes: Avhich is named the organ, of Giraldes, or the 'paradidymis. It consists of remains of several small masses of convoluted tubules, which apj)ear to be remnants of Wolffian the lower part of the Wolffian body. Blood-vessels and nerves of the testicle. The branches of Spermatic the spermatic artery supply ofi"sets to the epididymis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the interior of the tunica albuginea, before being distributed to the lobes of the testis. The spermatic vein results from the union of branches issuing Spermatic from the back of the testicle and the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its branches form the spermatic or pampiniform plexus. It joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 537). The lymphatics of the testicle ascend on the blood-vessels, and Lymphatics join the lumbar glands.