DISSECTION OF- THE NECK. 54 sends a process around omo-hyoid. lower part of the neck it is attaclied to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jngiilar vein and the cntaneous nerves. After the superticial layer has heen removed near the clavicle, a deep process may he observed snrrounding the omo-hyoid muscle, and passing downw-ards behind the clavicle, to be fixed at the back of that bone, and the anterior end of the first rib. Posterior triangular space of the neck. Dissection of the space. Find omo-hA'oid. Nerves above omo-hvoid vessels below, and a small nerve. Define serratus, and nerves piercing scalenus. Boundaries. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space (fig. 15), having the form and position before noted is about eight inches in length. It contains the cervical and brachial plexuses, with the portion of the subclavian artery on which a ligature is usually placed, and some ofi"sets of the vessel and the nerves. Dissection. By the removal of the cervical fascia and the fat between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, the posteric.^r triangle of the neck will be displayed. In the execution of this somewhat difiicult task the student should proceed cautiously, to avoid injuring the numerous nerves and vessels in the space. Seek first the small omo-hyoid muscle (fig. 15, which crosses the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and divides it into two. Close to or beneath the upper border of the muscle lie the slender nerve and vessels to it: the nerve is derived from the ansa hypoglossi, and the artery from the suprascapular. Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the branches of the cervical plexus, together with the sj^inal accessory nerve ; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the sterno-mastoid muscle. The greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder ; but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed forward* over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoid find the large subclavian artery and the brachial plexus, which have a deep position, and run downwards and outwards. Also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz., the suprascapular vessels behind the clavicle ; the transverse cervical vessels, which are higher in the neck, taking an outward direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoid. Underneath the trapezius, where it is attached to the clavicle, define the serratus magnus muscle ; and behind the brachial plexus, towards the lower part of the space, the middle scalenus muscle appears. Through the scalenus issue two muscular nerves ; one, formed by two or three roots, for the serratus magnus ; the other smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the space. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle (^), and behind by the trapezius (^). Its base corre- sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its area are several muscles, which are placed in the following order from above down, viz., splenius capitis, levator