313 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES. bones of tlie forearm. This band is attached on the outer side to the radius, and on the inner to the pyramidal and pisiform bones. Processes from it are fixed to the bones beneath, and confine the extensor tendons. The ligament will subseciuently be examined more in detail. Superficial Layer of Muscles (tig. 102). The muscles of the Supertieiai back of the forearm are arranged in a superficial and a deep layer, le^en mus- The superficial layer contains seven muscles, which arise, in part by a common tendon, from the outer side of the humerus, and are placed in tlie following order from without inwards ;—the long supinator (a), the long and short radial extensors of the wrist (b and c), the common extensor of the fingers (d), the extensor of the little finger (e), and the ulnar extensor of the wrist (f). Tliere is one other small muscle near the elbow—the anconeus (a). The SUPINATOR RADII T,ONGUS (a) reaches upwards into the arm, Supiuatov and iinuts on the outer side the hollow^ in front of the elbow. It ^'^'^sus: arises from the uj^per two-thirds of the external supracondylar ridge "^'^'^' of the humerus, and from the front of the external intermuscular septum of the arm. The fleshy fibres end about the middle of the forearm in a tendon, which is inserted into the lower end of the uisertion; radius, close above the styloid process. In the arm the maigins of the supinator are directed towards the relations; surface and the bone, but in the forearm the muscle is flattened o^ er the others, with its edges forwards and backwards. Its anterior l)order touches the biceps and the pronator teres ; and the posterior is in contact with both radial extensors of the wrist. Near its insertion the supinator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Beneath the muscle are the brachialis aiiticus and the musculo-spiral nerve, the extensors of the wrist, the radial vessels and nerve, and the radius. Action. The chief use of the supinator longus is to bend thean'iusc, elbow-joint; but if the radius is either forcibly pronated or supinated, radius tvee the muscle caiir imt the hand into a state intermediate between pro- nation and supination. If tlui radius is fixed, as in climbing, the muscle will bring up the and fixed, humerus, bending the ell;)ow. The extensor carpi radialis longior (b) cirises from the lower Extensor third of the external suj^racondylar ridge of the humerus, from i^oii|ior the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum, and from the origin; septum between it and the next muscle. It lies on the short I'adial extensor, being partly covered by the supinator longus ; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal insertion; bone of the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. Action. The long extens(jr straightens the wrist and abducts the and use. hand ; it can also bend the elbow-joint. If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the humerus like the long supinator. The extensor carpi radialis BREVIOR (c) is attached to the Extensor