203 BASE OF CEREBRUM. head by a line from tlie eyebrow to tlie articulation of tlie jaw, and from tills point to tlie external occipital 2:)rotuberance. Taking the geneial form of the cranial cavity, the cerebrum is Form, convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower. It consists of Uxo hemispheres, which are placed side by side, and separated in Two hemi- the greater part of their extent by a median longitudinal fissure. In -'^P^^^^'^^' their lower half the hemispheres are united by some commissures, as j^^^?*^^ well as by several connecting parts at the under surface. The under parts, part oi' each hemisphere is divided into two by a deep transverse cleft—tlie fissure of Sylvius. U^y'DER Surface or Base op the Cerebrum (tig. 64). The Under under surface of the cerebrum is irregulai, in consetjuence of its cerebrum, fitting into inequalities in the base of the skull ; and on this aspect tlie separation into hemispheres is not so complete as on the upper, for the median fissure exists only at the front and l)ack. The following objects are to be recognised at the centre of the base of the brain :— Immediately in front of the pons (d) are two large white masses, Enumera- tlie peduncles of the cerebrum or crura cerehri (/), one belonging to ceiltral each liemisphere ; and between them is a small area perforated l)y P^^t^- vessels, which is named the posterior perforated space (g). Crossing the peduncle is the optic tract; and between it and the inner pai't of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. In front of the posterior perforated space are seen two rounded white bodies—the corpora alhicantia (e) ; and then a prominent greyish mass, called tuber cinereum (h). From the tuber cinereum a conical process, the i^ifundibulum, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to the tuber cinereum are the converging oi)tic tracts Avith their commissure (i). In front of the commissure lies a thin greyish layer—lamina cinerea {m) ; and still farther forwards is the great longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, with the white corpus callosum [n) in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the Sylvian fissure is a depression termed the vallecula Sylvii (l), at the bottom of Avhicli is seen another spot j>erforated by vessels—the anterior perforated space. Lastly, in front of the anterior perforated space, and resting on J^^^g*'*"^^' the surface of the frontal lobe of the cerebral hemisphere, is tlie elongated process of the brain (o) named olfactory lobe, from which the olfactory nerve-filaments spring. This process is frequently called the olfactory nerve, but its true nature as a lobe of the cerebrum is shown by its position and structure, as well as l)y its condition in the lower animals, in which it is generally of large ' ■ size. Peduncle of the cerebrum or cRuy cerebri (/). This is a crus large, white, stalk-like body, which reaches from the upper border cerebri, of the jjons to the under part of the cerebral hemisphere of the same side, near the inner margin. In the natural position the two peduncles occupy the opening in the tentorium cerebelli. Each is about three-quarters of an inch long, and widens as it approaches the