DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 136 Inner boundary partly osseous, partly carti- laginous. the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones. Near the front in the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner ivall (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly cartila- ginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the frontal and nasal with which this last bone articulates. The angular space in front in the macerated skull is filled in the recent state by the cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the parti- tion between the nostrils, and supports the lateral cartilages. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid, and the nasal bones, this sup. txirb. hone mid. ethm. cell ^^mid. ethm. cell -mid. meatus ctnininv if. nieatus cartilage rests in front on the incisor crest of the superior maxillte, and projects between the cartilages of the nostrils. The septum nasi is commonly bent to one side. Outer The outer wall has the greatest extent and the most irregular ' surface. Seven bones enter into its formation, and they come in the following order from before backwards :—the nasal and superior maxillary ; the small lachrymal bone and the lateral mass of the ethmoid, with the inferior turbinate bone below these; and j)osteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal formed of pterygoid plate of the sphenoid ; of these, the nasal, lachrymal, and many bones, ethmoid reach only about half way from roof to floor, and the inferior turbinate is confined to the lower half, while the others extend the whole depth. In front of the bones, the lateral cartilages complete this boundary. The nasal fossae in coronal section. On the right side of the figure the section passes through the openings of the middle ethmoidal cells and the antrum into the middle meatus : on the left side, a section of the hinder part of the fossa is represented, and the posterior ethmoidal cells are seen opening into the superior meatus.