COIs^TENTS OF AXILLA. 253 margin of tlie scapula, and the first ril) ; and the fore finger may be introduced into the sj^ace for the purpose of ascertaining the upper boundaries, and the depth. The base of the pyramid is turned and i^a.se. downwards, aud is closed by the thick aponeurosis reaching from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. In the axilla are contained the axillary Contents of vessels and the brachial plexus, with their l)ranches; some branches spaco. of the intercostal nerves ; together witli lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of loose areolar tissue and fat. Position of the trunks of vessels and nerves. The large axillary Position of artery {a) and vein (6) cross the outer portion of the space in passing yes^pi... from the neck to the upper limb. The part of each vessel now seen and reia- lies close to the humerus, reaching beyond the line of the anterior tions, fold of the armpit, and is covered only by the common superficial coverings, viz., the skin, the fatty layer or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessels are the suljscapularis (f) and the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles (d and e). To their outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle (g). On looking into the space from below, tiie axillary vein (i) lies with vein on the thoracic side of the artery. After the vein has been drawn aside, the artery will be seen antl nerves. ■ to lie amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, luu ing the median trunk (^) to the outer side, and the ulnar and the small nerve of Wrisberg (^) to the inner side ; the internal cutaneous (^) generally superficial to, and the musculo-spiral (^) and circumflex nerves be- neath it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and the shoulder. The vein receives some branches in this spot. Position of the branches of vessels and licrirs. The several branches Situation of of the vessels and nerves have tlie undermentioned position with ^'"a"^'^^'* • respect to the boundaries :— Close to the anterior fold, and concealed by it, the long thoracic »i fi'^^'^tj artery runs to the side of the chest: and taking the same direction, though nearer-the middle of tlie hollow, are the small external mammary artery and vein. Extending along the posterior wall, within its free margin and i^ehind, in contact with the edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the sub- scapular vessels and nerves {d) ; and near the humeral end of the subscapularis the posterior circumflex vessels (c) and the circumflex nerve bend backwards beneath the large trunks. On the inner boundary, at the upper part, are a few small branches inside, of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle; but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free from vessels with respect to any surgical operation. Lying on the surface of the serratus magnus, is the nerve to that muscle ; and perforathig the inner boundary of the space, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—the highest of which is directed across the axilla to the arm, and receives the name intercosto-humeral ('). The lymjjhatic glands of the axilla are arraiiged in three sets: one Lynipiiatic is placed along the inner side of the great blood-vessels ; another S^^i^^^-