705 MOVEMENTS OF THE KNEE. All the external ligaments are relaxed, except the anterior ; and state of the same is the case with the anterior crucial : the posterior crucial ^'8*°^®°*^- ligament is put forcibly on the stretch towards the end of flexion. In extension, the tibia is carried forwards until-it passes slightly Extension: beyond the line of the femur, when the uniting ligaments prevent movement •^e^x. ^ ^ ^ ot tibia; its larther progress. In the hinder two-thirds of the movement the tibia has a straight course course over the condyles of the femur ; but in the anterior third the ° leg-bone is directed forwards and outwards over the oblique curve of the inner condyle and is rotated out. The posterior and lateral ligaments, together with the whole of state of the anterior crucial ligament, are rendered tense and set a limit to ments. the movement. Rotation. A half-bent state of the knee is necessary for this Two kinds movement, for the purpose of relaxing the anterior crucial and the ^'otation. lateral ligaments ; and the foot must be free. Then, the tibia with its fibro-cartilages rotates around, a longitudinal axis, the great toe being turned in and out. During rotation in, the inner articular surface of the tibia moves Rotation in : but little beneath the inner condyle of the femur ; but the outer movement articular surface, with its fibro-cartilage, glides forwards under the external condyle. Both lateral ligaments are loose ; but the anterior crucial is state of gradually tightened, and finally stops the motion. igamen &. In rotation out the opposite movement of the tibia takes place,— Rotation the outer articular surface being directed backwards. The internal lateral ligament is gradually tightened, and controls the movement : the crucials have not any influence on it (p. 702). Movement of the patella. When the knee passes from flexion to ex- Movement tension, the patella travels upwards and slightly inwards over the ^^^^^^^^ • lower end of the femur, touching in succession difi'erent parts of the femoral articular surfaces. In complete flexion the knee-pan lies on the outer part of the in flexion, joint below the femur, where it is scarcely perceptible, and is fixed in its situation. It touches the semilunar surface on the inner condyle by its perpendicular facet ; and the imder part of the outer condyle by the upper and outer mark on its square surface. When the joint is passing from flexion to extension, the upper g^^pj^j^|.gj^ pair of impressions on the Sf juare surface of the patella, and the ing;" lower pair rest successively on the trochlear surface of the femur. In complete extension, the patella is situate at the upper part of in exten- the knee-joint, where it is very prominent, with its apex and the ligament of the patella directed down and out to the tibia. For the most part the knee-pan articular surface is raised above the trochlea position to of the femur, which it touches only at the upper edge by its lower transverse facet. Peroneo-Tibial Articulations. The tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at the extremities where they touch, and by fibula, an interosseous membrane between the shafts of the bones. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the front and Dissection of the liga- Z Z ments.