12 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. cotton-wool or tow has been spread, and let it be quite covered with spirit. Examina- Examination of the brain. At the end of two or three days the tionofit. (dissector should exanjine the other membranes and the vessels. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed from the surface of the brain, without detaching the difi'erent cranial nerves at the under surface. The brain may remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed, but it should be turned over occasionally to allow the spirit to penetrate its substance. The description of the brain and its vessels will be found after that of the head and neck. Directions. Directions. After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. For this j)urpose raise the head to a convenient height, and fasten the tentorium in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of a skull while studying the following parts. Dura mater Dura mater. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is skull? much more closely united to the bones than, it is at the top of the skull. Here it follows the different inequalities of the osseous surfaces ; and it sends processes through the several foramina, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. its proloiiga- Beginning the examination in front, the membrane will be found tions, send a prolongation into the foramen csecum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure it joins the peri- osteum of the orbit; and through the optic foramen a sheath is and connec- continued on the optic nerve to the eyeball. In the sella turcica bone.^*^ the dura mater forms a recess which lodges the pituitary body, and behind the dorsum sellse it adheres closely to the basilar process of the occipital bone. From the latter part it may be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very lirmly united. Tentorium The tentorium cerebelli is the process of the dura mater which is cerebeih: interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the small brain (cerebellum) and the posterior part of the large brain (cere- brum). surfaces, Its upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by tlie falx cerebri, and is sloped laterally for the support of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres. Its under surface touches the small brain, and is joined by the falx cerebelli. edges, The anterior concave margin is free, except at the ends where it is fixed by a narrow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or convex edge is connected to the following bones :— occipital (transverse groove), posterior inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. and the Along the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus; and in smuses m it, ° o '