172 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. parts in contact with it: Rectus anticus major: origin ; insertion relations: use. Rectus anticus minor is beneath preceding use. Dissection of inter- transver- sales. Inter- transverse muscles : number and attach- ments ; relations: 111 contact with the anterior surface of the longus colli are the pharynx and oesophagus. The inner border is at some distance from the muscle of the opposite side helow, but above only the pointed anterior common ligament of the vertebra3 separates the two. The outer border is contiguous to the anterior scalenus, to the vertebral vessels, and to the rectus capitis anticus major. The number and attachments of the slips of this muscle are subject to great variation. Actio7i. Both muscles bend forwards the neck ; and the upper oblique part of one may rotate the head to the same side. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR (fig. 48, b) is external to the preceding mnscle, and is hirgest at the upper end. Its origin is by pointed tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra); and the fibres ascend to be inserted, shortly tendinous, into the basilar process of the occipital bone by the side of the pharyngeal tubercle, reaching from tlu; middle line to the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This muscle partly conceals the longus colli and rectus anticus minor. Its anterior surface is in contact wdth the pharynx, the internal and common carotid arteries, and the sympathetic nerA'e. The origin from the cervical vertebrae corresponds with that of the scalenus anticus. Action. It fiexes tlie head and the cervical portion of the spine. The RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR (fig. 48, g) is a small flat muscle, which arises from the front of the lateral mass of the atlas at the root of the transverse process, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone behind the last muscle, and half an inch from its fellow\ The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve emerges l^etween the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Action. It helps in bending forwards the head. Dissection. The small intertransverse muscles will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the front and back of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the anterior primary branches of the cervical nerves, the intertransversales will be readily seen in front of and behind them. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare the vertebral artery. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES are slender fleshy slips in the intervals between the transverse processes. In the neck there are six pairs on each side—the first being between the atlas and axis. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes. The anterior primary divisions of the corresponding spinal nerves issue between these muscles ; and the posterior primary divisions lie to the inner side of the hinder muscles. Between the atlas and the occipital bone the rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent intertransverse muscles.