240 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. Floor; objects in it are a median groove. fasciculus teres, a\iditory .stria;, superior ;ukI inferior fovea, auditory tubercle, nucleus of sixth nerve, and locus Cifiruleus. Openings into other cavities. Clioroid plexus of cavity. Grey layer of floor. Nerve nuclei in and near The floor of the ventricle (fig. 81) is coiistitiitecl by the posterior surface of the iiieclulhi oblongata and pons, and is greyisli in colour. Along tlie centre is a median groove, which ends below, near the point of the calamus, in a minute hole—the aperture of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped eleva- tion, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres (ft). This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and well defined below, but less distinct above. Its widest part is opposite the centre of the ventricle. Crossing the Hoor on each side, at the lower border of the pons,, are some white lines—the auditory strix {a st), which vary much in their arrangement: they issue from the median groove, and pass outwards to the auditory nerve (p. 192). The fasciculus teres is limited externall}^ by two small depressions —the swperior and inferior fovece, separated by the auditory strise. The superior (fs) is the broader, and is connected to the lower one by a faint groove. The inferior fovea (fi) is well marked, and has the form of the letter V inverted. The triangular portion between the two branches is of a darker colour than the surface on each side, and is named the ala cinerea (fig. 82, ac) : it corresponds to the nucleus of the vagus nerve. On the outer side of the fovea the surface is elevated over the principal nucleus of the auditory nerve, forming the auditor]] tuharle (at), which is crossed by the auditory strife. In the upper half of the floor of the ventricle there may be seen^ on the inner side of the superior fovea, a rounded elevation of the fasciculus teres, produced by the nucleus of the sixth nerve, with the deep part of the facial arching round it (p. 191). And la,stly, above the superior fovea is a narrow, slightly depressed area of a bluish colour (locus cseruleus), caused by a deposit of A^ery dark grey substance (substantia ferruginea) beneath the thin surface-layer. The fourth ventricle communicates above with the third ventricle through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and with the subarachnoid space through an aperture in the pia mater between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Below, it opens into the central canal of the cord. It is lined by ependyma, the epithelium of which is continued over the j)ia mater in the roof, and prolonged ujjwards and down- wards into the canals leading from the ventricle. Projecting into the lower half of the ventricle is a vascular fold on each side—-choroid plexus, similar to the body of the same name in the lateral and third ventricles. It is attached to the inner surface of the pia mater which closes the ventricle between the medulla and the cerebellum, and extends from the point of the calamus scriptorius to the extremity of the lateral recess of the cavity. It receives branches from the inferior cerebellar artery. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by a layer of grey matter, which is continuous below with the grey commissure of the cord, and above with the grey substance of the aqueduct. Nuclei of cranial nerves (fig. 82). In the dorsal portion of the medulla oblongata and pons are situate the collections of nerve-