CUTANEOUS NERYES. 609 On the side of the knee tha vein receives a communicating branch from the deep veins. Some unnamed cutaneous oHeries are distributed to the integu- Cutaneous ments along with the nerves ; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 623) accompanies the saphenous nerve and its branches near the knee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigli are derived from cutaneous Fig. 199. branches of the lumbar plexus, and in greater number on the inner than the outer side. Ilio-inguinal. This nerve (p. 542) i^ small, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring (fig. 198,^) ; it supplies the scrotum, and ends on the adjacent part of the thigh, internal to the saphenous vein. Genito-crural. The cruralhranch of tlu^ nerve {]}. 542) pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament (fig. 199,^) rather ex- ternal to the line of the femoral artery. After or before the nerve has become su- perficial it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve ; and it extends on the an- terior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis. Occasionally this branch is of large size, and takes the place of the external cuta- neous nerve on the outer side of the limb. TheEXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE (p. 542) ramifies on the outer aspect of the limb (fig. 199,^). At first it is contained in a prominent ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior -and a posterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or three others, which arch backwards to supply the integuments of tlie outer side of the thigh as low as the middle. The anterior branch appears on the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's liga- ment and is continued to the knee below the other ; it distributes branches laterally, but those towards the posterior surface are more numerous, and larger. Middle cutaneous (fig. 199,^). The nerve of the centre of the Middle thigh is a cutaneous offset of the anterior crural (p. 628), and divides into two branches. It is transmitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches reaches the knee. *" Cutaneous nerves on the front of the tliigli. 1. External cutaneous. 2. Middle cutaneous. 3. Internal cutaneous. 4. Internal saphenous, 5. Patellar branch of saphenous. 6. Genito-crural. 7. Ilio-inguinal. 8. Ilio- hypogastric on the belly. K R