248 THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY. stated, it is the outward symptom of a diseased con- dition of brain produced by the action of a drug; it may be but a mild form of disease, but it is truly a disease nevertheless. The active principle which produces this result is the crystalline alkaloid, the tJieme^ a compound belonging to the same class as strychnine and a number of similar vegetable poisons. These, when diluted, act medicinally — that is, produce disturbance of normal functions as the tea does, and, like theine, most of them act specially on the nervous system ; when concentrated they are dread- ful poisons, very small doses causing death. The volatile oil, of which tea contains about i per cent, probably contributes to this effect Johnston attributes the head- aches and giddiness to which tea-tasters are subject to this oil, and also ‘ the attacks of paralysis to which, after a few years, those who are employed in packing and un- packing chests of tea are found to be liable.’ As both the alkaloid and the oil are volatile, I suspect that they jointly contribute to these disturbances, the narcotic business being done by the volatile oil, the paralysis supplied by the alkaloid. The non-tea-drinker does not suffer any of the five- o’clock symptoms, and, if otherwise in sound health, remains in steady working condition until his day’s work is ended and the time for rest and sleep arrives. But the habitual victim of any kind of drug or disturber of normal functions acquires a diseased condition, displayed by the * Ordinary tea contains about 2 per cent, of this. It may easily be obtained by making a strong infusion and slowly evaporating it to dryness, then placing this dried extract on a w^atch-glass or evaporating-dish, cover- ing it with an inverted wineglass, tumbler, or conical cap of paper. A white fume rises and condenses on the cool cover in the form of minute colourless crystals. The tea itself may be used in the same manner as the dried extract, but the quantity of crystals will be less.