OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON THE CHEMISTRY OF COOKERY. ‘ The reader who wants to satisfy himself as to the value of this book, and the novelty which its teaching possesses, need not go beyond the first chapter, on “ The Boiling of Water.’ But if he reads this he certainly will go further, and will pro- bably begin to think how he can induce his cook to assimilate some of the valuable lessons which Mr. Williams gives. If he can succeed in that he will have done a very good day’s work for his health and house. . . . About the economical value of the book there can be no doubt.’—Spectator. ‘ Will be welcomed by all who wish to see the subject of the preparation of food reduced to a science. . . . Perspicuously and pleasantly Mr. Williams explains the why and the wherefore of each successive step in any given piece of culinary work. Every mistress of a household who wishes to raise her cook above the level of a mere automaton will purchase two copies of Mr. Williams’s excellent book—the one for the kitchen, and the other for her own careful and studious perusal.’—Knowledge. ‘ Thoroughly readable, full of interest, with enough of the author’s personality to give a piquancy to the stories told.’—Westminster Review. ‘ Mr. Williams is a good chemist and a pleasant writer ; he has evidently been a keen observer of dietaries in various countries, and his little book contains much that is worth reading.’—Athenaeum. ‘ There is plenty of room for this excellent book by Mr. Mattieu Williams. . . . There are few conductors of cookery classes who are so thoroughly grounded in the science of the subject that they will not find many valuable hints in Mr. Williams’s pages.’—Scotsman. ‘ Throughout the work we find the signs of care and thoughtful investigation.. . . Mr. Williams has managed most judiciously to compress into a very small compass a vast amount of authoritative information on the subject of food and feeding generally—and the volume is really quite a compendium of its subject.’—Food. ‘The British cook might derive a good many useful hints from Mr. Williams’s latest book. . . . The author of “ The Chemistry of Cookery” has produced a very interesting work. We heartily recommend it to theorists, to people who cook for themselves, and to all who are anxious to spread abroad enlightened ideas upon a most important subject. . . . Hereafter, cookery will be regarded, even in this island, as a high art and science. We may not live to those delightful days ; but when they come, and the degree of Master of Cookery is granted to qualified candidates, the “Chemistry of Cookery” will be a text-book in the schools, and the bust of Mr. Mattieu Williams will stand side by side with that of Count Rumford upon every properly-appointed kitchen dresser.’—Pall Mall Gazette. ‘ Housekeepers who wish to be fully informed as to the nature of successful culinary operations should read “ The Chemistry of Cookery.” ’ Christian World. ‘ In all the nineteen chapters into which the work is divided there is much both to interest and to instruct the general reader, while desen ing the attention of the “dietetic reformer.”. . The author has made almost a life-long study of the subject.’--English Mechanic.