OTHER WORKS BY MR. MATTIEU WILLIAMS. Crown 8VO. cloth extra, Js. 61. SCIENCE IN SHORT CHAPTERS. ‘ Few writers on popular science know better how to steer a middle course between the Scylla of technical abstruseness and the Charybdis of empty frivolity than Mr. Mattieu Williams. He writes for intelligent people who are not technically scientific, and he expects them to understand what he tells them when he has ex- plained it to them in his perfectly lucid fashion without any of the embellishments, in very doubtful taste, which usually pass for popularisa ion. The papers are not mere rechauffes of common knowledge. Almost all of them are marked by original thought, and many of them contam demonstrations or apergus of considerable scientific value.’—Pall Mall Gazette. ‘ There are few writers on the subjects which Mr. Williams selects whose fertility and originality are equal to his own. We read all he has to say with pleasure, and very rarely without profit.’- -Science Gossip. ‘ Mr. Mattieu Williams is undoubtedly able to present scientific subjects to the popular mind with much cleiirness and force : and these essays may be read with advantage by those, who, wirnnut having had special training, are yet sufficiently intelligent to take interest in the movement of events in the scientific world.’ Academy, Crown 8VO. cloth limp, 2s. 6d. A SIMPLE TREATISE ON HEAT. ‘ This is an unpretending little work, put forth for the purpose of expounding, in simple style, the phenomena and laws of heat. No strength is vainly spent in endeavouring to present a mathematical view of the subject. The Author passes over the ordinary range of matter to be found in most elementary treatises on heat, and enlarges upon the applications of the principles of his science—a subject which is naturally attractive to the uninitiated. Mr. Williams’s object has been well carried out, and his little book may be recommended to those who care to study this interest- ing branch of physics.’—Popular Science Review. ‘ We can recommend this treatise as equally exact in the information it imparts, and pleasant in the mode of imparting it. It is neither dry nor technical, but suited in all respects to the use of intelligent learners.’—Tablet. ‘Decidedly a success. The language is as simple as possible, consistently with scientific soundness, and the copiousness of illustration with which Mr. Williams’s pages abound, derived from domestic life and from the commonest operations of nature, will commend this book to the ordinary reader as well as to the young student of science.’—Academy. London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W. Demy 8vo. cloth extra, price *js. 6d. THE FUEL OF THE SUN. ‘ The work is well deserving of careful study, especially by the astronomer, too apt to forget the teachings of other sciences than his own.’—Fraser’s Magazine. ‘ It is characterised throughout by a carefulness of thought and an originality that command respect, while it is based upon observed facts and not upon mere fanciful theory.’—Engineering. ‘ bir. Williams’s interesting and valuable work called “The Fuel of the Sun.’” Popular Science Review. London : SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO.