484 MORBID ANATOMY. the most part, hut in the centre the coats are all blended in the morbid tissue. Ou microscopic examination of in- testine, there were seen some large but indistinct nuclei, like those belonging to malignant formations ; but the fatty degeneration was so extensive as to make it impossible to pronounce with accuracy upon the exact chaiacter of the elements. —The liver weighed nearly nine pounds, and contained very numerous cancerous masses. From a woman, who had been for a long time consti- pated, oppressed after her food for about a year, with more or less nausea, pain, and fulness in the abdomen. About ten days before death she took an active cathartic, but she had no discharge from the bowels from that time. There was vomiting, with much pain and oppression, and she gradually sank. Her mother died ol cancer of the womb, and her grandmother of the same disease in the breast. (Med. Jour. Vol. LXin. p. 343.) 1860. Dr. C. Ellis. 2307. Colloid disease of the whole rectum ; with an opening at the upper part into the bladder, which last was greatly con- tracted and coated with a phosphatic deposit. From a gentleman, seventy years of age, who had been perfectly healthy until within a few years of his death. His principal trouble was an almost constant desire to evacuate the bowels, with discharges of a highly foetid substance. Gradually sank under his disease, but never had a moment of what could be called pain. For the last week or two there wa§ a discharge from the rectum thiough the urethra. (Med. Jour. Vol. lex. p. 283.) 1858. Dr. J. M. Warren. 2308. A second specimen. — Just above the anus is a vei}r nai- row strip of healthy intestine, though at the orifice is a considerable mass of the disease, that seemed to be seated in the hemorrhoids, that occasionally protruded during life. The principal disease is nearly 3 in. in extent, and involves nearly the whole circumference of the intestine ; perfectly well marked, and not complicated with an} othei form of disease. From a woman, about fifty years of age, and who had