3G7 MOKBID ANATOMY. ferred his disease, though he was quite well until Oct., 18G5, when he first had pain in the left popliteal region. Early in Dec. a pulsating tumor was found there, about the size of a hen’s egg; and by the end of the month it had increased to the size of a fist. About the first of Jan., Dr. O. commenced a system of compression of the femoral artery, and it was continued until the 20th of May, when all pulsation had ceased in the tumor. The compression was never entirely stopped but once, and then he suffered severely. The tumor, which seemed to be distended almost to bursting, began to subside in April, and did not exist in any marked degree during the last year, though the popliteal space remained filled out and the knee bent. Different means were used, but Dr. O. thought that digital compression, which was used during the last three weeks, v as decidedly the best. Pain in .the ham and down to the foot was very considerable before compression was used, and much more severe afterward, so that opiates were re- quired ; but there was none in the ham after the pulsation ceased, though it continued in the foot. There was swell- ing of the foot soon after the treatment was commenced, and it continued till Sept. In April, sloughing of the foot came on, but this at last did well. The patient was reduced from one hundred and forty to ninety pounds ; lost a great deal ol strength, and kept his bed until Sept., 1866, when he was able to get about on crutches ; and even during the last year he was obliged to use a crutch and a cane. In Jan., 1868, he died of pneumonia. In the preparation the sac is seen of a regular, elongated form, about 5J in. in length and 2£ in. in diameter, and completely filled with decolorized, and rather crumbling fibrine. The femoral artery is somewhat diseased, and to the extent of about l£ in. above the sac there is complete obliteration. At the lower extremity of the sac, and with- in the cavity, some pus was found at the time of the dis- section ; there having been great pain in the part for three weeks before the pneumonia began. 1868. lorui fnr , ®r- John P- Orclioay. 180i. The spleen, with its artery, preserved in spirit, and show- ing along the course of this vessel and its branches ten