652 MORBID ANATOMY. lung, 9 lbs., and measured 13£, 7J, and 4J in. ; the lung being very small, spread out over tho tumor, and entirely deprived of air. Exterhally the mass was deeply lobulated, of a yellowish color, and resembled a fatty tumor. Inter- nally it was moist, of a dull white color, smooth and uni- form in some parts, but decidedly fibrous in many others, the fibres diverging as in the fibrous tumors of the womb. Projecting from the surface, and throughout the whole sub- stance of the mass, were numerous thin cysts, from J in. to 3 in. in diameter, containing a bloody fluid, with some grumous matter in the largest. They were lined by a smooth, bluish or reddish membrane, and some of them com- municated freely. Microscopically, the external portions were composed of elongated corpuscles, quite granular, free, or so closely packed as almost to give a fibrous ap- pearance to the part, but without distinct nucleoli; re- sembling those figured in Paget’s Surg. Pathology, fig. 61. In the deeper seated and more fibrous portions the appear- ance was decidedly fibrous; but, on the addition of acetic acid, numerous elongated nuclei became visible. In the left lung were two similar masses, and in the right lung one, of the size of peas. There was also some effusion in the different serous cavities. (Med. Journ. Vol. Lvm. p. 182.) 1858. Dr. D. H. Storer. 3003. A pencil drawing, b}r Dr. S., of the above entire tumor. 1858. Dr. Charles E. Stedman. 3004-5. Daguerreotypes of a boy, eleven years old, and show- ing quite a prominent tumor below the lower jaw. The disease was from nine months’ to a year’s duration, grow- ing rapidly, somewhat painful, but not troubling him much otherwise, except by its bulk. The case occurred in 1851. 1858. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 3006. Lithographs of the above case. 1st. A copy of the daguerreotype. 2d. The tumor, after removal. 3d. The same, colored. 4th. Microscopic appearances. Dr. B. regarded it at the time as a simple cellular structure, and not glandular, but with a question of encephaloid. In the autumn of 1862, however, there had been no return of the disease, and his health was improved. 1858. Dr. II. J. Bigelow.