MORBID ANATOMY. 687 having been always a little deaf, he became so much so after the accident that he was unable to hear common con- versation. In August, 1861, Dr. H. saw him again, and when he he was on his way back to Ireland. The hearing was un- improved ; and he was incapacitated, mentalty, from earn- ing a livelihood. He could do very plain work, by the side of another laborer, as shovelling or hoeing; but, if left to himself he would seem to forget his work, and quit it; and he would often wander listlessly about, up and downstairs, out and in doors; often stopping abruptly and for some time, as if in doubt which way he should go. 1861. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 3110. A chaise-hook that was driven through the orbital plate of the frontal bone. A gentleman was driving himself in a buggy, when his horse took fright, and he was thrown out with great violence. His head struck the hook, which was strongly attached by screws to the hard wood frame of the top of the buggy, above and in front, and whicli was driven into the left orbit rather toward the median line. In a few minutes he recovered his consciousness, and, with'a little assistance, walked about one-eighth of a mile, to a house where he was very soon seen by Dr. B. The hook was almost immovably fixed, and nearly or quite three-fourths buried in the orbit; the flat plate, by which it was attached to the frame of the buggy, lying firmly pressed against the front of the orbital ridge, and with the screws projecting from it. An incision was made to the extent of about an inch, and the hook was extracted without any great diffi- culty, though considerable force was required ; after which he was removed to his home in the country, a distance of about five miles. For the first few days there was much pain and swelling about the wound, with some delirium ; and for some weeks a general headache. He was confined to the house only for about ten days, and in about four weeks returned to his business. He suffered more or less from his head, however, for some months, and even now, after the lapse of about eight years, he would not dare, he says, to tax his mind too far. — The point of the hook is