MORBID ANATOMY. 435 lung, 4 in. or more in diameter, and opening freely into the bronchi. It is traversed by a firm band, but the inner surface is regular, and the parietes are in part thin. From a man, get. thirt}r-seven, who had active hgemopti- sis, violent cough, and hectic in 1853. In March, 1854, he was seen by Dr. Bowditch, who found the respiration quite obscure over the upper two-thirds of the left lung, and with some rale, but without bronchial respiration or bron- chophony. The symptoms continued, and in April he raised a pint and a half of blood, but was at work on the following day. In Oct. he was able to walk to the office of Dr. B., who then found dulness on percussion in front, upon both sides, and with coarse crackling over the upper two-thirds of the left. Failed rapidly, and died in Feb., 1855. One or two small cavities were found in the upper left lobe, besides the large one ; and numerous miliary granula- tions throughout both lungs. The point of interest in the case is, negatively, the want of correspondence between the actual disease and the phys- ical signs. 1856. Dr. C. Ellis. 2154. A cretaceous mass, from the lung, about ยฃ in. in diame- ter, and surrounded by a dense cyst. Cut open and dried. 1859- Dr. C. EUis. 2155. A few minute cretaceous bodies, that were expectorated by a middle-aged man, who had an acute tubercular attack aftei measles. He was a physician, and was sick for sev- eral months, but fully recovered; the whole amount of the concretions that were thrown off being about a tea- spoonful. 1869. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2156. Echinococci. Ihe apex of the left lung is shown, upon the surface of which is a white, dense, fibrous tissue, about an inch in diameter, and 1 or 2 lines in thickness; with other thin patches of the same near it. Beneath this was a layer of pulmonary tissue, of about the same thickness; and be- neath this a cavity ยง in. or more in diameter, filled with serum, and lined by a thin, bluish-white membrane, which wras ever}7where studded with yellowish-white points. Most of the serum was lost; but that which remained was of a