398 MORBID ANATOMY. months after this last was taken, the inflammation that pre- viously existed about the growth, increased; and, after poulticing it for some weeks, the dense portion was thrown off. (See next specimen.) Ulceration of the base fol- lowed ; and, at the end of a year from the time when the patient was first seen, it had extended over a large portion of the forehead, and had all the appearance of an epithelial cancer. The grandmother of this patient was said to have had a cutaneous horn in the same position as in the above case, and that terminated in cancer. The above history is from a detailed account, with a figure of the case, by Dr. D. in the Med. Jour. Vol. lxxiv. p. 9. 1866. Dr. Silas DurTcee. 1997. The horn above described. 1866. Dr. li. L. Hoclgdon, of W. Cambridge. 1998. Horn removed from a cicatrix. From a man, thirty years of age, who had had both of his hands amputated through the metacarpal bones when he was six years old. At the age of twenty-five years the horn began to grow from one of the stumps; and, as the man thought, from the irritation of a strap that he wore. About a year before his admission into the hospital, on the 11th of August (140, 232), the horn was removed; its dimensions being then 3 in. or more by 1 in. In four or five months it reappeared; and, when seen by Dr. H., it was about 2 in. in height, 1£ in. transversely at the base, £ in. at the apex, and curving towards the radial edge of the hand. The cicatricial tissue over both stumps was very tense; and at the base of the horn it was inflamed, and occasionally ulcerated. After the horn was removed, the investing membrane was dissected off from the stump, the ends of the metacarpal bones were sawed off, and the man left the hospital on the 26th. For some years before the formation of the horn this man had supported himself as a clerk, and held his pen between the two stumps as he wrote. Since the above was in type, a note has been received from the patient, dated Dec. 28th, and saying that the horn has once more returned. The note was written in a