614 MORBID ANATOMY. size. Tumors developed in the substance of the gland, as often seen, and suggest strongly the idea of the uterine fibroid tumors. Before it was cut through, the canal readily allowed the passage of the forefinger from the bladder, so that the tip could be felt upon the other side ; though be- tween the bladder and the canal of the urethra there is a high transverse barrier that seemed to completely separate the two. The bladder rose to the umbilicus, and carried the peritoneum with it three-fourths of the distance from the pubes ; organ much thickened and remarkably fasciculated and sacculated; the cysts that rose from the fundus being so thin as to resemble the intestine. The ureters and pelves also were considerably dilated. From a gentleman, set. seventj^-eight years, who had re- tention of urine for the first time five years before death, and used the catheter for two or three months. From that time he strained very much when urinating, his health was much impaired, and he finally died three weeks after a fracture of the neck of the femur. 1855. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2870. A general enlargement of the organ ; and the third lobe, also, stands out prominently, of the size of a large marble, and about as round. From a man who died of pleural disease of about five weeks’ duration. Slight dysuria for about a year and a half. Considerable hematuria for four days after the pleural attack ; and some dysuria, with a tickling sensation, from that time. Passed urine six times in twenty-four hours, but stream never suddenly stopped. Much given to sexual indulgence. 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2871. Third lobe enlarged ; and the bladder somewhat thickened . and sacculated. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2872. The third lobe is about as large as a marble, and stands directly up against the orifice of the urethra; the lateral lobes being not much enlarged. The bladder rose nearly to the umbilicus, and contained §xv. or xx. of clear urine ; muscular coat much thickened and fasciculated ; also three or four herniae of the mucous membrane, near the opening of the ureters, and about as large as the top of the finger.