MORBID ANATOMY. 565 generally granulated; but at one extremity there is a smooth, highly polished, and concave surface, being the fagette above referred to, and at the other a smooth but convex surface, which was explained by the frequent pas- sage of the catheter. The smaller calculus, of which one- half only is preserved, measures -if in. in length upon the cut surface, and must have been somewhat pyriform in shape. The nucleus was ox. of lime ; color the same as the largest, and the external surface was granulated. The larger calculus consisted mainly of the phosph. and carb. of lime (bone earth), with a considerable mixture of ox. of lime, as shown in the laminae. Analyzed by Dr. D. H. Haj^den. In a note, dated Feb. 7th, 1870, Dr. G. says that after the operation, all of the gangrenous tissue came away, and the wound granulated rapidly ; elastic catheters being kept in the bladder for some weeks. About a month ago a small stone was felt in the situation of the former one ; very friable; and the fragments, that were removed, not equalling in size a cherry-stone. The man is now in better health than for several years, and able to work. A small fistula remains in the perineum, through which all of the urine passes ; but he can retain it for five hours; the stream is of full size, and he only suffers during its evacu- ation from this mode of passing it. There is still, how- evei, another stone that can be felt by passing a probe into the fistula 4 or 5 in., and that is to be removed by operation. I ebruary 22d, Dr. G. presented the fragments of this last, which were removed on the 20th. They were con- tained in an irregular sacculated cavity, and weigh, now that they are dry, one hundred and twenty grains. 1870. Dr. J. Orne Green. 2681. A renal calculus, 2} in. by about If in. on cut surface ; of a dull brownish color; rough and somewhat tubercula- ted externally; and coarsely laminated internally, with a small, compact nucleus. Analyzed by Dr. White ; ox. and phosph. of lime. From an elderly woman, who for several years had had slight attacks, that increased in frequency and severity