386 MORBID ANATOMY. The greatest circumference is 27 in.; and from one audi- tory meatus to the other, over the top of the head, and allowing for the deficiency at the anterior fontanelle, it measures 20J in. Internal capacity 257 cubic inches.” 1866. Mr. Walter C. Blaisdell, vied, student. 1889. A third specimen, with the following history of the case by Dr. S.: “ It was the cranium of a girl born in this city. Becom- ing an orphan at a very early age, she was admitted to the House of Industry, where she was instructed in the usual branches of knowledge taught in our common schools, until at length, such was her capacity, she was entrusted with the teaching of the other pauper children. She was of excellent character for intelligence and moral worth, and gave much satisfaction to the officers of the House. Being fitted, as was thought by the Directors, to earn her own support, she was discharged from the House, and found employment in a private family in the city. Here, from exposure incident to her situation, she contracted a cough. A decline soon followed, and she was compelled to return to the House, where at last she died of consumption, at the age of sixteen. “ The skull measures 24£ in. in its circumference, and over the head, from one auditory meatus to the other, 17£ in. There is nowhere any deficiency of bone, and yet it is in no place more than £of an inch in thickness. Its great- est diameter is from the centre of one parietal bone to the other, but presents no unseemly deformity. “ On examination after death, tbe brain was found float- ing, as it were, in a large collection of water, throughout which many patches of lymph apparently were diffused. “ She died peacefully, and retained her consciousness as long as she was able to respire.” Internal capacity 176 cubic inches. 1866. Dr. Charles H. Stedman. 1890. A fourth specimen; bones of the vault separated, and imperfectly developed. The head was very large, and felt like a loose bag; the fluid being in the lateral ventricles, which formed one enormous cavity. There was also spina bifida (No. 851), and the right lower extremity was im- perfectly developed, besides varus and irregularity of toes.