MORBID ANATOMY. 686 him seated in a chair, extremely pallid, bathed in a cold perspiration, conscious, but dull, and with a pulse of 52 and feeble. “ The man did not speak until some time after the fork was withdrawn, and then onty to answer imper- fectly a question, and when pressed for a reply; and he remained exceedingly stupid until he became unconscious.” "Wound in the cheek ragged, and readily admitted the little finger to beneath the arch of the malar bone. The wound in the scalp was small, but bled freely; skull broken, and pushed upward prominently; and a probe was passed downward 2 in. The lower wound was closed, the upper one dressed with cold water; and he was then helped to ascend another flight of stairs. Before he could be got into bed he vomited freely, became greatty prostrated, and shortly afterward almost completely unconscious. “ At midnight violent reaction came on, and he was thought to be dying. His face was much swollen ; respiration stertorous ; eyes injected ; pupils contracted ; surface of the body hot and dry. Pulse 40, hard, and very ‘jerky ; ’ and it was impossible by any effort to arouse him. After vene- section, to the amount of §xxx., the pulse became softer and more frequent, and the breathing less stertorous ; and there were slight indications of returning consciousness.” Pounded ice was ordered to his head ; a large saline cathar- tic was given, and half a grain of Tart, antimony every two hours. The next moi'ning he was much improved, and recognized Dr. H. as he entered the room. Respiration nearty natu- ral. E}res still more injected, and intolerant of light. Pulse 70, but rather hard. Complained much of pain at the top of his head, but said that he was otherwise comfort- able. The cathartic had operated quite freely, and the antimony had caused no nausea. The ice was continued, and the antimony in smaller doses, and less frequently for five days ; and the case was then left in the hands of nature. At the expiration of two weeks he went downstairs, and in three weeks he was able to do light work about the house. The sense of sight and smell were not affected; but,