486 MORBID ANATOMY. last were more so. Tenesmus was frequent, but never very- distressing. Throughout the disease, the bowels acted pretty regularly, but always with pain; this last being se- vere during the last week, but it -was apparently rather from tympanitic distention than from the disease itself, and •was readily relieved by small doses of opium and conium. The appetite, which was alwaj^s sufficient, was sometimes craving, and his food seemed to be well digested. He gave up work about a year before his death, but frequentl}1, rode short distances without pain or inconvenience, though walk- ing caused an aching pain so long as he was under Dr. T.’s care ; during the last three months he kept his bed. The pallid, straw-colored complexion of cancer was well marked ; but the emaciation was less marked than would have been expected. The disease commenced about 2 in. from the verge of the anus, and extended upwards 4 in. The whole circumfer- ence of the intestine was involved, the limits of the disease were perfectly defined, and the general appearance showed unequivocally its malignant character, though there was nowhere any encephaloid, scirrhous or colloid deposit to be seen. No trace of the original tissue of the intestine could be distinguished upon the cut surface, but the whole had a soft, opaque, thickened, and perfectly disorganized look; the structure was loose or coarse, and infiltrated with fluid, with many quite small, superficial sloughs upon the sur- face. In one place the diseased structure was destroyed to the extent neai’ly of an inch, and at the bottom of the cav- ity was a large slough. The intestine immediately above the seat of the disease Avas health}^, excepting a number of quite small and superficial ulcerations ; there being very little if any thickening or dilatation. Dr. T. found the diseased portion of the intestine so adherent to the sacrum that it was removed with some difficulty. The other or- gans he found healthy. Microscopically, it Avas regarded by Dr. Ellis as a malig- nant disease, though it did not show the usual elements of cancer, — as the gross appearances did not to the naked eye. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxxiv. p. 503.) 1866. Dr. George G. Tucker, of Westfield.