461 MORBID ANATOMY. dark, bloody, grumous mucus, but never at any other time. Until the last few days she kept about the house. (Med. Jour. Yol. lxiv. p. 432.) 1861. Dr. George Faulkner, of Jamaica Plain. 2223. Cast, in plaster, of the stomach and oesophagus above described; colored. 1861. Museum Fund. 2224. Very extensive cancerous disease of the pyloric portion of the organ, and involving the whole circumference. A cast in plaster, and colored. 1868. Museum Fund. 2225. A portion of the stomach and oesophagus, showing en- • cephaloid disease of the cardiac portion of the organ. 1847. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2226. The entire stomach, showing a soft, and very dark en- • cephaloid mass, projecting into the cavity of the organ. It arises from about the small curvature, and toward the anterior face is of an oval form, perfectly defined, and as large as the fist. Otherwise the organ is perfectly healthy; the disease being so limited to the inner coats, that the muscular is, to a considerable extent, quite healthy beneath it, and, upon the corresponding surface externally, no trace of the disease is to be seen. There was, however, some disease of the glands near the small curvature, and in the liver extensive encephaloid disease. (See the next specimen.) From a man, set. fifty-five, who died Nov. 28th, 1857, and apparently from exhaustion. In 1856 he began to have oppression at the stomach after food or drink, lasting for two or three hours, and sometimes amounting to severe pain ; and this symptom continued throughout his disease. In Sept., 1857, there was a constant uneasiness at the epi- gastrium, with constitutional symptoms ; but he continued to work, as a stove-maker, until the last of Oct. Nov. 10th Dr. A. first saw him ; and food was then relished, though the appetite was small. The liver formed a large tumor, but at the end of a week was still larger. The most striking fact in this case was the absence of vomiting, and even of nausea, throughout the whole course of the disease. 1858. Dr. F. S. Ainsworth.