363 MORBID ANATOMY. pulsation diminished in the right carotid and subclavian arteries; and in August, 1811, he died in one of his par- oxysms. The sac pressed upon the second and third ribs, and the edge of the sternum had become carious ; the skin over the third rib looking as if ready to burst. A second, smaller and separate aneurismal tumor arises from the back part of the arch of the aorta, extended backward, and pressed upon the trachea at its bifurcation, and upon the oesophagus. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1792. The heart and aorta, showing an aneurism of the art. • innominata, two-thirds as large as the fist and completely filled with firm, old fibrine. Carotid free. Right subclavian completely obliterated where it arises from the sac, but of full size beyond this. A large false aneurism is also seen, where the aorta passed through the diaphragm, and the laceration by which it opened into the left pleural cavity. The aorta itself is diseased throughout. From a gentleman, set. fifty-five, who had been sick for about two 3rears and a half, and without pulse in the right wrist for two years or more. 1847. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1793. The art. innominata, showing a little aneurism arising from and entirely limited to this vessel. The cavity is an inch or more in diameter ; the orifice one-third of an inch or more in diameter, and smooth, as it also is just within. From a man, set. twenty-four, who died from the rupture into the pericardium of a large aneurism of the asc. aorta. 1859- Dr. C. Ellis. 1794. Cast in plaster showing a small, nipple-shaped tumor in case of traumatic aneurism of the left common carotid artery. Sent to Dr. W. by W. R. Beaumont, Esq., under whose care the patient was treated in Toronto, C. W. Clinical lecture upon the case published by Mr. B. in the London Lancet, July 19th, 1854. I'he patient, set. twenty, entered the hospital Jan. 2d, 1854. Stabbed about eight weeks before, and signs of an- eurism were well marked. Cast taken on the 9th. Treat- ment: low diet, fifteen or twenty minims of Tr. of Digi- talis three times a day, and venesection three times. On