MOEBID ANATOMY. 259 in the back, but none in the abdomen. The patient has been very dissolute for several years ; and was in a state of marasmus when first seen. 1852. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1388. Extensive and deep caries of the three last lumbar verte- brae, but without curvature. From a man, aet. twenty-one, who died at the hospital (207, 156) with symptoms of tubercular meningitis. Old tubercular disease of the lungs, and bronchial glands was found, but an examination of the brain was not allowed. The upper portion of the sacrum was also carious; the cavities being filled with a soft caseous substance, and the same being found in the psoas muscles.. Those portions of the bones that were not carious were infiltrated with a thick red fluid. 1857. Dr. C. Ellis. 1389. Caries of the front of the bodies of the sacrum, and of the two last lumbar vertebrae; the body of the last lumbar being almost entirely destroyed. From a female patient, set. twenty. (Hospital, 75,116.) Hip disease about seven years before death; and disease of the spine for rather more than two }rears. A well-masked projection was found at the upper part of the sacrum, though nothing of the kind appears in the specimen. There was much pain ; a laige abscess opened at the groin, and a considerable amount of pus was found about the seat of the disease. 1858- Dr. II. J. Bigeloio. 1390. Sacrum, with the three last lumbar vertebrae, anchylosed into one mass; the result of former, but arrested inflam- mation. Strong osseous bands upon each side unite the bodies of two of the lumbar vertebrae with the sacrum, superficially, but unlike what are seen in chronic arthritis. All of the laminae and articulating processes are fused. Bones generally sound, and without curvature. 1848. Dr. 0. W. Holmes. 1391. Last lumbar vertebra, with portions of the last two dor- sal. The thickness of the body of the lumbar is sufficient externally, but the upper and under surfaces are deeply conca\ e, so that in the centre it is quite thin. Of the body of the last dorsal a portion remains; but of the one above