MORBID ANATOMY. 441 ineffectual attempts had been made to pass an instrument; and shorty- before death considerable force was used. “ The stricture commences quite abruptly about opposite the upper edge of the cricoid cartilage, is about 1 in. in length, and not more than 3 or 4 lines in circumference upon the inner surface, at the narrowest part. The pari- etes are firm to the feel, consist of a homogeneous, pearly white, condensed tissue, without any appearance of muscu- lar structure, and, at the time of the dissection, cut like gristle. The mucous membrane, however, is continued over it, and seems to be very little altered in structure. Just above the stricture is something like a small uloer, but confined to the mucous membrane ; and a little higher up is a small opening, leading downwards into an irregular abscess in or about the thyroid gland, capable of holding about a drachm, and containing some moderately thick pus. Immediately above the stricture, and upon the right side, there is a fresh laceration, leading downwards, and evidently made by an instrument. There was no dilatation of the fauces, but the mucous membrane just above the stricture was a little red, and perhaps excoriated.” 1861. Dr. B. E. Cotting. Of several cases that I have examined, and that had been regarded during life as stricture of the oesophagus, all, excepting the present one, have proved to be some form of malignant disease ; and the same remark may be made of the rectum, but in this case without a single ex- ception. Opening into the oesophagus, from suppurating bronchial glands. (No. 1844.) 2171. Extensive and foul ulceration of the whole lower portion of the oesophagus, without thickening, or any appearances of cancer. From a man, oet. sixty-eight, who had had many of the symptoms of stricture for more than a year. (Med. Jour. ^ Yol. in. p. 222.) 1855. Dr. j, Bm S. Jackson. 21/2. Ulceration of the oesophagus, and opening into the lower pait of the trachea. — The disease involves the whole cir- cumfeience of the canal, and is more than 2 in. in extent, moie than 1 in. in width where cut across, and without