MORBID ANATOMY. 370 1810. Thibert’s model. “Aneurism of the popliteal artery; flexor tendons pushed aside.” 184/. Dr. G. Haywa/rd. 1811. A cast in plastm of the hand and greater part of the upper extremity, from a case of varicose aneurism. The patient, a girl, set. nineteen, entered the hospital (76 54) Oct. 21st, 1857. When two years old the palm of the hand was injured by a stone, and very shortly after- ward a small pulsating tumor appeared there. About five years before entrance, and when first seen at the hospital, a laro-e tumor seemed to be held in and to fill the palm of the hand ; firm at some points, and soft and pulsating in others, with a strong aneurismal thrill on compression ; the blood seeming, in some parts, to be contained in large aneurismal sacs, and in others in arteries as large as the carotid. There was also quite a firm tumor along the whole front of the forearm, under the muscles, but without pulsation. Amputation was advised, but refused; and a cast of the hand and forearm that is m the Med. Soc. s Cabinet (No. 1425) was then taken. When seen the sec- ond time, the tumor in the palm and forearm had more than doubled in size, with a distinct aneurismal thrill along the brachial artery, a highly varicose state of the surrounc ing veins, and a sound like that of machinery m the palm The arm was quite unwieldy, very painful at times, and the disease was rapidly increasing; the cast here shown being taken at this time. Amputation was performed N ov. 7th,'about the middle of the arm, and nearly twenty ves- sels were tied ; it being soon found that the veins carried arterial blood ; a tourniquet, however, being applied quite hicrh up and very tightly, an extremely small quantity of blood was lost. After a long convalescence the patient was discharged well, Dec. 24th, 1857 ; there never having been any hemorrhage nor any evidence of remaining eiec ile tissue. (See nest specimen.) «». ,. * Wm 1812 The limb (see last specimen) was injected by Dr. II. J- Bigelow; the «* having been thrown in by the vents and returned by the arteries; and it was then dissected a prepared by Dr. R. M. Hodges. The muscles had disap-