188 MORBID ANATOMY. I-Iip, and the specimens have been figured as they appear externally. The section was very much nearer to the posterior than to the anterior face, and, since the above was in print, a second has been made through the anterior half of the bone ; but the result is about the same. 1869. Dr. Benjamin Cushing. 1087-8. Fracture of the neck, within the capsule; section. The anterior half has been dried, and includes the whole cir- cumference of the neck at the seat of fracture ; the posterior parietes of the neck extending across the section as a com- pact line of bone. Along the external surface of this line the cancellated structure of the neck is united, firmly and throughout, though only to a limited extent; the head being thus immovably fixed upon the shaft. The neck is almost entirely absorbed. Upon the outer surface of this anterior half there is a deep fissure between the fragments, from which a dense fibro-cellular tissue was removed, in the preparation of the specimen, and that would seem to have been the result of eversion. The separation amounted, at the maximum point, to about half an inch, and the oppos- ing surfaces are rough. The other half of the bone is in spirit, and shows the dense tissue that closely unites the fragments, but there is no bony union, and the head con- siderably overlaps the neck of the bone. The following is an abstract of a history of this case, which, with remarks, and a drawing of the specimen, was published by Dr. W. in the Mass. Med. Society’s edition of Sir A. Cooper’s work on Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints. The patient was a gentleman, seventy years of age, who fell and struck upon the left trochanter as he was ascending the steps of the State House. He was able, however, to walk up to the Senate Chamber, where he remained an hour and a half, and took part in the debates, but was then obliged to go home in a carriage, and Dr. W. saw him. There was no change in the appearance of the limb, no crepitus, and only a moderate pain on strong outward rota- tion or strong flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis. Di.