239 MORBID ANATOMY. The greater part of the shaft is enlarged. Posteriorly quite rough ; and toward the lower part is a small seques- trum, 2£ in. long, and situated in a broad, superficial, and rather smooth cavity. The excavation, the result of the operation, is in. long, £ in. wide, and generally about an inch deep. The bone is very heavy, and the central cavity filled up, as in cases of chronic inflammation; but a sinus is seen extending from it to the cavity that holds the sequestrum. 1856. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 1295. Very extensive caries of the shaft of the tibia; mostly superficial, but in some parts quite deep. Also a thin, smooth, and superficial plate of bone, 5 in. in length and 1 in. at the widest part, is seen in the process of exfoliation. In two oi three other places there are small exfoliations; and toward the lower third nearly the whole thickness of the bone seems to be more or less necrosed to a small ex- tent. (See No. 1274.) 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1296. A portion of the shaft of the femur, showing a superficial exfoliation in progress 2 by 1£ in. in extent. Bone very solid. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1297. A superficial sequestrum from the tibia, 7£in. in length, and involving a large part of the circumference of the bone. From a healthy boy, ten years of age. Duration of dis- ease eight months, and no assignable cause. Redness, swell- ing, and severe pain the first few weeks ; then relieved by the formation of an abscess, and not much complaint after- ward. On admission into the hospital (139, 55), there were four sinuses; and the bone being loose, was re- moved. Did well. 1868. Dr.. II. J. Bigelow. ' 1298. Necrosis of nearly the whole shaft of the tibia; from a end. The suiface of the bone is very extensively de- nuded, and to some extent its entire thickness is involved. I here is some thickened and not very old periosteal deposit external to it; and at the upper extremity some of the old oone that is alive, and from which the dead bone had not yet separated. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren.