207 MORBID ANATOMY. 1169. Very extensive dislocation between the two first cervical vertebrae ; probably the result of chronic disease. A cast in plaster; the original having been purchased in Paris by Prof. R. D. Mussey. When the atlas is horizontal, the body of the axis is thrown backward at an angle of about 45°; the spinous processes being separated to the extent of hall an inch, and the odontoid, which is very much altered in form and position, approaching to within about one-fourth to one-twelfth of an inch of the arch of the atlas. Anteriorly, the body of the axis was considerably separated from that of the atlas, but the two were connected by deli- cate bony fibres. The articulating processes were anchy- losed. 1854. Museum Fund. 1170. Cast, in plaster, of the front of the chest. From a case of old dislocation of the left shoulder-joint. The head of the bone projects forwards from the upper part of the axilla; and the acromion is prominent. From a male subject. (See next specimen.) 1866. Museum Fund. 1171. Scapula, and upper part of the humerus, from the above case. A large amount of new bone has been thrown out upon the inner surface of the first, and just below the cora- coid process ; and the articular surface thus formed is con- cave, irregular and porous, but solid in structure. The surface of the glenoid cavity is cpiite irregular, but not re- duced in size. The coracoid process is large ; and the un- der surface, which is irregular, and with a trace of eburna- tion, had formed a part of the new articular surface. The upper part of the scapula shows a recent fracture, and the body of the bone seems to be atrophied. The great tuber- osity of the humerus is entirely effaced ; the head is large and misshapen, and the whole surface is irregular, with only a trace of eburnation. A small portion only of the head had been in contact with the new articular surface; and upon the back part a groove is formed by the throwing out of new bone, and corresponding to the edge of the glenoid cavity. In the recent state the head of the bone Liy quite free in the new cavity ; covered for the most part 'with a soft, red, fleshy tissue, and without cartilage. Some