MORBID ANATOMY. 301 be partly fibro-plastic and partly cancerous. Death on the 27th. The tumor, which was 8 inches in length and about 5 in. in diameter, was lobulated externally, firm, and con- sisted of a yellowish-white, coarse, fibrous structure with some cretaceous deposit and infiltrated with a glairy fluid. The fibres stood off perpendicularly from the surface of the bone, which was quite rough, with some absorption ; and the interior was filled with a very dense ossific matter as far as the tumor extended. Microscopically, “ nothin** was noticed,” by Dr. Ellis, “ but a fibroid material con- taining globules like those of fat.” 1858. Dr. J. M. Warren. 1519. Long, section of the lower half of the femur, and showing a cancerous growth connected with the back part of the bone; in spirit. From a lad, fifteen years of age. (Hospital, 78, 196.) The disease was of three months’ duration, and began with swelling and moderate pain. Whole popliteal space filled with the diseased growth, and amputated at once. The tumor was 4 in. in extent, and adhered to the bone thioughout; structure fleshy, and microscopically cancer- ous ; cavity adjoining the bone, and where the disease is most advanced. Bone soft and gradually merged in the tumor, which is supposed to have arisen from it. At the hospital is a colored drawing of the recent specimen. 1850. Dr. S. D. Townsend. Io20. A drawing in water-colors, showing the appearances, on a recent section, of a case of osteoid cancer of the upper part of the tibia. The patient, a delicate little girl, eleven years of age, was iicked on the shin by a schoolmate seven months before entrance into the hospital (74, 178). In four days pain and swelling came on, and increased daily. The pain was constant, deep, generally dull, and often severe. Amputa- tion in, above the condyles ; bone diseased, and for some Vf6 „le s*umP did Rot do well. She remained in the hos- pital for some weeks; and, meanwhile, a tumor, of the size o a ien s egg, formed about the sternal end of the clavicle.