254 MORBID ANATOMY. ciall}’ carious. Ribs distorted, and the bones generally are quite delicate. From Paris; articulated, but not in proper position. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1372. A second adult skeleton, similarly affected. Body of the eighth dorsal almost entirely destroyed by caries ; and those of the four last curved somewhat forward and anchylosed. Articulating processes and laminae partially anchylosed. Bodies of the upper dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae somewhat carious. Bones generally quite healthy. From Paris, and formerly articulated like the last speci- men. Thorax and spine taken apart by Dr. N. B. Shurt- leff, and properly rearticulated. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1373. Ten dorsal and one lumbar vertebrae preserved in connec- tion and sawed lengthwise. The bodies of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth dorsal are more or less absorbed, and two of them almost entirely so ; the curvature amount- ing nearly to a right angle. Bodies fused, but not continu- ously. Laminae anchylosed, and also the heads of the ribs. Between the last dorsal and first lumbar there is more recent disease ; the intervertebral substance being entirely destroyed, and the adjoining bodies considerably necrosed, with caries about the dead bone. In the intervertebral substance, also, between the tenth and eleventh, and between the eleventh and twelfth verterbrae, was a small cavity that contained a little curdy matter, and was formed inde- pendently of the bone. From a male subject, who was greatly deformed. Exten- sive tubercular disease of the lungs ; with pus between the ribs upon each side, but none along the psoas muscle. I860. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1374. Six dorsal vertebrae, showing an extensive destruction by caries of the bodies of the ninth and tenth, with slight curvature. From a man aet. fifty, who died at the hospital (218, 245). Disease of four months’ duration ; failure of health, loss of muscular power with involuntary twitchings, etc., of lower extremities, paralysis of bladder, with tenderness,