598 MORBID ANATOMY. cussion of the subject of the removal of the organ. 1866. Dr. Horatio R. Storer. 2783. The greater part of the uterus, with a large fibrous tumor • connected with the fundus ; removed during life. The patient was a widow, fifty-two years of age, who had suffered from the disease, more or less, for nine years, and particularly for the last two. The chief symptom was pain in the pelvis and lower extremities, as from pressure upon the sacral nerves; with partial loss of power and sensibility toward the last. Bowels much constipated, and faeces flattened ; but dysuria not urgent. General health impaired, and for the last two or three months she had scarcely been up. The case was diagnosticated by Dr. C. as one of fibrous tumor of the womb ; and the operation was performed by him in May, 1867, at the earnest solicitation of the pa- tient, and with a full understanding as to the probable result. The mass, here shown, was removed with the ecraseur, and afterwards the other ovary with the same. Seven silver wire ligatures were applied to the vessels, and the actual cautery was also used; §ij. or more, only, of blood being lost during the operation, which lasted about five hours. The patient lived twenty-three hours after the operation, and until the last three or four hours looked as if she might recover. On dissection, no inflammation was found, nor effused blood. The uterus has a rounded, knobbed appearance, and is about the size of the fist; containing numerous fibrous tu- mors, and almost entirely in the anterior parietes. From the fundus there hangs off, and by a long pedicle, a very dense tumor, of which the diameters are 6J, 5£, and 4 inches. The whole mass weighs now 3 lbs. 12J oz. 1869. Dr. Charles M. Carleton, of Norwich, Conn. 2784. A membrane that was expelled from the uterus, and has the appearance of a decidua, excepting its unaccount- able length. One surface is throughout quite smooth, and the other rough; and ill one place at least the characteris- tic punctated appearance is quite marked. To the extent of about 3 in. it is tubular, and probably large enough to