88 HEALTHY ANATOMY. 820. A second cranium, in which the posterior portion of the occiput extends from side to side, and is formed of two pieces that are closely connected inferiorly, but not superi- orly ; the upper edge being about on a level with the base of the skull. The frontal bones are very deficient, but send a prolongation backward, which, upon the left side reaches the occiput. Upon the right side there is between it and this last, a small, irregular bone, which is the only represen- tative of a parietal. The spine was well-formed. The case occurred in the practice of Dr. M., who reported that the mother was married in October, 1858 ; that she always menstruated regularly, twice after her marriage, and for the last time on the 9 th of December; that motions were first felt, indistinctly, in May, and that the child was born on the 7th of November, or eleven months, less two days, fiom the last catamenial period. The ear pre- sented. The foetus weighed 7-fc lbs.; and, from its long limbs, and lobust appearance, low forehead, and swollen eyes and face, it suggested strongly the idea of an English prize- fighter after a battle ; and, again, the broad and flat ears, standing directly off from the head, as they would not if the malformation extended to the neck, suggested the idea, as seen from behind, of a Chimpansee. Upon the base of the skull there was a considerable quantity of cellulo- vascular tissue, but no trace of brain. The pituitary body was found as usual. The spinal marrow bulged at the upper extremity, and about where the pons varolii would have commenced ; and from this part, and below it, several * nerves arose. 1865. Dr. E. D. Miller, of Dorchester. St. Hilaire states (Anom. de rOrganisation, Vol. ir. p. 339), that his father and M. Ser res once found the pituitary gland in a pseudencephalus, which is one form of the “acephalous foetus;” but in his description of the anen- cephalus, which is another form of the same, he makes no allusion to it. On the other hand, I found it many years ago, as I presume that others have ; and from the time that I saw St. II.’s remark, I have never failed to find it, and in numerous cases, when I have looked for it.