I 216 MORBED ANATOMY. swelling of right elbow having returned, this also was punc- tured and discharged the same amount of pus. Death on the 19th. On dissection, the shaft of the left humerus was found separated and thrown forward. No disease in the joint, though there was a cavity between the head and the shaft that contained thick pus. The condyles were also sep- arated, and between them also and the shaft was a cavity containing pus. Periosteum separated from some parts of the humerus. Forearm dislocated toward the inside, and the olecranon somewhat denuded. Upon the right side, pus was found between th^ acromion and the humerus; also about an inch below the joint, and there the periosteum was removed. The elbow was very much as it was upon the other side. The trochanter major was separated from the shaft, and between the two was a cavity that contained pus, and that extended to where the fluctuation was felt on the 5th of Sept. Hip-joint healthy, excepting some discol- oration. Periosteum extensively separated from the shaft. Upon the left side the great trochanter was also separated, though less perfectly than upon the right, and there was a smaller quantity of pus between it and the shaft. The lungs contained numerous small purulent deposits, with some acute pleurisy upon the left side. The two bones above referred to have been dried and show the trochanter separated, but the head of the femur still attached ; neck carious and surface generally rough as from inflammation. The surface of the humerus is less dis- eased. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1199. Extensive bony deposits about the greater part of the humerus, with destruction by caries of the head of the bone; structure light. From a lad set. seventeen, Avho entered the hospital Dec. 2d, 1867 (134, 107). Disease of eight months’ duration, and previously healthy. Large abscesses had formed, with much swelling and much pain ; bone felt through fistula. General health much reduced. On the 14th his condition had improved, and the limb was removed at the shoulder- joint ; the remains of the head of the bone being removed