MORBID ANATOMY. 208 . small fragments of loose bone, that were found after macer- ation, ma}'' perhaps have been formed in the capsular liga- ment. There was also an old fracture of the clavicle. (No. 990.) 1866. Dr. D. W. Cheever. 1172. Old dislocation of the head of the humerus. The bones that form the shoulder, with a portion of the parietes of the chest, are prepared in connection ; and show the head lying in a large and free cavity, beneath and nearly in contact with the clavicle, midway, and between the coracoid pro- cess and the ribs. No distinct appearance of a new socket. A large piece of compact bone is seen in the capsular liga- ment. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1173. Left scapula, and upper third of humerus, from a case of dislocation of ten months’ duration. The patient was less than fifty years of age, and under the care of Dr. J. Brown, Physician to the State Alms- house at Tewksbury; the dislocation could be reduced, but the bone could not be kept in place. The false joint upon the inner surface of the scapula is strongly marked, and about on a level with the glenoid cavity, which last is about one-half destroyed; mostly rough, but in part eburnated. The coracoid process, which is broad, and upon the upper surface rough, is upon the under surface continuous with the false joint, and eburna- ted almost throughout. The head of the humerus is large and misshapen, and without any appearance of the gieat tuberosity or neck ; surface partly eburnated, but elsewhere quite irregular. The capsular ligament, which has been preserved, shows several deposits of new bone. Prepaied by Dr. H. 1858. Dr- R- M- Hodges. 1174. Left scapula, and part of the humerus, from a case of dislocation. From a man, set. fifty years or more. The new joint, which is very marked, appears upon the inner surface of the scapula, in the form of a high ridge of bone, and rather below the level of the glenoid cavity ; there being a space of considerably more than an inch in extent between the ridge and the glenoid, upon which last there is scarcely any deposit of new bone. Surface of the