625 MORBID ANATOMY. of the abdomen for several months, and that was some- times very severe. There was a slight fulness upon the right side of the abdomen, and, after a vaginal examination, she was thought to be pregnant. Twenty daj^s afterward she had for twelve hours violent pains, like those of labor; and these she had occasionally afterward in a less degree! Early in November she had diarrhoea for ten days, and the discharges were exceedingly offensive ; there being, also, a dark, sanious, vaginal discharge, with vomiting. For sev- eral weeks her situation was exceedingly alarming; and during this period of prostration the bones began to be discharged. The discharge continued until the following July, and the assistance of Dr. S. was often required. From July, 1862, she gradually improved, and in the autumn took charge of a large boarding-house. 1865. Dr. D. II. Storer. 2917. A collection of fcetal bones, which were found “imbed- ded in the fat below the kidneys ” of a sow. Some of them are loose, but they are otherwise intimately fused into a mass about three-fourths as large as the fist. Upon the surface are seen very distinctly a scapula, humerus, several ribs, and an upper jaw with four teeth protruding from it. Dr. M. having sawed the mass before he sent it, there is seen a large cavity, that appears to be that of the cranium, and within it a basilar bone, a portion of a vertebra, and of a pelvis, the crowns of teeth, and a quantity of hair. Be- tween this cavity and the external surface of the mass is an irregular and much smaller cavity, in which are seen portions of long bones; and, upon the surface of what appears to be a cranium, there is hair, and some appearance as of a scalp. Over a large part or the whole of the ex- ternal surface of the mass, also, there seems to have been a thin membrane, with short hairs upon a portion of it. 1869. Dr. 1V. II. McDonald, of Antigonish, Nova Scotia. 2918. The vagina of a sheep, that had been greatly distended by foetal bones. 1854. j5r. W. Read. Deformed pelves. (See Nos. 1567-74.) 2919. Rupture of the posterior portion of the uterus and vagina, about 3 in. in length, and nearly longitudinal. 40