362 MORBID ANATOMY. This case and No. 1787 occurred at the almshouse within twenty days of each other. 1847. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1790. Aneurism of the aorta, anteriorly, just aboA-e the bifurca- • tion, about as large as the fist, and nearly filled with old fibrine. The artery is very much diseased, and also the iliacs ; the left iliac being aneurismal near the aorta, and the sac filled with fibrine. From a gentleman, set. seventy-one, who enjoyed fine health, but about six months before death had severe pain that it Avas thought might be OAving to the passage of a renal calculus. A strongly pulsating tumor was then first felt in the abdomen, continued ever afterward, and was re- garded as an aneurism by his brotherf who was a physi- cian ; but he never had the slightest trouble from it, ex- cepting a pain in the corresponding part of the back. Death occurred in about an hour and a half after a rupture of the sac into the general cellular tissue ; this last being attended with severe pain and great pallor, though the amount of effused blood was small. 1861. Dr. J. Homans, Sen. Pain in the corresponding portion of the back I have met with several times in aneurism of the abdominal aorta. 1791. The heart, with a portion of the aorta, showing an aneu- rism of the art. innominata, and somewhat involving the arch ; sac nearly as large as the fist, and filled with old coaguium. The pressure upon the trachea is well shown. Case full}'' detailed by Dr. W., in the New England Med. Jour. Yol. i. p. 121, 1812. In the autumn of 1808 the man had pains in the right shoulder, arm, and leg. In the spring of 1809, a pulsating tumor betAveen the second and third ribs upon the right side; and soon afterward symp- toms of disease of the heart. In the spring of 1810, he became much Avorse ; respiration laborious and suffocating ; cough incessant Avith urgent dysphagia, and pain in chest more severe than ever; often starting from sleep, Avith a dread of suffocation. From this time his symptoms oc- curred in paroxymsof two or three days’ duration, but dur- ing the intervals he was comparatively comfortable, and able to attend to his business. Gradually got Avorse ; the