87 HEALTHY ANATOMY. fleshy masses, about the size of a pea. Extremities fully, but irregularly developed. Two fingers on left hand par- tially fused. Lower extremities in a cross-legged position, with varus upon each side, and a deficiency of toes. 18G5. Dr. Francis Minot. 818. Cast, in plaster, of the head and chest of a foetus (Nosen- cephalus of St. H.) ; taken by an Italian, and colored by a German artist. The case occurred in the practice of Dr. Walsh, who stated that the labor was rather premature, the quantity of liquor amnii large, and that the child lived about thii^-six hours; having been born on Tuesday, at 11 P.M. The mother refused to nurse it; but it sucked the finger, and took, during the first eighteen hours, about two ounces of milk and water, swallowing well. Pulse distinct; warmth sufficient, and there was a discharge of urine and freces. Convulsions began on Wednesday, at 6 P. M., and con- tinued till death, which occurred on Thursday, at 10 P. M. The weight of the foetus was 7 lbs. The vault of the cranium and the integument being wanting, there rested upon the base a deep red, purplish tumor, of a flattened, spherical form, with lobulated edges, and measuring 2x2| in. and 1 in. in thickness ; during life it was, of course, larger. The extension of the cuticle, as usual, for some distance over the mass, and beyond the limits of the cutis is finely shown on the cast. On dissection, it consisted of a coarse, fibro-cellular, and vascular tissue, but without a trace of brain, though some of the nerves were found. Otherwise, the foetus was well-formed externally; and in- ternally, except that the renal capsules were very small, as usual in the “ acephalous foetus.” See next specimen. 1859. Museum Fund. 819. Cranium of the above foetus. The parietal bones are en- tirely wanting, and leave in this region a large and rounded opening upward. Posterior portion of the occiput contin- ued across from side.to side, and in a single piece, but with some appearance of a division upon the median line. 1859. Dr. Walter M. Walsh.