502 MORBID ANATOMY. granulations, evidently resulting from the pressure of the fibrous material upon the soft hepatic substance.” The spleen was much enlarged. 1863. Dr. C. Ellis. 2381. Syphilitic disease of the liver. Several opaque, yellowish- white compact masses were found in the substance of the organ, perfectly defined, uniform in appearance, and from half an inch in diameter to the size of a hen’s egg. The liver was rather large and quite firm; acini remark- ably distinct; and upon the anterior surface were several depressed cicatrices about four or five lines in diameter and in depth. There was also disease of the dura mater, brain, and kidneys, which Dr. T. supposed to be of a syphilitic character. From a man, set. forty-nine, who had syphilis tweifiy-six years before his death, and subsequently various secondary manifestations of the disease. Intermittent fever thirteen years before death, and occasional attacks ever afterwards. During the last year dyspepsia, diarrhoea, pulmonary sj'inp- toms, and headache. Death at last sudden. His children look, and have always been, unhealthy. (See Med. Jour., July 15th, 1869, for details, and quotations from authors in regal’d to the disease.) 1869. Dr. J. B. Treadwell. 2382. Colored cast, showing the external appearances in a typi- cal case of encephaloid disease of the liver. There were throughout numerous rounded, defined masses, and gener- ally about 2 inches in diameter; many projected above the surface, and the central depression was very marked in three or four of them. In structure they were whitish, opaque, very generally soft, and in the centre completely broken down. Some yellow, xanthoid material, and some effused blood. Intervening substance healthy. Weight of the organ 3 pounds 6£ ounces. The stomach was also very extensively cancerous. The patient, a man aet. sixty-nine years, had had diarrhoea for nearly two years, had done no work for nine months, and failed rapidly the last few weeks. There had been frequent nausea, occasional vomiting, and toward the last with much distress. In October he was seen casually by Dr. J. F. Wakefield, of South Malden, and by whom the organs were presented; there being then great