MORBID ANATOMY. 405 2027. Daguerreotype of the last of the above cases before, and of the first after, the operation. Exfoliation of bone from the forehead, after a rhinoplas- tic operation. (See No. 1309.) 2028. Cast, in plaster, by Mr. John 0. Green, one of the house- pupils, of the face of a man, upon whom M. Nelaton, of Paris, had done a very unsuccessful operation two years be- fore. (Hospital, 125, 48.) Five years before his entrance he was struck upon the nose ; in six months it sloughed, and a few weeks afterward it healed. A flap was taken from the cheek to supplant the deficiency; and he entered the hospital for some further operation, but nothing was done. Dr. H. ,J. Bigelow. hor Dr. Warren’s case of “Eiloides” see No. 3055. 2029. The hand, with a part of the forearm of an old man, that was amputated at the hospital, and has been preserved en- tiie in spirit; bearing a very striking resemblance to Mr. Paget’s figure of a case of epithelial cancer in the same place. (Surg. Pathology, p. 567.) The disease arises from the back of the hand, is of a nearly circular form, and about 3 in. in diameter, considerably raised above the surrounding surface, with the edges overlapping the base coarsely granulated, and firm to the feel. 1847. ■vr. j. u. Warren. 2030. A leg and foot, preserved entire in spirit, and showing a strong flexion, with distortion of the foot, extensive cica- trization over the lower half of the leg, and a large epithe- lial cancer below the knee, in a state of open ulceration. . Fr0m a man’ set twenty-six years. Reported on admis- sion into the hospital (75, 83) that when three years old a log fed upon his leg, and broke both bones, ruptured the enc o-achillis, and stripped the skin completely off. This was followed by eversion of- the foot, and a tilting up of e oes ; and for the last eleven years he had walked en- ne y upon his heel. For the last three years there had jeen an ulcer below the knee, and that occasionally healed. unng the last year, after a long walk, and getting wet, an ulcer broke out above the ankle, and extended halfway up the front of the leg, but soon healed. As this healing &