MORBID ANATOMY. 346 1740. A small portion of the heart, from a man who died from Addison’s disease. It shows a defined aneurismal pouch, about the size of a filbert, at the very upper part of the septum, opening largely from the left ventricle, and pro- jecting into the cavity of the right. The parietes are formed b}r a distension of the thin, fibro-cellular tissue that is found at this part of the septum ; and, if it had rup- tured, the #ase might have been regarded as one of con- genital opening. 1860. Dr. C. Ellis. 1741. The heart of a sheep, completely and thickly enveloped in fat, externally. The muscular substance is infiltrated with the same, and upon the right side has nearly disap- peared ; thick masses of fat standing out into the cavity of the right ventricle, and covered only by the lining mem- brane. Organ altogether much enlarged. Valves healthy. Foramen ovale open. The animal was slaughtered for the market, and had not been thought of as in any way remarkable. 1852. Dr. Samuel ParTcman. The bearing of the above case upon that of fatty degen- eration of the heart in man, and to which so much impor- tance is generally attached, deserves a remark. 1742. Thibert’s model. Numerous, distinct, opaque tubercles upon the inner surface of the right ventricle of the heart. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 1743. A portion of the heart, showing an old tubercular-looking mass in the parietes. From a man, £et. thirty-six, who died at the hospital (216, 231) of tubercular meningitis; heart not suspected. “ Near the appendix of the right auricle, and equally in the wall of the latter, and of the right ventricle, was a firm, yellowish-white, caseous, and almost cretaceous mass, about 1 in. in diameter. Some portions bluish-white, fibrous in appearance, and consisting, microscopical^, of fibroid tissue ; in other parts minute globules like those of fat, though with darker margins, and not readily dis- solved by ether.” 1858. Dr. C. Ellis. 1744. Small melanotic deposits in the substance of the heart. From a woman, who had melanosis of the eye, liver,