233 MORBID ANATOMY. ease of two years’ duration ; and came on in the course of a severe and general “ rheumatism.” Ankle very painful; gradually swelled, and in about six months sinuses formed, and remained open, though no bone came away. Ampu- tated, and did well. 1859. Dr. S. D. Toimsend. 1278. Extensive caries of the tarsal bones, and particularly of the astragalus and os calcis. There is a large cavity in this last, and the smoothness of the inner surface shows the attempt at separation. The caries of the articular surfaces is not in proportion to that of the substance of the bones. No new deposit. The whole have been very handsomely wired and mounted, by Mr. Burt G. Wilder, student of med., with the adjoining portion of the bones of the leg, and of the metatarsal bones. From a man, set. forty-five, who had had disease about the heel, from the age of twelve or fourteen years ; many attacks of inflammation over the outer surface of os calcis, with discharge of bone ; and always with more or less hard swelling. When the limb was amputated in October, there was a large and recent abscess in the sole of the foot, a large, old cicatrix about the heel, and sinuses about both ankles, with a brawny condition of the integuments. Sub- sequently he had inflammation of the stump, with failure of the health, and in the spring a discharge of bone ; but, when last heard from in July, he was doing sufficiently well. 1862. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1279. A small perforation through the very upper portion of the occiput, and that communicated with a chronic abscess in the substance of the brain. (No. 1874.) 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1280-1. A portion of the femur, showing the effects of osteo- myelitis after amputation. (See No. 1441.) The bone hav- ing been sawed, one-half is in spirit, and the other dried. 1866‘ Dr. Geo. H. Gay. 1282. Upper two-thirds of the femur, sawed longitudinally. Cavity in the substance of the bone, just below the neck, 2 in. in length, of an oval form, perfectly defined, and rough- ened upon the inner surface, but with no appearance of