MORBID ANATOMY. 636 2959. A congenital cyst from the upper and outer part of the orbit of a child, four years old ; of an oval form, about the size of a small filbert, and filled with fatty matter and hair. 1852. Dr. Robert W. Hooper. Cyst containing hair, from the testis. (See No. 907.) 2960. A cyst from over the first, but near the second phalanx of the thumb ; between the skin and the flexor tendon. It is about half an inch in diameter, not very thick, but has a dense, fibrous, pearly look, and was filled, when recent, with a substance of an atheromatous consistence. — From a man who entered the hospital for fracture (75,16). 1857. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2961. A material, removed from a cyst, and that resembled thick, coarse, Indian-meal gruel; the greater part consist- ing of opaque yellow flakes, to the naked eye, and of epi- thelial scales, microscopically. About §v. or vj. alto- gether, were removed; and the appearances are well preserved. From a woman, forty-nine years of age, who had had the tumor over the upper part of the scapula for more than thirty years. Occasionally it inflamed, but generally it only troubled her mechanically. The parietes of the cyst were thick; and its interior was lined by a thick, rough, irregular, foliated cuticle, with many raised, crater- like points, as from follicular origin. Dr. B. has, in his collection, a fine colored drawing of this case. 1856. Dr. H. J. Bigeloiu. 2962. An encysted tumor from beneath the skin, in the gluteal region. It weighed 4£ oz., and) consisted of epithelial scales, concrete sebaceous matter, and carb. and phospli. of lime; no cholesterine. It was nearly round ; laminated in struc- ture, and so hard that it had to be sawed for examination. The inner surface of the sac was lined with soft epithe- lium.— From a clergyman, about forty years of age. Tumor of twenty years’ duration; always hard and pain- less, but mechanically troublesome. Sent to Dr. D. by Dr. H. C. Perkins, of Newburyport. — One-half of the tumor is shown; dried. 1854. Dr. S. Duikee.