463 MORBID ANATOMY. the sights of the city, and eating pie several times in the course of the day. On the following day he vomited after his dinner; and from that time was sick with what was re- garded, by Dr. Dearborn, of Saugus, as typhoid fever; death occurring on the 16th of Nov. During this last sickness there was a disgust for food, and he vomited three times. The youth of the subject, the short duration of the dis- ease, presuming that it did not exceed ten weeks, its com- parative latency, and, anatomically, its peculiar form, are very remarkable points in this case. A comparative latency of the disease is not unfrequently noticed in cases of common encephaloid, as distinguished from “scirrhus of” the organ; this last affecting particu- larly the pyloric portion, and involving more or less the pylorus, whereas the encephaloid is often found in a large, single, defined circular patch in the small curvature, and not far from midway between the two orifices ; the rest of the stomach being sometimes perfectly healthy, and the latency complete. (Med. Jour. Yol. lxxi. p. 409.) 1864. Dr. J. M. Nye, of Lynn. 2229. A colored cast of the interior of the stomach above de- scribed. 1864. Museum Fund. 2230. Encephaloid disease of the pyloric portion of the or- gan. From a man, set. forty-five, who discharged blood from the bowels, and vomited the same, eight months before death; but did not vomit, otherwise, until the last three weeks. There was loss of flesh and strength, and a tu- mor was felt in the abdomen. The disease involves the whole circumference of the organ, and to the extent of about 3 in. from the pylorus ; excepting a small portion of this last. The edges are much elevated, rounded, opaque white, as compared with the rest of the organ ; and, on section, £ in. to 1 in. thick, quite firm, and having a pearly, translucent look, with many, small, yellowish spots. The surface was exten- sively, though not deeply ulcerated ; and where it was not, it resembled the edges. The disease seemed to begin in the submucous cell, tissue ; but this and the mucous were