682 MORBID ANATOMY. brown color. Debilit}' was the chief complaint, but she kept about until the last two clays, when she had nausea ; appetite craving; costive. Both capsules were very much thickened, and one was several times larger than natural. The right was mostly converted into a firm yellow material, with considerable calcareous matter. The left consisted throughout of a yel- lowish, firm, caseous, or calcareous material, with a consid- erable amount of thick, puriform fluid. 1867. Dr. C. Ellis. 3103. A second case; the first that was observed here, and very fully reported by Dr. G. in the Med. Jour. vol. lvi. p. 480. The patient was a farmer, set. forty-four years. Health robust, but had been failing the last year. Loss of flesh, strength, and appetite; frequent nausea and vomiting; pain in abdomen on stooping; irregularity of bowels; coldness, rigidity, and insensibilit}'- often in the fingers ; dizziness, failure of memory, and listlessness. Gave up work about two months before death. Complexion, during the last eight months bluish, or almost purple, so that dis- ease of the heart was thought of. May 22d, 1857, he ar- rived here from the eastward, and on his way to the West for his health. He had been very sea-sick ; and was found in the morning in his berth insensible, -with irregular breathing, a very rapid and feeble pulse, hiccough, inability^- to swallow, firm closure of the eyelids and contraction of the pupils; hands very cold, and fingers rigidly flexed. In this condition he was carried to the hospital (211, 50), where he died in six hours. The skin looked as if there might be a mixture of Indian and Negro blood, which, however, was not the case ; and the discoloration was not confined to the exposed parts. The cheeks were decidedly bronzed. For some weeks a discoloration had been ob- served within the mouth; and it was seen, bordering the lips, as a circle of dark, but not livid spots. Dr. Ellis found the renal capsules adherent to the sur- rounding fat. The left was much thicker than usual, very firm, and of a bluish-white color, though much of it was occupied by soft, yellow deposits, resembling tubercular