HEALTHY ANATOMY. 106 view of a tumor over the sacrum, that “ looked not unlike an immense hydrocele.” She was a little girl, born August 5th, 1857; and the mother states that the tumor, when first discovered, was not larger than the tip of the little finger. When the photographs were taken, in May, 1867, it measured 12 in. around the base, 20 J in. in its greatest circumference, and about 6 in. in height. July 2d, 1869, the base measured 14<t in., and the greatest circumference 25£ in. The skin, which is continuous over it, is generally so thick that the fluid is not seen through it; but in some places it is so thin and transparent that it looks as if it might burst at any time, and this thinness was more marked at the last date than at the first. When in bed, the tumor is less tense, “ and if she turns upon it for a moment the brain suffers.” She is a very largely devel- oped child, weighing 90 lbs. in May, 1867, and 120 lbs. in July, 1869. Menstruated when she was a little over eleven years of age, and the breasts are “ immense for a child.” The above facts were sent by the attending physician, Dr. James Orne Whitney, of Pawtucket, P. I. 1869. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 858. A fourth case; cast in plaster of the lower part of the back, to show the tumor. The patient was a healthy- looking girl, twenty-three years of age, and had always been more or less under the care of Dr. J. L. Chandler, of St. Albans, Vt. The tumor consisted of a solid mass of flesh, centring over the sacrum, ill-defined, irregularly rounded, and about 8 in. in diameter, and 3 in. in elevation ; the integument over it being perfectly healthy. At birth it was half as large as a goose-egg, and not, as it usually is, over the median line; integument at prominent part very thin, and toward the end of the first year it was punctured several times, and discharged a little fluid. It grew from that time with her growth, but for the past seven years had been stationary. There had always been partial loss of sensibility and muscular power, so that she was obliged to use crutches ; and until the last seven years the excretions had been involuntary. The lower extremities were of course much wasted; the feet were affected