MORBID ANATOMY. 302 After she left, all that is known of her case is that she lost the sight of her left eye. The upper half of the bone was enlarged, increasing from below upward, and measuring 3£ in. across the cut surface at the largest jiart. Structure almost entirely osseous, but with some mixture of a coarse fibroid substance. No un- usual vascularity, nor other appearance of inflammation. Neither were there any of the usual appearances of cancer, though the microscope left little if any doubt of the nature of the disease. See the two next specimens. 1857. Museum Fund. 1521. One-half of the above tibia thoroughly macerated and dried; and showing how very large a portion of the tumor is osseous. The new growth which had formed about the bone is light and fragile, so that several small portions were lost in the preparation ; somewhat lobulated upon the external surface in some parts, and very slightly radiated in some others upon the cut surface. The outline of the original bone is distinctly traceable through the tumor; not enlarged, but the walls are for the most part light and earthy; and the cavity is filled up with the morbid osseous growth to the extent of 2 in. below where the disease begins externally, as appears in the next specimen. 1857. Dr. S. D. Townsend. 1522. The other half of the above tibia, macerated for a few dajrs in water, then in spirit, and then dried; seeming to consist almost wholly of bony matter. An irregular cavity is seen in the centre of the tumor. The fibula is healthy ; as is also the cartilage on the head of the tibia. 1857. Dr. S. D. Toionsend. % 1523. Osteoid cancer of the bones of the forearm. A longitu- dinal section having been made through the tumor, aud to some extent through the healthy bones above it, one-half has been macerated, dried, aud separately mounted; and the other half (No. 1524) has been preserved in spirit. The tumor began at the lower extremity of the bones, ex- tends upward about 4 in., and was nearly half as large again as the first. The form was rather oval, and the sur- face smooth, but deepl}r grooved by the tendons. The sur-