666 MORBID ANATOMY. July 10th the tumor was enucleated without difficulty, and without hemorrhage; the eyeball falliug back, and requiring a stitch to keep it in proper relation to the lids. It was as large as an egg, smooth and ovoidal in shape, and on section consisted of a cavernous structure, filled with blood, easily evacuated by pressure and washing, by which processes it was reduced in size one-half, and was then seen to consist exclusively of cells, analogous to those of the corpus cavernosum penis, and capable of inflation with a blow-pipe, so as to reseinble the section of an em- physematous lung. Under the microscope there were no signs of any vessels, or of any other structure than a cav- ernous one. The tumor was enclosed in a tough capsule, into which no vessel could be seen entering. Aug. 8th the overstretched lids had contracted, and the motion of the eye was almost equal to that of the other. Sight better than for seven or eight years past. On the 12th he left the hospital; and a month later the lids had shrunk to their natural proportions, and there was no longer any appreciable deformity. Dr. H. remarked upon the perfectly encysted character of the tumor, and the absence of any vascular connection, of appreciable size, with the surrounding parts, though its active vascular character still remained. Yon Carrion, he said, had described this disease (Lelirbuch der prahtisclien Augenheilkunde, Vienna, 1861, p. 506) ; and Dr. H. re- ferred to a tumor, in man}*' respects similar to his own, that was removed by Mr. Liston from the popliteal space. (Med. Chir. Trans. Yol. xxvi. p. 120. See Med. Jour. Yol. lxxi. p. 417.) Dr. R. M. Ilodges. 3039. A firm, fleshy, pediculated, and very markedly lobulated mass, nearly as large as the last joint of the little finger; and removed, with the ecraseur, from near the tonsil of a boy about eleven years of age. Disease of some months’ duration. Deglutition and voice not affected. Surround- ing parts quite healthy. Microscopically, Dr. B. found it epithelial; and, as a whole, something that he had not before seen. 1860. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 3040. Photograph of a case of large cancerous tumor in the neck.