MORBID ANATOMY. 275 and a portion of the tibia, three-fourths of an inch in thickness, was removed, besides a second thinner piece; and, on the following day, as the bones were not in proper position, the wound was opened and two silver wires were passed through them. Some suppuration, with discharges of small pieces of bone, continued so long as she remained in the hospital, but she was otherwise doing quite well when she left on the 9 th of Dec. In the preparation the fagettes by which the bones are connected are small, but quite marked, and situated far back, in accordance with the position of the limb before the operation. The original articular surfaces are otherwise effaced. 1865. Dr. 11. M. Hodges. 1439. Bony anchylosis of the knee-joint. — From a man, set. fifty-nine years. (Hospital, 54,135.) At the age of twenty- four years he cut into the knee-joint with a broad axe, and nearly lost his limb. Two or three years afterward an ulcer formed upon the leg, continued from that time, and at last required amputation. Died with albuminuria, etc., about two months after the operation. . The bones of the leg, and particularly the fibula, are affected as usual in cases of old ulcer; enlarged, mis- shapen, solid, and rough upon the surface from spines and bony growths of various forms. 1852. Dr. 8. D. Townsend. 1440. The same between the patella and femur; with old dis- ease of the articular surface. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1441. Knee-joint flexed to an acute angle, showing an extensive and bony anchylosis between the patella and the under surface of the condyles of the femur, and also between the inner condyle and the tibia. Between the tibia and outer condyle the union is close, but probably not bony. The outer condyle is mostly absorbed, and there is a consider- able growth of new bone from the upper and outer portions of the patella. On section several large shot are seen, moie or less battered, in the substance of the bone, and some project into the cavity of the joint; others, that were removed when the specimen was prepared, being shown in a phial. The structure of the bone is sound.