543 MORBID ANATOMY. or buff tint, but otherwise the}'' are grayish or clay-col- ored, from having been in a bottle containing an alkali. Analyzed by Dr. D. H. Hayden, and found to consist of the ur. of ammonia, with a trace of triple phosphate. 1870. Dr. G. H. Gay. 2561. A calculus, with fragments, removed by Dr. Clark. From a young man, eighteen years old, from Provi- dence, R. I., and who entered the hospital March 2d, 1868 (135, 76). “Bladder always weak,” but had suffered severely for the last five months. Urinated every hour or two, with a scalding pain afterwards from the neck of the bladder to the end of the penis. The stream would some- times stop abruptly, and then commence again. Great pain in the bladder on active exercise ; less when up than in bed, and most when on the back or right side. On examination of the urine, it was found ammoniacal, alka- line, with a small amount of albumen, a very abundant, white, ropy sediment, and an immense number of pus cor- puscles, and crystals of triple phosphate. On the 7th the operation was performed ; and, the stone being large, it was necessary to break it up somewhat, and to cut the prostate, right and left. The bladder felt quite hard and contracted. On the 13th, fragments continued to come away, on syringing the wound. On the 24th, urine passed through the urethra for the first time. April 10th he was up and walking about; and on the 3d of July he left the hospital, with a fistulous opening not quite closed, and occasionally a slight discharge of urine from the wound. rLhe stone is of a flattened, oval form, and measures upon the cut surface about 1J by 1^ in. Structure, com- pact. A small nucleus of uric acid is surrounded by lay- eis of ox. of lime; followed by a la}7er of triple phosph., about vV on broad, and this by layers of the ox. of lime, with a small quantity of uric acid; this last portion con- stituting the largest portion of the calculus. Surface cov- ered with a highly laminated deposit of phosphate of lime, and the fragments consist of the same, with some coloring matter. The surface of the stone, exposed to a considera- ble extent, is of a pinkish color, and finely granulated.