69 HEALTHY ANATOMY. 681. Rectum opening into the vagina. When the child was six weeks old, Dr. W. made an incision into the intestine, in the situation of the anus, drew it down, and stitched its margin to the integuments. The operation was perfectly successful; solid feces passing through the artificial open- ing, and the liquid portion through the vagina. An opera- tion for the closure of the opening into the vagina was de- ferred on account of the age of the child, and it died when about sixteen months old. On dissection, a malposition of the large intestine was found ; and a sharp flexure had produced an obstruction that sufficiently explained the death. The rectum having been cut open along the back, by Dr. W., there is seen an opening into the vagina that would admit the tip of the little finger; the intestine just above this being much con- tracted, and plaited upon the inner surface. The anal opening made by the operation seems to have been of good size. (Med. Jour. lxxi. 243.) Dr. J. M. Warren. 682. Rectum ends in a cul-de-sac ; distended and dried. From a monstrosity (siren). 1869. Dr. Hemenway, of Somerville. 683. Rectum and vagina opening by a common outlet; from a perfectly healthy lamb that was killed when five months old. Pelvic organs preserved in spirit, and fully dis- played. The rectum was considerably distended with feces, and opened into the vagina between half an inch and an inch from the external orifice; the mucous membrane below, resembling that of the vagina rather than that of the rec- tum ; and the clitoris being seen at the orifice, showing that the rectum opened into the vagina, and not v. v. 1850. Mr. J. Nelson Borland, med. student. 684. Rectum of a calf, communicating with the lower part of • the vagina by an opening that would have admitted a large catheter; both cavities, as well as the uterus, being in the recent state distended with meconium. The vulva was well developed, but separated from the vagina by a fleshy and moderately thick septum. The animal, which was