MORBID ANATOMY. 158 A hospital case (25, 64). The patient, a man set. twenty- six, fractured his skull nineteen years previously. Fol- lowed by palsy of right side for nine years ; and for some years past by epilepsy. Idiotic look, and gait shuffling. In the operation the pin could not be used, and this ex- plains the bevelled form of the cut. Patient died at the end of a week, and the dura mater was found sloughy, with pus in the membranes, and an abscess, about an inch in diameter, in the brain, beneath the seat of the operation. 1849. Dr. G. Hayward. * 971. Portion of parietal bone, from the superior anterior angle. Removed by the trephine. A hospital case (88, 57). A man set. twent37-five. Skull fractured by an axe when five years old. Epilepsy for fifteen years. Bone depressed about one-fourth of an inch. Died on, the sixth day. There is no irregularity upon the inner surface of the bone as from fracture. 1861. Dr. S. D. Townsend. 972. Top of the skull, showing an old fracture of the frontal bone, and its removal by the trephine. A hospital case (93,154). The patient, a man set. thirty- seven, met with the accident eighteen years previously. Epilepsy for the last six years. Semi-idiotic. A depres- sion at seat of injury would admit the first joint of the finger. Three pieces of bone were removed by the tre- phine ; one just above the eye, the frontal sinus being largely opened. The three openings were then connected by straight cuts; and the intervening piece of bone, the seat of the old fracture, was removed. On the eighth day cerebral S3rmptoms came on, and he died about five and one-half weeks after the operation. A cavity was found in the substance of the brain, be- neath the seat of the operation, 1^- or 2 in. in diameter, and probably recent; with some meningitis. The opening in the bone, resulting from the fracture, is about 35; in. in cir- cumference, with sharp edges, and a smooth, inner surface. The opening, resulting from the operation, is equal to 3 in. square. In the preparation, the pieces are shown in their original position. 1861. Dr. II. J Bigelow.