672 MORBID ANATOMY. regarded this specimen, though “ not without hesitation,’ as a T. solium. From a man, forty-one years of age, who sometimes ate pork three times in the week, and occasionally ate it raw. Health good till 1854, when he had vertigo, sinking at the stomach, and a strong craving for food. Symptoms con- tinued, and in Aug., 1856, he passed about six feet of the worm. After strict abstinence for a week, he took a ca- thartic, and passed 17 ft. 9 in. more. In December there was a recurrence of the symptoms ; and after kousso, fol- lowed by a cathartic, he passed 20 ft. more ; one extremity being very slender, but without the head. Theie vas thirst, irregular appetite, pain in the stomach, and geneial debility. In Jan., 1857, he passed two small pieces at different times. In March the symptoms were quite press- ing ; and, after a dose of kousso, he passed 21 ft. of the worm, with the head here shown. Altogether the frag- ments amounted to 71 ft. 3 in. In the course of three months his health was restored, and in 185S it continued good. 1858. Mr. T. H. Pinkerton, med. student. 3061. A second specimen, and regarded by Dr. J. C. White, as T. mediocanellata ; head very distinct. The patient was a healthy little girl, nine years old, who passed about 9 ft. of the worm, March 3d, 1863, after the tinct. of rhubarb ; having had an inordinately strong appe- tite for the previous six months, and especially for meat. On the 23d' of the same month, after a full dose ol pump- kin seeds, followed by active cathartics, she again passed 9 ft., and afterward another portion, with the head. 1867. Dr. Stephen Salisbury, of Brookline. 3062. A third specimen. — The patient was nineteen years of a^e, and had passed a taenia a year before. When Dr. L. saw him, he had had for two -weeks general malaise, con- stant headache, aberration of mind, anorexia, constipation, and Qli(rht fever. Under the use of active cathartics, and a blister to the back of the neck, he was much relieved, and thought himself nearly well; but at the end ol two weeks joints of the worm were passed. Half an ounce of kousso was then given, after he had fasted for twelve