APPENDIX. 740 was confined to this bone; and the patient (a man in the hospital) was at once relieved. 1869. Dr. G. II. Gay. 3664. Portion of the rib of an ox, from Texas; with a hole through it, about 2£ in. by 1 in. in extent. Outline regu- lar, and no appearance of a former injury. 1870. Dr. J. Wyman. 3665. A portion of the lower jaw, removed for what was supposed, before the operation, to be an encephaloid disease. From a woman, set. sixty years, who entered the hospi- . tal Nov. 29th, 1856 (73, 200). When eighteen years old she had a disease of the jaw ; a fungoid mass as large as a hen’s egg was removed, and the bone was scraped. From that time she had no further trouble until Jan. 1st, 1856, when she felt a sudden snap or tearing sensation along the under and posterior surface of the chin. In a day or two a small tumor appeared, and became as hard as bone; and in August it appeared in the mouth. On examination, a rounded and very defined tumor was found in the place of the incisor teeth, of a deep red color, exquisitely tender, and looking like an abscess that was ready to burst. Externally, there was a slight ful- ness ; and the tumor appeared behind the jaw, but not in front. On being opened, it discharged blood very freely, but nothing more. The bone was then (29th) removed between the canine and bicuspid teeth, on each side, and the hemorrhage was profuse ; but on the 16th of Dec. the patient left the hospital, and several years afterwards, when she was heard from, nothing was said of any return of the disease. The bone is enlarged upon each side of the median line, and looks as if it had been absorbed by a tumor that had formed in its substance. A large cavity is the result, of which the inner surface is irregular, but well defined, and of good consistence. Superiorly, it is uncovered ; lateral parietes thin, and to a large extent deficient; base thin, and below it is a second cavity, of considerable size, and almost but not quite opening into the one above. Beyond