MORBID ANATOMY. 267 about the acetabulum, whilst the lesser trochanter was con- nected by long fibrinous bands with the dense tissue filling the cotyloid cavit}'-. The smooth surface terminating the neck of the bone, extended 14 in. beyond the border of the acetabulum ; but no new cavity or articulating surface exists where it rested on the dorsum ilii. “The specimen is interesting in connection with Dr. March’s statement, that spontaneous dislocation of the hip seldom or ever takes place.” 1856. Dr. B. M. Hodges. 1414. The upper third of the femur, of which the articular por- tion is most remarkably affected; from Paris. There are the remains of a neck for the most part; but it almost at once enlarges or flares out, and terminates, as it were, in an irregularly and somewhat convex surface, about 2f in. in diameter. This surface, which veiy much overlaps the neck, has to a considerable extent a somewhat smooth and cicatrized appearance ; but in it are many little holes that look like the result of caries ; and in a cavity just beneath the surface, and nearly as large as the tip of the little Auger, there was found, when the specimen was soaked in watei, preparatory to being sawed, a curdy, opaque sub- stance. Otherwise the bone is quite compact and healthy in structure. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1415. A portion of the os innominatum and femur of an adult, showing a very remarkable destruction of the bones from old disease. The acetabulum is deep and much enlarged ; inner surface quite irregular; two large, and, for the most part, smooth openings through the bone, with a piece of dead bone still attached in one of them, and a third open- ing that is still closed by dead bone. The head and neck of the femur are entirely destroyed, with a deep cavity in the substance of the bone ; surface rough from new deposit. Structure of both bones very light, as from interstitial atrophy. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1416. Section of the hip-joint of a child, showing complete dis- organization from chronic disease. The head of the femur is quite gone, but a considerable portion of the neck re- mains; and at the junction of this last with the shaft of the bone there is a cavity, and in it a piece of dead bone