745 APPENDIX. very prominent and pointed groups of small nodules, and removed by the lateral operation, Dr. Bigeloiv. It measures about 2 in. by If in., and weighed 43£ dwts., — nearty 2J oz. avoir. On section, an oval nucleus is seen, £ in. in length, and with regular, concentric laminae. The rest is also laminated, but the lines are very irregular and wavy, as in the mulberry calculus. The color is a reddish brown, the structure compact, and the internal surface of one-half has been polished. Dr. White reports the chemical composition as follows : “ Nucleus and greater portion of bulk, uric acid. Oxalate of lime the greater proportion of external layers, and to some extent throughout body of calculus.” A thin and comparatively light-colored deposit over a large part of the external surface also consists of uric acid and oxalate of lime. The patient was a healthy old man, about seventy-three years of age. For three or four years he had had some urinary symptoms, and for the last few months they had increased so that, as his wife finally said, he would die from his pain if he was not relieved. On passing the sound, Dr. B. recognized a'mulberry calculus, by the hard- ness and the asperities upon the surface ; but it was only felt when the point of the instrument was brought into contact with the anterior parietes of the bladder. The stone was removed, by the lateral operation, about the last of March, and the patient died, from the shock to his sys- tem, in eighteen hours. Examination of the body not allowed. Upon the surface of the stone is a pretty well defined an- nular depression, that divides it into nearly two equal parts, and of which one was probably contained within a pouch, whilst the groove was formed by its neck. As the stone was so very rough, Dr. B% thought the acute symptoms would have been of longer duration, if it had been free in the bladder. 1870. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 3676. A calculus, removed by the lateral operation. It is of a regular, elongated form, in. in length, and f in. in diam- eter. On section, the structure is mainly laminated and