602 MOKBID ANATOMY. occasionally strong vaginal injections, and during this time mainly the epithelial bodies were discharged. For the first three months they came away regularly once a month ; but afterward more frequently ; and at last several were passed in a week; the number altogether being ninety-six. The specimens here shown are opaque, and of a reddish color, from the injections that had been used, as the patient thought; the appearance generally being pearly and semi-transparent, according to her report. Menstruation began at the age of nineteen, was generally irregular, and had ceased about two years before the dis- charge of these bodies commenced. Much dysuria for many years, with bearing-down pain, but not much leu- corrhcea. 1857. Mr. T. H. Gibby, med. student. 2794. A cyst removed from the vulva, and about the size of a large filbert. It has been turned inside out, stuffed, and dried ; and, there having been two ducts, these are marked by bristles. Prepared by Dr. B., who regarded it as a dis- tended Cowper’s gland. 1869. Dr. II. J- Bigeloiv. 2795. Two cysts beneath the mucous membrane of the vagina, from £ in. to 1 in. in diameter, and filled apparently with serum. One is just below the os uteri, and the other near the vulva. From the same patient as No. 2791. 1857. Dr. C. Ellis. 2796. A soft and extremely flaccid tumor, that arose from the internal labium by quite a small pedicle, and hung donn 11 in. between the thighs when the patient stood erect. Cuticular covering very delicate, and healthy in appeal - ance. The patient was about twenty jrears of age ; and the o-rowth had been forming about three years. 1856. Dr. D. H. Storer. 2797. A slender, but firm little polypoid excrescence, about an inch in length, and removed from the internal labium of a married woman. It had existed for a year, and kept up a constant vaginitis, which was relieved after the excision. 1856. Dr- D• IL St0reT- 2798. A fibrous tumor removed from the right labium of an unmarried woman, set. thirty-five years. It was of fifteen