271 MORBID ANATOMY. Having had a large, obstinate, bleeding ulcer over the shin, the leg was amputated below the knee ; but the hemorrhage from the tibia was so profuse that disarticulation at the knee-joint was immediately performed. The wound never healed ; and a jrnar afterward, on his admission into the hospital (126, 256), there was a large hemorrhagic ulcera- tion. Amputation was performed at once at the lower part of the thigh, with no more loss of blood than usual; but the next morning there were ecchymoses about the upper part of the thigh, with prostration, and the patient died about twenty-four hours after the operation. On examination of the end of the bone, the cartilage was found to a considerable extent smooth and unabsorbed, though united to the soft parts by slight adhesions. This may be inferred from the prepared specimen, though it has unfortunately been dried. Med. Jour. Vol. lxxv. p. 384. 1867- Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1428. Femur, showing a very marked anterior curvature and the remains of some grave disease of the knee-joint. Bone slender, quite porous, and somewhat rough upon the sur- face. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1429. Portions of bone removed in a case of excision of the knee-joint; with one-half of the patella. From a man, thirty-six years of age. In Jan., 1857, he was in the hospital with fracture of the right patella, and in Nov., 1858, he re-entered with a fracture of the left; (No. 1129), the separation of the fragments of the right, at this last date, amounting to 3£ in. In August, 1859, he again entered (85, 128) ; the right knee having become swollen and painful, with suppuration four weeks before. Excision on the 7th of Sept. The condyles were suffi- ciently healthy, though there were old adhesions with the patella ; one-half of the articular surface of the tibia, how- e\ei, was much diseased. The patient was much reduced b} the opeiation, but on the 6th of Dec. the anchylosis was tolerably firm, and on the 2d of Jan. he was discharged well. (See next specimen.) 1860. Dr. II. J. Bigeloio. 1430. Bony anchylosis of the femur and tibia, two and a quar-