379 MORBID ANATOMY. looking girl, eleven years of age. A swelling had existed for three years, and for the last year it had increased more rapidly ; but never with any pain. 1869. Dr. G. H. Gay. 1855. A specimen that was formerly in spirit, and then described as a heavy, defined, subcutaneous mass, of the consistence of hardened putty, but without any distinctly earthy de- posit, 3f in. in length, by nearly 2 in. in diameter; and looking like the result of some former tubercular disease. Having been dried, it was described by Dr. J. Bacon as organic in its composition. Dry and hard, but rather fria- ble, and having a granular appearance. Color, dull grayish- white. Burned with the odor of burning ham, and left a minute white residue. A little phosphate of lime, after treatment with hydrochloric acid. In hot nitric acid it assumed a lemon-yellow color, and gas was evolved. No appreciable amount of fatty matter shown by ether. The chemical reactions were those of fibrine, or some proteine compound. Microscopically, it was seen to be wholly com- posed of nucleated cells, arranged in regular layers, in the manner of pavement epithelium. The cells were more or less distorted, probably from drying, but appeared to be epithelial in their character. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1856. Diseased, subcutaneous glands, having a scirrhous appear- ance, forming altogether a mass as large as the fist. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1857. A hard glandular mass, removed from the neck of a healthy-looking boy, eight years of age. The tumor had existed for a year, and grown very rapidly the last month ; without any tendency to soften, but beginning to cause dyspnoea by pressure upon the nerves and trachea. It was as large as the two fists; extending from the ear to be- neath the clavicle, and from the median line to the trape- zius. Lobulated, movable, and feeling like a chain of glands ; skin not adherent. It was found to be situated mainly beneath, and partly behind, the mastoid muscle ; and every where very strongly adherent. Microscopical^, it was composed of uniform