690 MORBID ANATOMY. ser, of St. Johns, Newfoundland, and a full report of it was published in the Med. Jour. (Yol. lxvii. p. 471). The patient was a robust fisherman, thirty years of age ; and the accident was occasioned by the bursting of the gun in his hands on the 14th of Oct., 1848. Violent in- flammation followed, with excruciating pain, and he was confined to the house until the following March, with a constant fetid and purulent discharge from the cheek and nostril, and general debility. In May, 1849, the external wound closed, and so remained until November, 1854, when an opening took place, and discharged pus, with powder and rust. In January, 1855, he had violent hemorrhage from the nostril, and it continued occasionally until April. During all this time he was subject to severe headache, and there was a complete loss of the sense of smell, an occasional dimness of vision, and pain in the right eye, with very serious impairment of his health. In August, 1855, an abscess formed in the cheek, and the pain was more intense than ever. On the 17th of June, 1856, he was seen by Dr. F., and the iron was felt through the opening in the check ; but the mouth could not be opened more than a quarter of an inch, so that the interior could not be examined. The foreign body, the presence of which had never been suspected, was then removed; the screw being imbedded in the antrum, and the part that had been screwed to the back of the stock being in close contact with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. The length of this last portion was 2| in., and the circumference of the screw 2-] in. After the operation the wound did well, the pain almost wholly subsided, the sense of smell was restored; and, six years afterward, when Dr. S., to whom the cast was sent by Dr. F., heard from him, the man still continued in excellent health, though the action of the lower jaw was still very limited. 1863. Dr. D. II. Storer. 3115. A piece of rough pine wood, that was removed from a man’s cheek; nearly as large as the finger at one extremi- ty, and tapering to a point at the other ; length about 3£ in., and nearly broken off about three-fourths of an inch from its small extremity.