118 HEALTHY ANATOMY. seems to be formed by a fusion of two, besides two perfect upper and lower extremities. Organs examined by Dr. C., and mostly removed ; and the specimen was then dried ; its height about 16 in. The children were still-born, and the mother did quite well. Dr. C. was informed bjr the physician who attended the woman, and who had had a very extensive obstetrical practice, that, after one head was born, an evolution took place, and the breech came down, followed by the second head. Dr. C. found two stomachs, with a union of the intes- tines about six inches below ; a fusion of two livers ; two gall-bladders ; and one heart, which, with the blood-vessels has been partially injected, and is shown in situ, as well as the stomachs. 1850. Dr. Charles A. Cheever, of Portsmouth, N. H. 892. Skeleton of a double foetus, prepared and mounted by Dr. Jeffries Wyman. The subject of this case was presented by Dr. Fcnn, who reported that labor occurred at the fifth or sixth month, lasted eight hours, and was not unusually difficult; the heads presenting. The following anatomical description, by Dr. W., with his remarks upon the formation of double monsters, was published in the Med. Jour. Vol. lxxiy. p. 169. 1866. Dr. Artemas I. Fenn. “ This foetus was nine inches in length, had two well- formed heads, — the right of which will be called A and the left B, — facing each other somewhat obliquely ; the two necks met on a level with thp shoulders. Seen in front, the trunk and limbs had the usual form, except that the thorax was broad, and the limbs of the two sides were connected with different vertebral columns. There was neither geni- tal nor anal opening, but a small spherical body existed in the place of a penis. From this a double raphe, in the shape of a Y, extended backwards, each branch directed towards the coccyx of the same side. “ On the hinder face a third symmetrical arm was at- tached on a level with the normal ones. The hand was in the same plane with the other segments of the limb, namely,