MORBID ANATOMY. 354 the outer, as shown in the next specimen. The arter}’ is atheromatous, but not ossified. Rupture into the cavity of the pericardium, which was filled, in the recent state, with effused blood. The greater part of the aorta is pre- served in two pieces. The patient was a perfectly healthy man, aet. fifty. Pain across the abdomen just above the umbilicus, drowsiness, and chilliness were the chief symptoms, and for about thirty haul’s. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxv. p. 371.) 1861. Dr. C. Ellis. 1770. A portion of the aorta, from the above case. 1861. / Dr. C. Ellis. 1771. A seventh case, and which occurred within twenty-four • hours of the last. — From a patient of Dr. Stearns; a negress, over ninetj7 years of age; and alwaj^s healthy, excepting some cardiac symptoms the last two years. Fell and died immediately. The pericardium was filled with blood; and a short dis- tance above the aortic valves, posteriorly, was a vertical laceration from two to three-eighths of an inch in length, extending through the middle coat, and separating this from the outer, around two-thirds of the circumference of the vessel, and upward to within an inch of the art. iunom- inata. The cellular tissue toward the lungs was also infil- trated with blood. Aorta dilated, and atheromatous. 1861. Dr. G. Ellis. 1772. An eighth case. — The patient was a clergyman, mt. fifty- • five, and a large powerful man, though not healthy. An attack of pain along the back came on, that was over- powering in its severity; but some relief was got from opiates and ether. At last, and for the first time, severe pain came on in the front of the chest, extending through from the back; an hour afterward he started up, groaned heavily, and fell back dead, not quite four days from the first attack of pain. The left pleural cavity contained about six pints of blood and serum ; and near the lung was a large, ragged opening through into the surrounding tissues. Just beyond the subclavian artery there is, as seen in the preparation, a