MORBID ANATOMY. 575 The sac, which has been distended and dried, shows an extensive cretaceous deposit in the parietes. In the recent state it weighed 2 lbs., and contained 20 lbs. of a dark, thick, chocolate-colored liquid. There was mainly one cyst, but with some divisions. The patient was a single woman, thirty-one years of age; had known of the disease for about ten years, and had been as large as at the ninth month of pregnancy for a year or two. She was generally healthy, had never been tapped, and bore the disease well. May 31st the cyst, which was not adherent, w^as removed by Dr. K., and the patient died about the fifth da}^ from peritonitis. 1869. Dr. Gilman Kimball, of Loivell. 2715.. The cyst, from the above case ; dried. 1869. Dr. Kimball. 2716. A quantity of hair that was very positively stated to haAe been taken from the urinary bladder ; lying in it quite free, and the organ itself being perfectly healthy. When received it wras in a liquid that wras removed with it, and that resembled a thick mucilage, with a mixture of a sub- stance, that resembled, but was shown by Dr. Bacon not to be fat. The patient, an unmarried woman, sixt}r-two 37ears of age; died of a chronic peritoneal disease, of ten months’ duration, and the bladder had never been suspected. The uterus and its appendages were apparently in a healthy condition.” In the Cabinet of the Soc. for Med. Improvement there is an ovarian sac containing a very large mass of hair ad- herent to its interior. The case was published as one of development of hair in the urinary bladder; and there can be no reasonable doubt that a similar mistake was made in the above case; and, still further, these are probabty not solitary instances. 1869. 2717. Both ovaries encysted and acutely inflamed. From a woman, get. forty, and previously healthy. On the morning after her marriage she had symptoms of se- veie inflammation ; and in three weeks (Nov. 19th) entered the hospital (99, 416) with a firm, painful, tender, fluctuat- ing tumor, that almost filled the left side of the abdomen.