MORBID ANATOMY. 665 The patient was a boy, nine years of age, and had had the disease for seven years. The tumor centred about the second joint, and was quite prominent; form oval, with flattened sides. The whole joint was enlarged; and for about two years there had been inflammation, with a fluid ’ discharge, but without pain. One surgeon had diagnosti- cated tubercular disease of the bone. Amputated at the first joint; and, in the preparation, a long, incision has been made through the bone and tumor. This last looked like a fibro-cellular tissue, with some mixture of fat; but, microscopically, was found to be “ fibro-plastic.” 1856. Dr. G. II. Gay. 3037. Three colored lithographic views of a specimen of epulis, removed from the lower jaw; as seen from above, from the outside, and on section. Also uncolored microscopic views ; showing the typical appearance of fibro-plastic tis- sue, as does the maroon color in the other views. 1858. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 3038. Erectile tumor of the orbit. From a man, mt. fifty-eight years, who, in 1840-1, froze the right side of his face severely. Uneasiness and dry- ness in the right eye followed, and continued until April, when he had iritis. In six weeks this was relieved, but with slight eversion of the eyeball. In 1847 a small tumor appeared below the eye, but varying in size at dif- ferent times. In 1850 he was treated for an inflammation of the eye, but without any effect upon the tumor; and the same in 1854. In 1860 the tumor protruded the ball, and everted the lower lid; and, being punctured, gave issue only to blood. For the next three years it steadily increased. Juty 9th, 1864, he entered the hospital (114, 24), and the exophthalmia was then hideous ; the tumor being apparently somewhat larger than a hen’s egg, and protruding the eye forward, with slight eversion. Upper lid very much distended. Conjunctiva thickened, ulcer- ated, and suppurating over the everted lid. Traces of the iritis remained, and the sight was impaired in consequence. The tumor was elastic, somewhat movable, rounded, and without lobules; not pulsating, and feeling, as the man said, perfectly “ dead.” General health robust.