MOBBID ANATOMY. 640 2974. A sixth ; from a man, set. forty-five years, who entered the hospital Feb. 3d, 1866 (125, 124). About twenty years before, he scratched off a “mole” from over the rectus muscle, and just above the patella. Four or five years afterward the tumor appeared; and for the last ten years there had been regular, periodic pains in it, but the motions of the part were not interfered with. The tumor was rather smaller than a hen’s egg ; and upon the surface, and near the centre, was a small and faintly brownish mole. The excision was followed by extensive inflammation, sup- puration, and gangrene, but the man finally recovered. 1866. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 2975. Thibert’s model. External view of a fatty tumor in the lumbar region. 1847. Dr. G. Hayward. 2976. The same. — Tumor beneath the scalp ; about an inch in diameter. External view. 1847. Dr. G. Hayward. 2977. A ninth specimen. Cast, in plaster, to show the external appearances in a case in which the humerus was almost entirely surrounded by a fatty tumor. This last weighed 1 lb. 4£ oz. Troy. It was situated beneath the fascia, muscles, artery, and nerves ; and passed through an opening in the triceps. Removed by two straight incisions ; and no ligatures required. The patient was a lad, fifteen years of age; and the tu- mor had existed for seven years. 1856. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2978. A tenth ; tumor removed from the external labium. • The patient was an Irish girl, twenty years of age, and the tumor had existed for two years. Form regular; length, 7 in.; and, being pedunculated, it hung down be- tween the thighs like a bull’s scrotum. It had recently ulcerated upon the surface, and that led her to speak of its existence, which she had kept entirely to herself until the day before the operation. Previously she had been troubled only bjr its weight, which, after removal, was found to be 2| lbs. 1855. Dr. S. D. Townsend. 2979. Eleventh specimen. The tumor weighed about 2 lbs.; and was removed from the scrotum by Dr. Kimball, of Lowell.