MORBID ANATOMY. 596 fundus of the uterus, and into tlie peritoneal cavity. About the size of a hen’s egg; and, having been cut open, it shows a complete breaking-down of the substance for the most part, but with the intervening fibrous .structure un- changed. The uterus, otherwise, is healthy. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2778. A tumor, 5 in. in diameter, and attached to the fundus • of the organ. In its substance is a large, and irregular, but perfectly defined cavity, containing portions of the mass, that have been detached apparently by the process of sloughing; these free portions being deeply discolored when recent, though still veiy dense. Several folds of the ileum adhered to the tumor, and one of them opened into its cavity ; and it must have been a rupture of this cavity into that of the peritoneum that caused death. The patient, oet. thirty 3rears, was about as usual, when S3Tmptoms of perforation came on, and she died considera- bly within twenty-four hours ; about two quarts of a thick fluid, and having a strong fiecal odor being found in the peritoneal cavity. (Med. Jour. VoI.lxxiv. p. 425.) 1867. Dr. Wm. Reed. 2779. Uterus, in the posterior parietes of which a large tumor • had become separated from the surrounding substance of the organ, by a process of sloughing, so that it lay there as free as a polypus that had been detached by a ligature. The tumor itself is in the Med. Soc.’s Cabinet. (No. 970.) The uterine cavity is cut open, and is seen to be healtlty, though much elongated; and in the parietes of the organ are other fibrous tumors. 1861. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2780. The uterus cut open, and showing a fibrous tumor in the substance of the fundus, about the size of an English wal- nut. This last formed a tumor in the hypogastrium as large as the fist; but, under the use of the bromide of po- tassium, it diminished so that in two months it could not be felt. Three years afterward the patient died of fever. 1866. Dr. II. R. Storer. 2781. A large tumor, mistaken for an encysted ovary, and re- • moved during life. (Hospital, 32, 164.)