143 MORBID ANATOMY. croaches very greatly upon the spinal canal. The body of the last dorsal is also broken about two-thirds through from behind forward ; but without any diminution of its thickness. The different parts of the first lumbar are con- solidated ; but there is nowhere any new growth nor ap- pearance of inflammation. Prepared by Dr. Hodges. 1857. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 942-3. Two casts, in plaster, of the back, from a case of frac- ture of the spine, with final recovery. The patient, a sailor, aet. eighteen years, fell 60 ft. from the mast-head of a vessel, and struck upon his back. The accident happened Sept. 19th, 1866, and he was carried to the Hospital at once (127, 146). Back bowed as though the bodies of the vertebrae were broken anteriorly. He was in great pain, but could move his legs, and had sensibility in them. On the 20th the record was : “ Both extremities natural as far as motion and sensation are con- cerned.” Bladder not very full, but the catheter was used. 21st: “ Motion and sensibility of legs still good.” Urine normal. 22d: Same record of extremities. 2 dej. after enema, and one involuntary in night. 23d : Urine drawn much oftener, and as cloudy. 24th: Frequent desire to micturate, but is unable to do so. Catheter ; and left in. 25th : “ No apparent loss of power or sensation in lower extremities.” Tender between last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae. Oct. 4th : “ Can move himself about in bed.” Scalding: pain in urethra during micturition. 8th: Sits up with help. Distinct curvature from 3 in. below scapulae to up- per edge of pelvis, but without any distinct local depres- sion or prominence. No marked local pain on pressure. Urine ammoniacal. Nov. 10th: Walks about without difficult}^, and general condition is good. On the 25th the casts were taken b3r one of the hospital pupils. Right thigh below the buttock less sensitive to temperature than the left. Upon the back of the right thigh the minimum distance at which the points of a pair of compasses appear as two distinct points is 3