727 MISCELLANY. death, and marked according to the former marking of Mr. Combe. (See Ed. Phrenological Journal.) 3618. Caesar Reynolds. Taken after death by Dr. N. B. Shurtleff. A negro, who was executed at Hartford, Conn., for the murder of the keeper of the Connecticut State Prison. Head remarkable for the size of the occipital region, and the smallness of the frontal. Organs of firm- ness and destructiveness very large ; those of the reflective faculties being small, and the lower perceptive faculties rather large. 3619. William Teller, an accomplice of Csesai\ His head shows a larger development of the reflective faculties, though smaller affective. Teller, it is said, first conceived the idea, and devised the plan of escaping from prison. The keeper was to have been gagged ; but Caesar, who was to have carried out the plan, was not content with this, but under the influence of his destructive feelings, committed the murder, for which both were executed. Cast of head taken, after death, by Dr. N. B. Shurtleff. 3620. Henry Joseph, the “ black cook,” and murderer of Capt. Crosby. Executed in this city, Dec. 2d, 1834. (Organs of self esteem, love of approbation, combativeness, and destructiveness, large. Taken by Dr. Shurtleff. 3621. f Cast of the skull of the same. 3622. f Madeline Albert. A young girl, of Moulines, in France, -who, for some trifling provocation, killed her mother and two sisters with a hatchet; and afterward showed no contrition for the crime. 3623. Boutillier. Executed, in Paris, for murdering his mother, in order to obtain her titles and property. He afterward assumed a false name; but, being competed of various robberies, he was sent to the galleys, and there recognized as the murderer of his mother. Dr. Gall says that “ this head is remarkable for an extreme development of the organs, from which arise the worst propensities— (secre- tiveness, acquisitiveness, and destructiveness) ; while, at the same time, the organs of intellect, and of their supe- rior sentiments are deficient.” 3624. Martin. Murderer of his father; and remarkable for