MORBID ANATOMY. 464 2233. Encephaloid disease of the pyloric portion of the stom- very soon merged, and the muscular, which seemed at first healthy, was quite lost about half an inch from the com- mencement of the disease. There was contraction at the pylorus before it was cut through ; and the organ was otherwise healtLy, as it very generally seems to be in cases of cancer, as observed here. 1867. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2231. Enceplialoid disease of the stomach. The contraction is such that it measures onty 6£ in. along the large curva- ture, and 3£ in. along the small. Not much if at all thicker or firmer, generally, than usual; and it was strongly adherent, and to a considerable extent, to the subjacent parts, in which there was a marked encephaloid deposit. Mucous membrane diseased, excepting the last inch toward pylorus ; and in the cul-de-sac is an ulcer more than an inch in diameter, defined and deepest near cardia, which it approaches within about ^ in., but ill-defined toward the body of the organ. No cancer in the other organs. From a woman, set. sixty-three, wrho had been sick about a yeai\ The food was regurgitated as soon as it reached the stomach, and very frequently, but with scarcely any nausea or vomiting; and this wTas her chief symptom. Pain and distress at the epigastrium ; appetite very strong ; habitually very costive, and became very much so toward the last; loss of flesh and strength, with cancerous hue. Death at last seemed owing to a serous effusion into the pericardium. 1868. Dr. Wm. Reed. 2232. Encephaloid disease of the last 4 or 5 in., and whole cir- • cumference of the pyloric portion of the stomach; limits sharply defined; surface irregular and deeply ulcerated, and communicating with a large abscess in and beneath the left rectus muscle. From a man, set. fifty, wrho had been subject for about a year to nausea and occasional vomiting ; and with the gen- eral appearance of one who was suffering from great anae- mia. Three months before death a slightly movable tumor appeared beneath the ribs, and upon the left side. (Med. Jour. Vol. lix. p. 143.) 1858. Dr. G. Ellis.