251 MORBID ANATOMY. of the last. The articular surface is altogether below the trochanter, and inclined at an angle of about 45° with the shaft of the bone ; it is broad, somewhat convex, and some- what porous, but not rough ; edges everted, and irregular. The whole femur having been preserved in the present case, it is seen to be as solid and as healthy in structure, as in any adult. From Paris, and introduced here, though marked “ fausse articulation.” 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1352. Upper portion of the femur, showing the interstitial atro- phy, and the very great change of form in the head of the bone, that sometimes occurs in chronic arthritis. From the same patient as No. 1117. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1353. Os innominatum, and upper part of the femur, showing the effects of “ chronic rheumatic arthritis.” The head of the bone is much enlarged and misshapen, and moderately depressed. A large part of the smooth surface is worn away superficially, leaving it rough and porous. Corona much enlarged by the growth of new bone, and shelving over the neck. This last is not much if at all shortened, but shows the new deposit. Acetabulum not much if at all deeper than natural, though there is a considerable addition of new bone to the edge ; the bottom of the cavity being very much thickened, the pit at the bottom obliterated, and the edge continuous so as to form an opening in the place of the notch ; inner surface coarsely porous, and nowhere eburnated. Traces of new deposit upon os innom. in va- rious parts. 1860. Dr. R. M. Hodges. Photographs from the Albany College Museum. 1869. Dr. G. H. Lyman. 1354-5. These show a growth of bone from around the margin ol the head of the femur, and deeply overhanging the neck. Before and after section. 1356. Head of the femur, locked into the acetabulum, by a growth of new bone around it. 1357. Upper portion of both femora. In each the neck is shortened, and the head depressed. Upper surface of the head elongated and egg-shaped, but the lower not so ; some new bone about insertion of round ligament, and some shelving of edge over neck. 1860. Dr. R. M. Hodges.