MORBID ANATOMY. 584 . 2736-7. Casts of a case of complete prolapse of the uterus; the organ projecting about 5 in. beyond the labia ; and the Fallopian tubes are drawn down between the rectum and bladder, as in a case figured by Cruveilhier (Anat. Path. Liv. xvi). The ovaries are still about in place. External and pelvic view. The bladder contained a calculus (No. 2702). — From a dissecting-room subject. See No. 3677. 1870. Museum Fund. 2738. An abscess in the broad ligament, opening into the ute- rus, and causing death three weeks after labor. This last was natural; but there was hemorrhage before the head descended, and several times subsequently, and under the loss of blood she sank. During the first few days she had pain in the right iliac region, and after the 12th a tumor there; but the indications of disease were very little marked ; and it was thought possible that the disease may have existed before labor. Dr. Cheever, who attended the patient, and sent the specimen to Dr. B., found the abscess upon the right side, and with an opening that would admit the finger half an inch inside of the os uteri. The cavity contained much pus, fresh blood, and was 3 or 4 in. in extent, with other, circumscribed sinuses in the broad ligament, and an infiltration of dense lymph in the sur- rounding cellular tissue. Peritoneum ecchymosed, but not inflamed. Uterus sufficiently well. 1858. Dr. II. I. Bowditch. 2739. A defined abscess in the substance of the posterior walls of the cervix uteri, capable of holding two or three drachms, and filled, when recent, with thick pus. The surrounding parts are healthy. From a woman, set. twenty-five years, who had always had dysmenorrhcea, and died a few weeks after confine- ment. The vagina had been extremely sensitive, the os uteri normal, and the cervix enlarged, tender, soft, and obscurely fluctuating. (Case, with remarks, in the Med. Jour. Vol. lxx. p. 69.) 1864. Dr. E. It. Storer. 2740. A large circumscribed, peritoneal abscess between the • bladder and uterus. The patient was a slender woman, set. thirty-seven. In March, 1861, her husband was sick, and she nursed him