MORBID ANATOMY. 189 W. regarded it as a fracture within the capsule, but never thought it necessary to apply any apparatus. For some days the patient persisted in getting out of bed, as he could not believe that there was a fracture ; and he would also frequently, in the course of treatment, move the limb by moving his whole body for the sake of experiment, and in spite of remonstrances. There was no eversion nor shortening ; and as, at the end of eight or nine months, the pain on motion, and the tenderness had diminished, he was advised to move from the bed to the sofa ; but it was about two months before he would make the trial. From this time he improved so that he was afterward frequently able to drive out, though he had to be carried down-stairs ; and he could swing the limb freely, when supported, though he could not bear his weight upon it, nor use crutches. Death finally occurred two years and a half after the acci- dent ; and after an illness of three days. On dissection, the capsular ligament was thickened, and a slight rising of the bone, just at the edge of the articular surface, indi- cated the line of the fracture. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1089. Upper portion of the femur, from a case of old fracture. The neck is so far absorbed, that the head approaches the small trochanter very nearly, and at that part there is bony union to a considerable extent. Otherwise the upper frac- tuied suiface, close to the head, in its present macerated and dried condition, is rough ; whereas the lower or oppo- site surface is smooth, and the cancelli are covered over by a thin layer of bone. The two surfaces are but little sep- arated from each other. The whole bone is very light in structure, and shows that there had been outward rotation. 1 be following history of the case was received from Dr. Charles L. Ivnowlton, of Ashfield, after the death of his father, who sent the specimen to Dr. B. The patient was eighty-three years old, and fell at her door ; and, when seen I13 Di. K., Sen., shortly afterward, the fracture was recog- nized. There was very marked shortening, eversion of the foot, and much pain when the limb was moved, for about a }e.u after the accident. Her health then improved, and