MOKBID ANATOMY. 624 abdomen contained three quarts of fluid blood, besides a large coagulum, in which last was an ovum. The uterus is about twice its usual size, and lined by decidua. In its substance a cavity is seen that, in the recent state, was about as large as a small hen’s egg, and into which the right Fall, tube opened, though the cavity did not open into the general cavity of the organ. The rupture of the cavity that contained the ovum into that of the peritoneum was about an inch in length. (See No. 2921.) 1855. Dr. C. H. Stedman. 2913. Wax model, from Paris, showing the uterus, with its ap- pendages, and in or near each ovary a cyst containing a foetus of two and a half to three months. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2914. A foetus, of which the bones are fully exposed, and only held together by the adipocere into which the soft parts are changed; the whole being very compactly doubled upon itself. From a woman, mt. forty, who had had six healthy chil- dren. She died insane, and nothing was known of an " extra-uterine gestation. The sac (No. 2915) that contained the foetus was in the lower part of the abdomen, upon the left side, with strong external adhesions in part, varying in thickness, but com- pact in structure, cretaceous to a small extent, and with- out any appearance of a placenta. The foetus lay free in the cavit}'; and from its wTeight (4 lbs.), and the size of the bones, had probably reached the full term. A few loose bones, and some faecal'matter were also found in the sac, which communicates with the rectum by two small openings ; and one or two small bones were found in the intestine. The ovaries and Fall, tubes are normal. 1865. Mr. Robert L. Dryer, med. student. 2915. Sac from the above case. 1865. Mr. Dnjer. 2916. The greater part of the bones of a foetus, that was not far from the full term; discharged from the rectum, and displayed by Dr. R. M. Hodges upon a black-board. The patient, about thirty years of age, consulted Dr. S. in Sept., 1861, for a pain that she had had in the lower part