744 APPENDIX. nothing of the kind in the left lung, the disease may have been recent, and connected with the obstruction in the bronchus, as in the cases described by Dr. Ellis. (Med Jour. Vol. lv. p. 356.) 1870. Dr. Z. B. Adams, of Framingham. 3673. A stone from the stomach of a fish, that was taken in a harbor on the west coast of Mexico. Its length is 12 in., its greatest width 6 in., and its thickness, 2£°in.; weight,’ 6 lbs. 14 oz. (avoir.) Surface generally smooth, but to a considerable extent and deeply eroded by shell-fish. The fish was taken about the year 1854, on board the U. S. Ship Portsmouth, and “ was about 4 ft. long, stout and thick, with small teeth, and scales as large as the thumb- nail ; name not known.” Dr. B. did not see the fish opened, but the stone was brought to him as soon as it was iemo\ed. The condition of the stomach was not observed. To explain the fact Dr. B. states that the stones upon the shelving coast, where the fish was taken, were covered with soft star-fishes, and the stone was probably swallowed with the food. 1870. Isaac Brinckerhoff, M. D., Surgeon U. S. JV. 3674. Photograph of a child, set. three years and three months, showing the abdomen immensely distended, and with great general emaciation.'—I he enlargement was first noticed last June, and it died in February. There was no pain, and no vomiting nor loss of appetite until the last few days. On dissection, a defined, rounded tumor was found, that weighed 15 lbs. Upon the surface a considerable portion of one of the kidneys was seen, and from this organ the morbid growth seemed to have originated ; the organ, so far as it appeared, being perfectly healthy, but soon entirely lost in the tumor. The structure of this last varied in different parts, but it generally had a cancerous appear- ance, and in some parts this was strongly marked. Micro- scopically, however, there was some difference of opinion. (Med. Jour., April 7th, 1870.) 1870. Dr. Charles Goodwin, of Wakefield. 3675. A large, rounded, urinary calculus, nearly covered with