558 MORBID ANATOMY. Color, whitish ; and structure, as seen on cut surface, rath- er coarse. Weight, 4 oz. 2 sc. The powder obtained in sawing the calculus was found by Dr. Bacon to consist of phosph. of lime, a considerable amount of the triple phosph., and small proportions of carb. of lime, ox. of lime, and animal matter. For a report of the case, with a figure of the calculus, see Med. Jour., Vol. 58. p. 13. 1858. Dr. II. J. Bigeloiv. 2660. Fragments of a calculus, that were removed through a vesico-vaginal fistula. (Hospital, 79, 94 ; and Med. Jour. Vol. i,vm. p. 362.) —The patient was thirty-two years of age, and from the western part of this State. “ For five weeks preceding her last confinement, two years and seven months before entrance, she had painful micturition for the first time in her life. Her labor lasted seven days, and the physicians in attendance attributed * the delay to the presence of a stone in the bladder. The child was delivered without instruments. In ten days she was up and about the house, and for five ueeks had no trouble. She then began to have offensive and thick puru- lent urine ; and, finally, at the end of seven weeks, took to her bed from inability to walk about or sit down. She was confined to it for eleven months, and during this period passed calculi from the bladder, sometimes as many as four at a time, and varying from the size of a pea to that of a walnut. She had passed none for a year. A catheter detected the existence of a calculus, and, on examination per vaginam, a large vesico-vaginal fistula was found, ad- mitting the finger, which came in immediate contact with the calculus. The vagina and inside of the bladder felt rough to the finger, like sand-paper, from the deposit of phosphates. A pair of lithotomy forceps, introduced through this aperture, crushed a very soft stone, and five drachms of fragments were removed. Great relief followed the operation.” The calculus was found by Dr. White to consist of the triple phosph., phosph. of lime, and ur. of ammonia. “ The laminae are arranged in an irregular, concentric manner, and are mostly made up of large, loosely arranged crystals of triple phosphate, undoubtedly a hasty and secondary