MORBID ANATOMY. 406 went; on, the first ulcer, that was then about an inch in diameter, increased to the size of a man’s hand ; the edges being raised and well defined, the centre deeply excavated, and the whole very offensive. Amputated below the knee, and discharged well in five weeks. 1857. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2031. Cancer of the lip. Ulceration deep, and edges everted. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2032. Daguerreotype of a patient with epithelial cancer of the lip. A woman, set. thirty-five years,- and of robust health. Disease of two years’ duration, and rapidly increasing the last six months. Pain dull and smarting. Ulcerated sur- face % of an inch in width, and covered with a dirty slough ; edges everted, and very offensive. Removed by Dr. B., and a new lip made from the cheek ; and in four weeks and a half she was discharged, with the wound healed, and a good cicatrix, but with some threatening of disease in the cicatrix upon the cheek. About eight months afterward she was seen with a return of the disease below the jaw, and death soon followed. (Hospital, 51, 94.) See next specimen. 1858. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2033. A lithographic print, illustrative of epithelial cancer. 1. The above daguerreotype. 2. A colored view of the cancer, and section of the same. 3. A small cancer upon the prolabium, and section. 4. A large cancer upon the outside of the lip, and section. 5. Three figures, to show the columnar structure. All colofed, excepting the first and last. 1858. Dr. H. J. Bigeloiu. 2034. A colored drawing, by Mr. B., of a case of very exten- sive epithelial cancer of both lips. From a man, ret. forty-seven years, of good general health, and under the care of Dr. D. W. Cheever, at the City Hospital. Disease of four years’ duration; began with a “ wart” upon the upper lip, and for the last three months there had been ulceration, with severe pain. His father died of cancer; and another relative had had the disease. The disease affected both lips upon the right side, and extended from the median line into the cheek, about