621 MORBID ANATOMY. Corpora cavernosa involved. — May 20th, there was an infiltration of urine, followed by erysipelas and sloughing. He recovered, however, well from this attack, and left the hospital on the 2d of August, but with a nodule in the groin about twice the size of a hen’s egg. 1858. Dr. IT. G. Clark. 2904. Disease of the prepuce, regarded by Dr. W. as cancerous. The patient was twenty-five years of age, of robust health, and had had complete phymosis for a long while. About six months before Dr. W. saw him, it became ulcerated upon the inner surface, and gradually swollen, hard, and somewhat painful. After removal, it appeared as a uni- formly white and firm stricture. 1850. Dr. J. C. Warren. V. Breast. 2905. Non-malignant disease. From a physician, aet. thirty-eight years, who first felt in Sept., 1856, and without known cause, an itching, burn- ing, and stinging sensation in the nipple ; with a lancinat- ing pain in the base of the same, and for about two inches around it. Early in the disease he scratched off a scab, but this never formed again, and the nipple was otherwise healthy. In the course of the first month a tumor was felt, and this, with the pain, etc., gradually increased. In Feb. it was removed, and, after the operation, appeared as a de- fined, somewhat oval mass, l£in. by 2J in., and about ^ an in. thick in the centre ; surfaces convex and edges thin. It was closely connected with the nipple, but quite free from the skin, — both of which were healthy. In structure it was fleshy to the feel, and consisted of a whitish, fibro- cellular tissue, with numerous minute, transparent, firm granulations within a line and a half of the external sur- face. Microscopically, Dr. Ellis found fibrous tissue mainly, and no appearance of carcinoma. In 1869 the patient was in robust health, and reported that he had had no further trouble with the breast. He served, however, during the Civil War, and while at the South had swelling with considerable irritation of the other breast, but this, after a time, entirely subsided. 1857. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson.