MORBID ANATOMY. 499 was large ancl fatty, and there was a pint of thin blood in the peritoneal cavity. Other injuries were also found. 1864. Museum Fund. 2369. An abscess in the right lobe of the liver, about three inches in diameter; filled, in the recent state, with a dirty brown, and very offensive liquid, coated with a dirty-white lymph, and at one point threatening to burst into the peritoneal cavity. The organ was generally of a dull red color, but blackish about the cavity. No gall-bladder was seen ; but the hepatic duct contained a very large calculus (No. 2403), and in the ducts within the liver were some minute ones. From a hard-working man, set. forty-eight, who had been always subject to attacks of bilious vomiting, but otherwise health}'-. Being unwell at the time, in conse- quence of a local injury, he was attacked with feverish symptoms, and sharp pain, with tenderness about the liver, followed by a pain in the right shoulder, chills, and heat, diminished appetite, and occasional nausea, skin dry and hot, or bathed in perspiration. After the nineteenth day, the skin, etc., were colored by bile; and during the last two days there was a very marked failure, with dul- ness on percussion and absence of respiration over the lower back part of the right lung. To explain this last, there was found more than a quart of offensive purulent serum in the pleural cavity, with lymph. The whole dura- tion of the acute symptoms was thirty days, and they led Dr. A. to a correct diagnosis of the case. (Med. Jour. Vol. liii. p. 232.) 1855. Dr. Zdbdiel B. Adams. 2370. An abscess in the substance of the organ, about 2 in. in diameter. The disease was supposed to be of about six weeks’ duration, and for some time there had been an external opening just below the sternum, but without jaundice. From a sailor, who had been on the coast-of Africa. There was a profuse discharge of offensive pus; and he finally died from an opening into the peritoneal cavity. 1868* Dr. J. W. Graves, of Chelsea. 2371. A portion of liver from a'case of pyemia. (See No. 1199.)