737 appendix. smface of the bone is slightly roughened. — Specimen in spirit, and prepared by Dr. H. H. A. Beach. 1870. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 3655. A large portion of the calvaria, very curiously and ex- tensively eroded upon both surfaces, and, to more or less extent in different parts, continuously. At some points the bone is perforated. Very little proper caries; no thickening, and nowhere any deposit of new bone. The dura mater was somewhat adherent, but there was no other disease. 1869. Dr. II. H. A. Beach. 3656. A portion of the spine, showing extensive caries of the two last dorsal, and two first lumbar vertebrae; from a case of aneurism. (Hospital, 287, 33.) Dissected by Mr. James J. Putnam, one of the house-pupils; and prepared Dr. T. Dwight, Jr., to show the prominence of the intervertebral substances, with very little shrinking. 1870. Dr. F. Minot. 3657. The humerus in two portions, with extensive caries, and necrosis of the lower portion. biom a man, set. twenty-six years, who entered the hos- pital July 15th, 1858 (79, 168), with a large abscess about the shoulder. Five weeks before, after working hard, he was attacked with constitutional symptoms, and inflamma- tion followed. He had had an abscess in the same part fi\ e 3 eais before, but no further trouble from it after it had discharged. On the 17th an opening was made, and the discharge was profuse. On the 20th pain came on about the elbow, and became afterwards excruciating, with swell- ing. Aug. 6th a deep incision was made; very offensive pus was discharged, and the bone was felt entirely denuded as far us the finger could reach. On the 26th, the bone gave way; and on the 28th the limb was removed at the shoulder joint. The hemorrhage was considerable; but the man did well, and was discharged on the 27th of Octo- ber. The upper fragment is 7£ in. in length, extensively absorbed towards its lower extremity, rough from caries, and tapering almost to a point. Otherwise it is irregular upon the surface, with numerous- large pores, but without 47