MORBID ANATOMY. 616 years, with occasionally an involuntary discharge of urine and faeces in the night, toward the last. Nineteen days before his death he was exposed to intense cold, and kept his bed from that time, with paroxysms like those of fever and ague, and a great aggravation of the urinary symptoms. Pain in the bladder, but not in the back ; and with pus in the urine. On dissection, there was found suppuration in the cellu- lar tissue about one kidney, and pyelitis in both organs. The bladder, which is shown, was contracted, red upon the inner surface, and contained some pus, besides three small calculi. Phlebolites in abundance, and they are seen in the preparation. 1849. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. Within a week or two of the above case 1 examined another, in which there was extensive sub-peritoneal inflam- mation, with pus; connected evidently with an enlarged prostate, and immediately excited by exposure to intense cold. 2875. The prostatic portion of the urethra distended by a rounded tumor, that projects into it from the gland; this last being itself otherwise healthy and not enlarged. Cut open. 1859. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2876. Abscesses in the prostate gland. From a man, set. forty-six years, who entered the hospital Dec. 9,1867 (134,122). Gonorrhoea thirteen years before, and followed by stricture, but not much troubled by it. Two weeks before admission he found that he could not pass his urine, though it did afterward pass in drops, or in a very small stream ; the scrotum and penis becoming swollen and painful. On admission, the scrotum was enormously swollen, inflamed, and sloughy ; with phymosis, and great oedema of the prepuce. This last was at once divided by Dr. B.; and on passing a catheter, a large calculus (No. 2688) was found in the urethra, and removed by external incision ; an exten- sive incision was then made through the scrotum, the cavity was well washed out, and a catheter was passed into the bladder and retained. Death on the fifth day. On dissection, an abscess was found in each lobe of the prostate, about ยง in. in diameter, and upon the left side it