MORBID ANATOMY. 431 larynx, upon the right side ; with ulceration and roughness of the membrane upon the left. From a little boy, ten years of age, who for several years had had frequent attacks of what was thought to be croup. After one of them, in Nov., 1850, he lost his voice, and never recovered it. In May, 1851, he was seen by Dr. J. CrosbJr, of Manchester, from whom this history of the case was received. He was then pale and emaciated, with an anxious expression, great dyspnoea, and making strong voluntary efforts during inspiration. Larynx not enlarged nor tender. Cough and expectoration slight; with no physical signs of disease of the lungs or heart; and Dr. C. regarded the case as one of low inflammation, and thickening of the mucous membrane of the larynx. The symptoms increased, and the patient died the following winter or spring. Dr. M., who made the dissection, re- ported a soft, polypoid growth, of a pinkish color, about the size of a chestnut, conical in form, attached by the apex, and nearly filling the cavity of the larynx; so that the patient died from suffocation. The specimen was sent to Dr. W., who had seen the case during life. 1859. Dr. J. Ware. 2138. A well-defined, rounded, fleshy growth, rough upon the surface like a syphilitic wart, and attached broadly just below the ventricles of the larynx. Having been cut through when the larynx was opened, it had a fibro-cellular appearance ; and, microscopically, was found to be epithe- lial in structure. From a man, aet. about fifty years, very fleshy, and in robust health, excepting his local disease. For twelve yeais, oi more, there had been hoarseness, with wheezing, and for the last two or three years complete aphonia. Theie was also much dyspnoea on over-exertion ; and, when asleep, a distressing noise, as from impending suffocation. Death at last was rather sudden, and seemed owing to con- gestion of the lungs. 1850. Dr. Augustus Mason, of Brighton. 2139. A polypoid growth from the trachea. It was described by Dr. F., in the recent state, as firm in consistence, of a rosy color, and about the size of a small grape. The ped-