MORBID ANATOMY. 422 Dr. J. S. Jones. nearly a year before Dr. D. saw her there were sore throat, hoarseness, and sometimes aphonia. When seen, she was very feeble, and had not slept for four days; great dysp- noea, with long, stridulous, and convulsive inspirations; and with acute pain in the ears on swallowing. The trachea was opened, and a canula left in, through which the patient ever afterward breathed freely. The dysphagia, however, increased, and for the last eighteen days she was wholly unable to swallow; fluids passing out at last through the canula. She became extremely emaciated, partially delirious from the want of food, and died fourteen weeks after the operation. Miliary tubercles were found in the lungs, but there was no softening. 1854. Dr. Jas. Deane, of Greenfield. 2106. Contraction of the fauces, so extreme, that a catheter will hardly pass. Parts thickened and condensed, but perfectly cicatrized. The remains of the soft palate upon each side, and the whole epiglottis, so far as can be seen without cutting quite through the stricture, are closel} and strongly adherent to the base of the tongue; the entrance to the larynx being so drawn upon that what was a mere chink has come to be a long and deep fissure. From a woman, set. thirty-seven, who was in the hospital, for a short time, for what appeared to be a syphilitic ulcer- ation of the leg, and who died a few days after her discharge, probably from brutal treatment by her husband. In re- gard to her throat, she reported that five years previously the greater part of the soft palate and tonsils was de- stroyed by ulceration, that had only recently cicatrized, and was still liable to break out. Denied any syphilitic taint; and reported her health as previously good. Appe- tite good ; took solid, as well as liquid food, and was well nourished. No dysphagia, but sometimes choked when asleep. Breathing always labored and stertorous, and particularly on exertion. Voice sufficiently loud, and not hoarse, though hollow and peculiar. She would take in a full breath, and then speak so long as she expired. (Amei. Jour, of Med. Sc., Oct. 1850.) 1852.