MOEBID ANATOMY. 211 bone being generally the one that was dislocated. (Med. Jour. Yol. lxxiii. p. 261.) 1865. Dr. E. Cutter, of Woburn. A case of dislocation of the semi-lunar bone, with some other injuries to the wrist, was reported to Dr. Hodges by Di. David Mack, Jr., of Belmont. The bone was replaced, but amputation was subsequently required. 11180. Dislocation of the femur upward upon the dorsum of the ilium. The head is nearly or quite absorbed ; but the ex- tremity of the neck, which is but little if at all shortened, flares out so as to form a substitute for it. The new sock- et upon the ilium is sufficiently well developed, and the acetabulum nearly obliterated. Ilium pushed inward an- teriorly, and above the brim of the pelvis. The lower extremities in the preparation (from Paris) are articulated with the pelvis, and the affected limb is turned inward and shortened about 2f in. 1852. Museum Fund. 1181. Cast, in plaster, of a case of dislocation into the obtura- tor foramen ; the head of the femur being quite prominent upon the inside of the pelvis. From the neck, anteriorly there seems to have been a growth of new bone that con- nected it with the pelvis. Acetabulum deep, but small. Piu chased at the London Hospital. 1852. Museum Fund. 182 Photograph of a little girl, six years old, who had a dis- location of the femur into the obturator foramen, of four years duration. The thigh was strongly flexed upon the body, and the leg upon the thigh ; and the whole limb was useless ? &°m Us fell°W> W‘asted’ a»d worse than The child entered the hospital (139, 253) June 18th, and the 23d an attempt was made by Dr. B. to reduce the dislocation, but without success. The rectus femoris, and the fascia about it were divided ; and the forcible twisting of the bmb caused a partial fracture of the femur midway. This last united well, and by the use of extension and o her mechanical means, the limb was so far improved, that iv en the child left the hospital, on the 12th of August,