410 MORBID ANATOLIY. and extending in the shape of a funnel to the optic nerve, around the edges of which it was closely applied. Overlying the choroid, and easily separable from it was the bony shell or scale “ accurately moulded on the eye, and with a well- maiked foiamen at its outer edge, for the passage of the retina to the optic nerve.” (Med. Jour. Vol. lxxi. p. 269.) -*^5. Dr. Hasliet Derby. 2047. Globe of the eye, cut open, and showing upon the inner surface a considerable amount of whitish, fibrinous-looking substance. Something of the kind is seen upon the outside of the sclerotic and in its substance, with much thickening of this coat. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. " 2048. An extirpated eye, showing a very great thickening, with opacity of the coruea. 1867. Dr. C. Ellis. 2049. A section of the eye, showing at the bottom of the globe a defined, hemispherical, dark brown tumor, 4 or 5 lines in diameter, of a soft, fleshy consistence, uniform in appearance, and non-malignant in its character. It is broadly and closely connected with the sclerotic coat, which is otherwise health}’’; and the choroid and retina were easily separable from it. Dr. Ellis found it “ composed of long fusiform cells, with fine prolongations, such as are figured in Vir- chow’s work on Tumors (German ed. Vol. n. p. 197).” From a woman, mt. fifty-two, who applied to Dr. II. Derby, Jan. 23d, 1867. Vision of the left eye had been failing for eight 3rears, and within the last year had become extinct. Considerable pain in and about the eye for six weeks, but none before. * There was deep ciliary redness, a stony hardness of the globe, anaesthesia of the cornea, dilatation of the pupil, and haziness of the vitreous. Iridectomy^ was attempted; but, on account of the diseased state of the iris, it was with great difficulty that a reasonable amount could be excised. In a week the patient returned home ; the pain having entirety, and the redness nearly, disap- peared ; anterior chamber still half full of blood, and very slowly absorbing. May 9th, no pain, but constant dis- comfort. Complete obliteration of anterior chamber; the iris being in contact with the cornea. After the 16th her