743 APPENDIX. leg, 3 ft. 14 in.; two inches above the knee, 34 ft., and at the line of amputation, 2J ft. Weight of the limb after removal, 100 lbs. Very little blood was lost, and the oper- ation was well borne; but soon after the woman was placed in bed, a sudden pallor came over her, and she died in an instant. Dr. J. Collins Warren, of this city, examined a portion of the fresh tissue, and found the cutis vera and subcuta- neous tissue blended and very much thickened by a dense fibrous tissue, that seemed to arise from the outer coats of the blood-vessels, which were very numerous and large. There were also vessels that appeared like enlarged lym- phatics. The papillae were much enlarged, but the hair follicles and sebaceous glands were not seen; and there were only traces of the sweat glands, with one duct, so far as seen. The case will be published, in full, by Dr. S., in the Amer. Jour, of Med. Sciences. 1870. Dr. Isaac Smith, Jr., of Fall River. 3672. The trachea dried, and showing a piece of bone, as large as the top of the little finger, impacted in the right primary bronchus. The patient was a farmer, sixty-seven years of age, and quite healthy, though with an occasional cough. On the 14th of Febi’uary he suddenly choked whilst eating, and coughed violently. Through the day the cough was almost incessant, and it continued more or less so as long as he lived ; being much worse when lying down, and less during the day. Breathing short, difficult, and rattling; but he did his usual work, and, on the 27th, walked to church and back, — a distance of two miles. On the 2d of March he gave up his work, and on the 6th he died. Dr. A. saw him on the afternoon of the 5th, and found him in a state of approaching collapse, and with dyspnoea, but no hoarse- ness. Over the whole of the right side there were subcrep- itant rales, except below the scapula, where the air did not seem to enter; and over the whole right back there was dulness on percussion. — On dissection, there were found quite a number of small tubercular-looking deposits in the right lung, and most of them softened ; but, as there was