MORBID ANATOMY. 680 ness, ringing of the ears, giddiness, nausea, copious hem- orrhage from the bowels, and copious epistaxis. He died the day after leaving the hospital, and the spleen was sent from Lawrence by Dr. Win. D. Lamb; nothing being said of any other disease. This case occurred about the time that leucocythemia was being made known to the profes- sion. 1847. Dr. E. Leigh. 3096. Portion of the spleen, showing the yellowish masses that are occasionally met with in connection with organic disease of the heart. The patient had frequently had intermittent fever, and died from disease of the heart (No. 1707). The organ weighed 1^ lbs., was generally firm, and some lighter colored portions were particularly so. The opaque, yellowish masses were moderately firm, and sharply defined; one being an inch in diameter, and the other, 2 in. by 1 in. They came quite to the surface, as usual, so as to be at once seen ; and there were some remains of false membrane upon the peritoneal surface, as is so often the case. Microscopically, the masses con- sisted of small granules, about the size of blood-globules. In the preparation the color has much faded. For an analysis of eleven cases of this disease of the spleen, and its connection with disease of the heart, see No. 583 in the Catalogue of the Cabinet of the Boston Soc. for Med. Improvement. 1860. Dr. C. Ellis. 3097. A section of the spleen, showing great numbers of large, rounded, opaque, and more or less curdy tubercular masses. 1862. 3098. A cretaceous body £ in. in diameter, from the interior of the spleen. 1867. Mr. Frank A. Wells, med. student. 3099. Section of the spleen, showing extensive melanotic dis- ease. From a man, set. twenty-four years, who had been sick about nine months. (Hospital, 36, 174.) He had a large melanotic tumor in the neck, and smaller ones beneath the skin, and amongst the muscles ; with similar disease in the renal capsules, the head of the pancreas and liver, be- sides an extensive enccphaloid deposit in this last. The