637 MOEBID ANATOMY. 2963. A c}rst from under the tongue. The patient, set. nineteen 37ears, entered the hospital (81, 111) with a prominent, fluctuating, deep-seated, pain- less tumor, filling the space between the symphysis, and the angle of the jaw upon the left side, and protruding into the mouth; aud it was as large, she thought, when first noticed eight months before. Integument not affected. Discharged about §ij. of a yellowish, cheesy material. The cyst, inverted and stuffed, shows the epidermal char acter. 1859. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2964. A cast, showing a cyst about the middle of the sole of the foot. The patient was a boy, twelve years old, and his parents thought that the disease was congenital. It was increas- ing in size, but there was no pain nor other trouble from it, unless he wore a tight boot. On admission into the hos- pital, under the care of Dr. H. (125, 140), it was appar- ently about as large as an English walnut, — about one- half projecting above the surface, smooth and clastic, or imperfectly fluctuating. Skin adherent but not discol- ored. No pain on pressure. It was situated between the fascia and the muscles ; and was easily removed ; with a copious discharge of white, cheesy material, consisting of epithelial scales, fat, and cholesterine. Considerable in- flammation followed the operation, but in rather over two weeks the wound had quite healed. — The cast was taken by Mr. C. Pratt, house-pupil. 1866. Dr. B. M. Hodges. 2965. A cyst from the palm of the hand. The patient was a middle-aged woman, and had had a tumor for ten or twelve years near the anterior extremity of the second or third metacarpal bone, but with scarcely any trouble from it until the last two or three months, ■when inflammation appeared upon the corresponding part of the back of the hand. The cyst, which had a fluctuat- ing feel, having been opened by Dr. B., discharged about §ss. of pus and pultaceous matter; and it was then dis- sected out; not connected with the tendon. The parietes are quite thick, firm, laminated, and capable of holding