438 MORBID ANATOMY. degree of contraction of the left side of the chest, after paracentesis for effusion into the pleura. There is, also, a great degree of shortening, and consequently a strong in- clination toward this side. The situation of the former punctures is seen. The following history of the case was obtained by Dr. C. Ellis, who purchased the specimen for the Museum in 1851, in London ; and who, at the same time, visited and examined the child. She was then eight years old. When three years of age she had what was thought to be “ fe- ver.” At the end of six weeks the side was much enlarged, and was punctured, with great relief, at the London Hos- pital ; and during the next twelve months the operation was repeated five times. Finally, a spontaneous opening took place near the cartilage of the seventh or eighth rib, and the discharge continued until the last eighteen months or two years. Contraction of the side began immediately after the first operation; and the mother thought that it was still going on. Dr. E. found the respiration puerile upon the right side, and absent upon the left. The child was then perfectly well, and was attending school regularly. 1852. Museum Fund. Large fibro-nucleated tumor in left pleural cavity. (See No. 3002.) 2165. A portion of the parietes of the chest, showing numerous cancerous growths upon the pleural surface. From a woman, set. seventy-two years, who had a large encephaloid tumor removed from the thigh by Dr. G. H. Gay, in Sept., 1858. (Hospital, 79, 250.) The disease, which was of five or six months’ duration, was removed a second time in Nov., reappeared in Dec., and she died on the 9th of Jan. From the 23d of Dec. she complained of a sharp pain in the left side of the chest, and some cough ; and, on examination, there was found dulness on percus- sion, with diminished respiration over the lower half of the side. On dissection, the left pleural cavity contained five pints of serum. Lung partially adherent. Upon both pleural surfaces were many bright red, smooth nodules, from a line to 2 in. in diameter ; most numerous, and largest over the