MORBID ANATOMY. 525 2483. Thibert’s model. Inflammation at the neck of the blad- der, which, by the swelling that has taken place, prevented the proper entrance of an instrument. Three bougies have entered the cavity by false passages ; and two have passed quite through the parietes of the organ, and are seen behind it. A dilatation of the lacunas in the prostatic por- tion of the urethra also helped much to the formation of the false passages. 1847. Dr. G. Hayward. 2484. A large part of the mucous membrane entirely destroyed, though there is nowhere any deep ulceration; surface quite rough, and appeared flocculent under water. Mem- brane otherwise healthy, and with well-defined limits. Prostate enlarged ; with a marked transverse ridge across the neck of the bladder. The patient was about eighty years of age, and had frequent and painful micturition for six or seven years; the urine being turbid, very slow to start, passed every half hour in the night toward the last, and the call to pass it being often very sudden and urgent, so that he died worn out by the disease. 1867. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 2485. Immense distention of the bladder. From a woman, set. forty-five years, and of robust health. About five years before her death she was examined for a tumor of a few months’ duration, and that was supposed to be an encysted ovary. For three or four years she had occasionally had slight dysuria, but no further symptoms until two weeks before death, when, after a retention for twenty-four or thirty-six hours, the catheter was passed with much difficulty, and about half a pint of quite healthy urine was drawn off. From that time her distress was very great and constant. The urine was passed only in the lithotomy position, and with great pain and straining ; for the last three days it was strongly ammoniacal, but it never contained mucus, pus, nor blood. I he bladder, which was the “ tumor ” felt during life, rose to about two inches above the umbilicus, pushing the peritoneum before it, and contained more than four quarts of dark-brown and intensely ammoniacal urine. The parietes were dense, but not thickened, and the inner sur- face a little roughened, but without any trace of inflam-