MORBID ANATOMY. 427 2116. Croup. Larynx and trachea cut open, and shows the membrane extending from the bottom of the trachea to the tip of the epiglottis. As usual, it is much more adhe- rent in the larynx than below. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2117. Laiynx and trachea, from a case of croup, in which Dr. B. opened the trachea on the seventh day. Dilators were used to keep the sides of the opening apart; and a double canula was also used. The child, a little girl, five and a half years old, was much relieved by the operation, but died, on the twelfth day, of pneumonia. An abundance of tymph, however, was found, as seen in the preparation ; some of it being a primary formation, and some being formed where a deposit had already been thrown off. (Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., July, 1853.) The dilators are shown; but, being of iron, they rusted the preparation, and silver ones have been put in their place. 1853. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2118. Thibert’s model. Larynx and trachea, with patches of false membrane upon the mucous surface, and inflammation around them. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 2119. . False membrane, very adherent to the inner sur- face of the larynx. 1849. Dr. J. Ware. 2120. The larynx and trachea, from a case of diphtheria. The subject of this case was Dr. Horace W. Adams, of this city, and the specimen is preserved in the Museum, by permission. On the 6th of February he took charge of one of his friends, who had what seemed to be an acute tonsillitis, of moderate severit}7', with a whitish exudation on the fauces, and who died very suddenly on the 10th; Dr. A. endeavoring to resuscitate him by clearing the throat, and by attempted inflation of the lungs. Having had a severe cold, and been subsequently exposed from the 5th to the 10th to much vicissitude of weather, he re- turned from the country on the 11th with sore throat. On the 13th he attended the funeral of his friend, but felt quite unwell on his return, and sent for Dr. M. The dis- ease was then established, and he died on the morning of