529 MORBID ANATOMY. kidneys for the last few days; also, incontinence of urine, complete during the night and nearly so in the day, for the last two months. The urine had been pale and offensive for the last three months. The patient gave up work when the disease commenced, but was not confined to the house. She retained considerable flesh and strength, but was pale; and, her complexion being naturally dark,* she had the hue that is so often observed in cases of cancer. On examination, the bladder was found to bulge into the vagina, and to have a thickened, fleshy, but not firm feel, as. from a mass of soft vegetations, in its cavity. The urine was sufficient in quantity, but was very pale, exceed- ing^ offensive, contained a great deal of pus, and had the density only of 1.011; a catheter that was passed became at once very deeply discolored. Jan. 6th. —The patient became dull; and from the fol- lowing day until the 10th, when she died, she was almost entirely unconscious,-breathing about eight times in a minute, but without convulsion or any sign of distress Some of the interesting points in tiffs case are,-the long journey, as an exciting cause of the disease, —the occurrence of hemorrhage as the first symptom, as it some- times is in phthisis, — the very mild character of the symp- toms, considering the usual irritability of the bladder the feel of the bladder, —and the mode of death, as’ in .Bright s disease, and in connection with which the low specific gravity of the urine is to be remembered. (Med. Jour. Vol. lv. p. 526.) 1857. I he “peculiar hue of cancer” is often wanting in this t isease, as it is often enough met with in other cases; and it may not unfrequently be explained as the effect of pal- lor upon a naturally dark complexion. 9TQi Jackson. - - The posterior portion of the bladder, showing an openino- through into the vagina or uterus, and large enough to admit the last joint of the fore-flnger. - From a ease of 2432 VnTo "'°rab- 1855- Dr' J■ B- S- 2492; Villons oanoer. - In the recent state, the bladder was 4 in n t lameter; ,ts walls being half an inch in thickness, and the flbies of the muscular coat much hypertrophied. Upon