MORBID AX ATOMY. 550 2609. Calculus removed by operation. From a little boy, eight years old, who had had the usual symptoms for three years. Lithotomy was performed June 1st, 1869 ; on the 8th the urine passed mostly through the penis, and oil the 16th he was able to leave the hospital (141, 118). Form of the stone somewhat cylindrical; diameter If in. by 1 in. Surface whitish and granulated. Structure rather coarsely laminated, with a defined, compact nucleus £ in. in length, of a pale-brownish color, and contrasting with the whitish color around. Composed, according to Dr. White, of the phosph. and carb. of lime, a little of the triple phosphate, and urate of ammonia; nucleus mostly ox. of lime. 1869. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 2610. Two calculi, removed by operation. The patient, a puny little boy, four years old, had had occasional dysuria for two years, and of late excruciating pain, with incon- tinence of urine. Lithotomy was performed January 23d, 1868, and he left the hospital well, March 7th (107, 4). The external appearance of the calculi was very nearly the same ; about lj by 1 in.; form somewhat triangular, flattened, and with the angles quite rounded ; surface smooth, and of a yellowish color; one, on section, is for the most part dark, very irregular in structure, and with something like a central cavity ; cortex, £ to £ in. thick, is 'white and compact. Composed, according to Dr. White, largely of ur. acid and urates; ox. of lime very small; carb. and phosph. of lime, and triple phosphate. 1869. Dr. H. J. Bigelow. 2611. A calculus, the form of which suggests the idea of a decoy duck. Body 2f in. in length, and of an ovoid form ; with a projection,-near one extremity, about the size of the last joint of the finger ; one of these portions having prob- ably formed in some sac connected with the bladder. Brownish externally, and internally yellowish. Laminated. External layers in part broken, and show a coarse struc- ture • and beneath this is partially seen the characteristic tuberculated surface of a ur. ac. calculus. Analysis by Dr. W.: “Ur. ac., mixed urates, phosph. of lime, triple phosph.’of ammonia and magnesia, and a.little!«. of lime.” 1867. Dr• * W'U‘e'