MORBID ANATOMY. 6G8 The patient was fourteen years old, and entered the New York Hospital Nov. 17th, 1847. The tumor had been first noticed four months before, over the clavicle, and was then of the size of a pigeon’s egg. Growth very rapid for some time past, but without pain, until it was of considerable size. Itwrent on increasing, with d}rspnoea and dysphagia, and such severe and lancinating pain as to require a free use of opiates. The surface at last opened and discharged a reddish fluid ; and the child died, greatly emaciated, on the 29th of June; the whole duration of the disease being only about eleven months. On dissection, Dr. H. found the humerus detached from the scapula; and the clavicle, with the three upper ribs softened, but not infiltrated with the disease. Weight of the tumor, with the arm, 33 lbs. The right lung showed traces of the disease ; and in the upper lobe were miliary tubercles. Otherwise the organs were healthy. Upon the front of the right arm was a very curious con- genital affection, — as shown in the cast, — a flabby and pendulous condition of the skin and integument, extending from the elbow nearty to the acromion process, involving nearly one-half of the circumference of the arm, and growing with the child’s growth, but causing no inconven- ience. This may have been a form of disease described by Dr. Mott, as pachydermatocele. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. xxxvii. p. 155 — with two figures.) 1848. Dr. Alexander E. Hossack, of New York. 3043-4. Daguerreotypes of a young man, showing a large en- cephaloid tumor upon the right side of the neck, and encroaching upon the other side. The wound after its removal healed well. 1858. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 3045. A portion of the delicate, bony framework of an immense malignant growth from the back of the pelvis. 1856. Dr. II. J. Bigelow. 3046. A foot, preserved entire, and showing a tumor arising from below the inner ankle, and toward the heel. The morbid growth, which has not been cut open, is larger than a foetal head, soft to the feel, and lobulated. Integu-