341 MORBID ANATOMY. 1717. A fifth; showing “ossification” with great disease of the • mitral valve ; the orifice being contracted to a diameter of 2£ or 3 lines, and the column® carneae being inserted directly into the valve. The left auricle was dilated and thickened; the left ventricle rather thin and small; and the right auricle and ventricle somewhat thickened. The aortal valves are seen to be healthy. 1849. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1718. Aortal valves atrophied and perforated. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 1719. The same very extensively ossified; a dry specimen. From a negro, set. seventy-one. Cardiac disease never suspected; but, after his death, his wife reported some . dyspnoea occasionally after work. On the day of his death he had been in his usual health ; complained of very severe pain in the left breast, soon leaped from his bed, and in a few minutes died. On dissection, there was found old and very extensive adhesion of the pericardium, some dilatation and thickening of the left ventricle, with considerable disease though no ossification of the mitral valves. The passage through the aortal valves was not greatly obstructed; the portions that were not ossified not being particularly diseased. Two inches of the aorta, sent with the valves, were almost quite healthy. 1852. Dr. Morrill Wyman, of Cambridge. 1720. The same; ossified, with extreme disease. In spirit. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 1721. The same; dried. The valves consist of a thick, rough pile ot cietaceous matter, with only a narrow, unyielding, semilunar chink for the passage of the blood. The mitral valves were somewhat involved, though able to perform their functions pretty well; tricuspid nearly healthy. Pari- etes upon the left side much thickened. From a machinist, set. forty-nine, who had had two se'ere attacks of rheumatism, and gave up his business twel\ e }rears before death. The symptoms and signs of caidiac disease were very marked, with great oedema the last few weeks. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxvii. p. 363.) 1863. Dr. G. L. Collins, of Providence, R. I.