MORBID ANATOMY. 481 From a man whose lungs were extensively tubercular. This case, which was observed in the dissecting-room, may possibly have been one of typhoid fever, supervening on phthisis. 1855. Dr. E. M. Hodges. 2299. Polypi of the large intestine. There were two in the caecum, and four or five others in the ascending colon. All had pedicles ; and the largest was of the size of an English walnut. From a woman, about sixty years of age, who died of pneumonia. (Med. Jour. Vol. lxiv. p. 211.) 1861. Dr. D. W. Cheever. 2300. A second specimen. From a hospital patient, who died of cardiac disease very soon after entrance. “ Attached to the posterior wall of the rectum, at a point 7 in. from the anus, by a pedicle upward of half an inch in diameter, was a soft, highly vascular, lobulated and villous, cauliflower-like excresence, about 2 in. in diameter, rising from half an inch to an inch above the surrounding surface. It apparently involved the mucous coat alone. “ Microscopically, it was composed of much elongated, granular, nucleated cells, some of which resembled long columnar epithelium, and were arranged, like the last, in close juxtaposition. Others, though elongated in the same manner, had more irregular outlines, and resembled cells found in a variety of morbid growths.” 1857. Dr. C. Ellis. 2301. A portion of the large intestine; distended and dried, and showing a stricture 15 in. from the lower extremity. It was strictly annular, and looked almost as if girt by a string ; firm, but not of scirrhous density, and not adherent externally. The large intestine above the stricture was, throughout, greatly distended, and contained an immense quantity of soft faeces ; the small intestine was also very much distended by thin faeces and gas. Below the stric- ture, the intestine was of about the usual size. The parts having been removed and washed out, a portion of the in- testine above the stricture was filled with water, but not a drop passed through; it was then inflated, under water, but it was not until several trials had been made, and with 31