HEALTHY ANATOMY. 123 pound ilium, but both were inserted together into the back of the femur. “ A single median gracilis arose from the symphysis of the ilia, and was inserted into the tibia in front between the two tuberosities. “ The extensor muscles of the leg, namely, the rectus and vasti, were found in double series ; the recti arising as usual from the pelvic, and the vasti from the lateral por- tions of the femur ; each series was inserted into a corre- sponding patella, and by means of their respective liga- ments into the right and left tuberosities of the tibia. Thus each set of extensors became a flexor with reference to the other. A biceps on each side was inserted into the top of the fibula. Besides this last-mentioned muscle, there were no other proper flexors of the leg. “ On each side of the tibia was a tibialis anticus, but both were inserted into the top of the foot by a common tendon. “ An extensor communis on each side of the tibia was inserted into the three corresponding toes, and a slip was given from each to the symmetrical toe. “ A peroneus brevis was inserted to the outer sides of the foot. “ A single gastrocnemius was present, but no soleus. “ A flexor communis longus on each side was inserted into the toes in the same order as the extensors. “ Nerves of the Arm.—A brachial plexus, consisting of five pairs of nerves, is given off from each neck, namely, from the left side of A and the right of B, and, with the exception of the internal cutaneous nerves, the branches of the two sides keep separate. In the axilla each plexus gives off a circumflex and an external cutaneous nerve, the latter perforating the supinator longus at the lower part of the arm. The two external cutaneous nerves unite and de- scend the back of the arm on the median line. The re- maining branches of the brachial plexus pass on each side between the long head of the triceps and the humerus, de- scend on the sides of the arm, form the musculo-spiral, ray- dial, and ulnar nerves, which last two are distributed to the backs of the hand. No median nerve was found.