467 MORBID ANATOMY. face of bladder, anteriorly and toward outlet; pelvis not examined for fracture. Kidneys and other organs unin- jured. (Hospital, 39, 40.) The appearance of external injury, in case of rupture of the organs of the abdomen by external violence, seems to be very exceptional; and, as the fact is so different from what would be expected, it deserves especial notice in refer- ence to diagnosis. 1849. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2237. A portion of the rectum, showing the mechanical injury • that was done by the passage of a bougie. From a gentleman, set. sixty years, who died after a short sickness, with symptoms of obstruction, connected with an annular stricture, 15£ in. from the anus. 1861. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. The above is only one of several cases that I have ex- amined, and in which the passage of some instrument into the rectum has been the immediate cause of death. 2238. Pelvic organs, apparently from an old woman. The • lower portion of the rectum is greatly distended, as from fsecal accumulation ; but not thickened. 1847. Dr. J. C. Warren. 2239. A portion of large intestine, showing the hypertrophy of • the muscular coat that occurs in case of mechanical ob- stacle. 1850. Dr. J. B. /S. Jackson. 2240. A few inches of the lower portion of the large intestine, cut open, and showing the orifices of numerous little sacs, formed by a hernial protrusion of the mucous coat; the intestine being loaded with fat, as it usually, if not always, is in such cases. 1852. This affection I have met with very frequently in the large intestine, but never in the small; excepting two ca- ses (ISo. 2242 ; and No. 486, in the Med. Soc.’s Cabinet) ; but these two were otherwise exceptional. Others, how- ever, have found it only in the small intestine ; and a case has been figured by Sir A. Cooper, in his work on Hernia. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2241. A second and very remarkable specimen ; the arch of the colon being the part affected. The sacs are much larger than they are generally seen, and so numerous in some