INTRODUCTION. VII his position, and if it is known, which is not always the ease though sometimes it is purposely withheld, and for various reasons; the donor being often the one who made the post- mortem examination, and not the one in whose practice the case occurred, and whose interest in it has not always disposed him to take any trouble in regard to the specimen. When the donor prepared the specimen, the fact has been or should be recorded. Many of the donors, and some of the best friends of the Museum, are now not living; but with a few exceptions, this does not appear. The specimens that are displayed in the cases are, of course, numbered to correspond with the descrip- tive catalogue ; and a memorandum is kept of those that are pieseived together, in spirit, and in the numbered jars. The specimens, also, as they have been entered in the catalogue have been arranged according to a certain system, and briefly enumerated, with a repetition of the numbers and of the names of the donors. The present volume has reached a most unexpected size, and would have been still larger if it had been as openly spaced throughout as it was at first. Figures, however, and o ei inelegant abbreviations are often used, for the sake of brevity; and much is generally left to be inferred in regard to the specimens,-as the mode of preparation, the exhibition of certam parts, the fact that the history of a case was wholly or partially unknown, and generally the fact that a specimen was from the dissecting room. The date of the donation behm S"*fc“d 0f eacb case- ‘b° year is sometimes no! icfei ed to in the record, when the case was of short duration ; mentioned^ 1 ’ t ^ °f tbe Week onIy “*> sometimes series V -1” P cataIo*ues> generally, the different “* ’" !‘S!°“S are designated by letters, and separately , but it seems to be more convenient for reference tomimber the specimens regularly onward, and from first to iS an0tter tbat C0”Bists mostly Of indifferent specimens, and of what may be called duplicates; and they are very generally preserved in sp“it These amount altogether to two hundred and seventy-two t. ;y,yg lt oftlwm belonged to Dr. Warren’s original collec- fon. They are all entered in a second and separate catalogue,