MORBID ANATOMY. 509 2406. A gall-stone from the ileum, about a foot from the csecal valve. It is of a dark-brown color, about 1£ in. in length, an inch in diameter, and worn, as b}^ attrition, at one extremity. In Oct., 1866, Dr. Buckingham saw the patient, with pain in the epigastrium, tenderness along the lower edge of the liver, nausea, and diarrhoea; and, a week before, there had been excessive pain in the same region, with yellow- ness of the skin. Twenty years before he had had an attack that was thought to be connected with a biliary cal- culus. April 24th, 1867, the spermatic vein was tied for varicocele by another physician; and on the 27th he died. A few inches from the gall-stone there was a diverticu- lum : and opposite to this last, upon the inner surface of the intestine, an irregular ulcer. The gall-bladder was destroyed ; and, corresponding to it, an irregular, discol- ored opening from the duodenum, about £ in. in diameter. In connection with the recent operation, there was found recent, though not extensive, peritonitis. 1868. Dr. C. W. Swan. 2407. A calculus, that is broken upon one side, but was origi- nally of a cylindrical form, about § in. by from f in. to 1 in.; very marked fa^ette upon each end. From a woman, set. sixty-six years, who discharged the calculus from the bowels, after an attack of severe colic, vomiting, great constipation, and collapse. This was the only attack she ever had ; and fourteen years afterward she was in excellent health. 1860. Dr. E. II. Clapp, of Wrentham. 2408. A barrel-shaped calculus, 1£ in. by 1* in. ; light-colored, remarkably compact, and smooth upon the surface. — From a lady, over eighty-two j-ears old, who was suddenly at- tacked with severe pain in the epigastric region, followed b3r nausea and vomiting. The symptoms continued for six days, but gradually diminished ; and on the 7tli the calcu- lus was passed from the bowels, with two or three smaller ones, and with very severe pain. Convalescence rapid. (Med. Jour. Yol. lxvi. p. 452.) 1862. Dr. Francis Collamore, of Pembroke.