MORBID ANATOMY. 471 Her symptoms were those of peritonitis, with some colicy pain, but no more vomiting than would have been caused by the active cathartics she took ; the effect of these last being very partial. The appendix caeci adheres strongly to the mesentery by a fibrous band that arises from its extremity, and that is not larger than a knitting-needle. The very lower extrem- ity of the ileum, to the extent of 4 or 5 in., is the portion strangulated ; but the strangulation was by no means tight, even in the recent state. The intestine was, as usual, much distended above, and contracted below the strangu- lation. Peritonitis considerable in amount; and it was a very unusual complication, so far as has been observed here. (Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., July, 1853.) 1854. Mr. J. L. White, rued, student. 2251. A portion of small intestine, showing an unusual development of the solitary glands, and also of Peyer’s patches. From a child, five years old, who, having previously been well, came home sick, and vomited a large quantity of grapes. Vomiting and purging continued until the next morning, when it was found collapsed ; and in a few hours it died. The glands were enlarged throughout the small intestine. 1859. j)r. G. Ellis. 2252. A portion of the large intestine of a sheep. Great num- bers of the mucous follicles in this, and some in the small intestine, are enlarged to a diameter of £ in. or more ; and, on section, were found distended by a thick, curdy sub- stance. Some have an opening at the summit, through which the contents are seen ; but over the rest the mucous membrane is continuous. 1867. Dr. H. 0. Marcy, of Cambridgeport. 2253. Follicular enteritis. The patient was a little girl, three years old, who was taken with vomiting after eating heartily of pigs’ feet for hei breakfast, on the morning of Dec. 10th; the vomiting continuing until she died, on the 15th, at 3 a. m. Toward the last it was very urgent, and partially digested blood was thrown up. On the first day she took a cathar-