MORBID ANATOMY. 613 thickened and sacculated, and in the recent state contained a number of small calculi. (Med. Soc.’s Museum, No. 1557.) Upon the outside are one or two phlebolites. From a gentleman, aet. eighty-six years ; a large, fleshy man, and a high liver. Duration of the disease twelve or fifteen years. About five days before his death an attack came on, similar to those that he had often had, but more severe than usual; bladder distended to above the umbili- cus ; several attempts at catheterism, but blood only came away. 1852. Dr. J. B. S. Jackson. 2867. Lateral lobes about equally enlarged, and form a regular, rounded mass, about two-thirds as large as the fist. Canal not cut through, but evidently not enlarged. 1847. Dr. J. C. War ren. 2868. Lateral lobes uniformly enlarged to more than half the . size of the fist, with a transverse ridge, but no third lobe ; the passage being quite free. Bladder dilated, thickened, and remarkably sacculated. Between this last and the rectum was an abscess that contained about two ounces of thick yellow pus, with infiltration of the cellular tissue. From a professional gentleman, set. seventy-five years, who was in the hospital in February, 1854, for about two weeks (64, 8). Within ten years he had had three attacks of retention of urine, and that were relieved by the cathe- tex ; and for the last two years there had been great dysuria. In Ao\., 1853, he had an attack of fever, with great pain at the neck of the bladder, and severe dysuria; and, on admission into the hospital, the fseces could not be retained when the urine was discharged. During his stay there, he was very irritable, but did not suffer greatly from the prostatic disease ; and, as bearing upon the abscess, there was no pain in the perineum, so far as was known. A few days belore leaving the hospital, however, there was inflam- mation of one epidydimis, with discharge of pus from the urethra. After leaving he gradually failed, and died on the 4th of the following month. 1857. Dr. Edward B. Peirson, of Salem. 2869. Lateral lobes enlarged, with some enlargement of the middle lobe, and altogether, about four times the usual