683 MORBID ANATOMY. matter or concrete pus. The deposit consisted of minute globules or granular corpuscles, varying in size from those of tubercle to those of pus. The firm portion was fibrous. The right capsule was smaller than usual, though thicker at one part, and nowhere flat as usual; disease as in the left, but much less extensive. There was, also, some old disease of the brain, ecchymoses in the lungs, and a large quantity of blood in the heart, that was fluid, and contin- ued so after removal from the body. 1857. Dr. A. A. Gould. 3104. A third case. —The patient, a female, set. thirty-one years, had been under the care of Dr. B., for about a year, with debility, a bronzed skin, and other anomalous symp- toms ; the discoloration terminating near the margin of the hail, and leaving a narrow white line between the two. Occasionally there were attacks of indigestion ; and during her recovery from one of these, she indulged very grossly in indigestible food, and died in consequence. Both re- nal capsules were greatly enlarged; texture firm; and studded thickly with irregular, tubercular-looking deposits, from the size of a small shot to that of a chestnut. Other organs well. 1860. Dr. H. I. Bowditch. For other cases of Addison’s disease, see p. 395. 3105. A thin cyst in the substance of the renal capsule. Col- lapsed ; but, if distended, would have been nearty as large as an English walnut. Traces of cretaceous matter in the parietes. — From a female dissecting-room subject, about twenty-five years of age, and almost ausemic in appearance. Lungs tubercular. 1857. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 3106. An iron bar, that was driven through a man’s head. He seemed to have entirely recovered from the accident, and lived twelve years and a half afterward, but died finally with cerebral symptoms. (See No. 949.) Ihe bar is 3 ft. 7 in. in length, and weighs 13^ lbs.; form cylindrical, and diameter 1£ in.; one end is square^ as in a common crowbar, and the other tapers to a smoothly blunt point, — this last measuring £ in. 1868. Di. Johm AT. Harlow, of "Woburn.