459 MOEBID ANATOMY. 2218. Firm encephaloid disease of the pyloric portion of the Distress after food, pain, occasional vomiting, Iisemateme- sis twice, constipation. Appetite pretty good on admis- sion, two months before death, but much emaciated. 1860. Dr. C. Ellis. 2216. Cancer of the small curvatnre, extending from the cardi- • ac orifice to within 2 in. of the pylorus. There is an abra- sion rather than ulceration ; with two small ulcers, one of which penetrated through into a cavity that was external to the organ, and formed by an adhesion of the neigh- boring parts. From a man, mt. thirty-two, who had vomited blood nearly two years before. Perforation probably two and a half months before death. (Hospital, 228, 98.) 1861. Dr. 0. Ellis. 2217. Cast of a well-marked, well-defined, and quite thick mass of soft encephaloid disease, extending about 4 in. from the pylorus, and involving the whole circumference of the organ. The pancreas was somewhat involved ; but, other- wise, the organs were healthy. The patient was a man, about fifty-three years of age, who had been under the care of Dr. H. E. Davidson, of Gloucester, and had been sick about two years. The first symptoms were pain in the epigastrium, coming on about two hours after eating, constipation, and occasional vomit- ing. Sept. 1st, 1863, he had a severe attack, and from that time his health steadily declined. Oct. 10th, 1864, Dr. D. was called to attend him, and found him much emaciated, anaemic, and sallow ; had kept his house for some weeks ; was using milk as causing less distress than any other food ; rejection of all solids ; much dizziness on standing ; bowels very costive, — the discharges being attended with great distress, and sometimes followed by blood. To the left, and a little above the umbilicus, a tumor, of the size of a large hen’s egg, was quite evident. The case was fully diagnosticated by Dr. D., as one of cancer of the pyloric portion of the organ, and the patient, gradually sinking, died on the 28th of the following March. 1866. Museum Fund.