136 HEALTHY ANATOMY. This case has never been published, though Prof. P.’s clin- lque upon the subject was reported in the Philadelphia Med.& Surg. Reporter, March, 1859 ; and from this last the follow- ing extracts are made : Tumor nearly a foot in length, and divides upon the surface into several globular masses, with fingers and a rudimentary forearm. Intestines covered by skin, but at birth by a membrane like the peritoneum. Parasite separated from the child by a peculiar, caul-like membrane. Pulsation distinct, from 40 to 100 per minute, and not synchronous with that of the child’s heart. Re- moved by the ecraseur. Weight nearly 2J lbs. In struc- ture, it looked like a fatty tumor, with the parts of a foetus superadded. A body, regarded as a heart, contained im- perfectly formed auricles and ventricles. Mesenteric ar- teries and veins large. About 18 in. of intestine, and end- ing in a cul-de-sac. Meconium mixed with a large amount of adipose matter. There was also a liver, a large nerve running through the mass, appearances of a bladder and urachus, a penis or clitoris, and externally an umbilicus. I860* Dr. J. Mason Warren. 907-8. Thibert’s model, showing the external appearances, in Velpeau’s case, of a congenital scrotal tumor, that con tained foetal bones, hair, etc. (See V.’s Clinique Chirurg. Vol. hi. pp. 198-217.) A model of a cyst, containing hair, is also shown ; from the same. 1847. Dr. G. Hayward. 909. Photograph of a man with three lower extremities, and in whom the penis is double. See Dr. Geo. G. Fisher’s Essay on Compound Human Monsters (Albany, N. Y., 1866), Lon don Lancet, July 29, 1855, and Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. xxix. p. 103. 1860. Dr. Geo. A. Betliune. 910. A newly-hatched chicken, entire, and in spirit. Two ad- ditional lower extremities grow from the pelvis; thighs united, but separate below. 1865. Boston. Soc. for Med. Improvement. 911. A supernumerary thumb, about half as large as the thumb itself, and that arose from over the metacarpo-phal. articu-