MORBID ANATOMY. 317 From a healthy man, aet. forty-two. (Hospital, 39, 80.) Thigh amputated for necrosis, May 30th. Extensive sup- puration followed ; and, after a time, about 2 in. of bone were discharged, including the entire circumference where it had been sawed. (No. 1608.) July 21st, the end of the bone was removed ; surrounded by a thick mass of fleshy vegetations. The patient, having previously been much' re- duced, recovered rapidly after the operation. 1849. Dr. J. M. Warren. 1608. Exfoliation from the above case. 1849. Dr. J. M. Warren. 1609. Longitudinal section of a portion of the femur after am- putation ; dried. From a boy, set. thirteen j^ears. (Hospital 118, 224, and Med. Jour. Yol. lxxiii. 218.) A horse-railroad accident. Amputated at once; and there was profuse hemorrhage from the medulla. On the 9th day a portion of the stump was ununited ; and a large fungous growth, protruding from the medullary cavity, was removed. On the 13th day tetanus came on, and on the 18th the boy died. A very exuberant growth of new bone surrounds the femur about a third of an inch above ■where it was sawed; and above this, to the extent of about 3 in., is a thin periosteal deposit. The very extremity of the bone is smooth externally, and was preparing to exfoliate. The medulla, so far as the bone was removed, was of a dark chocolate color, infiltrated with lymph so as to render it firm and resistant; filling the medullary cavity tightly as if swollen, and bulging out from the end of the bone in the form of a flattened button. No pus was anywhere found. Dr. H. remarked upon the hemorrhage from the medulla, the late period at which the tetanus appeared, and their , pathological connection with the osteo-myelitis ; referring to Dr. Allen’s paper upon this last subject in the American Journal of the Med. Sciences, Jan., 1865. 1610. The other half of the femur, from the above case; in spirit. 1865. Dr. R. M. Hodges. 1G11. Portions of the tibia and fibula, from an old stump, and